 This is the primary aspect to being smart. No matter how hard you study, you cannot cover all the material learned. This is not an effective way of studying, as it can just wear you down all too soon. Good study skills will get you the ability to smarten yourself anywhere. Good study skills include, when working, not answering any phone/online messages, preferably not being signed onto Yahoo Messenger, AIM or Facebook at all. Start studying as soon as you hear about a test. If you don't get something, confirm it right away.;
, Most smart people who are truly admired have integrity and always finish their work, or most of it, on time. They get all A's. Use your study skills to get all A's and finish all your homework. Go the extra mile and write longer essays, and show more work on the math homework.
 Smart people are known for their ability to go further. Show one page of work in math when only 1/4th of a page is needed. Write longer essays in Spanish and English. In your history research project, if you are asked simply to make a PowerPoint presentation on the Industrialization of the United States in the 1800's, also add a section about how it helps today. As you do this more and more, you will get faster, even if it seems hard at first. It will get easier for you.
 Studying material that shall be covered in one year is not always needed, however, when you start a unit, spend some extra time at home reviewing it. Understand and practice that Spanish grammar. Ask your parents to help you with that math problem. Draw out all the diagrams, or take notes from the science unit. Read up on that history unit online.
 Don't overdo this, but if you see someone struggling or gazing away in thought, ask, "Do you need help?" If they decline, leave it at that. But eventually, you will be known to help. People will start coming to you all at once-make them wait, one at a time, otherwise helping may never be possible.
 After you have all the information for a test (or you yourself have learned it), type it out. In history and language arts, an outline may be the best. In math, try to make a bunch of questions with a separate answer key. In science, Cornell notes, or outlines with diagrams work best. In Foreign Languages, a table with vocabulary, along with the grammatical rules and culture on another sheet of paper would do. Type all study guides-you can e-mail them to others and print them. Handwriting them would be hard. You don't want the pain of handwriting to control your fame. People like typed study guides better for the most part.
 You can meet at someone's house or the library. But it must be free-don't charge them, even if they want to pay. They will end up liking you better, even if they don't admit it, if you help for free. It will also count as Community Service for college.
 Budget your time wisely-if you cannot study every day, set aside time on the weekends. Originally you may spend more time working but you will get the hang of it and relax. Go onto Facebook, text friends, talk on the phone, read, hang out, watch TV like you always would. In school, if you are not working, don't talk about academics all the time. Continue to talk about subjects any normal person would, like the recent movies and books, for example. You don't want to get rid of your old self and having fun in the long term. When you relax, forget all studies and academics!

