 Use scissors to cut mono of the previous rig that is to be replaced. Discard the previous rig.;
, Acquire a 1.8 mm (.07 inch) diameter mono, which is available at most dive shops. Use scissors to cut off an initial length of 5 m (4.58 yards) to begin the rigging process.



Slide a 2.2 mm (0.09 inch) double barrel copper crimp over 1 end of the mono. These crimps are available at most dive shops.
Pass the end of the mono that the crimp slid over through the attachment hole in the back end of the spear. Pass the mono through from the right side of the spear to the left side. Determine left and right using the single barb on the front of the spear, which should be held facing up.
Pass the end of the mono back through the crimp. Leave only a short length of mono extending past the crimp. Use a cigarette lighter to melt a small blob on to the end of the mono. This will prevent the mono from pulling back out of the crimp while you are working.
Adjust the mono and the crimp by pulling the long end of the mono back through the crimp until the crimp sits against the flat surface on the back of the spear.
Use a double actuated crimping tool to secure the crimp. Leave about 1.5 mm (0.06 inch) on either end of the crimp uncrimped. This will avoid metal edges applying strain directly against the mono. Crimping tools are available at most dive shops.
 The spear should slide in with ease. Make sure that the mono is laying on the right of the spear, to the right side of the speargun muzzle.
 Loop the mono over the clip, which is just in front of the speargun trigger, and run it back up the barrel to the muzzle clip.



Slide the mono into 1 side of a double barrel crimp and back through the other side to form a loop of mono on 1 end of the crimp.
Judge the spacing of the attachment loop of the mono. The newly formed loop must attach to the muzzle clip creating enough tension to keep the mono engaged over the line release clip. Do not pull this mono line too taut as mono will shrink slightly in water.
Finish the mounting loop of the mono. Cut off excess mono using scissors. Use the cigarette lighter to melt a small ball on to the end of the mono. Use the crimping tool to secure the crimp.
 The speargun is now rigged and ready for spearfishing use.

