 In general, bush varieties are easier to grow in pots than vine varieties, which need a trellis to climb and spread out on. Varieties that are well-suited for container growing include the Salad Bush Hybrid, Bush Champion, Spacemaster, Hybrid Bush Crop, Baby Bush, Bush Pickle, and Potluck.;
, The pot should be a minimum of 12 inches (30.5 centimeters) in both diameter and depth, and the diameter and depth of the pot should be equal even if using a larger size.
 Cucumbers love water, but just like any plant, too much water could be bad for the roots. A plastic pot with two drainage holes makes an excellent choice to promote proper moisture levels.
 This is especially important if the container you choose once held another plant, since hidden insect eggs and bacteria could attack your cucumbers if left alone. Scrub the pot with hot water and soap before use.
 A good mix will have loose soil that drains well, along with enough organic material to provide the plants with nutrition. Combine equal parts potting soil, perlite, sphagnum peat moss, and compost for a simple yet beneficial blend. Do not use garden soil, which may be contaminated by bacteria and pests.
 A 5-10-5 fertilizer or 14-14-14 slow-release fertilizer may work best for many cucumber varieties. Mix it into the soil according the label directions.


The numbers on a bag of fertilizer indicate how much nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium the fertilizer contains, respectively. Each element nourishes a different part of the plant. Nitrogen produces leaf growth, phosphorus improves the roots and fruit yield, and potassium strengthens the flowers and overall strength of the plant. A 5-10-5 fertilizer gives your cucumbers a mild dose that focuses on improved vegetable yield. A 14-14-14 fertilizer, on the other hand, keeps the health of your plant balanced, making it safer to give your cucumbers the slightly higher concentration.
 Vine cucumbers require a trellis or stake to grow. Even though bush cucumbers do not require staking, they do benefit from it. Consider a teepee-style metal staking system, available at most hardware and garden supply stores, since this design encourages plants to climb along the stake instead of merely serving as support.

