 Tell the talker you'd like to engage in reflective listening to make sure you are understanding. This will create lots of opportunity for you to get clarification and to verify your perceptions of the other.


Your responses to others may be distorted because of personal biases or projections. Sigmund Freud introduced projection as a defense mechanism and was later expanded upon by Anna Freud.To avoid dealing with our own unacceptable or undesirable thoughts and feelings, we attribute them to another person.This then colors our impressions of the other person's behaviors and shapes the way we respond to him or her. This in turn, influences the other's perception of you. To be sure you are accurately perceiving others and responding appropriately, you should seek to verify your perceptions.
 We engage in self-deception to protect our sense of self. We all possess traits and display behavior we are not proud of.Carl Jung referred to the collection of these unsavory traits and unacceptable thoughts and feelings as the shadow. Projecting our shadow onto others relieves us of the guilt and shame we experience when we acknowledge it. Others will not be so willfully blind of these parts of your personality, so denying them will only inhibit your ability to see yourself as others see you. If others have commented about your jealousy, or intolerance, or any other trait most would like to deny, explore the possibility you are indeed those things and accept them.


If something about your personality causes you enough distress that you would rather lie or hide it, you should be working to change it. You must first acknowledge the trait(s) to change them.
 As with any habit, projecting happens subconsciously. Once you've acknowledged you project, ask others to help you become self-aware by telling you when you are doing it.


In addition to projecting our own thoughts and feelings on others, we sometimes incorporate others' projections into our sense of self. It may be that someone in your life projects negative feelings and emotions onto you, so you then respond with negative feelings and emotions. That person then uses your responses to validate his or her characterization of you.Ask outsiders to observe your interactions with the person and to share their opinions of the dynamic.

