 The colors listed in this section are recommendations. If you don't have the exact colors, you can use similar colors instead. Plan on using a warm palette, with lots of browns, oranges, and reds. You will also need some lighter colors for the highlights, such as ivory or champagne.
 Wash your face, then apply some toner and moisturizer. If you plan on wearing any foundation and/or concealer, put it on now. Finish off with a light dusting of setting powder.
 Focus on the crease as well as the outer corner of your eye. You want to apply the shadow heavily; this will make it easier to blend later on.If you can't find light, terracotta brown eyeshadow, try another warm brown color instead.
 Use the brush to blend some of that shade into the crease of your eye. You want to sort of follow the same pattern as your light brown, but you don't want to extend it as much.
 Some metallic shades don't stick to brushes very well, so you may have to use a foam eyeshadow brush or your finger.
 You want to place it right between the reddish shade and the champagne shade.
 Using a clean blending brush, sweep it across your eyelid using downward strokes. This will help blend the champagne, copper, and red shades together. Next, sweep the brush along your crease. This will help blend the red and brown shades together. Don't get too carried away at this point; you will be doing more blending later on.
 Use a neutral orange color to get that pumpkin spice feel; avoid using anything too bright or vibrant.


At this point, you can lightly blend any harsh lines.
 If you don't have any off-white eyeshadow, try a matte bone, cream, or ivory shade instead.
 This will give you more of a smoky effect. It will also help define your eyes, and make them appear larger.


If you have very dark hair, consider using a darker brown color that matches your eyelash color.
 Using the same small brush, sweep a brownish-orange shade along your lower lashes. This time, make it go from the outer corner of your eye towards the middle.


If you don't have any brownish-orange, you can mix some matte brown and matte orange together.
 At this point, you are done with the eyeshadow part. Take a look at your work, and use a blending brush to smooth out any harsh lines., You can use either a very dark, espresso-brown, or black color for this. For that final "wow!" touch, pop on some false lashes!

