 Ask your parents or guardian to sit down and have a serious conversation about the rules and regulations when it comes for caring for your younger sibling. They may envision something totally different than what you think, so it’s a good idea to understand what they expect from you.


There may be different things they expect you to do if you’re caring for your siblings alone opposed to when your parents are present. Make sure to clarify this when you talk to them.
This is also a great time to ask any questions that you have about caring for your siblings.;
, When you care for your siblings and your parents aren’t around, it’s very important that you monitor what they are doing. If you’re outdoors make sure that you always see where they are. Around 2,000 children go missing per day in the U.S.When you’re inside the house make sure they aren’t damaging anything or breaking the rules.
Don’t ignore them to play video games or watch TV.
When taking care of a sleeping baby make sure you have the baby monitor with you at all times.
If your younger sibling is sleeping, check on them every 15 minutes., Don’t let a younger sibling climb on top of counter-tops, or play with silverware because they can seriously injure themselves or someone else. Other things to watch out for is if they are touching electrical equipment, putting things in their mouths, or running around the house.If you’re the one in charge, take control when it comes to safety by being stern and authoritative.
If your siblings are old enough, explain why the behavior is dangerous and why they shouldn’t do it to prevent it from happening in the future.
 Have your parents write down a list of emergency numbers in case anything goes wrong. Make sure that they include people in your neighborhood who can help if you need it. Have a cellphone or lan-line phone so you can call people on the list.


Dial 9-1-1 if there is a serious emergency, like your younger sibling seriously injured themselves, there is a fire or smoke, or someone trying to break into the house.If your siblings are prone to allergic reactions or other health issues, make sure that your parents educate you on how to care for them under these circumstances.
 Remember to feed your younger siblings, especially if your parents aren't going to be home for a longer period of time. Only use kitchen equipment if your parents have given you permission.


Microwavable food or cereal are things that you can prepare that don't require using the stove or oven.
Don’t let your siblings eat or drink anything your parents would disapprove of.
 If you are taking care of a toddler or a baby, it's important that you remember to clean their diaper at regular intervals to avoid diaper rash.Remind younger siblings to use the bathroom regularly, especially if they are prone to accidents.


If your younger sibling does have an accident and they are not a toddler, have them take a shower and change into different clothes.
Practice changing diapers under their supervision so you can do it if you’re alone.
 There might be a time where you’re not sure what to do, and you should call your parents if this is the case. At first, try to take initiative to solve the issue, but don’t do anything that could be dangerous or cause a problem later on.


If your parents text and the problem isn’t urgent, this might be a better way to ask them a question.
The more you care for your younger sibling, the more you’ll learn how to react in different circumstances.
 Sometimes parents will get busy and it becomes unfair and unsafe for you to watch your siblings constantly. If you feel like you are watching your siblings more than your parents are, have a conversation with a close family member or trusted adult. It might not be appropriate for you to watch your siblings for the amount of time that your parents expect you to.


If you are in your early teens, you may not be ready for the responsibility. This is another circumstance in which you should speak to another adult.
If you don't have any family members you can talk to, speak to a trusted teacher or guidance counselor.

