 You never want that. So try to find your combination of passive and aggressive play style. A good way to do this is maintaining map control. Staying in a certain area of the map isn't camping. Hiding in the corner with a shotgun is. For example on Haven, you want to stay top Mohawk so you can pick if foolish foes rushing top mid or charging with an assault rifle. You also have plenty of cover.;
, In a 4v4 team slayer game, you would want to stay with teammates mainly, trying to flank, and holding map control. In rumble pit, you will want to find out where the crowd is located and finish of people who are weak, and steal kills. No one will call you a bad player. If someone does, it does not matter, because you beat them. In a big team battle, you would want a medium to long-range weapon, as the DMR is perfect. Stay behind cover and run with purpose. If you are running in the open, make it quick. You are highly vulnerable in the open. Keep the high ground so the head is easier for you to see other enemies, and be able to see their heads for easy 5 shot kills. Remember to always stay alive.
 Aim with your feet, not your hands. In other words, move your player side to side and try to match your opponents strafe. Use your arms for tiny adjustments. This tactic allows you to have a higher sensitivity with good accuracy. Use the map to your advantage, stay behind cover so you know who is shooting you, and you will be able to counter their attacks. Peak shooting is when you shoot and quickly duck under cover, pop your head up and shoot, and than duck under cover again. This is useful in mid to long range; it is useful because it lets you maximize your time behind cover while dealing damage to your enemies. To do this, you must peak at your enemy and duck down, not moving your retinal, than get up from cover, fire, and immediately duck back. Practice this in the swat game type to perfect it.
 For example, if you want to get better at rumble pit, don't be playing flood. Play with people with the same goals as you to get better at Halo 4.
 This is important because when you rage, you don't think correctly. This leads to poor decision making. You will get nowhere in Halo if you do not think. So stay calm. A good tactic to staying calm is drinking water. This can lower blood pressure, so you don't panic. You are going to die almost every game. You watch the kill-cam and they miss every shot, and somehow kill you. Note that the kill-cams in Halo are vacuous. (Dumb). Try to catch ones play-style and Strafe. If an enemy is holding high ground, don't try the same tactic over and over again on him if it isn't working. Try something new, but in a situation like this, find some other enemies to kill and avoid that player who has the advantage.
 Some examples are when your opponent has a rocket launcher, and you have a standard load-out weapon. You have a disadvantage. You should not engage them in combat. However, if you have the high ground, or if you are in the air, go for it. The rocket launcher needs to hit a wall and kill you with splash damage. RARELY does the rocket actually kill you with itself. If you are forced to engage, run up to the rickets as close as you can and land a couple of shots on him, when he fires the rocket you will die, but you will take him down with you. It will be a trade.

