 Use plastic or glass vials that can be sterilized in an autoclave. An autoclave is a process that uses super-heated steam to sterilize laboratory equipment.Wash the vials with a gentle cleanser and water, then sterilize in the autoclave for 20 minutes at 121°C.If you don’t have access to an autoclave, you can wash the vials in a 10% bleach solution. Rinse well after washing.
This step is important to remove any sort of contaminant that could affect your colony of flies.;
, Fill the tube about 1/5 of the way with the dehydrated media. Add enough water so that the food is completely moist. Let it sit for a few minutes, adding more water as necessary to ensure the food is fully rehydrated.The surface of the food should look wet and have a shiny appearance.
Add a few grains of yeast to the top of the media before adding the flies to the vial.
 Flies enjoy an ideal environment of 25°C and 60% humidity, however, leaving them at room temperature and out of direct sunlight will suffice. You want to make sure the media stays moist so the flies do not get dehydrated.If the media dries out, you need to change it by transferring the flies to a new vial with fresh food.
 To maintain the sterility of the vial before fly transfer, keep the vial closed by sealing it with the plug. Use a cotton or foam plug to stop the vial. Do not use a rubber stopper as this will suffocate the flies.


Stretched cotton balls can be used if you don’t have a foam plug handy.
 Make sure the vial can stand up on its own or place it in a rack to hold it upright. Remove the plug and place a small funnel in the mouth of the vial. You will use this funnel to transfer the flies from the old tube to the new.


The new tube must have the prepared media in it before transferring the flies.
 Place the vial of flies on top of a soft surface such as a rubber mouse pad. Gently tap the vial down on the surface so that the flies fall to the bottom of the vial. Continue to tap the vial until all of the flies fall to the bottom.


The flies will only be stunned for a moment, so the next few steps need to be performed quickly.
Alternatively, you can place the vial in the freezer for 8-10 minutes and anesthetize the flies. The cold will put the flies to sleep and they will fall to the bottom of the vial. They will remain in this stupor for a few minutes, making for easy transfer., With the flies at the bottom of your working vial, quickly remove the plug and invert the vial into the funnel of the new vial. Gently, tap the vials together to get the flies from one vial to the next. Continue to tap the new vial until the flies are all at the bottom. Plug the new vial to contain the flies.Make sure all of the flies have been transferred before plugging the new vial.
The first few times you make this transfer, it is helpful to have a second person around to help you with the process.
 Fruit flies thrive in an environment of 25°C with about 60% humidity. If you are unable to replicate these conditions, simply leave them at room temperature, but avoid a dry environment. Lack of humidity will dry out the food and lead to more frequent vial transfers.


Flies should be transferred about every 10-14 days as long as the food stays moist.