 If you're having difficulty with the 90/90 stretch, the supine 90/90 stretch may be a good way to ease into it. The supine 90/90 stretch also is good if you have back problems, as your back remains supported.To do the supine 90/90 stretch, you'll need an exercise mat and a wall. Like flat on your back on the mat and rest your feet against the wall. You may have to experiment with different distances from the wall to see what works because you want your knees to be at 90-degree angles.
Contract the muscles in your core so that your lower back is flat against the floor. Cross your left leg over your right so that your left knee is at a 90-degree angle with your left ankle resting on your right knee.
Grab the back of your right thigh with both hands and pull your leg gently forward until you feel a stretch. Or if you have one foot up against the wall, gently push on the knee of the raised leg. Hold the stretch for about three seconds, then release. Complete two to five repetitions, then switch and do the other side.
 The 90/90 trail leg stretch is a variation of the 90/90 stretch. This stretch allows you to work on your trail leg, the leg behind you in the 90/90 hip stretch. You'll start from the same position as the 90/90 hip stretch.Internally rotate your trail leg and twist your torso so that you are facing the knee of your trail leg. Put your hands on your chest and breathe through the stretch.
If you can't put your hands on your chest and remain stable, you can rest them on the ground behind you for support. If you can't get into this position, or feel a pinching pain in your hips, stop immediately and consult your healthcare provider.
 The dirty dog is a dynamic exercise that can work well as a warm-up to stretch and loosen your hips and prepare them for more intense exercise. You can do this exercise anywhere and don't need any special equipment.Start on the floor on all fours, with your wrists directly under your shoulders and your knees directly under your hips. Keep your spine neutral and your shoulders rolled back, and engage your core. Breathe deeply.
On an exhale, lift one knee outwards and upwards. Imagine a dog cocking its leg and you will understand where this exercise gets its name. Try to make this movement without moving any other part of your body.
Slowly lower your knee back to the floor, then repeat the action with the other side. Do 5 to 10 repetitions on each leg.
 Squats and lunges are basic exercises that may already be a part of your fitness regimen. These exercises not only help strengthen your glutes and thighs but also serve to open your hips and provide increased hip mobility.When doing squats, make sure your knees stay directly over your ankles, and you're not allowing them to pull forward over your toes. The same goes for the lead leg when you're doing lunges.
 If you already include planks as part of your exercise regimen, adding a knee drag will help strengthen your glutes and hip muscles. With stronger hips, you'll have greater mobility and be at lesser risk of injury.To start this exercise, lie face down on the floor and come up onto your toes and elbows on the floor, with your forearms straight out in front of you and your elbows directly under your shoulders. Keep your shoulders rolled back so that your shoulder blades are pulled down your back alongside your spine.
Engage your core to lift your torso and legs off the floor. Hinge at your hip and bend your right knee, pulling it forward beneath your body and crossing your shin and foot across the width of your body. Lower your pelvis so it is resting on the floor behind your shin.
Keep your weight centered and avoid shifting your weight onto the right hip. Stabilize your arms and shoulders and hold the position for 15 to 30 seconds. Repeat two to four times on each side.
 If you're having difficulty with tight hips, there are numerous yoga poses specifically designed to open your hips so you have less problems with tightness and stiffness.Many of these poses and stretches are beginner-level poses that you can do at home even if you don't have any experience practicing yoga.
One fun and comforting pose is known as the "happy baby." Simply lie on your back on a yoga mat or blanket and pull your knees up toward your chest. Grab the outsides of your feet with your hands and pull your knees wide. Create resistance by pushing into your hands with your feet as you pull your feet down with your hands. Hold for 30 seconds or longer, breathing deeply.

