 Use lukewarm water and a shampoo that is formulated for your hair type.









Then apply a rinse-out conditioner for softer curls. Rinse it out with cool water. If you want firmer, more rigid curls, you can skip the conditioner altogether.
Remove excess moisture but do not dry completely. Gently pat your hair with a towel so that it is no longer dripping wet. Your hair must be moderately damp in order for pin curls to set properly, however.
 Mousse makes the hair rigid enough to hold a style. A gel or cream could also work, depending on your hair type.









Fine hair works best with a mousse.
Medium and thick hair work better with a gel, which has more holding power.
 For this style, neat, orderly sections may work better than uneven sections. The sections of hair should be about 1/4 to 1 inch (2/3 to 1 1/4 cm) wide. The wider the section is, the softer and looser the curl will be.









Place your finger at the ends of a section of hair. Wrap the hair around your finger, rolling the curl under and away from your face. The curl should be just loose enough to slide off your finger.
Use bobby pins or a small, smooth salon clip to secure the curl to your head. Slide the pin or clip diagonally over the top of the curl.
 After you have wrapped and pinned your entire head of hair to your scalp, use a spray bottle to spritz water over your hair. Spraying the hair with water ensures that it dries evenly.


Instead of using water, you could use a curl spray to dampen your pinned hair. This will aid the curling process.
 Keep the pins in for several hours to overnight to allow them to dry. If you're planning on sleeping with the curls in, place a plastic shower cap over your hair to prevent frizz.









If you're in a hurry, you may use a hair dryer to speed up the drying process. However, be aware that your curls will not be as tight if you use this method.
 Once your hair is dry, remove the pins or clips and gently unwind the curl. Run your fingers through the curls to separate them so that they are not as tightly wound.









Run your fingers beneath the curls at the root and give the curls a gentle shake to tousle them into a natural shape.
Spritz a firm holding hairspray over the finished curls to hold the final style.