 To use all the business features of Foursquare, you must sign up with Foursquare.


Visit the Sign Up page at https://foursquare.com/signup to register an account with Foursquare. Enter your email address, password, first and last name, and birthday in required fields. Select your gender, and upload a profile picture then hit the “Sign up” button to register your account.;
, The Foursquare business page for publishing tips related to your business location. To create a Foursquare business page, you must connect a business Twitter account to Foursquare.


Create a Foursquare Business Page at https://foursquare.com/create_page. If you’re not yet logged into your Foursquare account, you’ll be asked to log in. Do so, and then click on the “Create a page” button with the Twitter logo in the middle.
Sign into your Twitter business account using your registered email address and password. After signing into your Twitter account, click “Authorize app” to connect your Twitter business account to your Foursquare business page. After that, you will be redirected to your Foursquare business page; it will have the same business name as shown on your Twitter business account.
Enter your business’s mission and vision in the “Description” field in 160 characters or less. You can also edit your page’s profile picture or page name.
Click the “Save” button at the bottom of your page when you are done.
 To enable and access the business tools on Foursquare, you must switch your personal account to a business account using your new business page on Foursquare.


Log into your business page at http://business.foursquare.com. Click on “Log in” at the top right corner. Enter the registered email address and password of your personal account in the required fields then hit the “Log in” button.
After logging in, you will see a “Manage your business on Foursquare” dialog box on your screen. Here you will see a “Business page” tab and “Personal account” tab on the dialog box. It will ask whether you want to use Foursquare as your business page or as an individual user. Click on the “Business page” tab to switch your personal account to a business account.
If you have logged into your Foursquare account as an individual user, you can convert your account temporarily into a business account by switching it to your business page. Do this by moving your mouse pointer over the profile picture at the top right corner to open a drop-down menu. Click on the “Switch accounts” tab to change your Foursquare user account to a business account. Now you can access the business dashboard.
 Click on the “Add a new place to Foursquare” link at the bottom left of the page to open a new location page. You can directly go to this page at https://foursquare.com/add-place.


Enter the name of the business, its address, city, postal code, and country in the required fields. Now, type your business Twitter account ID and business phone number in the required fields. Click on the category box and choose a category and sub-category of your business from the drop-down list.
Hit the “Save” button below to add your business location on Foursquare.
 Claiming the business location on Foursquare proves your ownership of the business. You need to search the venue of your business or, if you do not find it while searching, you can add your business venue and claim it as your own.


Go to the “Venue search” page at https://foursquare.com/venue/claim and type your business name and location in the fields to search for it.
Click on the venue name to browse the location page, and click on “Claim it now” at the right side of the landing page, under the venue map.
Check the “I’m the owner” box under “Terms of Use” to agree with the terms of the venue platform on Foursquare. Hit the “Get started” button below to move to the next step.
Verify your venue claim through the “Validate ownership” process. Type your phone number in the required box then add your debit or credit card by typing the card number and security code of the card in the required boxes. Remember, to claim a venue located in the U.S., you can verify ownership through postal mail (free), but for a location outside the U.S., you must provide a credit card with the permission of charging US$20 as a one-time fee.
Next, enter your business phone number in the required field on the “Final verification” step, and click on the “Submit” button below. Foursquare will call you at this number after a few minutes to verify it. After completing this final verification step, the Foursquare team will send you an email with the verification code and other instructions to finish the process.
Check your email box and note the 4-digit verification code sent by Foursquare. Then, click on the “Click here to complete the verification” link at the bottom of the email. A new tab will be opened on your browser. Enter the 4-digit verification code in the required field to verify ownership of your business location.
 It is important to publish tips related to your business using the “Leave a tip” box on your business page. You can publish updates regarding your business at your business location and at other neighboring locations.


Click on the “Manager Home” tab at the top of the page to access to the “Leave a tip” box.
Search a business venue on the “Manager Home” page. You can search for a venue within a specific location by setting the location parameter at the top of the “Tips” box. To search for another location, click on the location link at the right side of the “Search for a place” box and type the location name there. Now, select the location from the results.
On the next screen, enter tips regarding your business promotions or updates in the tip box below. You can also attach an image with your tips by clicking on “Add a photo” on the right side and uploading the image from your computer. Enter any tip-related link in the “Add a link” field if you want to drive your customers to know more details about your business.
Click the “Publish” button below to update your tip on the selected Foursquare page. #* Try to publish tips on other neighboring and relevant location pages to attract new customers to your business.
 Foursquare lets you launch and continue business campaigns using your business venue. To activate a campaign, you must claim and verify your business venue on Foursquare. You also need to choose a special from the listed special types under the Campaign tab.


Click on the “Manager Tools” tab then click on “Campaign.” The Campaign dashboard will open. Click “Start a campaign” at the top right side of the page to begin setting up your campaign.
Now you need to add a special feature to your campaign. Specials are a way of rewarding visitors or customers for their check-ins. Select a special by clicking on “Add a special” at the middle of the campaign box. After that, a campaign-setting box will appear, and you need to follow the steps one by one. Choose the special you want by clicking on the radio button before the selected special, and then type the special description in the “Offer description” field.
Click on the “Create special” button at the right bottom corner of the campaign-setting box to create your business campaign. After creating your campaign, it will be saved under the Campaign tab. Set the ending date of your activated campaign according to your campaign plan. Your campaign will end on the fixed date automatically.
If you have more than one venue under your business account, you should check the venue for the campaign before activating it. Click on the “Venues” tab at the top left corner to view the selected venue.
Click on “Start campaign now” to activate your campaign instantly. If you want to activate the campaign at a later time, click on “Save this campaign for later” next to the “Start campaign” button.
Share your activated campaign on your Foursquare business venue and via other popular social media platforms, such as Facebook, Twitter, Google+, and LinkedIn, to let customers know about it. Click on the “Share campaign” button to generate the link of the activated campaign. Now, copy the link and post it on different venues on Foursquare as tips or on other social media platforms.
 You can add different Foursquare plugins, such as “Save” or “Follow,” to your business website so customers can easily locate your business via Foursquare and can add tips to your Foursquare business page.


Visit the “Foursquare Resources” page at https://foursquare.com/about/logos to create a customized Foursquare button to add to your website. You will see two buttons: “Save” or “Follow” at the top of the page. The “Save” button allows your visitors to save a venue so they can visit it later. The “Follow” button allows your visitors to follow your business page using their own Foursquare accounts.
Click on one of these buttons to open the code-generating page. Enter your Foursquare business page URL in the “Foursquare URL of your Page” field and hit the “Submit” button next to it. Select a button style then copy the entire generated code from the “Grab the code” box at the bottom of the page.
Access the dashboard of your website and paste the copied code on your website. Save your changes and publish it to activate the Foursquare button on your website. Your web visitors can directly browse your Foursquare business page using the button and see the published tips on your Foursquare business page.
 Recommended venues on your business page will help customers and other Foursquare users find great places. It can also encourage customers to create their own lists and add your business venue on their list as a favorite venue.


Go to the “Foursquare list” page at https://foursquare.com/lists. Click on “Create a New List” at the top right corner of the page, and a “Create a new list” dialog box will appear on your screen. Type the title of your list in the required field and hit the “Create” button to begin. Your list page will appear with available listing options.
Type the list description in the “Description” field to let people know about the type of venues listed on your list, and click on “Save.”
Type the name of venues in the “Search for a place” field. While typing, you should see different suggested venues on to help you find the venue quickly. Choose one of the suggested venues to enlist it. You can add an image to your listed venue by clicking on the “Add a photo” box next to the venue title.
Continue adding more venues by searching for them.
When you are done, click on the “Finish editing” button at the top right corner to save the added venues under this list. Now, share this list on other social media platforms to let people follow it on your business page. Do this by selecting the list to share then clicking on one of the “Share via” buttons on the right sidebar—you can select Facebook, Twitter, or Email. If you have not linked your Foursquare business account to these social accounts, you will be asked to log in.
 You can encourage people to check into your business venue and collect different badges as a reward. Foursquare users will be interested to check into your venue page to win different badges as this can highlight their own profile.


To create a custom badge, you must apply via Foursquare Partner Badge Inquiry form and get the approval of the Foursquare admin. It is a paid business feature. To apply, you must agree to run the custom badge at least for three months at $25,000 per month.
Go to the Foursquare Partner Badge Inquiry form (https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1ORTnUd4raupBmDMdavQgLGNgzYimP81-RF5Er8rpwxc/viewform?ndplr&formkey=dHNhdHhZNXZtM0tkbTN0YUIxVjlnLWc6MQ&hl=en).
Choose the “Type of badge” from the drop-down menu on the form. Then fill up all the required fields on the form. When you are done, click the “Submit” button at the bottom of the form to send your application to the Foursquare admin; they will review your application.
The Foursquare team will contact you via the email address you gave on the form within 2 weeks to inform you about the approval or disapproval of the requested custom badge.
If your badge is approved, you must pay the fee of the badge (instructions will be included in the email). Generally, it takes 6 to 8 weeks to get the badge live on your business page.
 If you have a physical store (that is, not an online store), you can encourage your customers to view your Foursquare business page by using Foursquare window clings, stickers, or signs.


Go to Foursquare Window Cling Request form (https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1-g-yPEhT9dCsIC03DGlDtGRsad_uYbBs3H4h9CUmxn0/viewform).
Fill in each required field in the form accordingly and select a cling type from the available list. Click on “Submit” to send your request for a Foursquare window cling, and Foursquare will send your requested cling to the address specified in the form.
To request clings for multiple locations, use the support ticket of Foursquare.
 You can easily track the metrics of customers and their activities on your business venue by accessing to your Foursquare Business Manager option. You can monitor the data of your customers depending upon customer types, location, gender, and periods.


Visit your “Manager Home Page” on Foursquare to view the list of Customer Statistic on your business page. Click one of the listed data to check its detail information.
 Go to the “Manager Home page” of your Foursquare business page and click on the “Edit profile” button next to the profile picture at the top left corner of the page.


Click on the “Add Facebook” and the “Add Twitter” link one by one. Log into your Facebook and Twitter business accounts on the pop-up windows that appear. After linking all accounts, click on the “Save” button below to connect your Foursquare account to Facebook and Twitter.
 Foursquare has enabled paid ads to promote your business. Using demographic information, Foursquare shows the ad of your business venue to users specifically in your business area; this is to let them know about your business, encouraging them to visit.


Go to your “Manager Home” page and select a location listed on your page.
Type a short message to promote your business in the required fields under the “Manage my ads” option and add a picture related to your ad. Then select the range of your monthly budget and periods for running this ad. Increase your budget to increase the visibility of your ad on Foursquare.
Track your ad result under the “Manage my ads” option on your “Manager Home page” daily or weekly to check the outcome of the launched ad on your business venue. You can check the number of physical visits of customers and the number of clicks on the ad here.

