 Before any thing else, if you plan on getting up close and personal with espresso machines, makers or espresso beverages as a lifelong hobby, you'll need to know the terms that go with them. There are many terms associated with coffee making and drinking but here are a few that every espresso aficionado should be aware of:


BAR: This is the pressure rating that you'll find on most espresso machines.
Barista: This is the person responsible for operating the espresso/coffee machine. It's Italian in origin.
Breve: When someone asks for a breve, it's simply using steamed half and half or skimmed milk rather than regular milk.
Coffee Pack: This refers to the tamped volume of coffee grinds in a filter basket before the shot of espresso is brewed.
Demitasse: This is the cup that holds a traditional shot of espresso, namely a 3 ounce (or smaller) cup. Although these can be made from any range of food grade materials, the porcelain type is the most preferred. They need to be thick to retain heat.






Dosage: The dosage means the amount of ground coffee that makes up a shot of espresso. It is usually measured as 7 grams per 1.5 ounce single espresso shots.
Double: This is one option for ordering an espresso or the pour of the espresso. This is usually between 2.5 and 3 ounces of espresso total volume.
Espresso: Another Italian word for the drink made using a pump or lever espresso machine, from 7 grams (+/- 2 grams) of finely ground coffee, producing 1-1.5 ounces (30-45ml) of extracted beverage under 9 bar (135psi) of brewing pressure at brewing temperatures of between 194ºF and 204ºF/90ºC-96ºC, over a period of 25 seconds (+/- 5 seconds and no less than 20 seconds) of brew time. The definitions may be hotly contested by many baristas, for espresso is a subjective pleasure. The age, quality, and origin of the coffee bean, the amount of grounds packed into the basket, the pressure with which the barista tamps, the water temperature, and many other factors all impact the end product.
Filter basket: This is the metal, flat bottomed basket that sits inside the portafilter and holds the bed of ground coffee. It has mesh holes to allow the coffee to drip through to the demitasse.
Froth: This is the result from steaming milk using the espresso machine's steaming wand. Milk froth is ideal when it can be poured rather than spooned onto the coffee.
Ristretto: This is the Italian word for a "restricted" shot. In this case only around 1.5 ounces of espresso is poured; it's richer but harder to brew.
Shot: This is simply another way to describe a brewed espresso.;
