 Since you won't be doing any sewing for this, you want to find a fabric that does not fray, such as felt or flannel. Jersey/t-shirt fabric and tulle also make great choices.


This will create a child-sized cape. You can use larger measurements to make an adult cape.
 Measure down from your child's neck down to where you want the cape to end. Add 2 to 3 inches (5.08 to 7.62 centimeters) to your measurement. Cut the fabric according to that measurement.The cape can be as wide as you want it to be.
 Turn the fabric so that the wrong side is facing you. Fold the top edge down by 2 to 3 inches (5.08 to 7.62 centimeters) to make the casing. Secure the bottom edge with fabric glue or iron-on hem tape.Hot glue is not recommended for this because it is not flexible enough to gather.
If you do know how to sew, you can sew the casing down, ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) from the bottom edge.
 It can be the same color as the cape, or a contrasting one. Something between 1 and 2 inches (2.54 and 5.08 centimeters) would work best.

If you want to tie the ribbon into a bow, cut it twice the length as the casing. You can also use a piece of silver or gold cording instead.
 Secure a safety pin to one end of the ribbon. Use the safety pin to pull the ribbon through the casing., Slide the cape so that it is centered on the ribbon. Next, scrunch the cape on the ribbon so that it gathers. It should be about half the width it used to be., Cut the ribbon down to 3 inches (7.62 centimeters) on each side. Seal the ends with a lighter to keep them from fraying.

If you will be tying the ribbon into a bow, skip this step.
 Place one Velcro closure on the front of one ribbon, and the other on the back of the other ribbon. Self-adhesive Velcro would work best. If you can't find any, you can glue on the regular kind with hot glue or fabric glue.

Consider hot gluing some pretty rhinestones over the front of one ribbon to make it fancier.
If you left the ribbon long, cut the ends at angles, then seal them with a lighter.
If you used cording instead of a ribbon, tie a knot into each end of the cord to keep it from fraying.
 You can leave your cape as is, or you can add some finishing touches, such as rhinestones or paint. Use colors that go well with your cape, and remember, less is more. Here are some ideas to get you started:Paint on designs using fabric glue or puff paint. You can free-hand them or use fabric stencils.
Use iron-on transfers to add designs to your cape.
Glue rhinestones along the edges using fabric glue or hot glue.
Use fusible web interfacing to glue appliqués onto the cape.
Hot glue a feather boa to the bottom of the cape.

