 Jumping spiders can thrive in a variety of environments. In order to make sure they have room to jump, try to choose a container that is at least a cubic foot in size. Glass or plastic terrariums work well.Make sure the lid is ventilated with small holes so that your spider gets adequate air flow.
Jumping spiders don't spin webs, but they do enjoy resting in little nests. Provide your spider with material to make a bed. Choose a small piece of cloth, or even a paper napkin.
Keep the cage out of direct sunlight. You don't want your spider to overheat.
 Your jumping spider will eat a variety of insects. Try feeding it flies and small crickets. If you don't want to collect the food yourself, you can purchase it at most pet stores.Your spider does not need to eat every day. It will be fine if you give it an insect every 2-3 days.
Spiders don't need much water. Just mist the sides of the cage with a spray bottle of water every few days.
Simply drop the insect into the cage. Your spider will pounce on it and eat.
 Like most spiders, jumping spiders really don't like to be touched or handled. For the most part, you should avoid trying to handle your spider. If you do need to move him, try to nudge him into a cup using a piece of plastic or other material.


You can still enjoy your pet. You can watch him jump around his cage. Some will also follow your finger if you gently trace it along the walls of the container. It seems like he may be playing, but it will help you keep him active, and know that he can still see and hunt.
Occasionally, you can take your spider out of captivity. Set him on your desk and watch him jump. Just be careful not to lose him!

, Your spider can be a very interesting pet. Try keeping track of things like how much it eats and when, and if it changes colors or size. You could discover some interesting patterns. You can also track when it likes to sleep.


Try keeping a small notebook near your jumping spider's cage. That way you'll have it handy when you see it do something interesting.

