 Cut small slits all the way around below the collar band of a t-shirt to create a woven pattern. Make sure the cuts are evenly spaced and perpendicular to the neckline.


The slits should be about 2 inches (5 cm) long. Make the first slit where you want to start half as long as the rest, as it will begin to open up into a hole during this process.
The slits should be about 1 inch (2.5 cm) away from one another, but this measurement does not need to be exact.
When you’re done cutting, stretch out the fabric on either side of where you cut to make it easier to manipulate.
 Pick up the piece of fabric between the first two cuts you made. Pull the second piece of fabric under and over the first piece, creating a loop.


Start where you made your smaller cut. Your first slit will be pulled open into more of a hole by the weaving process, so it’s best to start with a smaller slit if possible.
To create more of a braided look, pull the second piece of fabric under the first, then twist it once before moving onto the next step., Take the third piece of fabric and pull it under and up over the loop you created with the first two pieces. Continue pulling the next piece through the current loop until you’ve reached the end.


Remember to twist each loop once before you pull the next piece through it to create more of a braided look if you choose to do so.
When you reach the end and you have a final loop with nothing to pull through it, cut the loop in half. Tie the pieces securely to the end of your weaved fabric to secure it. Trim the ends carefully if they are too long., Choose to create a woven pattern on the sides or back of your t-shirt. Cut slits and use the same method of pulling one piece under and over the previous piece to create the pattern.


If you weave the sides, make sure you lay the t-shirt flat, with the fabric folded evenly along each side before cutting. If you weave the back, pick up the t-shirt and fold it in the opposite way, so that the arm holes line up and the side seams meet before you cut the back.
You can create a more open back with several lines of weaving by cutting longer slits all the way across the back.Or, create two different "strips" of slits down the back.

