 For the dip, you’ll need 7 to 9 eggplant rounds that have been sliced to ¼ inch (6-mm) thick. Sprinkle both sides of the eggplant with salt, and place them in a colander to sit for 10 to 15 minutes to draw out the moisture and bitterness.Half of a medium eggplant should be enough to give you the necessary amount of rounds.
 After the eggplant have sat for about 10 minutes, rinse them in the sink under cool water. Use clean towels to carefully pat the rounds completely dry.Be sure to dry both sides of the eggplant rounds.
 To ensure that the broiler is hot enough to roast the eggplant, turn it on high and allow it to preheat. Make sure that the rack is positioned at the top of oven close to the broiler., Arrange the eggplant rounds on a baking sheet lightly greased with nonstick cooking spray. Lightly coat both sides of the rounds with some olive oil and sprinkle a small amount of salt over them.You can substitute avocado oil for the olive oil if you prefer.
 After the eggplant are coated with the olive oil and salt, place them in the oven. Allow the eggplant to broil for 4 to 5 minutes on each side, or until they are tender and golden brown. Remove them from the oven and wrap them in foil to steam them for 2 to 3 minutes.Keep a close eye on the eggplant as it broils. You don’t want the rounds to burn at all.
 After the eggplant rounds have steamed in the foil for a few minutes, carefully peel away the skin and discard. Place the eggplant in a blender.You should easily be able to remove the skin from the eggplant with just your fingers.
 Once the eggplant is in the blender, add 1 ½ cups (355 ml) of unsweetened almond milk, 2 to 3 tablespoons (16 to 24 g) of nutritional yeast, ¼ teaspoon (1 g) of finely minced fresh garlic, 1 teaspoon (2 g) of cumin, 1 teaspoon (3 g) of chili powder, and 2 teaspoons (3 g) of cornstarch to it. Blend the mixture on high until it is smooth and creamy.You can also blend the dip together in a food processor.
If the dip mixture is too thick, you can add in a little more almond milk to thin it out.
Taste the dip mixture after you’re finished blending it. You may want to add more salt or nutritional yeast to deepen the cheesy flavor.
 After you’ve blended the dip together, transfer it to a small saucepan. Heat it over medium to medium-high heat for about 5 minutes, or until the mixture thickens and begins to bubble.The longer you heat the dip mixture, the thicker it will become.
If the mixture isn’t as thick as you’d like even after heating it for 5 minutes or more, mix 1 teaspoon (3 g) of cornstarch with a teaspoon (5 ml) of almond milk and 2 to 3 tablespoons (18 to 26 g) of the dip mixture. Whisk well and then add it back to the pot with the dip. It should thicken up.
 After the dip has thickened, remove the pan from the heat. Add ¼ cup (65 g) of chunky medium salsa and mix well to ensure that it’s fully incorporated.You can substitute ¼ of a 10-ounce (283 g) can of diced tomatoes and green chilies for the salsa if you prefer.
If the salsa is watery, drain the excess moisture before mixing it into the dip or you may thin it out.
 After you’ve finished mixing in the salsa, pour the dip into a serving bowl. Serve it with veggies, chips, or crackers.You can garnish the dip with some smoked paprika and hot sauce for flavor and color.
Cover any leftover dip and refrigerate it. It should keep for 3 to 5 days, but it’s best when fresh.
Reheat refrigerated dip in the microwave or in a saucepan before eating.

