 The catch is that there are actually two system of Chicago formatting.


The notes-bibliography system: used in the humanities (literature, history and the arts). It provides notes at the bottom of the page, and sometimes a full bibliography at the end of the text.
The author-date system: used the physical, natural, and social sciences. It provides parenthetical in-text citations that include the author and date of publication, as well as a bibliography.
 At the end of the sentence that contains the borrowed material, place a number in superscript. The first source cited on the page is “1,” the second source is “2,” and so on. This numbering system resets with each page, and you start over with “1” instead of moving on to “3.”


At the bottom of the page, create a space for footnotes that is separated from the body text by a typed lined is 1.5 inches wide.
Match each source to its information in the text by using the same number, but do not raise it into superscript.
 It’s formatted in the exact same way, but the numbering reaches from the first to last page, rather than restarting with each new page.
 The first line of each source is indented, just like a paragraph, but subsequent lines are not.


Essay found in a print anthology: 1. First Last, “Essay Title in Title Case” in Book Title in Title Case, ed. EditorFirst and Last and SecondEditorFirst and Last (City: Publisher, Year), Page range.
For example: 1. Ford, Stephanie, “The Dawn of the Technological Age” in Essays on Technology, ed. Nancy Lyninger (London: wikiHow Publishing, 2015), 289-300.
Essay found in print journal: 2. AuthorFirst Last, “Essay Title in Title Case,” Journal in Title Case Issue# (Year): Page range.
For example: 2. Brown, David, “How to Make Friends,” The Journal of wikiHow 15 (2015): 352-361.
Essay accessed through online database: use the exact same format as that for the print journal, but add the doi (digital object identifier) if available. If not available, add the url.
For example: 3. Condron, Ursula, “Getting Along,” The Journal of wikiHow 12 (2013): 299-312, doi: 10.1163/157006598X00125.
 You can provide only the name and page number, or name, shortened title, and page number. Either way, you include a note pointing the reader to the first note for that source, where they can find full bibliographic information.


12. Meisner, 118. 12. Meisner, "The Way We Live," 118. This style is used if you have multiple sources by the same author.
If you have multiple authors with the same last name, just include the first name.
For example: Stanley Meisner, 118. , However, many people choose to create a consolidated list of sources. While the notes are numbered and appear in the order in which the sources appear, the bibliography is alphabetized. If you include a range of sources, some of which you read but did not specifically need to cite for the paper, you should call the document a "Selected Bibliography." If you include only the sources you used in the paper, call it a "Works Cited" or "Reference List."


Just like the notes, bibliography entries are single spaced, with a skipped line between entries.
But unlike the notes, the first line is not indented, while subsequent lines are indented.



Essay found in a print anthology: Last, First. “Title in Title Case.” In Anthology Title in Title Case, edited by First Last. City: Publisher, Year. Page range.
Essay found in print journal: Last, First. “Title in Title Case.” Journal in Title Case Volume (Year): Page range.
Essay accessed through online database: Last, First. “Title in Title Case.” Journal in Title Case Volume (Year): Page range. doi: 10.1163/157006598X00125.

