 Drizzle a tablespoon of oil in a large skillet (about 10 to 14 inches) over medium heat before cooking the base of your breakfast skillet. If you're serving more than a few people, it's important to pick a base that is filling and will easily feed several people. You can cook diced or cubed potatoes as the base of your skillet. Whatever you choose, ensure the food is cooked until it's tender before you add your other ingredients. Good breakfast skillet bases include:Cooked and drained pasta
Cooked and cooled rice
Diced and roasted sweet potatoes
Hash browns
Diced yam or butternut squash

, Once your base has cooked until it is soft, add at least one or two different cubed vegetables. You may need to drizzle a little olive oil in the pan and stir it frequently to keep the food from sticking. Use at least one of these vegetables in your breakfast skillet:Broccoli
Cauliflower
Mushrooms
Kale or spinach
Onions
Bell peppers

, As the breakfast skillet cooks, sprinkle seasoning and herbs to add flavor. You can start with just 1/4 of a teaspoon of the spices and herbs you want to use. Taste the food and adjust the flavor by adding more seasonings to your taste. These seasonings work well in breakfast skillets:Thyme
Rosemary
Garlic
Oregano
Chili powder
Shallots
Ground cumin

, Many breakfast skillets contain meat. You can use any type of sausage, cooked and shredded chicken, bacon, or smoked salmon. If you'd like to stick to a vegetarian breakfast skillet, just use eggs or tofu. To add eggs, you can just make wells in the veggies and crack the eggs into each well. You could also drop the eggs into the skillet and stir them frequently while the skillet cooks. This will scramble the eggs.


If you'd like to top the breakfast skillet with fried eggs, try frying the eggs in a separate pan. This way, you can cook them exactly how you like them and simply place them on top of your cooked breakfast skillet.
 Depending on how you decided to cook your eggs, you may need to continue cooking the skillet. If you'd like your eggs cracked onto the top and cooked till just set, consider covering the skillet with a lid and cooking the skillet over medium-low heat until the whites set. This could take 5 to 10 minutes. If you'd like to use more than 4 eggs or would like them cooked more thoroughly, bake the breakfast skillet in an oven heated to 400 degrees F (204 C) for 10 minutes.


If baking in the oven, ensure your pan is oven-safe.
If you chose to scramble the eggs into the cooked vegetables and base, you won't need to continue cooking the breakfast skillet any further.
