 Clean the pork by rinsing it under cool, running water. Doing this removes stickiness and some of the surface bacteria from the meat. Pat the pork dry with clean paper towels and cut into bite-size pieces.


Choose bony parts of the pork. Bones from the ribs, belly, hocks, or neck tend to work best. If you need to separate the pieces, do so by cutting into the meat in between the bones.
Ribs tend to have more meat than other pork bones, but other pork bones tend to have more marrow and make a richer broth.
If you use ribs, choose more affordable spare ribs instead of prime ribs. Spare ribs benefit more from this slow, low cooking method than prime ribs would.
 Combine the pork, water, garlic, onions, black peppercorns, and salt in the stockpot. Bring to a boil over high heat, stirring occasionally.


Note that the black peppercorn and garlic combination is a bit more traditional than the ginger version.
Only add the white onion in this step. Do not add the green onion yet.
The garlic must be peeled and crushed before you add it, and the onion should be peeled cut into quarters or similar wedges.
You could substitute the water for low-sodium pork broth, but since the pork bones give off a lot of flavor on their own, doing so is not necessary.
 Cover the dish and reduce the heat to medium-low. Allow the contents of the stockpot to simmer until the pork is tender and nearly falling off the bone.


Stir the contents often as the soup simmers.
You will likely notice brown scum or foam rising to the surface of the soup as it simmers. Even though this scum is normal, you should still remove it with a large serving or mixing spoon. Pour the foam down your sink and follow it with a flush of running water.
 After the pork becomes tender, you should add the potatoes and eddoes. Mix these into the soup well and simmer for another 10 minutes, or until tender.


The eddoes, also referred to as "taro" or "gabi," are only optional. They can add a little flavor to the soup, but their main purpose is to thicken up the broth.
If desired, you could cut the potatoes into smaller, bite-size pieces or use "baby" potatoes instead.
 Mix these ingredients into the soup and cook for no more than 5 minutes. The leaves and green vegetables should be warm but not soggy.


Note that the bok choy cabbage might be referred to as "pechay" at the market, and the green onions could be labeled as "scallions."
Similarly, the fish paste will often be labeled "patis" when bought at an Asian food market.
 After all the ingredients are warmed through, remove the stockpot from the heat and spoon the soup out into individual serving bowls. Serve while still fresh and hot.


Traditionally, nilagang baboy is served with a side of hot, cooked white rice.

