 Like all the previous Generations, a Luxury Ball will provide a bonus to Friendship gained for certain activities.
 A new addition to Generation VI Friendship is the bonus you get for performing Friendship-raising activities in the same spot you captured Pichu.

This applies to using Vitamins, Rare Sodas, and EV-lowering berries.
 You can get 2 Friendship points for walking 128 steps, but in Generation VI games you'll get the points less than 50% of the time., In X and Y, you can find the massage lady in the house to the left of the Pokémon Center in Cyllage City. In Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, you can find a groomer to the north of the Poke Miles shop in Mauville City.Massages have a 6% chance of giving you a 30-point boost.
 Like all Pokémon games, Vitamins will boost your Friendship by up to 5 (plus any bonuses). No new Vitamins have been introduced since Generation III., Wings are items that are similar to Vitamins, but a little less powerful. They can be found randomly on the Driftveil Drawbridge and Marvelous Bridge. Wings can give you up to 3 Friendship., When Pichu levels up in battle, you'll gain up to 5 Friendship. In Generation VI, levels attained by Rare Candy will not be rewarded with a Friendship Bonus, Use the Super Training feature in Generation VI to boost Pichu's Friendship. You'll need to complete a few Regimens to unlock the Soothing Bag, which can give you a 20-point boost to your Friendship., The Juice Shoppe in Lumiose City sells a variety of different juices, and a few of them will increase your Friendship. You'll need berries to create the juices.

Rare Soda - 1 Lansat and 1 Starf Berry
Colorful Shake - Any two berries
Ultra Rare Soda - 1 Roseli and 1 Enigma
Any colored juice

, Getting knocked out will drop your Friendship by 1, so make sure to pull Pichu out if its about to faint. Don't use any healing items on Pichu., The healing items in the game can have a big negative impact on your Friendship. Do all of your healing at the Pokémon Center. The second value below applies if your Friendship is over 200.

Energy Powder: -5/-10 points
Heal Powder: -5/-10 points
Energy Root: -10/-15 points
Revival Herb: -15/-20 points

, You can find an estimation of your Pichu's Friendship level by visiting the checker in the Pokémon Fan Club in Laverre City. Make sure Pichu is the first Pokémon in your party. If you're playing Omega Ruby or Alpha Sapphire, see the Generation III instructions.

50 - 99: "Hmm…I think you have a lot of time ahead of you to get to know one another better."
100 - 149: "It's a little bit friendly to you… Something like that."
150 - 199: "Well, I think you and Pichu will be an even greater combo someday!"
200 - 254: "You must really like your Pichu and always keep it by your side!"
255: "It's amazingly friendly toward you! It must be so happy spending every day with you!"

, You'll have to guess since the checker only tells you the range you're in. You can level Pichu up through battle or by using a Rare Candy, Rare Soda, or Ultra Rare Soda.

If Pichu doesn't evolve, its Friendship is not 220.

