 If you intend to be a regular, you will want to develop a good working relationship with them so that you can get a better booth and obtain professional advice about how to attain the best marketing.


Get to know other comic-con regulars as well. Many people travel to the same conventions, many of whom may be involved in different parts of comic promotion. As well as trading advice and ideas, they can watch your table when you need to leave and you can do the same for them.
Networking is a big part of marketing and selling books. People are more likely to promote or recommend your comics if you know the people in charge and the successful sellers. Go early to the booth and talk to people regularly.
 You may want to make large banners with illustrations of your characters, as well as character write-ups, brochures and handouts. You need to have an attractive booth to attract customers.


Work on your elevator pitch. It should be less than 30 seconds and explain the inspiration and creation of the comic. Include anything that differentiates your comic from any others.
 Display is your marketing weapon bar none at the actual convention. Comics sitting flat on a table aren't anywhere near as captivating to passers-by as comics standing upright on a stand. Set up your table at home as if you were attending a comic-con. Stand back and observe it and have some friends and family members check it out too. Then ask for everyone's opinion, as well as your own. It's likely that you will find constructive ways to make changes that improve the attractiveness and draw of your display.


Consider covering the table with a cloth to make it look more uniform and warm.
Use book stands to put the display copies front and center of your display.
Consider using framed art as a conversation piece and attraction.
Include information cards in front of the comics.
Add business cards, flyers with URL links, etc. for free takeaways from the table.
A bowl of candy bribe might be your style too!

