 Your other pets may feel like your new dog is invading their space. As a result, setting up separate spaces for your pets can help minimize jealousy and prevent conflict if they are just not getting along. Placing each pet in crates, within baby gates, can help each pet settle down before a conflict starts over territory.Avoid “punishing” your dogs with separate spaces. Simply step in and say, “Ok, Sam and Ally, you’re going to your crates until you can settle down.”
Make sure the separate spaces are big enough for each pet. These spaces should also be comfortable and have toys or other items that your pet enjoys.
 It’s important that your family participate in preventing jealousy and conflict between your new dog and other pets. Make sure that each family member knows ways to positively interact with each pet as well as how and when to separate them.Make sure your family members involve both pets when paying attention so that neither feels left out.
Tell small children that they shouldn’t get involved in conflicts with pets. Instead, let them know when they should tell you if there’s a problem or conflict.
 Animal trainers and behavioral specialists can identify problems with your pets’ interactions and behaviors. Working with an animal behavior specialist may minimize jealousy and conflict in your pets. It can also teach you how to effectively resolve issues.


Consider hiring a professional who works using only positive reinforcement. This can help your pets associate each other with positive experiences.
Let the professional know any behaviors that concern you. Ask questions during sessions so that you can effectively deal with problems.
 If your new dog and other pets are not getting along despite your best efforts, schedule an appointment with your vet. They can observe the pets together and make suggestions on how best to prevent conflict and possible injuries.


Tell your vet all information related to each pet’s behavior when they’re alone or together. This can help the vet figure out what may be causing the jealousy and/or conflict.
Incorporate any suggestions your vet has into your pets’ daily routine. If this doesn’t help, contact your vet again.

