 As a result of enduring physical abuse and its counterparts, you might be feeling certain ways that are telltale signs that you are in an abusive relationship: You still love your partner, but you want your partner’s abusive behaviors to change.
You feel lonely, suffer from depression, powerless, ashamed, anxious, and/or suicidal.
You feel embarrassed and you think people will judge you.
You are struggling with alcoholism or drug abuse.
You can’t leave because you don’t have any money and you’re afraid of what he/she will do if you do.
You still feel your partner will change if you just love him/her enough.
You believe that you need to stay with your partner because you made a commitment.
You feel isolated from family.
You feel trapped and there is no escape. If you try to leave, your partner will find you, and then it will get worse.
You’re afraid your partner will hurt your children or your pets. You worry that your partner will get custody of your kids.
You feel distrust towards domestic violence services or law enforcement because of their poor handling of the situation in the past (whether it’s perceived or true).
If you can write down your feelings in a journal, try that. If you worry that your partner will see your journal, you may need to find another way to identify and sort out your feelings. This might be through talking with a friend, writing on a piece of paper and then throwing it away,

, When communicating assertively, people in healthy relationships communicate openly and honestly. This means that healthy couples can share their feelings with the other person. They don’t need to be right all the time, and they listen to each other in a loving, open, and nonjudgmental way.Healthy couples don’t play the “blame game.” Each person takes responsibility for their behavior, their thinking, and their emotions, as well as their own happiness and destiny. They also take responsibility for when they make mistakes and do what they can to make it up to their partner (apologizing is a good start).
 Not everyone agrees all the time, even in the healthiest of relationships. Misunderstandings, miscommunications, and conflicts are dealt with promptly and assertively. Assertive communication maintains a level of kindness and respect within the relationship, as well as encourages cooperation in solving problems and issues. There is a healthy amount of respect towards each other. Healthy couples are kind to each other. They do not name-call, put each other down, yell, or exhibit other signs of abusive behaviors. They support each other privately and in public.
Because couples take full responsibility, they also work to improve the behaviors that aren’t working for the relationship. They try to be flexible and try to see things from their partner’s point of view.
 Healthy couples have personal boundaries and can express their preferences and needs. They use assertiveness to express boundaries in a kind and loving way.


Abusers methodically test their partner’s boundaries, continually working to break down your boundaries until you are completely under their control. You start to accept their abuse and behavior. You accept their power over you. Your fear of being hurt or killed keeps you frozen in the relationship and under their control.
 Does your partner insult you in front of other people? Does he put you down and call you names? Abusive partners often use derogatory comments to lower the other person’s self-esteem.
 Oftentimes, abusive relationships have one partner who doesn’t pursue what makes her happy. She mistakenly believes that making sacrifices like this is what people do when they love each other. Think about whether your life centers around making your partner happy. Think too about demands that your partner makes that involve sacrificing your own goals.
 Isolating the victim is also often common in the beginning of an abusive relationship. An abuser might blame others for trying to break them up. He may also claim that he loves you too much to share you with anyone else.


It’s understandable why this would make a person feel special. That’s the abuser is counting on to draw you in and keep you tied to the relationship. He blurs the lines of healthy emotional boundaries and rationalizes the erratic behavior.
 It’s easy to believe that your partner loves you so much that you make your partner lose his or her mind. This gives your self-esteem a boost. But it’s really often the first of many techniques an abuser will use to gain control over you. This self-esteem is short-lived, as the abuser employs a large number of tactics to gain control over the relationship. And, this control is the key to the nature of an abusive relationship.


In a healthy relationship, each person takes responsibility for their own self-esteem. Each does his or her best to work on building a healthy self-worth.

