 Have you ever lied, stolen, lusted, coveted, or been angry with someone unjustly? If you've lied, then you're a liar. If you've stolen, then you are a thief. You've broken the Law of God. God has said, "You shall not steal; You shall not lie; You shall have no other gods before Me; You shall not murder, etc." (Exodus 20:1-17). He has given the standard of righteousness; and if you have broken any of God's commandments, then you have fallen short of that standard and are under the inevitable judgment of God (1 John 3:4; Isaiah 59:2; Rom. 6:23). When you die, you will face Him; and on the Day of Judgment, he will deliver the proper judgment to all people. He must because he is righteous and holy. Here is the the salvation plan!;
, 15:1-4). His death was a sacrifice that turns away the wrath of God (1 John 2:2). His grace is the only way to be saved from God's righteous judgment upon those who have sinned (for all have sinned) by breaking his Law.
 You need his grace alone. Your works won't help you (Rom. 3:10-12; Isaiah 64:6), nor will your sincerity. You can never be good enough, and you have nothing to offer God except your sinfulness. It is only by the love and grace of God found in Jesus and His sacrifice that you can be delivered from the righteous wrath of God upon all who have broken His law. Jesus saves you from God's righteous judgment.


The Bible says that all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God (Rom. 3:23). That means that your sins have caused a separation between you and God (Isaiah 59:2), and the result is death (Rom. 6:23) and wrath (Eph. 2:3).
 "It is by grace you have been saved through faith, and this not from yourselves; it is the gift of God, not by works, so that no one can boast. For we are God’s workmanship, created in Christ Jesus to do good works, which God prepared in advance as our way of life.", (Ephesians 2:8-10). You must trust in what Jesus did on the cross to forgive you of your sins and not trust anything else--not even your own sincerity or works., He is the only way to God the Father (John 14:6). He alone reveals God (Matt. 11:27). He has all authority in heaven and earth (Matt. 28:18). It is only through Him that you can be saved from God's wrath (Eph. 2:3). He can forgive you of your sin (Luke 5:20; Matt. 9:1-8). He can remove the guilt that is upon your soul. Jesus can set you free from the bondage of sin that blinds your eyes, weakens your soul, and brings you to despair. He can do this because He bore sin in His body on the cross (1 Peter. 2:24) so that those who trust in Him would be saved.
 Come to the One who died for sinners (Matt. 11:28). Believe and trust in Jesus. Receive Jesus, who is God in flesh (John 1:1, 14) and who died and rose from the dead (1 Cor. 15:1-4), as your Lord and Savior.
 9:1-8). Receive Christ (John 1:12) and the sacrifice he made on the cross (1 Pet. 2:24). Repent of your sins. This means to change your mind about sin and agree with God that it is an offence to Him and is separating you from His fellowship. Only He can wash you clean from your sins, and only Jesus can deliver you from the future judgment of a holy and infinite God. Pray to Jesus. Seek Him. Ask Him to save you. Put your trust in him. At this point, you are saved and God has forgiven you of your sins forever.
, - Acts 19:5 When they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. - This is for a public testimony to others of your decision to follow God

, Peter 1:16 - Because it is written, Be ye holy; for I am holy.
 by taking heed thereto according to thy word.
 - Mark 12:30-31 And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength: this is the first commandment. And the second is like, namely this, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. There is no other commandment greater than these.
 - Mark 16:15 And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature.
 - Act 1:6-11 When they, therefore, had come together, they asked of him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel? And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons, which the Father hath put in his own power. But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you: and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judaea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth. And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was taken up; and a cloud received him out of their sight. And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel; Which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? this same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven.

