 You should go home if you are feeling nauseous or vomiting too frequently, coughing excessively, unable to fight off fatigue, or otherwise unable to maintain a reasonable level of concentration for more than a few minutes. Anything more extreme than these conditions may warrant emergency care altogether. You’re your boss you’re at your limit and you need to be excused.These conditions also greatly increase the risk of you contaminating someone else.
 The flu and other illnesses will likely leave you with less energy than you normally have during the day as your body fights the disease. So allow yourself more time to complete tasks.You should expect a lower level of productivity if you go to work while experiencing the flu or another illness.
Don’t push yourself to get as much work done as you would normally. Do what workload you can within your limits, then take a break. Take your medicine if necessary, perform one of the remedies, or just relax. You can resume working after you had a chance to recover some energy.
You might try working for one hour then take a 15 minute rest period. Repeat this throughout the day.
Make sure your boss is well informed of your condition so they can make arrangements for an area for you to rest if necessary. They will also know you are not just wasting time.
 Prepare foods to improve your immune system. Take a can of soup, vitamin c rich fruits (like oranges), and some proteins (lean meats, poultry, eggs) that you can stomach in meal containers with you to work.The flu or illness you have may upset your stomach and the medicine you take may aggravate this feeling further. However, you need to keep up your nutrients to help your recovery.
Soup is good for eating especially if it's hard to swallow without pain. Eat hot chicken soup. You can sprinkle in pepper, add garlic, add curry powder, or put in a dash of other pungent spices to thin out the mucus congesting you. The soup can also improve your white blood count in your immune system. Drink orange juice to build up your vitamin C and folic acid for your immune system. Dairy is okay unless it’s generating too much mucus or upsetting your stomach. Keep on eating good protein sources like lean meats, poultry, fish, legumes, dairy, eggs, nuts, and seeds. These have vitamins B6 and B12 which help your immune system. Selenium and zinc also help your immune system. These minerals are found in protein-rich foods too. Other immune system boosters include grapefruits, lemons, limes, watermelon, kale, collard greens, broccoli, and cabbage.
 Start slowly with 4 to 8 ounces at a time and use clear drinks at first if you’re suffering diarrhea or nausea. Especially when feeling nauseous or suffering diarrhea you can also try chipped ice, fruit juices, sports drinks, and ginger ale. Dehydration is a significant risk while suffering the flu or some other illnesses. So you want to make sure you are taking in plenty of water during the work day.If you go to work with the flu or similar illnesses then you should drink lots of liquids like water, clear soups, broth, or electrolyte replacement drinks until the fever resolves. Some other ways to get fluids in include gelatin and ice pops.

