 You'll need to be running the latest version of the Minecraft app in order to use the Realms feature. You can check for app updates in your device's app store.
 To create or play on Realms, you have to sign in with a free Xbox Live account. Tap "Sign In" to get started., You'll need a free Xbox Live account to use Minecraft Realms, even on an Android or iOS device. Xbox Live has a free version and a paid "Gold" version, but you only need the free account to play Minecraft PE. Your Xbox account is linked with your Microsoft account.

When you create a new account, you'll have to make a "gamertag." This is the name that is displayed to other players in Realms, and cannot be the same as any other Xbox Live gamertag.
 This will display a list of your worlds., You'll see a quick description and some buttons at the bottom. Realms are private servers for you and your friends. Any of you can join leave the Realm at any time, and the world can be put into Survival and Creative modes.

Realms cost money each month to keep active. If you need a free option you can try setting up your own server with PocketMine, but be aware that mobs are not supported in PocketMine. See the next section for details.
 There will be a number below the envelope icon indicating the number of invites you've received. It is free to join Realms created by other players when you are invited., The Realm will always be available for your friends to join, even when you're not playing. There are two different pricing options available:

10 players, plus you, for $7.99 (USD) per month. The first month is free.
2 players, plus you, for $3.99 (USD) per month. You'll be charged immediately for this tier.
 A pop-up from your app store will appear with the subscription details., This will add the subscription to your app store account. If you selected the 10 player option, you won't be charged for 30 days and can cancel any time before that., After subscribing, you'll be taken to the "Add Realm Players" menu. Tap the "Add Friend" button and select the friends that you want to send invites to. They'll be able to join your game for free.

You can send out more invites later if you'd like from the Realms tab.
 Once you're finished adding friends, tap the "Done, Let's Play!" button to get started in your new Minecraft world. You'll be taken to your new world after it is created, which may take a few moments., You can make a few adjustments to your Realm, but not from within the game:

Press the Back button to open the menu and select "Return to Title."
Tap the "Play" button and then tap the "Realms" tab.
Tap the Pencil button next to your Realm. This will open the Realm options, where you can switch from Survival to Creative mode, change the difficulty, reset your world, and invite more friends.
 If you no longer want to pay for the Realms service, you can cancel your subscription. Your upcoming charges will be canceled, and your Realm will be available until your next billing date.

Open the "Realms" tab of the Play menu.
Tap the Pencil button next to your Realm.
Tap the "Subscription" option and then "Manage Subscription."
Follow the prompts to cancel your subscription through the Google Play Store or iOS App Store.

