 For this method, you will need to lay your lace out on a flat surface and "paint" the lace with dye by hand. As a result, this working space needs to be protected.


Spread a plastic bag, tablecloth, or dropcloth on the work space.
You should also fill a fine-mist spray bottle with water. This water will come in handy for touch-up work, and you can also use it to keep the lace from drying out as you work on other portions.
 Squeeze one to two drops of each dye into a separate compartment of a plastic paint palette, divided plate, or similar container. Dilute each color with 10 drops of warm water.The dye color is very concentrated, so you will need to dilute it with water. Do not paint the lace directly with undiluted dye.
If you want a stronger dye color, you can add another drop or two of dye. Similarly, you can create pastel colors by adding 5 to 10 more drops of water.
 Soaking the lace will help the material absorb, spread, and blend the dye. If you want more distinct colors, however, you should keep the lace dry.


If you decide to moisten the lace, soak it first in a bowl of warm water. Roll the lace in a towel and squeeze out the excess water until the lace is just barely damp.
Alternatively, you could also spray the lace with water from a fine-mist spray bottle to dampen it instead of soaking it first.
 Dip the tip of a fine-tip paintbrush into your first dye color. Lightly paint the desired section of lace with that dye color, using a very gentle touch.


Use the tip of the brush to paint the fine details. If you need to cover more material, you can use the entire brush head.
Thoroughly rinse and dry the brush before loading it with a new dye color.
If you are working with wet lace, mist the lace with water periodically to keep it damp.
 Use a gentle touch when applying the dye. After your initial application, go back over those same areas again with another layer of dye, repeating this until you achieve the desired shade.


Do not dampen the lace again when adding multiple layers of dye.
Lace absorbs dye very quickly, so if you get too impatient and use too much at once, you may end up making the lace too dark.
If the lace becomes too dark, you can blot away the excess dye with a paper towel. This works better if you are using a wet application instead of a dry application, though.
 You can dry the lace by air, but doing so may result in a spotty appearance. You will likely have more success if you use a hair dryer to quicken the drying process.


By speeding the drying process, you reduce the spread of dye color that comes about when the liquid component of the dye evaporates.
 Turn the lace over so that the wrong side faces up. Iron it on a wool setting with a standard iron for roughly two minutes. The color should be well set afterward.


Note that setting the color with an iron also helps soften the lace.

