 Uric acid can only be broken down by enzymes. Unfortunately, cleaners like baking soda, soap, and vinegar will only mask the smell temporarily. These alternative methods are good to use if you don't have enzymatic cleaner on hand at the moment of the incident. Eventually, you will need to clean the area with enzymatic cleaner.


In time, the smell of urine will surface again and your pet will be able to smell it and associate the location as an appropriate place to urinate.
 When baking soda and vinegar are combined, they create water and sodium acetate (or salt).The sodium acetate acts as an abrasive to to scrap away stubborn residues. Separately, baking soda helps to eliminate odors while vinegar sanitizes and removes deposits. There are several steps to using this cleaner:


Soak up as much urine as possible from the upholstery before you use any cleaning agent.
Sprinkle baking soda on the stain and let it sit for 5 minutes. The baking soda will work to deodorize the stain.
In a spray bottle, mix equal parts of water and distilled white vinegar. Alternatively, you can just use a container or a bowl.
Spray or pour the water and vinegar mixture directly onto the baking soda-covered stain. Let it sit for another 5 minutes.
Blot the stain with a towel or paper towel to dry.
 Hydrogen peroxide helps to break down certain chemicals within urine through oxidation. There are several steps to using this cleaner:


Soak up as much urine as possible from the upholstery before you use any cleaning agent.
Sprinkle baking soda on the stain and let it sit for 5 minutes. The baking soda will work to deodorize the stain.
Mix half a cup of 3% hydrogen peroxide and 1 teaspoon of dish detergent in a bowl.
Pour the hydrogen peroxide mixture onto a towel and blot it on the stain.
 Concentrated, Listerine has a strong smell that can help mask the odor of urine. Pour some Listerine in a spray bottle and spray it on any urine stained area.


This method does not clean or remove urine stains. It only helps to add a fresh smell to your home.

