 Booking agents work directly with artists and their teams to schedule events and appearances, such as concerts and private parties. In order to land a major talent like Drake for your next event, you must go through a booking agent. To find a booking agent that works with Drake, conduct a quick internet search. Use the following key phrases in your search:


”Book Drake”
Booking Agency AND Drake”
”Hire Drake”
Celebrity Booking Agent AND Drake”
Your search should produce at least three verifiable booking agencies.;
, After locating booking agencies, you should assess each company. Your careful evaluation of each organization should include reading the content provided on the company’s website and searching for independent reviews of the company. Remain on high alert for potential scams and hidden fees—if a booking agency seems too good to be true, it probably is.


Well-established companies should at least have a phone number, fax number, and mailing address.
Read reviews on a third party website.
Do not contact companies that require fees to process your inquiries or a deposit before you’ve signed a contract., After thoroughly examining each booking agency, select one or more to contact. Many booking agencies have an online contact form on their website. These forms are confidential. They are used by the booking agency to get a better sense of your needs and budget.


Fill out all of the required information, including your desired artist, answer all required questions, and include any comments or concerns you may have about the process.
A booking agency may require you to provide your target budget for the event. This allows the agency to know 1) if the inquiry is legitimate and serious and 2) if you can afford to book Drake. If Drake’s fees fall outside of your desired price range, the agent may recommend other artists.
Instead of filling out the online form, you may call the booking agency., As Drake’s fame continues to increase, so does the cost of hiring him for a private concert or event. In 2011, he was paid $250,000 to sing at a Bar Mitzvah in New York City; in 2014, it was estimated to have cost between $350,000 and $600,000 to book Drake for your party.
 In addition to covering the entertainer’s fee, you will also be responsible for paying the pre-production and onsite production costs. Included in this fee are the cost of:


Airfare
Ground Transportation
Hotel accommodations
Sound
Lights
Emergency Equipment
Staging elements
Independent event planner fees (if you prefer not to book everything through the booking agency), A rider is a list of additional requirements made by the artists. It is always attached to or RIDING the event contract. The rider may include requirements, such as specific flight numbers, expected hotel and green room amenities, as well as the types of food and beverages Drake would like available to him and his team. You may be expected to pay for any items or services requested in the rider. , In addition to paying Drake for his time, you must also pay the booking agency for its time and service. Many agencies will not charge your for a quote. Instead, they will only charge you a service fee and commission if you choose to book through them.


The booking agency’s fee and/or rate of commission should be clearly listed in the quote and later the contract.
This fee will be significantly greater if you choose to let the booking agency manage the pre-production and production details. This level of service is often called a “turn-key” package., Once you have selected a booking agency, an agent will provide you with a comprehensive contract and rider, or list of additional requests made by Drake. Read through this contract carefully. When you speak to the agent, ask any questions and highlight every concerns you may have with the legal document. After settling on terms you, Drake, and the booking agency can agree to, sign the written agreement and pay the required deposit.


Never pay the deposit before signing the contract.
If you are not given a copy of the contract, request one., Throughout the event planning process, remain in close communication with the booking agency. The company should keep the booking agency will keep you informed of any conflicts regarding Drake’s performance. A good agency will work with you to ensure that the event runs smoothly based on your business agreement.Great booking agents are resourceful, organized, and responsible. Their job is to make sure Drake, you, your guests, and the vendors have the best experience possible.
If your contact person at the booking agency is acting in an unprofessional manner, contact their supervisor., After weeks or months of planning, the day of the event finally arrives. Instead of stressing about the party, allow your event planner or booking agent to take care of all the last minute details so that you can have a wonderful time experiencing Drake’s phenomenal live-performance. The superstar will make your event remarkable and memorable.

