 You do not need to understand more than the basics of market forces to excel on the market. Understanding the core of the market will help you to decide on what your next move is. The relationship between supply, demand and price is a good starting point. These two principals are the basis for any market:

Relationship between supply and demand. As supply goes up, demand lowers and so the prize. Be careful not to overload your trading market with goods. It will cause an inflation in goods. When demand goes up, there is generally a shortage of supply. Use this principle to your advantage. By limiting the supply of candy on the market, you increase it's price. Rare candy has high demand and accordingly high price.
Inferior goods. Inferior goods are goods that become less popular when the traders have more value to spend. Stocks full of common candy are not as popular when traders have loads of valuable trading goods. Inferior goods are very popular when traders don't have a lot of valuable trading goods. Use this to your advantage when deciding between buying quality over quantity.;
, You should see if your candy appears stale, melted, or unappealing. Check the expiration date to ensure that it's still safe to consume. To increase your chances of receiving a good trade, you should make sure that your candy is in good condition and looks delicious. If it appears bad in any shape, don't try to trade it, people may feel disgusted by its poor appearance.

Bad candy will not only spoil your reputation but also potentially harm people. They could become severely sick from eating expired or damaged food. In order to maintain your social status and attract more trading partners, be sure to have a stock full of excellent quality candy.
 In order to attract the attention of potential trading partners, you should have a variety of different types of candy.

Purchase inexpensive, popular kinds, with respect to inferior goods.
Everyone has personal preferences. If they can find their favorite treat in your stock, they will be eager to trade with you.
Avoid buying candy in huge quantities unless demand is high. If you aren't sure about what people like, try purchasing small amounts of different types. Once you've figured out the popular types, you can buy larger amounts.
 You can do this by asking people directly, or by asking people over the internet. Before trading, get to know the person and determine how generous they are. You can also gain information by talking to the person's friends, but be sure to be subtle in order to avoid increasing suspicion. Generosity affects the amount of candy you get in return, so you should avoid trading with greedy people.

Be nice when approaching people. You should maintain a confident attitude, but be careful not to appear cocky. Politely request to trade with them, simply saying something along the lines of, "Hey, I saw that you have some candy I like. Do you want to trade for some of mine?" or "Would you like to trade some candy?" Appear friendly rather than demanding; otherwise, people may refuse to trade with you.
 Before trading, it's important to see what they have to offer. You can determine whether the candies are in good condition and check for types that you like. You can also determine what you are willing to give in exchange. It's best to come up with a trade before approaching a trader. You'll not only appear decisive and confident but also be able to come to a quick agreement with them., When trading with someone else, make sure that you offer an appropriate amount of candy in exchange for what you want. Rather than being greedy, you should be generous so that people will be more willing to trade with you in the future. This could also create strong bonds and possibly open ways to other trading partners. Be respectable and understanding as both of you try to come to an agreement. Once you've completed the trade, smile and thank them. Gratitude goes a long way, and people might even give you free candy if they like you enough.

If you sense that a trade isn't fair, speak up rather than remain silent. If traders feel that you're meek and unwilling to defend yourself, they might try to exploit your weakness and cheat you out of your candy. Be polite but firm when speaking to the trader, and try to work with them so that there is mutual benefit.
Speak your mind. If you suddenly want to back out of a trade, don't be afraid to express it. Politely say something along the lines of, "I'm sorry, but I've changed my mind. Maybe we could trade another time?" Be careful not to do this too frequently; otherwise, people may grow irritated and refuse to trade with you.
 Not everyone is going to be interested in trading with you, so be prepared to be turned down. Rather than growing angry, kindly say, "That's okay. Maybe we could trade another time." By being mature about the situation, you will leave a good impression of yourself, and people might want to trade with you in the near future. Whining and begging will only give you a bad reputation and decrease the chances of people wanting to interact with you. It will also annoy the person and perhaps others around them.