 Just go to www.facebook.com if you haven't already. If you're not signed in, type in your email address and password and log in.;
, You can find this option at the top of the status bar on your News Feed., This is the option on the right side of the screen. This will send you to your computer's hard drive.
 Look through your hard drive to locate the photos. If you have iPhoto, you should be able to find your photos there. Once you're done selecting your photos, you'll be brought to a new screen where your album will begin to be built. You can either select your photos one at a time or select several at a time:


To select your photos one at a time, click on a photo and press "Open."
To select several photos in a row, just click on the first photo and hold the Shift key, and click on the photos you'd like to select. If you select two photos that are far apart, you'll automatically select all of the photos in between. Click "Open" when you're done selecting multiple photos.
 As you wait for your photos to upload, you can fill out some basic information to help your friends get more facts about the album. Use the options at the top of the screen to provide the following information:


The title of your album.
A caption for the entire album. If you'd like to leave an introductory note or a catchphrase for the album, just type it under "Say something..."
Where the photos were taken. This can include as many locations as you like.
The date of the album.
Remember that you can go back and add more photos as many times as you like. To do so, just click on "+ Add more photos" at the bottom left of the screen and select more photos using the same method you previously used.
 If you want to do this, just click on the "High Quality" box on the bottom of the screen. This will make it take a bit longer to upload your album, but the photos will appear in a higher quality.
 If you like, you can go through each individual photo, or just some of your photos, to provide more information about them. Here's what you can do:


Tag the people in the photo. Just click on the faces of the people in the photos and type in their names to tag them.
Write a caption for the photo. You can do this by typing in the white space under the photo.
Add the date the photo was taken. Just click on the little clock on the bottom left of the photo to fill out this information.
Where the photo was taken. Click on the upside-down tear shaped symbol on the bottom right and add the location of the photo. You can also just type this in under the caption, where it says, "Where was this taken?"

, You can leave your photos as they are, or you can adjust them after they've been uploaded. To move them around, you can just click on each photo and drag it in the place where you'd like it to be. You can also click on the "Order by date" option on the top right of your screen to order the photos chronologically based on the time and date they were taken.
 By default, the first photo in the album will be the cover of your album. If you'd like to change this, just click on the arrow on the top right of the photo and click "Make Album Cover."

, Click on "Friends" or the current setting on the bottom, and explore the settings until you find the one you like. You have the following choices:


Public
Friends
Custom -- this option allows you to choose other options like "Friends of Friends" or to make the album only visible to people on a list.
 This will post your photos to Facebook. You can go back to your album to add, delete, or edit your photos any time.

