 If you have a low credit score, you will have to improve it to get a good rate on your loan. Those with less than superb credit scores can negotiate with creditors, implement better spending habits, and use other tactics to boost their credit score in order to get a better APR for loans for which they are applying. Think about the options below and assess which ones will do the most to improve your credit situation.
 The first and most important step to fixing a bad credit score is to pay your bills on time and pay them off as much as you can. Your outstanding and unpaid debt is the primary reason that you have a low credit score. The solution here is using careful budgeting to pay off your credit cards and other loans.This may mean cutting back on everyday expenses and discretionary spending like entertainment and luxury items.


You may need to create a budget and a debt repayment schedule with due dates for your payments to achieve this goal, particularly if you have several credit cards or other loans.
On credit cards, you should also be spending a relatively small amount each month relative to your credit limit. Most experts recommend that you stick to less than 30% of your credit limit. That is, if your credit limit is $5,000, you should be using at most about $1,500 each month. This will lower your "credit-utilization ratio" and also help you be able to pay off your card each month., If you have particularly damaging debt on credit report, like a delinquency or a collections account, you may be able to negotiate with your creditors to eliminate or reduce it. Try contacting the creditor and offering to pay off the remaining balance if the creditor will agree to remove the reported debt issue or change it to "paid as agreed." Additionally, if the lapse in payments happened during a rough time in your life, like after you were fired, you can write your creditor and request a "good-will adjustment." They may adjust these accounts and remove the damaging entry on your credit report if you have otherwise been a reliable customer.Look over your credit report. You may be able to spot inaccuracies that are hurting your score. If you do, you can dispute them online through the reporting agency (TransUnion, Equifax, or Experian)., As soon as you begin paying all of your debts off with the proper amount and at the right time, you begin building good credit. Remember, however, that there is no quick way to fix a bad credit history. You'll have to be consistent on your payments for years to really build up a great credit score.The good news is you don't have to do anything new to build good credit. Just pay off your credit cards and other loans in full and on time and you'll slowly begin to see improvement.


A good way to increase your credit score is through the proper use of credit cards. See how to use a credit card to improve your credit score for more information.

