 Your aloe plant’s leaves are filled with aloe gel that you can harvest as needed for medicinal use. Wait until you need the gel to harvest it. When you need some aloe gel, cut one of the leaves from your aloe plant and squeeze or scoop out the clear aloe gel.


If you are harvesting a large amount, you may need to cut the leaf in half (lengthwise) in order to get all of the gel out.
Try to only harvest as much as you need at one time. If you have any leftover gel, you can store it in an airtight container in your refrigerator for up to a week., You can apply fresh aloe gel to your sunburn to help cool and heal your burn. Apply the gel to your sunburnt skin and reapply ever few hours or as needed to keep your skin moisturized.


Try refrigerating some aloe gel for an hour or two before applying it to your sunburnt skin. The chilled aloe will have a nice cooling effect.
Keep in mind that although people have been using aloe as a treatment for sunburns for ages, there is no conclusive scientific research that aloe has a healing effect on sunburnt skin., Aloe may be effective for treating minor burns. It may even reduce healing time. Apply a small amount of the gel to your burn. Do not apply aloe gel to skin that is bleeding, blistered, or otherwise severely damaged., Aloe vera gel has been found likely to be effective for treating dandruff. All you have to do is massage a small amount of the gel into your scalp.


After you have washed your hair, rub a small amount of aloe gel between your hands (about the same amount you would use to shampoo your hair).
Then use your fingertips to massage the gel into your scalp and leave the gel in your hair. Repeat this process each time you wash your hair., Aloe has been found likely to be effective as a treatment for the herpes virus, also known as cold sores. When you feel a cold sore coming on, get a small amount of aloe gel on your fingertip and dab it onto the sore. Repeat the application as needed to keep the sore covered in aloe gel., Aloe can also be used as a moisturizer or treatment for dry skin. Try replacing your normal lotion with fresh aloe vera gel. Use the aloe gel the same way that you would use a body lotion. Apply it to the skin all over your body and massage it in until it is absorbed.