 When your cat begins to chew on grass, they may see all of your household plants as fair game food. Before you introduce any grass into your home, go through and evaluate all of your houseplants. Remove those that are potentially poisonous or dangerous.Some plants that are dangerous to cats, include figs, onions, and lilies.
 If your cat likes to chew on other plants or furniture, you may want to put the cat grass container directly in front of these as a distraction. You also want the grass in a area that the cat frequently visits, so that they don’t have to seek it out. Place the container in a spot where the cat can’t knock it off either, or you may end up with a broke container and dirty carpet.The cat grass container will also need exposure to a certain amount of light, at least a few hours every day.
 After you place the grass down, expect your cat to walk around the container and give it a sniff or two. They may even try to claw or paw at the grass a bit. They may do some tentative chewing at this point or go directly into more aggressive biting on the strands., You may start to notice that your cat will go and chew on the grass plot, or lie down next to it, when they are feeling overwhelmed or anxious. After grass has been available to your cat for some time, they will start to associate it with calming emotions. This, in turn, may reduce some of your cat’s other destructive behaviors, such as furniture clawing., It is not uncommon for cats to spit up a few strands of grass and saliva after eating from their plot. This can actually be a good thing as it allows your cat to clear out other non-digested matter from their stomachs at the same time. Be prepared for these moments by having a good stain spray on hand.If you’ve noticed that your cat’s vomit includes blood, or if your cat stops eating their other food, then you should contact your vet for advice., You can either grow catnip in a separate container, which you can then place close to the grass plot. You can intermix catnip seeds with grass ones and grow it all together. Or, you can sprinkled dried catnip on top of the fresh grass. You may notice that your cat will rub their face on top of the grass plot after you do this and that is a normal reaction.