 Cucumbers and tomatoes should be planted as stalks outdoors. If you're planting cucumbers and tomatoes in your cocktail garden, start off growing them indoors in pots with loamy soil. After a few weeks, you can transport these plants into your garden., The vast majority of fruits and vegetables should be planted in spring, after frost has passed. For the most part, aim to plant your fruits and vegetables in early spring after the frost has passed.Tomatoes, however, are the one exception. If you're growing tomatoes in your cocktail garden, plan to plant them about six to eight weeks before the last frost date. This means you'll be planting your tomatoes a little earlier than your other fruits and vegetables., Cucumbers and tomatoes are both frequently used in cocktails or cocktail mixers and are a great addition to a cocktail garden.These plants tend to do well in pH levels from five to seven.As these levels are closer to a neutral range, plant tomatoes and cucumbers in these areas of your garden. Save the areas with acidic soil for fruits and vegetables that require acidic soil to thrive.

Cucumbers require a lot of space, so make sure to plant seeds between 36 and 60 inches apart (about 91 to 45 centimeters)., Watermelon and blueberries tend to thrive in soils with pH levels between four and six. Therefore, plant your blueberries and watermelons in the small, acidic portion of your garden.Watermelon does better with a slightly higher pH, so try to find a portion of your garden with a pH level hovering around the six range. Watermelon seeds should be spaced around two feet apart (.6 meter).Blueberries thrive better in lower pH levels, between four and five. They should be planted about five feet apart (about 1.5 meter)., Most fruits and vegetables require a layer of mulch kept on the ground nearby. Provide a two to four inch (5 to 10 centimeter) layer of materials like wood chips, sawdust, or pine needles to protect your plants., Regular watering will help your fruits and vegetables grow to maturation. Make sure to water your fruits and vegetables according to their type so they thrive.

Blueberries and tomatoes need two inches of water per week.Watermelon thrives with one to two inches of water per week.Cucumbers should be watered each day in the morning or afternoon., Once fruits and vegetables begin to grow, you can begin harvesting your plants. When you harvest your plants, you can then use the fruits and vegetables in a variety of cocktails.

Watermelons are ripe when they feel hollow when tapped and there is little color contrast between the stripes near the top. Remove watermelon from the branch by cutting it off from the stem with a sharp knife.Harvest cucumbers once they're four to six inches long. You can simply pick cucumbers from the branch to harvest.Tomatoes should remain on the vine as long as possible. For best results, wait for tomatoes to fall on their own and then transport them inside as they fall.Blueberries are usually ready to pick between July and August. Pick the berries a few days after they turn blue.