 One of the most common causes of hemorrhoids is excessive straining while going to the bathroom. This may be caused by constipation, or by chronic diarrhea associated with digestive disorders like irritable bowel syndrome and Crohn's disease.It can also be caused by simply sitting on the toilet for prolonged periods of time, due to outside distractions like reading or playing on a smartphone.Do not sit on the toilet for longer than necessary.Try elevating your feet slightly while sitting on the toilet. This may help facilitate a less-strenuous bowel movement.Constipation is a side effect of many over-the-counter and prescription drugs, so talk to your doctor about any medications you may be taking and if you can switch to something less likely to cause constipation.
 If you are prone to hemorrhoids, it's important that you use the restroom immediately when you feel the need. Putting off a bowel movement or waiting for a "more convenient" time can cause constipation and painful bowel movements, which can cause hemorrhoids or aggravate existing ones., If you experience frequent hemorrhoids, changing your diet may help you prevent future recurrence of hemorrhoids. Eating the right foods, and avoiding harmful food/beverages, can help regulate your bowel movements and reduce the chances of constipation.


Add fiber to your diet. Good sources of fiber include fruit, vegetables, whole wheat pasta and bread, wholegrain rice, seeds, nuts, and oats.Try a fiber supplement. Fiber supplement sources include psyllium husk, wheat dextrin, and methylcellulose. Taking daily supplements can help ensure you get 20 to 30 grams of fiber every day.Stay hydrated. Drinking enough water each day can help you regulate your bowel movements and reduce the chances of constipation.Aim for six to eight glasses each day.Avoid caffeine and alcohol, as these can affect your bowel movements.Try a stool softener. You can make a simple stool softener by adding one tablespoon (14.79 ml) of mineral oil to a soft food like applesauce or yogurt. Eat the stool softener with one of your meals, but do not consume this recipe for extended periods of time., Being overweight can be a major contributor to hemorrhoids, as additional weight puts pressure on your veins.Physical activity itself can also help reduce the incidence of constipation., Though medical treatments are most effective, certain herbal or vitamin treatments may help provide relief. Do not try any supplements or alternative remedies without first checking with your doctor or pharmacist — they can interact with other medication you may be taking. Common alternative treatments include:


Aloe veraVitamin EYarrowBayberryGoldenseal rootMyrrhWhite oak