 Listing where you've worked, where you went to school, or where you've lived enables people to look you up using those entities. Deleting these entries means people won't be able to find you that way.For example, suppose you got married and took your partner's name. If you list your high school, it connects you to everyone else who went to your high school. From that page, someone from your high school class could find your profile by browsing the class members – even if they didn't know your new last name.
Likewise, anyone who happened to find your Facebook page could verify your identity by checking that information against the information they already knew about you, such as your hometown or your last employer.
 The settings on the content you post are one of the easiest ways to control who can find you on Facebook and what people not on your friends list can see of your content.From your account settings, adjust the default privacy of your posts and photos so that they are only visible to friends.
You also can create lists that you can choose so some of your content is only visible to some of the people on your friends list. This could be helpful if, for example, you want to post photos of your family but only want them to be visible to other family members.
You also can adjust the privacy of specific posts from the bottom corner of the post box as you post them. If you make a mistake, you can go back and change it.
 Even if you've adjusted your default privacy setting for future photos, the settings on your old photos will remain the same unless you go back through and change those as well.You can do this manually, but that may be time-consuming if you've uploaded a lot of photos. The other option is to go to your privacy settings. Under "Who can see my stuff" you'll see an option to "limit the audience for posts you've shared with friends of friends or public." You can select "limit old posts" and it will change the privacy settings of old posts you may have posted as public in the past.
 When someone tags you in a photo, or in a post, that tag is now visible to your friends, their friends, and anyone else with whom they've shared that photo or post. This means if they've posted something publicly, you are now tagged in a public post that anyone on the internet can see.Open the timeline and tagging section of your settings and edit the setting that allows you to review tags before they appear on Facebook. When someone tags you, Facebook will send you a notification. You can review the tag and the privacy setting of the post and determine whether you want it to appear. If you don't, you can simply deny it.
You also can manage the people, in addition to those already tagged, who will see the tag.
 If you don't want to "check in" to a location to let your friends know where you are, the solution is simple – don't click the button to check in to that location. However, you may want to disable the feature that allows your friends to check you into a location without your permission.This can be done under the timeline and tagging section of your settings. Anyone who attempts to check you in will appear in your timeline review, and you'll have to approve the check-in before it goes live on Facebook.
 If you want to make it extremely difficult for anyone who knows you to find you on Facebook, you may want to take the additional step of changing your name. If you want to act conservatively, you could simply use your middle name as your last name.You also can create something wholly original that isn't connected to your name. Just be careful not to make it too ridiculous. Don't change it to anything you might be embarrassed by if your page was discovered by professional colleagues or family.
Keep in mind that when you change your name, you will still be searchable by your real name for a brief period of time. So if you want to hide your Facebook page in anticipation of a particular event or meeting, make sure you give yourself enough time.

