 Before you can fix the nail, you need to make sure that your hands are clean and free of oils.


Use warm water and soap to wash your hands or feet. Dry well with a clean towel.
Wash and dry carefully to avoid accidentally snagging the torn nail and making matters worse.;
,









If you do not have a nail mending kit, you can cut a piece of material out of a tea bag. This is the most common substitution, and it works quite well.
If you do not have nail mending paper or tea bags in your house, you could also try handkerchief linen or coffee filters.
At minimum, the material must be large enough to cover the entire break. The material should ideally be large enough to cover the entire nail with enough excess., Apply a small dot of super glue or nail glue to your nail and use the applicator tip to swirl the glue around gently until it covers the entire nail. Use tweezers to place the cut material onto the nail over the glue.









If using a nail mending kit, use the nail mender liquid in the kit instead of glue and apply it using the brush applicator inside the kit.
Use tweezers to smooth out any bumps or wrinkles in the material. The material should be as smooth as possible.
If necessary, use small nail scissors or regular scissors to trim away excess material.
 Pinch your tweezers over the material at the top of the nail, folding it down and under so that it sticks to the underside of your nail.








If the material has not gotten any adhesive on it yet, you may need to apply a small dot of glue or mending liquid to make it stick to the underside of the nail.
This measure provides extra balance and protection to the broken nail.
 Put another drop of glue onto the material covering the nail and spread it around using the applicator tip. Create as smooth of a layer as possible.









Nail mending liquid can also be used instead of super glue or nail glue.
 If you have a buffing stone, carefully buff the nail after the glue dries. Use the smoothing side first, then the polishing side.









For the better results, rub the buffing stone in a single direction instead of rubbing it back and forth.
 Apply a layer of top coat or nail strengthener to the damaged nail in order to balance it out and provide an added, final layer of protection.









It is advisable to let the adhesive dry overnight before doing this step to avoid creating bubbles or uneven patches.
If desired, you can apply nail polish over the nail once the top coat dries.