 Even though jewelers are increasingly gaining positions after a formal education, there is a long-established history of jewelers learning their craft through long-term on-the-job experience.Many family-owned local jewelry stores are still in operation, and family members learn key skills of the trade from their parents or relatives. If you do not wish to enter a formal program, talk to your family members, friends, and acquaintances who are in the industry about opportunities in your area. They can guide you to potential openings where you could learn key skills on-the-job.


It is possible that the only job opportunities given to you will seem unrelated to jewelry making. However, even a retail position will give you valuable experience and opportunities to learn jewelry craftsmanship. It is important that you leverage any opportunity you are given so that you can learn the skills required for the field., In many cases, the people you speak with in the industry will not have an open position available. That is normal and understandable and has nothing to do with you. Be sure that you maintain your ties with anyone you network with, even if they do not provide you with a job opportunity right now. After all, they might help you out later. In order to effectively maintain and build a professional network, be sure that you:


Write down the names and contact information of any potentially useful person you meet
Write thank-you notes to anyone who speaks with you about the industry
Ask members of your network out for informational interviews. An informational interview is where you speak with a member of a profession about how to enter it, their own career paths, and any general advice they might have. This is unlike a formal interview, where you are hoping to be given a specific position.
 If you wish to gain an entry-level position as a jewelry maker without prior experience or certification, you will have to show your potential employer that you have the ability to learn the complicated skills necessary to succeed in the business. Depending on the specific position, your employer will want to make sure that you are:


Detail-oriented. Explain to your potential employer how you have handled tasks that require serious detail work and concentration in the past.Fashionable. Employers will want you to be aware of current trends and fashions in the jewelry world.Read fashion magazines and professional publications so that you can show off your knowledge of jewelry design.Dexterous. Have you had experience with careful, fine work with your fingers? For example, perhaps you are an expert typist or can play piano. Think about whether you are physically capable of the physical aspects of jewelry making.Socially adept. Especially if you wish to work in a jewelry store, employers will want you to interact with customers and clients in a polite, friendly way. Tell your potential employer about any customer service experience or client-facing experience you have, even if it was in another industry.Tech-savvy. Many jewelry makers and jewelry store owners require the use of specialized software in order to draft designs, order materials, and handle business affairs. Any software or computer experience you can bring to the table will help your potential employer see how useful you can be, even without specialized jewelry making experience.
 If you want to craft jewelry as an entry-level employee, it is likely that your best opportunity for hands-on jewelry making will come from jewelry manufacturing plants.In these companies, most employees learn their crafts on the job. They might specialize in engraving, casting, or setting stones. Once you have acquired a solid set of skills in a large manufacturing plant, you can transfer these skills to other positions in the industry.
 If you have gotten a position in a jewelry store, it is likely that your entry-level position will not involve the crafting of jewelry--yet. It is more likely that you will have a job in retail or store management. If you have gotten an entry-level position at a local jewelry store, ask your supervisor if you can spend some time getting trained in more advanced positions in your spare time. You may be allowed to observe the licensed jewelers as they work or perform simple tasks under their supervision. This will allow you to begin to build this skillset yourself as well as get some excellent references for future positions.