 Before submitting your documents, make sure you fulfill all the requirements for an adult name change. The petitioner must file the petition with the district court in the county in which he/she resides.
The petitioner must have lived in the county of petition for at least the past six weeks, and must intend to live there for the foreseeable future.
The petitioner must be over 18 years of age at the time of the petition.
The petitioner must have proper and reasonable cause for the name change.
The petitioner must not be seeking a name change to avoid debt, defraud creditors, or other nefarious reasons.
 The petition (whether you obtain one through an online resource or create one yourself) requires information such as current full name (birth name), proposed full name, parental information, address, and a certification that the petitioner does not seek the name change for fraudulent purposes. Do not sign the petition.
 Bring your completed petition to a notary public. You will sign the petition in front of the notary, who will attest to your signature. You may need to pay a small fee for the notary's service. Notaries can commonly be found in the following places:


Banks
Post offices, UPS Store, etc.
Law offices

, Take two copies of the petition, Civil Cover Sheet (if required by your county), Notice of Petition (if required by your county), Request for Summary Disposition and Declaration in Support (if required by your county), and an Order, the required fees, a self-addressed stamped envelope, and supporting documentation to your district court. Check any instruction forms that go with the paperwork to make sure you've completed everything to the best of your ability. Make at least two copies of your paperwork, and save a copy for your records. The clerk of court will tell you if you need to provide additional information to complete your paperwork.
 Nevada law requires that an adult seeking a name change must publish a notice in a local newspaper of general circulation immediately after filing the paperwork with the court. The notice must be published at least once a week for three consecutive weeks.
 The newspaper will provide an affidavit to you, and you must file the affidavit, attached to a copy of the published notice, with the district court.
 If no one objects to your proposed name change within ten days after publication, the court will likely sign the order. If someone objects to the proposed name change within ten days, then the court will schedule a hearing.
 Most of the time, courts will grant name changes "on the papers," which means without requiring an in-person hearing. But if the court receives an objection to the name change, or if the court suspects the name change is being sought for an improper purpose, the court may order a hearing, which you will have to attend. If the court orders a hearing, consider consulting with an attorney to make sure you are prepared.

