 If your doctor determines that your night sweats are caused by a medical condition (menopause, depression, pneumonia, and so on), you will need to develop a treatment plan to treat the cause, which will hopefully clear up your night sweats as well. You treatment will depend on the underlying medical condition, so you will need to talk to your doctor about how to proceed.
 Antiperspirants are topical treatments for excessive sweating in the underarms, feet and hands. They are the least invasive treatment for night sweats, but should only be used in the short-term. Apply the antiperspirant to your underarm, hands, and feet before going to bed and then again in the morning.


Clinical strength antiperspirants can be purchased over the counter. Look for brands that offer clinical strength products.Prescription antiperspirants have aluminum chloride hexahydrate and are amongst the most effective, but need to be used following the instructions of a pharmacist. Some people have skin reactions to aluminum chloride hexahydrate.Antiperspirants can sometimes also be used on the face and head. However, some antiperspirants will cause skin reactions and should not be used on the face. You need to consult your doctor or pharmacist to see if a particular antiperspirant can be used on your face., Botox is commonly used to treat excessive sweating in the underarms, hands, feet, head and face. It is relatively more effective for treating excessive sweating in the underarms and hands, as opposed to treating the feet or the head and face. If antiperspirants are not effective in treating your night sweats, try Botox. If you are getting treatment on the underarms, you should avoid shaving the area during the week prior to treatment.See if your insurance covers Botox for hyperhidrosis. It typically costs around $1,000 for underarm treatment.After your receive Botox treatment, the treated area of your body often stays dry for between four and twelve months., Laser treatment, miraDry, and surgery have been used successfully to specifically treat excessive underarm sweating. If your experience of night sweats is concentrated in the underarm area, discuss the following treatment options with your doctor:


MiraDry is a hand held device that you use to send electromagnetic energy underneath your underarms. This stops the sweat glands from acting up. A number of recent studies have found it to be effective in treating underarm hyperhidrosis and it is FDA approved.Laser treatment is a good option for treating excessive underarm sweating because it is pretty quick and not too invasive. A laser is used to target the responsible sweat glands.Local surgery can be used such as liposuction and excision. These techniques remove or injure the sweat glands under your arms., Oral medications can be given to treat facial sweating or generalized hyperhidrosis. These medications include anticholinergics, beta blockers and benzodiazepines. Ask your doctor if there is an appropriate oral medication for your night sweating., Endoscopic thoracic sympathectomy or ETS surgery is the most invasive surgical treatment for hyperhidrosis. ETS is a last resort surgery that comes with a long list of side effects such as compensatory sweating, arrhythmia, and heat intolerance. Typically, physicians will not recommend ETS surgery because of the severity of the side effects.