 If the size of your family is 4 people or less, 4 cubic feet is normally more than enough, unless you plan on washing things like duvets or pillows.;
, Front loaders are always more energy efficient and quieter to operate, but often have bad odor issues.
 Most good clothes washers will have the rating of 4 or 5, with 5 being the highest a washing machine can get. This means it will save you at least 25% on electricity and water usage.
 The quietest to run washing machine is often equipped with Direct-Drive motor technology, which eliminates the use of belts, thus reduces unnecessary amounts of part vibrations.
 If your house is a little tight in space, opting in for the Stackable type of washers may help. Another option is to choose a washer dryer combo - that can both wash clothes and dry them in one complete cycle.
 The major manufacturers include: Whirlpool, Maytag, Kenmore, Samsung, LG, Bosch, Miele, GE (General Electric), Electrolux and Frigidaire., For example, Samsung washers offer the unique Silver Wash technology which uses Silver (Ag) particles to effectively eliminate up to 99% of bacteria (as claimed by the company), thus keeping your clothes mold-free for up to two weeks.
 What they liked and disliked? Also note which particular model is given best reviews for each brand. There are many independent review sources you can find online by typing something like "consumer washing machine reviews" in Google or another search engine.
 It will be very frustrating if your machine suddenly stops working and you have to wait for weeks in order to get it fixed, or even worse; have to buy a new one because no one can repair it.
 Give 10 points for the best in category, and 0 for the worst. Essential things to put for comparison are:


Load Capacity
Vibration and Noise Level
Energy Star Ratings
Cleaning Effectiveness
Size Dimension
Weight
Unique Washing Features

, After making yourself a checklist of various brands with ratings as described above, calculate the average rating for each brand (or model) of washing machines and write them down in the new list, with highest at the top and lowest down the bottom. Then find out the cost for each item listed. You would have a very clear idea as to which washing machine performs best for your specific laundry needs by now.

