 Use a damp cloth or brush to remove any loose dirt from your backpack. You don’t want any debris to get mixed in as you wash your bag. Don’t rub any dirt or grease deeper into the fabric., You may have loose threads around the zippers and straps that become prone to snagging or further damage. Trim the loose threads to ensure these areas do not get further damage., Depending on how dirty your backpack is, you may have to find specific cleaning agents to pretreat the stains. For example, you may need a grease remover or specific remover for any sticky substance. You may also need a toothbrush to clean the details of your backpack., Backpacks come in all shapes and sizes. Determine whether your backpack is able to fit into a washing machine or whether it needs to be hand cleaned. If the label states, you may need to go to a professional to have it cleaned., Make sure to check all the pockets in case you have missed any loose change or small items. You don’t want to wash an important thumb drive or lose any jewelry because you didn’t thoroughly check each compartment. Dirt may be stuck in between creases so use the hose of your vacuum cleaner.Leave the pockets unzipped and turn the backpack inside out as you vacuum every inch of the material., Some backpacks may have a metal frame, straps, or additional compartments. Remove the metal frame so that you do not damage your washing machine. If you have removable straps and other attachments, make sure to read the label to determine how best to clean them., Whether you use an all natural cleaner or a brand-name, do not use any cleaner that can bleach or affect the colours of the material of your backpack. Depending on the severity your stain, you may need to soak your backpack for several hours before washing.Check the manufacturer’s website or forums to determine what works best for the type of stain.
 Most backpacks will indicate machine wash, gentle cycle, in cold water. Depending on the design of your bag, you still may need to hand wash if there are jewels or decals that may be damaged in a washing machine., If you backpack is too large, use a pillow case in order to prevents any straps or zippers from getting caught in you machine and damaging your pack or, worse, your washing machine.Turn your backpack inside out if it’s too large to place in a pillowcase or washing bag. If you are able, remove the straps all together and wash in a separate bag., Do not wash your backpack with other material to avoid any colors bleeding and soaking into your backpack. You may also run your washing machine through an empty wash and rinse cycle to get rid of any detergent residue., Unless otherwise stated, set your washing machine to a gentle cycle with cold water and wash your backpack.Regular detergent or fabric softener may damage certain material so be sure to read and follow the manufacturer’s cleaning instructions.
 Once finished, remove your backpack from the washing machine and laundry bag and set it aside to dry. Keep it away from any direct heat and hang it upside down to allow any water out of pockets and creases. Do not use a dryer as it may damage certain fabrics., Depending on the size and material of your backpack, you may not be able to use a machine to wash it. For larger backpacks, fill your bathtub with warm water and for smaller backpacks, use a sink.Hot water can make colours run from certain material. Unless otherwise stated in the label, use warm or cold water.
 Some backpacks state that you cannot fully submerge them as colours may bleed or material may be damaged. If you cannot fully submerge your backpack, use a wet cloth or sponge together with cleaner., Use a conservative amount of soap without detergent or softener as they can damage certain material, such as waterproof material. Consult the manufacturer’s site or forums to determine which soaps work best for the material of your backpack., Depending on the material, you can either use a scrub brush for more durable materials with tougher stains or a sponge for delicate fabrics.You may also use other tools like soft brushes or cloth to clean your backpack.


Focus on areas with large visible stains. Use a toothbrush for tougher stains and on areas that are difficult to reach. Embroidered areas and areas with fine design details need more attention as dirt can easily get into the detailed threading., Dry your backpack upside down away from any direct heat sources. Do not place your backpack in the dryer as it may damage the material. Make sure that your backpack is completely dry before putting it away as mould can grow on moist material., While you shouldn’t wash your backpack everyday or even every month, you should wipe it down with a damp cloth to prevent any dirt build up from your everyday use., Even if your backpack is waterproof, mould can grow if the material is not properly dried. Use a rain cover or even a plastic bag to make sure that your backpack doesn’t get wet and that anything inside stays dry and protected., Spilling your drink or having your sandwich mashed happens often when you’re in a rush and packing your backpack. Make sure to use proper containers and ensure that the lids and covers and completely sealed to avoid getting the inside of your backpack dirty or smelly., Read the label to know how much weight your backpack can handle. Pack sensibly and do not pack items that can easily puncture, rip, or generally damage your backpack like knives or heavy objects with sharp edges. Wrap sharp objects and pack them tightly to limit their movement., Backpacks are designed and tested for specific consumers. Do not exceed the limits that have been tested; however, remember that you get what you pay for and, if you have the budget, you may be able to get a heavy duty backpack made from very durable material that needs limited care. Whatever your budget, always treat your backpack with care.