 Any over-the-counter non-irritating moisturizing agent can be helpful in eczema (because, as previously mentioned, eczema tends to go hand-in-hand with dry skin).If over-the-counter moisturizers are insufficient, speak to your doctor about prescription moisturizing options.
Often ointments can be more effective than over-the-counter lotions, as they form a stronger barrier to keep the skin's moisture in. They are also usually less irritating to your skin.
 Over-the-counter antihistamines may provide temporary relief from some of the symptoms of eczema,although they should be used with other treatments such as moisturizing.Stronger antihistamines may need to be prescribed by your doctor.


Antihistamines that are also sedatives, such as diphenhydramine (Benadryl) may help you sleep better, which could help with itching. Consult with your pediatrician before giving antihistamines to children, especially sedatives., An example of this would be hydrocortisone (the most commonly used), although there are also some stronger ones your doctor can prescribe if needed.These work by diminishing the skin's "immune response," which in turn reduces inflammation, the size of the rash itself, and the itchiness.
Corticosteroid creams or ointments applied to the skin are helpful and effective treatments for eczema, but you should always use them only as recommended by your doctor.Improper use of corticosteroids can cause infection, skin damage, or further irritation, among other side effects.Do not share your prescription creams with others, even if they also have eczema.
 Acupuncture is sometimes effective for relieving pain, and studies suggest that acupuncture may help reduce itchiness from eczema.Acupuncture generally does not produce severe side effects, so it may be a good choice if you are having trouble managing the itch with medication alone.


Look for an acupuncturist who is licensed by the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine (NCCAOM).This non-profit agency helps regulate the practice of acupuncture for safety and effectiveness.
Many insurance plans do not cover alternative therapies such as acupuncture. However, they may be more likely to do so if referred by your doctor. Consult with your doctor, who can help you find a licensed practitioner in your area.
 These medications are for short-term use only due to the potential side effects such as cataracts, osteoporosis, lowered infection resistance, high blood pressure, and thinning skin.However, for short-term treatment of severe flare-ups your doctor may recommend briefly taking the pill form to get the rash and itch exacerbation under control.
Other anti-inflammatory agents and immune-modulating pills may be prescribed if your condition is very severe. These treatments may include cyclosporine, methotrexate, or mycophenolate, all of which can have serious risks and side effects.Only you and your doctor can decide whether these treatments are right for you.