 Hammertoe, also known as a contracted toe, is a deformity of the second, third or fourth toe caused by a contraction at the most proximal joint, which results in a hammer-like appearance. Hammertoes are usually flexible in the initial stages but may become rigid if they are not treated appropriately. Hammertoes are caused by wearing shoes that are too small or too narrow, or by wearing high heels that put excessive pressure on the muscle groups of the toe.


Hammertoe can be fixed by surgery (cutting and stretching the contracted tendon, then placing a metal pin/wire next to the joint for support), or aggressive stretching regimens on a daily basis. Splints and supports can also be effective for alleviating hammertoe.
Use your fingers to massage around the toe, then manually pull (stretch) the hammertoe, holding each stretch for several seconds. Continue this routine multiple times daily for weeks or until you see substantial improvement.
 Claw toe means that your toe becomes hooked in appearance due to contraction (flexion) of the proximal and distal joints, which forces the end of the toe to dig into the shoe's sole. Painful calluses or corns develop at the very end of the affected toe. Claw toes are caused by wearing shoes that are too small and also by some diseases (such as diabetes) or conditions (tendon contractions).


Claw toes can also be fixed by similar surgical methods used for hammertoe, which includes cutting and stretching the contracted tendons.
Try walking on the tips of your toes, which will cause extension (and stretching) of the contracted tendons/joints.
 Mallet toe is similar to claw toe but involves abnormal positioning only at the most distal joint (at the end of the toe). Mallet toe is commonly caused by shoes that are too tight in the toe box or ones that possess high heels. The forces these shoes place on your feet cause unnatural bending of your toes.


Mallet toes can also be fixed by similar surgical methods used for hammertoes and claw toes — cutting and stretching the contracted tendons.
Every attempt should be made to spread your toes while barefoot. A toe-spacing product can be worn to help re-approximate your toes to the correct anatomical position.

