 The patient will continue to receive medication to stay sedated until the surgeon has completed his or her procedure. After the procedure is complete, the anesthesiologist will reduce the use of the medication. Before removing the endotracheal tube the anesthesiologist will ensure that the patient:Is breathing adequately without assistance
Has stable vital signs
Has had appropriate medications and reversal agents, if necessary
Can follow basic commands and demonstrate good muscle strength, usually by lifting his or her head or squeezing somebody’s hands

, After the endotracheal tube has been removed and the patient has been weaned off the anesthesia, the patient will be taken to the recovery room. In the recovery room, expert nurses will monitor the patient’s vital signs (oxygen saturation, heart rate and rhythm, blood pressure, and temperature) to ensure that everything is normal. The nurse will also monitor for and treat common side effects of anesthesia and surgery, including pain and nausea.
 Like any other medical procedure, there can be side effects from general anesthesia. Most of these side effects will go away soon after surgery, but if any of these side effects are severe or persistent, seek medical attention right away. Common side effects of general anesthesia include:Nausea
Vomiting
Sore throat
Confusion
Muscle aches
Chills/shivering
Itching

, Some patients may also experience more serious side effects from general anesthesia that require medical care from a doctor. Serious side effects that require medical attention include:Difficulty breathing
Signs of infection, such as fever or chills
Chest pain or pressure
Heart palpitations
New weakness
Arm or leg swelling and/or fatigue, which can be signs of heart failure

, After surgery, you may be at higher risk for developing other more serious complications. Notify a doctor right away if the patient suffers from any complications. Some complications to watch out for include:Postoperative delirium. This complication causes confusion and memory loss which can last longer than a few hours. Some patients are at a higher risk, such as people who are transferred to intensive care after surgery, as well as those with heart disease, lung disease, Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, or who have had a stroke.

