 Heat can be used to relax muscles and relieve any cramping that you may be experience. You can use either a heating pad or a hot water bottle. Place either on your lower abdomen for about 15 minutes. You can repeat this 3-4 times a day., Castor oil has anti-inflammatory properties and has been used as a traditional treatment for any kind of menstrual pain. It may improve the blood flow during the menstrual period.Start by applying enough castor oil on your lower abdomen to completely coat the area.
Take a large, clean, cotton towel and cover your lower abdomen. Then, use either a heating pad or a hot water bottle and place it over the towel.
Leave the heat and towel on for at least 30 minutes. Repeat four to five times a week.
 A warm bath may help to relax the muscles in your abdomen. Soaking in hot water may also relieve cramping., Drinking herbal teas can help relieve the pain of ovarian cysts. Try teas such as chamomile, mint, raspberry, and blackberry. These teas may help reduce tension in your muscles and calm your mood., Diets full of meat and cheese may cause more ovarian cysts. Instead, eat more fruits and vegetables as part of your regular diet. This may help reduce ovarian cysts.A healthy diet also helps prevent obesity, which can lead to more ovarian cysts.
 Progesterone can inhibit ovulation, thus decreasing the likelihood of ovarian cysts. This approach should only be used when working with your physician. Even though creams are available online, you need to be working with someone to ensure there are no complications.Beginning 10 days after the beginning of your last menstrual period (Day 10 of the cycle), use a natural progesterone cream. Apply on your inner thigh or behind your knees. Follow manufacturer’s instructions.
 The following herbs can be used to rebalance the natural hormone levels. When using any of these products,follow manufacturer’s instructions.


Maca is a root vegetable from Peru that has traditionally been used to treat fertility and energy issues. Maca may be beneficial in balancing hormonal levels. It is commonly used for these purposes in treating menopause.Chaste berry is traditionally used to balance reproductive herbs and may help decrease the pain, discomfort, and the size of ovarian cysts. It is being studied for its effects in PMS to reduce pain.