


People can experience pain from a fight or break up in different ways, and your sister is no exception. Don't just assume what she is feeling; it will vary depending on who the fight was with or what the break up entailed.
If she looks devastated, now is the time to step in and show some love; don't say anything along the lines of, 'Your boyfriend was a jerk anyway" or "You deserved better than a fight like that". Maybe hug her or bring her a bowl of ice cream.
If she looks angry or frustrated, show her that you feel the same way. Help her express her anger positively, whether it's screaming into a pillow or going to a karate class.;
,


If she is in the middle of crying her heart out, you should give her some space. While you may think bringing her some chocolate will help, it could come across that you don't care about her pain and are trying to change the subject.
It is crucial to let your sister be alone and figure out her emotions herself if you are the one who started the fight or made her upset. You can cheer her up and say your apologies later when she is done crying and has had some time to think.
If your sister is angry or frustrated and yells at you when you try to comfort her, back off. She obviously doesn't want your help if she verbally told you so. This also goes for if she is having an anger episode or expressing her emotions violently (screaming/yelling, kicking, punching, throwing things, etc.)

,


If she says no, respect that and say something like, 'That's okay, we don't have to talk. I'm happy just to sit here with you' and hug her. If she does talk about her feelings, genuinely listen and say something like, 'I'm here for you' or 'this must be hard for you'.
Sometimes this will help her feel better, but in some situations it may not be the best option.



Make her a special breakfast in bed, give her a homemade card, do something with her that she loves, or anything that will show her that you're there for her in her time of pain.



Just because you're there, doesn't mean she'll chin up immediately. Sad, angry, and frustrating emotions can sometimes take a while to go away.
Keep doing nice things for her and expressing your kindness and love until she gets better.

