 Since preventing weight loss is easier than trying to gain weight during treatment, keep an eye on your weight. Get on the scale at least three times a week. It’s easy to lose track of how much you are losing when you are experiencing the side effects of chemotherapy. Your healthcare team will look for trends in your weight. A 1 to 2% loss over a week or 5% loss over a month are causes for concern. Put another way, this equates to a 150-pound person losing about 3 pounds in a week or 7.5 pounds in a month.Don't stress if you do lose weight immediately after a chemotherapy treatment. This is normal. Your healthcare team wants to track your weight to determine whether or not you can regain that loss by the time you arrive for your next treatment.
While you're tracking your weight you may also want to record your moods, activities, how you feel, foods you eat and any exercise you get to determine what combination helps you gain weight.;
, Your doctor may prescribe a medication to treat nausea and vomiting at the time of or days following your treatment. Anti-nausea drugs are available as an IV medication, pill, liquid, patch or suppository.Chemotherapy treatments can cause anticipatory nausea and vomiting, which happens when you experience the symptoms of chemotherapy the day before you get the treatment. Or, some patients get delayed symptoms a day or two after treatment.


These drugs usually fall into the category of corticosteroids, serotonin antagonists, dopamine antagonists, NK-1 inhibitors, cannabinoids, motion sickness treatments, anti-anxiety drugs and stomach acid blockers.
 Because the chemotherapy affects your bone marrow and immune system, you are more at risk for infections. Fever and infections will reduce your appetite, making it harder to maintain a healthy weight. Always wash your hands carefully after using the bathroom, being in public, or around family and friends.If a friend or family member is sick and infectious, use caution or avoid being around the person until the disease can't be transferred to you.
 Before you start exercising, get approval from your cancer doctor, find a partner to exercise with, avoid using public facilities that have an increased risk of infections, and know that you should stop if you feel disoriented, notice sudden onset of nausea and vomiting, shortness of breath, irregular heartbeat, chest pain, leg or calf pain, bone pain, or unusual fatigue.A supervised resistance and aerobic exercise program is helpful for cancer patients, especially because too much rest will lead to weakness, muscle loss and reduced range of motion.Exercise will:


Improve physical ability
Improve balance and reduce the risk of falls and broken bones
Reduce muscle wasting from inactivity
Lower the risk of heart disease and osteoporosis
Improve self-esteem
Lessen nausea and lower the risk of anxiety and depression
Improve your quality of life
Improve your appetite

, Talk with your doctor about limiting how much alcohol you drink before and after chemotherapy treatments, since most chemotherapy agents are metabolized through the liver, just as alcohol is. If your liver is metabolizing alcohol, this can change the way in which the chemotherapy medication is used in the body and can cause drug interactions.This can cause liver damage which increases nausea and vomiting, triggering more weight loss.If you're dealing with mouth sores, you may notice that even a little alcohol in mouthwash can irritate mouth sores and make them worse. This will make eating more painful and increase the potential for greater weight loss., Your doctor may prescribe a combination of megestrol acetate (Megace), corticosteroids and anti-anxiety drugs to reduce your weight loss and prevent muscle loss. The dosage of each may need to be adjusted through the course of your treatment, depending on your condition.Other medications that may be considered include Oxandrolone or Dronabinol. Oxandrolone is used to promote weight gain after a trauma. Dronabinol is used to treat anorexia, nausea, and vomiting in patients who are undergoing chemotherapy or radiation therapy to treat cancer.Sometimes your lack of appetite or weight loss is caused by another treatable condition, such as depression, pain or anxiety.Your physician can help with medication or recommendations for behavioral therapy which will reduce your depression or anxiety and increase your appetite.
 Before you start your first treatment, make sure you have lots of pre-cooked foods and snacks you know you enjoy already prepared. Stock your pantry and fill your freezer. You should also ask friends and family to help you with shopping, cooking, and cleaning while you're feeling badly. Planning ahead for eating will make it easier to focus on treatment plans and regaining your strength.Talk with your healthcare team about measures you should be taking to prevent constipation.
 Avoid eating just a few large meals, which can make you feel nauseous. Instead, eat your biggest meal when you feel the hungriest during the day. Throughout the day you should eat every few hours, without waiting until you feel hungry. You should also include small snacks. Pack things like trail mix or whey protein shakes to make up the difference in calories if you can't eat a full meal.


Drink most of your fluids between meals instead of with meals. Fluids will fill your stomach and make you feel like you are full but without having consumed enough calories for that meal.
For example, you may find that you are hungrier in the morning when you wake up after chemo starts than after the end of a long day. In this case, make breakfast your biggest meal., If you find that eating solid foods is difficult or unappetizing, start eating soups or drinking smoothies to get your calories. Try to use protein-fortified milk when cooking or mixing up beverages. To make protein-fortified milk, mix 1 quart of whole milk with 1 cup of nonfat instant dry milk. Beat the mixture until the powder dissolves, about 5 minutes. Or, try some of the following soup and smoothie suggestions:For a tangy protein smoothie: Blend ⅓ cup of cottage cheese or plain yogurt, ½ of cup vanilla ice cream, ¼ cup of prepared fruit-flavored gelatin (you can use an individual ready-to-eat snack cup), and ¼ cup of low-fat milk until they're combined. Drink immediately.
For hearty soups, make sure to include beans or meat and plenty of vegetables. You might try making a turkey minestrone or chicken and white bean soup.
For a high-protein milkshake: Blend 1 of cup protein-fortified milk, 2 tablespoons of butterscotch sauce, chocolate sauce, or your favorite fruit syrup or sauce, 1/2 cup of ice cream, and 1/2 teaspoon of vanilla extract till combined. Drink immediately.
 You'll need to add approximately 250 calories per day to your usual meals. This can mean adding a glass of milk to each meal, eating peanut butter and crackers or trail mix during the day, or a scoop of premium ice cream at night.You will also need more protein to help build muscle and cells. Drink a glass of whey protein each day to help boost your calories and your protein.


High-quality whey protein has a distinctive flavor which not everyone enjoys. The powder comes in a variety of flavors which can be mixed with milk or with water. Test the flavors with sample packets and the fluid you mix it with to decide which flavor combination you like the best.
 Research has shown that fish-oil supplements can help prevent muscle and weight loss as well as combat malnutrition.Fish oil high in omega-3 fatty acids helps to maintain or gain muscle mass. Krill oil supplements are also high in omega-3 fatty acids.


Omega-3 fatty acids are also found in walnuts and tuna fish.
 Chemotherapy is given through the bloodstream to kill fast growing cells throughout the entire body. This means it can kill the cells in your digestive tract, triggering weight loss. Losing cells in your digestive tract can cause:Mouth sores
Dry mouth or swelling in the mouth
Poor appetite
Vomiting and/or diarrhea
Changes in the ability to taste food
Fatigue and constipationDental and gum problemsSome chemotherapy drugs can damage the nervous system which triggers other symptoms that affect weight loss, such as stiff neck, loss of balance, severe headaches, weakness or numbness, significant pain, fatigue, and depression., Some tumors produce small proteins (cytokines) that can reduce your appetite and cause nausea. The location of the tumor may also place pressure on the digestive tract. This can make you feel full or create problems when swallowing food. You may also lose your appetite simply from the anxiety of dealing with the disease. This anxiety can trigger the weight loss.You should know that:Not everyone gets the same side effects from the same medications.
The severity of the side effects will also vary.
There are medications and choices you can make that will help prevent and alleviate some of the side effects.
Although side effects are unpleasant, they must be weighed against the benefits of treating the cancer.
Most of the side effects associated with loss of appetite and weight loss will resolve fairly quickly, over a couple of weeks or months. But, the time it takes to regain energy and appetite will vary from person to person.
 Weight loss reduces the energy and nutrients your body needs to recover. Because chemotherapy kills other rapidly dividing cells, your body needs adequate nutrition to replace those cells. Poor nutrition makes healing and recovery more difficult.For example, if your body must take protein from your body for healing this will also reduce your stamina and energy making cooking and eating more difficult. If you can prevent weight loss during treatment or gain weight after losing it, you'll improve the potential success of the chemotherapy.


Significant weight loss immediately before starting chemotherapy or during treatment is associated with an increased risk of poor outcomes.Research shows that patients who were able to stabilize their weight reported better outcomes., Chemotherapy can change the way food tastes, making it hard to have a healthy appetite. You may notice that food isn't as flavorful, tastes too salty, tastes too sweet, or things (like meat) don't taste right. Fortunately, there are several things you can try to adjust to these changes. For example:If food isn't as flavorful, add sauces, syrups, or garnishes to your food that boost salty, sweet or spicy flavors.
If food tastes too sweet, add salty or sour flavorings or dilute your beverages. You can also add things like yogurt, buttermilk, or coffee to balance out overly sweet things.
If food tastes too salty, add a little sugar to counteract the salt. You should also look for low-sodium products or rinse canned vegetables before using them to remove excess salt.
If meat doesn't taste right, try replacing it with another protein such as beans, cheese, tofu, nut butters, yogurt, fish, or poultry.

