 Suboxone has a long half life. A half-life is the amount of time it takes for a substance to deplete to half its value and Suboxone's half-life is 37 hours. This means some traces of the substance stays in your system for over two days after your last dose. Despite this, quitting cold turkey is not recommended. You could end up causing yourself unnecessary physical and emotional pain.


Quitting cold turkey may not be safe and the withdrawal symptoms, such as body aches and dizziness, will be much more severe if you simply stop using the drug suddenly. Relapse is far more likely if you attempt to quit cold turkey.Remember, you should not detox from Suboxone until you have the other opiate addiction for which Suboxone was recommended under control. You should also wait until you are in a stress-free environment. You do not want quitting Suboxone to lead to a relapse of heroin or another powerful narcotic.;
, Never stop taking Suboxone without consulting a physician first. You need to figure out a safe and effective method of detox that minimizes withdrawal and the likelihood of relapse.


Talk to a physician who knows your full medical history including your history of drug use. Only they can tell you what's safe for you. You can also check into a rehab or detox facility where on-staff physicians have experience treating addiction and can provide you medical support during the process of quitting.Most doctors recommend reducing your dosage by 20% to 25% every 24 to 48 hours. A medication to control heart rate and blood pressure will be prescribed. In addition, medications to treat the nausea, diarrhea, sleeplessness, and cramping will also be recommended., Withdrawal symptoms will not be as harsh for Suboxone as they might be for other narcotics like heroin; however, you should expect to experience some symptoms of withdrawal as you begin the process of quitting.


Common withdrawal symptoms include dizziness, confusion, headaches, nausea, stomach pain, sleep disturbances, and liver damage. You should regularly see a physician throughout the entire process of quitting to monitor your health during withdrawal.The severity of withdrawal symptoms depend on a number of things. The longer you've been taking Suboxone, the harsher the withdrawal process. If you were taking it in higher dosages, you will also probably have harder symptoms.An individual's personal physiology also plays a big role. Some people simply tolerate symptoms better than others and may experience less pain. Also, some people have higher tolerance for pain than others.Support is important during the withdrawal period. If you're really struggling, it is strongly recommended you check into a rehabilitation facility so you can be safely monitored by doctors and therapists to help you throughout your journey.