 People use dog training collars for a variety of reasons. If used correctly, they can be a very effective training tool, especially the kind with a remote that allows you to monitor their behavior even when you aren’t standing right next to them.You should discuss the use of this type of collar with a trainer or veterinary behaviorist before deciding to purchase one. It may not be appropriate for your dog or to deter the specific behavior you wish to modify.


Remote dog collars can be used to modify behaviors like excessive barking, jumping, getting into things or places they shouldn’t, or even staying within the confines of specific physical boundaries (like an unfenced yard).
Remote dog collars are often best for dogs who are especially willful and have shown proven difficult to train with non-remote collars.
Note that the use of these collars in controversial, as they can increase possibility of abuse and may also be ineffective if you do not time the shock correctly.In addition, instead of deterring bad behavior, a shock collar can cause your dog to be fearful, which may lead to greater behavioral problems.A remote collar also may malfunction when you're not around, and you have no way to correct it. It may shock your dog even when it is not engaging in the behavior. Using the shock remotely also does not allow you to reinforce good behavior — the dog is shocked for the unwanted behavior, but gets no encouragement or reward for good behavior.;
, If you and the trainer have decided that a remote collar is the best choice, go to a pet store (or search online) for an electronic dog training collar. Some come with remotes and some don’t. The remote collars allow you to send a small shock to the collar by utilizing the remote manually. The remote-less electronic dog collars use sensors to detect the unwanted behavior — like sensing vibrations from barking or tracking the dog’s location within the boundaries you’ve established.Manually modifying behaviors can work well, except that you can’t monitor what you can’t see. So keep that in mind if you spend a lot of time away from your dog.
 Most dog collars have an established listing of weight/size recommendations for the dogs that will fit each collar size. Weigh your dog and measure their height ahead of time so that you can choose the right size.Collars should be loose enough to fit two fingers between the collar and the dog’s skin when they are wearing it.
Do not leave the dog alone while wearing the collar and check daily to ensure there are no sores forming. If your dog develops sores from their collar, take them to the vet for evaluation.
 There are many different ways to buy dog training collars conveniently on the internet. Websites like Amazon and Petsmart offer an easy opportunity for pet owners to search what’s available and make a decision about what is the right choice for their dog.You can usually guess the right size of collar to order for your pet based on the weight of your pet. Most collars will give you a weight range for each size collar.
 If you go to a pet store, there will be a variety of remote-free collars to take a look at. There will also be pet store employees to help you make an informed decision and to answer any questions you might have.Going to a pet store that allows dogs inside will mean that you can physically try the collar on to make sure it is the right size for your pet.
Decide which dog training collar is right for you. There are several different kinds of remote-free dog training collars. They vary in style and purpose, so deciding which one to get largely depends on what specific behaviors you want to correct in your dog. It is best to consult with a trainer before purchasing a training collar, as they can help you choose the best one for your dog's size, breed, and particular behavioral problems.
 This kind of collar is usually selected for strong dogs who like to be in charge during walks, are aggressive toward other dogs, or are extremely active and hart to control. The prongs on the inside push into the dog’s neck, causing discomfort, when they pull too hard while on a leash. Make sure you work with a trainer (and veterinary behaviorist, if necessary) to learn how to safely use this collar.This kind of collar is intended to help dogs learn to walk calmly next to their owners when on the leash, but many people disapprove of the method — inflicting discomfort to reinforce behavior.
They are also sometimes called pinch dog collars.
These are good for larger, strong dogs with especially muscular necks, like pit bulls, Dobermans, and German Shepherds.
 These collars are made of metal chains (though sometimes only partially made of metal and partially made of nylon or leather). If you wish to use one of these collars you must know how to properly use it or you risk injuring your dog. Work with a certified trainer to learn how to use a chain collar.The point of these collars is to prevent your dog from pulling when it is on a leash by creating tension in the metal part of the collar that presses against your dog’s throat and causes a choking sensation until your dog stops pulling.
They are also called choke chain collars.

Never use this type of collar on a short-nosed dog breed, such as Bull Dogs or Boxers.
 This kind of collar is actually a harness that goes around the dog’s neck and torso separately with a connecting piece in the middle. They are a popular option for training dogs into certain behaviors while they are walking on a leash.These collars are intended to train your dog not to pull while walking by pulling your dog’s body down toward the ground when they pull on the leash.
These work well for willful dogs who pull often and have trouble behaving on a leash.
 Wireless fences can be created inside or outside your home by simply setting up the transmitter inside and telling it how big you want the boundary to be. Then, you can work with your dog to show it where the boundaries are so that it can start learning the behavior.When your dog starts approaching the boundary, the collar will give your dog a warning chirp or vibration (depending on the model and the settings you choose).
If your dog continues on its path, it will receive a short little shock that will cause it a bit of discomfort and, in most cases, deter the behavior and keep your dog within the confines of your established boundary.
Shock or electric fences are controversial. One issue is that if your dog does break through the boundary (perhaps it sees a squirrel and charges through, receiving a shock), then the dog is less likely to return to the yard for fear of another shock. It may also cause your dog to become fearful. For instance, your dog may be afraid to go into the yard if they associate it with getting shocked and begin to toilet inside., To use most remote-free dog training collars, you’ll need to practice using them by taking your dog on a walk. Using the collar while you’re out walking around will help reinforce the behavior that you want to train into your dog.You can also try taking your dog to a more public place (like a dog park) where there are more distractions. This will help solidify the training.
 After some time using the training collar, you should be able to transition to regular collars and your dog should maintain the desired behavior. Be sure to praise your dog for maintaining the behavior that you want and give it treats when appropriate.If your dog resorts back to old behaviors, you may need to use the training collar for a longer period of time.

