 Their brain is wired differently, and while they can be quite a handful, they aren't dumb or crazy.;
, As a parent, you are your child's most important advocate. That's why you need to become well-versed on your child's medical, legal, and educational rights.
 Doctors can determine whether or not your child has ADHD based on standard guidelines from the American Academy of Pediatrics. They will also look at your child's medical history and assess testimonies about your child's behavior from teachers and caretakers. Once your child has a diagnosis, your doctor can tell if a a medication regimen is the right solution.
 While it's still unclear whether a change in diet can help with ADHD symptoms, there are some experts who believe that high protein foods and complex carbs can improve concentration. Just make sure that you run any major diet changes by a doctor first. , Your child's treatment plan may include therapy, special education programs and medication. According to Web MD, studies show that a combination of therapy and medication produces better results than therapy alone.
 Support groups will connect you to other families with similar experiences and concerns.
 Children with ADHD may not respond well to conventional parenting practices, which is why experts recommend parent training. Parent skills training will teach you how to change your child's behavior through the use of rewards and consequences.
 When behavior becomes really out of control, consider putting them in a time-out.Create a chart that tracks your child's goals and achievements. Reward your child when they meet their goals.
 Avoid long-winded explanations.
,,, This could mean limiting the number of playmates to avoid over stimulation or dividing a big task into smaller, more manageable tasks.
 ADD coaches can help you child be more successful. If you can't find an ADD coach, consider getting someone to help with a particular area your child struggles with such as a professional organizer.
, Make sure you include homework, as well as indoor and outdoor activities. Keep the daily schedule somewhere in the house, such as a bulletin board or the refrigerator. This can help your child stay on task. , While there isn't a clear link between television and ADHD, the American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that older children watch no more than two hours of TV a day. Encourage your child to participate in activities that foster attention skills such as games, puzzles, and reading. , In the US, some ADHD children qualify for individualized education programs according to the guidelines set forth in the Individuals with Disabilities act. Consider telling teachers about your child's ADHD at the start of each school year.

