 If you want to buy more than one pair of boots, for example some to wear in wet weather and another pair for hot, dry conditions, adjust your budget accordingly.;
,


Do they have to be a certain colour to comply with company dress standards?
Do your work boots have to meet situational PPE (personal protective equipment) Standards?
Do they need to have steel toe caps?
Will you need to drive in your work boots?
Do you need to be able to climb ladders in your boots?
Must your boots be suitable for work in a food production role, for example, an abattoir?
Should you choose anti-static materials?
Must your boots be non-slip?
Do your boots need to keep you both warm and cool?
Will you need to be able to get them on and off easily or will you be wearing them all day?

,, Work boots are available in myriad styles.


Review the features and design options before taking your pick.
Examine catalogues, trade magazines and any information your employer can provide.
Ask colleagues and friends for recommendations. You don't have to only ask those who do the same work as you'll be doing in your work boots. Anyone who spends a long time on their feet can probably give good advice about footwear. Browse the web too, including forum discussions.
 Good boots can be the difference between a happy productive days work and sheer misery! There are a multitude of reliable brands providing multiple options in work boots. Some suggested brands include Thorogood, Golden Retriever, Engelbert Strauss and Wolverine.
 Work boots can be made using leather, rubber, or man-made materials; each material comes with its own merits and downfalls.
 What the boots are made of will have an impact on all of these factors.


Consider boots made from a combination of leather and nylon if you work indoors, this combination is good for indoor workers and they tend to be light in weight and flexible and can keep feet comfortable for extended periods of time.
 Try on lots of sizes to get the best fit and if in any doubt about cost or look, choose the most comfortable regardless of any other considerations.


Don't expect to need the same size in different brands to fit the same way. If you are buying online from a supplier that also has stores, try your choice on in the store before you buy online, if possible. Make sure you try them on with the socks and trousers, pants or overalls you usually wear at work.
 Hopefully you can find a pair that look okay, but the most important thing is that you will be able to get your work done while wearing them.

