 Emotional abuse can occur in any family. However, there are a few factors that increase the risk of emotional or physical child abuse. The children of parents who abuse alcohol or drugs, have untreated mental illnesses such as bipolar disorder or depression, or were abused as children themselves are at a higher risk for becoming victims of abuse.Many abusive parents don’t even realize their actions are hurtful. They may not know a better style of parenting, or they may not realize that taking out their emotions on their child is abusive.
Even if your parent has good intentions, they can still be abusive.
 The abuser might try to pass it off as a joke, but this type of abuse is no laughing matter. If your parent frequently makes fun of you, belittles you in front of other people, or dismisses your ideas or concerns, you are in an emotionally abusive situation.For example, if your dad says, "You're such a loser. I swear, you can't do anything right," this is verbal abuse.
Your parent may do this in isolation or in front of others, causing you to feel bad about yourself.
 If your parent tries to control every little thing you do, gets angry when you make your own decisions, or dismisses your abilities and autonomy, their behavior is an indicator of an abusive situation.


People who engage in this type of abuse often treat their victims like inferiors who are incapable of making good choices or taking responsibility for themselves.Your parent may try to make decisions for you. For instance, your mom could might visit your high school and ask your guidance counselor about a college you didn't want to apply to.
Your parent may feel strongly that they are just "parenting," but this is abusive.
 Some abusers have unrealistically high expectations of their victims, but refuse to admit any wrongdoing themselves.


People who engage in this kind of abuse may find ways to blame you for anything and everything, even things no reasonable person would criticize you for. They may tell you that you’re the cause of their problems so they can avoid taking responsibility for themselves and their feelings.They also hold you personally responsible for their emotions.
For instance, if your mother blames you for being born because she had to abandon her singing career, she is blaming you for something that wasn't your fault.
If your parents say their marriage fell apart "because of the kids," that's blaming you for their inability to cope.
Blaming someone for things they didn't do is an abusive technique.
 Parents who pull away from their children and don’t provide them with the emotional closeness they need are engaging in a form of child abuse.


Does your parent ignore you when you’ve done something to upset them, show little interest in your activities and emotions, or try to play it off as your fault when they distance themselves from you?Love and affection aren't things you should have to bargain for. This is abusive.
 Some parents, especially those with narcissistic tendencies, may see you as only an extension of themselves. It’s impossible for parents like this to want what is best for you, even if they themselves believe they have your best interests at heart.


Some signs of narcissistic parenting include disrespecting your boundaries, trying to manipulate you into doing what they believe is “best,” and getting upset when you don’t live up to their unrealistic expectations for you.They are also often very uncomfortable with you having attention and will try to make everything about themselves.
Your single parent may guilt-trip you, for example, by saying "Well, I know you had a party to go to with your friends, but I'm so lonely here. You are always leaving me." This guilt-trip is a form of abuse.
 Kids and teens make mistakes sometimes; it's a part of growing up and being human. During times when you need guidance, support, or discipline, it's your parent's job to step in. It's important to be able to distinguish between what's natural disciplining and abusive behavior.


In general, you can tell whether a parenting style is disciplining versus abuse from the level of anger exhibited by your parent. It's common for your parent to get angry or frustrated in the moment when you do something that breaks the rules.
However, when anger is driving the behavior or punishment, your parent is in the danger zone of abuse. Abuse involves words or actions that are done recklessly, knowingly, and with the intent to harm.Although you may not like strict disciplining, understand that parents enforce guidelines and set consequences to protect you and steer you towards positive development.
You can try taking a look at some of your peers who have good relationships with their parents. What are those relationships like? What kind of support and discipline do they receive from their parents?

