 The process of giving blood takes around an hour, although the act of donating only takes around 10 minutes. You will have to go through registration, a physical, and a short recovery time when you give blood.At busier blood drives, you may have to wait longer than an hour.
Make sure to wear short sleeves or a shirt with a sleeve that can easily be pushed above the elbow., When you arrive at donation site, you will have to register. This means you will fill out a form where you provide basic information about yourself.Make sure to bring your ID. This can be your donor card, your driver’s license, or two alternate forms of ID. One form of ID must have a photo. If you do not have a photo ID, bring two other forms of ID. These IDs must have your name on them. The two forms of ID can be a credit or debit card, checkbook with name and address, social security card, pay stub, fishing license, library card, or any other card that has your name.
 Before you give blood, you will be given a physical. This physical includes a session of private, confidential questions. The questions cover your health and your travel history.In addition to questions, someone will take your temperature and pulse, and check your hemoglobin and blood pressure.
Some of the personal questions to expect include the use of IV drugs, piercings and tattoos, and history of sexually transmitted diseases. They will also ask if you have taken any payment for sex. If you are a male, they will ask if you have had sex with another male. Regardless of gender, they will ask if you have had sex with someone who fits into any of those categories.Health and behavioral related questions help screen for potential problems that may preclude one from donating. It is important to be honest, but they will also test your blood to ensure no incorrect information is given. If you are completely honest it can save time and money in not processing blood that will not be able to be used.
 When you give blood, you will sit in a chair. One of the blood drive staff will cleanse your arm before she inserts a new, sterile needle into your arm. You will sit in the chair while the bag fills. When you have donated the appropriate amount of blood, the staff member will remove the needle and bandage the wound.Donating blood takes eight to 10 minutes.
When you donate blood, you will give around a pint of blood.
 After you give blood, you will be given refreshments, like juice and cookies. This allows you a few minutes to rest while your body recovers from losing a pint of blood. You stay for about 10 to 15 minutes. Then you leave the blood drive.Make sure you eat the snacks provided and rehydrate with the recommended fluids. This can help avoid dizziness or fainting later.

