 According to the U.S. Constitution, no person can be forced to testify or say anything against his or her own interests. You have the right to remain silent, no matter what the officer or agent may say to you. Anything you say could be used against you in court or some other legal proceeding.In some states, you may be required by law to provide your identification, which would include your name and address. You are not required to answer any further questions.
If an agent begins questioning you, just say, “I do not wish to answer any questions unless my attorney is present.”;
, If you are stopped and questioned by a federal agent, you should ask to speak with your attorney before you answer any questions. Even if you believe that what you say would help your position, you should wait for your attorney. An attorney can help you understand your rights and be sure that you do not say anything that can incriminate you. An attorney can also help you evaluate any offers that the agents might make regarding any deals in exchange for what you say.The agents questioning you may try to convince you to answer their questions without your attorney by telling you that they can offer a deal. Realize that any deal they offer without your attorney present will likely still be available after your attorney arrives. Do not fall for that gimmick.
If you are taken into custody, ask to contact your attorney right away. If you are not taken into custody but agents attempt to question you, contact your attorney as soon as you can. Do not speak with any agents without your attorney present., If you are stopped by a federal agent while out in public, either while driving in your car, at your place of business, or in any other public location, you should respond to any reasonable directions you are given. If you refuse to comply with an agent’s directions, you could provoke some further action or provide some reasonable suspicion for your own arrest. Realize that not only the words you say but also your actions and other responses may constitute evidence in some future hearing.Do not run or try to flee if a federal agent seeks to question you. Any such attempts will only jeopardize your own safety and increase any charges that may already exist against you.
Do not begin to lash out physically or verbally. Any such action will only make the situation worse and can result in additional charges against you.
Realize that if you remain respectful, your good behavior may be supportive in any hearing that may arise.
 Everyone has probably heard of the “good cop/bad cop” routine, where one agent or officer may berate or assault you, to make you want to speak with a different officer.Alternatively, questioners may say things that are designed to anger or upset you, to get you to lose your composure and say something incriminating. Try not to fall into either trap. Think carefully about everything you say, and keep your mouth shut until your attorney arrives., The Fourth Amendment prevents any unreasonable search without a search warrant. This prohibition applies to federal agents as much as to any other law enforcement officer. If the agent questioning you attempts to conduct a search, you should refuse unless you are presented with a warrant.This prohibition against warrantless searches applies equally to your home, your car, your person, or anything you are carrying.
If an agent insists on searching you, your car or any other property, you should not physically resist. If possible, find a witness and say aloud, “I do not consent to this search.” The agent may proceed with the search anyway, but you will preserve an issue for argument if you are ever taken to trial.

