 You can also generate story ideas by focusing on the story’s main character. Strong, well developed main characters are a key element of a good children’s picture book. You may use a real life child, such as your own child, a sibling, or a family member to create a main character that is relatable and detailed.You should consider how the real life child speaks, walks, and acts around other children. Does the child use slang words or their own take on language? Does the child walk in a unique or strange way? Does the child socialize a lot with other children or does the child prefer to be among adults?
You may also choose a child who has a unique physical appearance or unique physical traits. You could then use on their traits as the basis for your story’s main character.
 Many children’s picture books use animals as a main character, as animal characters can make it easier to explore a theme or moral in a universal way. You may decide to use a particular animal as your main character or use a cast of animals in your book.For example, you may decide to focus on a cheetah as your main character. You may then list the typical qualities of a cheetah, such as “speed”, “stealth”, and “an ability to blend into its natural environment.” You could then use one of these qualities to create a story about a cheetah who is the opposite of what one might expect. Maybe the cheetah in your story is not fast at all and has pink spots that make her stand out.
 Many children’s picture books are no longer than 500 words. Of those 500 words, the name of your main character may be mentioned several times in the story. You should try to create a name that is unique and catchy for your main character, as your audience will likely respond well to a name that is memorable on the page.For example, maybe you decide to name the cheetah with pink spots, Pinky the Cheetah. Or, if you are writing a story about a child with a unique trait, you may use the trait as part of their name, such as Lightening Max or Gina the Short.
 Some writers use a unique setting as the inspiration for their story. You may already have a unique setting in mind, such as The Great Barrier Reef or the moon. Or you may list a few unique settings and choose one for your story. You could then build characters and a story around this setting.For example, maybe you be interested in setting a story in the Amazon. You may then do some research on reptiles who live in the Amazon and use a specific reptile as the main character for your story. Your main character could then explore the landscapes and wildlife in the Amazon in your children’s picture book.
 You can also find inspiration by taking a familiar setting and playing around with it. You may twist around certain details of the setting so it feels slightly surreal or fantastical.For example, you may use a familiar setting like the dentist’s office and twist it around so there are details that appear fantastical or surreal. Maybe your main character envisions the dentist’s chair as a space ship. You could then add details to the dentist office that relate to a space station or ground control at NASA. The dentist chair could also have details that are similar to a space ship.

