 Tip your infant's head back and squeeze drops of an over-the-counter saline solution into the nostrils. Allow a few minutes to pass before suctioning the loosened mucus out with a rubber bulb syringe.;
, Rub a thin coating of petroleum jelly on the outside of your baby's nose to reduce irritation, focusing on areas that look red and sore.
 A humidifier or cool-mist vaporizer sends moisture out into the room, which can reduce your baby's nasal inflammation and relieve stuffiness. Placing a humidifier in your sick infant's room may make it easier for him or her to fall asleep.
 Take your baby with you into the bathroom, close the door, and run the hot water for 15 minutes or so. The steam will moisten the air and relieve stuffiness.
 The human body uses a lot of energy in fighting off infection. Keep your baby out of stressful situations and encourage calm forms of play instead of active play.
 "Baby safe" vapor rubs made of petrolatum, oils, and eucalyptus create a cooling sensation in the nose, which allows cold sufferers to feel as though they are breathing better. Massage the product into your infant's chest, neck, and back, but do not put it on any broken skin or on the face.
 Acetaminophen is safe for children three months and up, and ibuprofen is safe for kids six months and up. Look for over-the-counter medication that can be given in small doses and carefully obey the instructions. If you have any question about the dose your infant can receive, contact your doctor., The FDA strongly advises against over-the-counter cold medicine for children younger than two years old, and many manufacturers have stopped making these products for children under the age of four. These medications may ease symptoms but come with a risk of severe side effects, including rapid heart rate and convulsions., Drinking extra fluids prevents dehydration and thins out nasal secretions. For babies six months or older, try plain water, fruit juices, and ice pops. For children less than six months, stick with breast milk or formula.
 If he or she is six months or older, your infant can have chicken soup, warm chamomile tea, and warmed apple juice. Warm drinks can relieve sore throats, congestion, aches, and fatigue.
 Warm honey is an effective remedy for sore throats and can tame a cough, but in babies below the age of one year, it can cause an illness known as infant botulism. 