 Connect with a laughing partner, friend, buddy or companion who you always know you can turn to for a laugh. Make a laughing agreement and shake on it. Surround yourself with more funny people. Make an effort to be around light-hearted folks every chance you get.;
, Be super silly for 10 seconds and let your brilliant, foolish kid out to play.
 Stand back and scope out the outlandish, outrageous and crazy hilarity of humans. You will feel better the next time you are trying to ward off frustration and boredom in the DMV line, out shopping or in the waiting room of the doctor's office. Take it up a notch and bring your entertainment home with you and imitate the quirks, qualities or peculiarities that made you snicker earlier in the day.
 Recount your everyday experiences in a fun way and relive them! People laugh at the stuff they can relate to. It's the ordinary, everyday, run-of-the-mill things we find funny. Some of the best sitcoms and funniest comedians (Seinfeld is a perfect example) create material out of the everyday perils of life. It's their passion and strong point of view that strikes an emotional chord in us and makes us burst out with laughter. Go for it and liven up your stories with attitudes, opinions, voices and dialects. Be spontaneous and let it fly!

, The best stories have a punchy point, a profound lesson or a great big finish. Start with the end in mind. Give your friends a payoff for their attention. When you get close to the end, stop, take a deep breath and give the story a moment of silence. Let 'em dangle in anticipation before you end with a big bang! Adding more energy, impact and volume will give your story meaning, closure and give you the rewards of laughter.
 Describe something gigantic. On your morning commute to work (of course, while navigating your vehicle with the utmost in attentive care and caution), describe something humongous. Maybe it's the biggest cell phone, coffee maker or Fourth of July sparkler ever to be seen at the World's Fair.
 What some may consider the demise of America, could be the comedic cure. You're in for some serious first rate living when you think about the movies, laughs and life entertainment that will be waiting for you on your living room TV.
 Juice it up and have a dinner party where everyone has to maintain a character for the night.
 Before things get too heated up, think of something quirky, cool, comical or witty. Have a few funny incidents lined up in your head that you can flash to before you disagree, bicker or complain. Even the slightest smile will ease ill feelings and spread goodwill throughout the land. The absolute worst situations still have a silver lining - you get some really great comedic material for later. Focus on the amusing or just plain weird moments you'll want to recap with your friends and laugh about later.
 Look for humor everywhere you go. Stalk it, pursue it and chase it down till you fall over with laughter. Think about what makes you laugh, the ironies of life that amuse you, the comedians you adore, the books that make you laugh aloud and which funny shows you refuse to miss. Read, watch or do all of the above as often as you can.

