 Private investigators (PIs) can be hired to find and analyze information regarding legal, personal, and financial matters. They offer services such as background checks, investigating suspected marital infidelities, conducting employment screenings, verifying a person's identity, finding missing people, and recovering stolen property.In most states, licensed PIs have passed pass the private investigator examination, be at least 25 years of age, and completed 3 years of professional experience.They must also pass a criminal history and background check administered by the Department of Justice and FBI, and be licensed by the Department of Consumer Affairs.
 Be smart about who you hire. You can search for PI agencies in your area online or in the phone book. If you do not have prior experience with a particular agency, contact a consumer assistance group (e.g. Better Business Bureau). Ask about any complaints and/or the nature of complaints filed against an agency. You can also search online reviews from sites such as AngiesList.com.


Compare prices and services offered by different companies.
Interview a potential investigator. Ask them to show you their state-issued PI ID card. Record their name, license number, and expiration date.Validate their business or individual license by following-up with your state's Department of Consumer Affairs.
 Once you select a PI, it is important to obtain a written contract This should include agreement on what services will be offered, a list of fees and payment obligations, and length of time service will be retained. The contract should also stipulate that the client will have access to evidence (recordings, videotapes, etc.) collected during the investigation. Finally, the PI is obligated to provide a final case report that includes results of the investigation, and cost and time spent on separate aspects of the case (e.g. surveillance, additional investigators, special equipment, stand-by time, etc.).


Read the contract carefully and do not hesitate to ask questions.
Stipulate a deadline by which all work will be completed.
Request an itemized estimate of services to be offered as part of the contract, and have the company provide an official invoice and receipt.
Keep a copy of the contract, invoices, and receipts in a single folder.

