 Hernias are more common in people who are overweight or who are in poor shape.If you are overweight or if you are not in good shape, then try to lose some weight by changing your diet and incorporate more exercise into your routine as well.


Start by doing something low impact, such as walking or biking, and add intensity as you get stronger.
Focus on exercises which strengthen your core, which can help reduce your risk of some of the most common types of hernia.
Aim for 30 minutes of exercise per day five days per week.;
, Constipation can cause a hernia as well, so it is important to prevent constipation to prevent a hernia.Make sure that you incorporate plenty of fiber-rich foods in your diet and drink plenty of water as well.


Fiber-rich foods include fruits, vegetables, and whole grains such as brown rice, whole wheat pasta, and oatmeal.
 Such support is only good for short term use after surgery. Using supportive garment in order to be able to lift more weight does not protect or prevent you from developing a hernia., Using bad posture when lifting an object may also cause a hernia. Start checking your posture before you lift an object to ensure that you are using good lifting posture. Some things to keep in mind when lifting objects include:Keep your back straight and your abdominal muscles tight.
Stand with your feet shoulder width apart.
Use your leg muscles to do the work rather than your back.
Don't turn by twisting at the waist. Turn with your entire body.
 Smoker’s cough can become severe and this frequent, hard coughing lead to a hernia.Smoking also increases your risk of developing cancer, emphysema, heart disease, and many other serious conditions.


If you smoke, ask your doctor about medications and smoking cessation programs that may help you to quit.
 Sometimes hernias may be caused by wearing clothing that fits too tightly around your waist. To eliminate this factor, make sure that you wear clothing that fits comfortably and that does not put too much pressure on your waist.Wear clothing a size larger than you need to provide some extra space around your waist.
Wear clothes with an elastic waistband instead of fitted clothes.
 You are also at a higher risk of developing a hernia after you have eaten. To reduce your risk, don’t bend over or lay down for about two to three hours after eating.


Sit upright or recline in a chair after eating and avoid doing anything that requires you to bend over.