 Photo Booth is a camera app that comes bundled with your Mac OS. The Photo Booth icon looks like a camera and four small photographs in your Applications folder.

If you can’t see Photo Booth in Applications, click on the magnifying glass icon in the upper-right corner of your screen, and then type Photo Booth. It will show up at the top of the list.;
, This menu will be at the top your screen when you open Photo Booth., If you have multiple cameras connected to your Mac, you will have to select the one you want to use.

Depending on your Mac’s model and current software, your built-in camera may show up as Built-in iSight or FaceTime HD Camera. This is the default option in Photo Booth. You don’t need to change it if you want to use your computer's internal camera.
 You will see a film roll icon in the lower-left corner of your Photo Booth window. This button will switch Photo Booth from photo capture to video recording mode., This button is located in the lower-right corner of your Photo Booth window. It will open a menu of visual effects you can apply to your video., You can preview all video effects on the Effects menu. Clicking on an effect will apply it to your video and go back to the Photo Booth home screen., This button looks like a red movie camera icon at the center-bottom of your Photo Booth window. Photo Booth will count back from 3 and start recording your video., This button looks like a red square button at the bottom of Photo Booth. It will stop recording and save your video to your Photo Booth camera roll., A thumbnail of your video will appear in your camera roll at the bottom of your Photo Booth window. Clicking on it will play the video in Photo Booth., It will open a drop-down menu., This option will open a pop-up window to browse your computer. It will let you export and save your video to any folder on your computer, or on iCloud., Use the pop-up window to select a folder to save your video., This is the blue button in the lower-right corner of the pop-up window. It will save your video to the destination folder you chose.

Your video will save as a MOV file. You can use QuickTime Player or different software to play it.

