 The pan should be large enough to hold a smaller heatproof bowl., Place 2 bowls or other containers on a flat, clean surface. One container is for the egg whites and the other is for the yolks. Holding 1 cupped hand over the first container with your fingers spread slightly apart, crack an egg over your hand, letting the whites slip through the gaps between your fingers, but not the yolk. When all of the egg white has passed through your fingers and into the container, leaving only the yolk, place the yolk in the other container. Repeat the process for all 5 eggs.
 Place it in a saucepan over medium high heat. Heat it until it begins to bubble, then reduce the heat slightly.
 Do this while the milk is heating, since you'll need to combine the ingredients quickly. Beat the eggs and sugar until the mixture is smooth and silky.


The mixture is ready when it's slightly thick. Beat for at least 2 minutes.
If you're using an extract like vanilla or almond, add it to the egg mixture.
 Pour the milk in slowly while the beaters are running. Don't add it too quickly, since the temperature of the milk might scramble the eggs. Keep beating until the mixture is thick and creamy.
 Use a wooden spoon to stir the mixture continuously as it gently cooks. It will begin to thicken into a custard. The mixture is ready to remove from heat when it coats the back of the spoon as you lift it from the bowl. Remove it from heat and let it cool.


Don't let any water get into the bowl. This will affect the texture of the custard and may prevent it from cooking evenly.
Use a wooden spoon, rather than a metal one. The metal may taint the flavor of the custard.
 Once the base has been prepared, there is no limit to the flavors that can be added to the gelato. Consider adding fruit, chocolate, caramel, and mix-ins to deepen the gelato's flavor profile.


For a fruit flavored gelato, prepare a puree of the fruit or berry of your choice, adding it to the gelato while still at room temperature.
Create a vanilla gelato by splitting a vanilla bean down the center and adding it to the cream prior to boiling. Remove the bean once you begin to combine the eggs with the cream.
A chocolate gelato can be prepared by adding melted chocolate to the gelato base. Let the chocolate cool slightly prior to adding it to the gelato base.
 Complete your gelato by adding some mix-ins to create different textures and flavors. Choose mix-ins that complement the flavors you used in your gelato based.


You could add chopped fresh fruit or dried fruit to your gelato. Choose fruit that is overripe for the best flavor.Chopped nuts or cacao nibs would add some nice crunch.
Consider a spoonful of cinnamon or another spice you like.
Chopped candies also add a delicious touch.
 Cover the bowl of gelato with plastic wrap and put it in the refrigerator for about 3 hours to give it time to cool down before you put it in your ice cream freezer.
 Freeze it according to the manufacturer's instructions.
 This ensures that the gelato will stay dense, rather than airy. Gelato should not be as light and airy as ice cream.
 Continue freezing the gelato until it is solid.
 Letting it thaw a bit before taking a bite will prevent the gelato from being too cold on your tongue. This way you'll be able to taste the intense flavors that much better.