 Your teenager is testing their limits and exploring independence out in the world. Allow your home to be a place of love and support where you can offer them gentle guidance instead of constantly pushing back or arguing. Create a stable environment by modeling calm, reflective practices that your teen will be able to apply to their own life as they push for independence., Role models can have positive or negative effects on a teenager.If you would like to influence certain behaviors in your teen, begin by showing them how it is done. Influence is often greatest when you avoid telling them what to do and instead illustrate the qualities you wish to see in them such as hard work, kindness, or respect. Consider the following specific ways in which you can gently influence your teen.Adopt a growth mindset. Show your teen that in every experience there is an opportunity to learn and grow.
Illustrate that failure is necessary for success. Allow them to see your failures as well as how you use them to succeed.
Talk to them about inspirational heroes. Discuss who your heroes are and ask your teen who theirs are (and why).
Participate in initiative building activities with them where you both work towards completing something, allowing them to take their own path or their own initiative., It is possible to gently influence your teen without being aware of it; and sometimes without intending to. Any negative communication your teen witnesses in you, will influence how they speak to others as well as how they feel about themselves. Be careful about how you communicate with your teen and how you communicate with others in front of your teen.Try to avoid the following.


Nagging. Nagging can be continuous urging or persistent faultfinding.
Curse words.
Name-calling.
Blame speech. Try speaking using “I” statements instead of “you” statements, such as “I feel upset!” rather than “You make me so mad!”
Shaming. Avoiding shaming is especially important for children and teens.
 Teens are often told what to think or believe through media, popularity, and peer pressure. It is difficult for them to know how to navigate what everyone else is telling them without a strong internal sense of direction. You possibly have a strong sense of who you are and what you want from your principles, beliefs, and values. Show your teen how to act according to your values, despite what the media or other people say.Gently influence them to stay true to who they are by applying something like the following.


Treat others with interest and respect. Show the teen that you should care about others as people, not just in how others behaviors reflect on you.
If you value family, make your family a priority and let your teen see it.
Work hard and celebrate work accomplishments if you would like your teen to have a good work ethic.
 Regulating emotions can be very difficult for a teenager. Show your teen how to handle their strong emotions in a healthy way, by behaving like you would want them to behave. Modeling this behavior for your teen may take some work on managing these emotions in yourself. Work towards a healthier expression of emotions for you and your teen by adopting the following.


If you are angry, try not to react violently (throwing things, screaming, etc.). Instead state that you are angry, take a cooling-off period, and then talk through your anger.Respond to negativity with grace and forgiveness. Process through your emotions by seeking out the support of others.Deal with your emotions in a healthy way such as through a creative activity (journaling) or an exercise (running) and share your process with your teen.

