 Fatigue happens because your body starts working harder to metabolize nutrients when you become pregnant. Leg elevation will help to keep the weight off your legs, which in turn will help you to feel less fatigued.


Pregnant women, especially those who have full time jobs, should elevate their legs for 30 minutes during their break time.;
, Another discomfort that a woman experiences when she is pregnant is having tender and swollen breasts. This occurs because of the increase in estrogen levels brought about by the pregnancy.Wearing a bra that is made with a wide shoulder strap will help to support your sensitive breasts. However, keep in mind that you should contact a doctor if the pain does not let up, or gets worse as time goes on.
 There is still no definite cause as to why morning sickness occurs during pregnancy. One reason may be that when a woman gets pregnant, her body has less gastric motility, which means that her body does not process food correctly. This could lead to morning sickness.


To manage morning sickness, try to eat small, frequent meals throughout the day, rather than three large meals. Eating smaller meals will help your body to process the food more easily.
Keeping a pack of saltine crackers and eating them early in the morning before getting out of bed may help to settle your stomach.
 These cravings occur because your body is telling you that certain nutrients, vitamins, and minerals are lacking and should be consumed. When the cravings are healthy, they should be encouraged, but if not, in the case of pica, which is a craving for paper and hair, immediate medical attention should be warranted., Constipation happens because of the weight of the fetus and the gradual growth of the uterus that puts pressure on the bowels. This weight on the bowels can further slow down your ability to process food.


Eat fiber to control your constipation. Great sources of fiber include oatmeal, apples, whole wheat bread, and brown rice. Drinking at least one liter of water every hour may also help to fight constipation.
 Another discomfort during the first trimester of pregnancy is the need to urinate frequently. This happen because of the pressure that the uterus puts on the anterior bladder.


Avoiding caffeine may help to control your desire to urinate because caffeine is a diuretic, which means that it makes you need to go to the bathroom all the time.
 During the first trimester of pregnancy, you may experience headaches. These headaches occur because of the expanding blood volume in your body. The blood may put pressure on your cerebral arteries. To manage headaches:


Rest a cold compress on your forehead.
Talk to your doctor about taking acetaminophen to combat the headache.
 Heartburn happens because gastric motility, or the ability to process food, slows down. When this happens, gastric emptying is further slowed down.


Again, eating small, frequent meals rather than three large meals each day can help your body ability to process food.
Talk to your doctor about taking Amphojel or Maalox to combat heartburn.
 What you eat during your first trimester is important because it will set the platform for the rest of your pregnancy. It is important to eat fresh, wholesome, and healthy foods when you are pregnant. Foods rich in fiber are also good choices during this trimester as they can help to relieve constipation.Consider working with your doctor or nutritionist to come up with a diet that fits your dietary needs.
 Folic acid is especially important during the first trimester as it helps to avoid developmental defects in your baby such as neural tube defects. Talk to your doctor about taking a daily folic acid supplement that contains roughly 400 mcg of folic acid.

