 While commonly used to designate any real estate agent, the title Realtor is actually a trademarked term of the National Association of Realtors.If the agent is a Realtor, you can file a grievance with that organization. Regardless, you can file a complaint with the Florida DBPR (as described elsewhere in this article) against any Florida real estate agent.
 The National Association of Realtors produces and regularly updates a code of seventeen articles that defines appropriate professional behavior for members.Think of this as the legal code that will determine the result of your case. Successful grievances link Realtor misconduct to a violation of at least one of these seventeen articles.
 To prepare a grievance, specify your complaint in a narrative description of your dealings with the Realtor. Assemble documents that will support your claims as well.Describe your complaint in detail. Remember to connect it directly to a violation of at least one article of the Code of Ethics.
 The process of filing a complaint may vary by local and statewide organizations within the National Association of Realtors. Contact the appropriate local, regional, or statewide branch for information.


For instance, a Realtor in central Florida may be a member of the Orlando Regional Realtors Association (ORRA), so you would contact them for filing information., If your complaint is determined to be legitimate by a Grievance Committee (which acts essentially as a grand jury), a hearing will be scheduled before a Professional Standards Hearing Panel.The hearing will operate similar to a legal proceeding, and the burden of proof lies upon you to provide “clear, strong, convincing” evidence of misconduct.
You should definitely plan to attend the hearing. You can retain an attorney if you desire, and you can call witnesses during the hearing.
As an entity within the National Organization of Realtors, the Panel has the power to suspend or terminate the membership of a Realtor. They have no right to levy fines or suspend or terminate a real estate license, however; this power rests only with the state of Florida.
Remember that, if the agent is a Florida Realtor, you can file a grievance with the organization and file a complaint with the DBPR Division of Real Estate. These are separate processes with separate possible outcomes.

