 Once you have considered the damage that eating junk food can do to your body and the risks it can pose to your health, you should think about why you want to quit eating junk food. Maybe you are concerned about your weight and want to make a big change to get to a healthy weight. Or maybe you are an avid athlete and you want to improve your performance by putting better fuel into your body. No matter what your reason is, it is a good idea to really think about it.


Try writing out your reason or reasons for wanting to quit eating junk food. Getting your thoughts down on paper can help you to increase your motivation to quit eating junk food and really make a change.;
, Once you have identified your motivation, you should make a commitment to yourself. You can do this by writing out a contract specifying the types of foods that you do not want to eat any more. You should also include details about food that you will eat instead or how you will deal with junk food cravings. It is also a good idea to list your reasons for wanting to make these changes. After you are finished writing up your contract, read it over and then sign and date it.Make sure to be very specific in your contract so that you understand what you are committing yourself to.
Post your contract somewhere that you will see it every day, such as on a mirror or on your refrigerator.
 After you have committed to stop eating junk, toss out anything that you have in your house. Keeping junk food around when you are trying to avoid it is a recipe for failure, so it is best to get rid of it right away. Stop buying junk food as well and ask those that you live with to keep junk food out of common areas so that you will be less tempted to eat it.Out of sight; out of mind. Most times, junk food is consumed on a basis of convenience and boredom. If junk food isn't in your house, you are less likely to leave home and seek it out.
 To make sure that you are not tempted to go out and get some junk food when you are feeling hungry, keep your kitchen stocked with plenty of healthy choices. Buy whole foods like fruits, vegetables, lean meats, milk, eggs, and whole grains. An easy way to steer clear of unhealthy choices at the grocery store is to avoid the inner aisles of the grocery store and get most of your food from the outer ring instead.The best way to ensure healthy eating is to be prepared and have those foods readily available to you. Consider meal prepping too!
Prepare healthy snacks ahead of time so that you always have a quick, healthy option on hand. Put fresh fruit or vegetable slices into plastic bags in the fridge. Keep some nuts and dried fruit in your gym bag. Or, stock your fridge at work with fat free Greek yogurt and string cheese.
 Water keeps you hydrated and helps you to feel full in between meals. Drink plenty of water throughout the day to keep yourself from reaching for junk food. Staying hydrated with water will also help to prevent you from grabbing a can of soda or some other unhealthy sugary beverage.