 If your contacts and eyes tend to get dry or uncomfortable while driving, excessive airflow over the contacts may be the culprit.Simply reducing airflow into your face may be all it takes to limit this problem. Keep moving air from vents and open windows away from your eyes.
If your eyes get itchy, this may be a sign of allergies. This may be better treated with an allergy drop like Zaditor.;
, No, of course this does not mean to drive blindfolded or play “peek-a-boo” with the surrounding traffic! Rather, the goal is to block airflow from passing over and drying the contacts without impairing vision.During the daytime, this effect can be achieved by wearing sunglasses. Consider polarized lenses to reduce glare.


Sunglasses don’t work so well at night, obviously, but you could try clear plastic safety glasses if you’re more concerned with comfort than fashion. Goggles are probably going too far, and may limit your peripheral vision anyway.
The vision benefits of non-prescription night-driving glasses are debatable, but they will help reduce airflow., Whenever your eyes start to feel dried out, use eye drops approved by your eye doctor for use with your contacts. Make sure that the eye drops you are using are safe for contact lenses.Don’t try to put drops in your eyes while driving! Pull over for a minute.
While on the subject, never try to adjust, fix, or find a wayward contact while driving. Always stop to make necessary adjustments, and have a backup pair of contacts or glasses handy.
 Contacts today generally come in either the soft or rigid gas permeable (RGP) varieties. Several companies produce multiple types of each.No single type or brand is clearly better at preventing dry eyes while driving, so you may need to undertake a trial-and-error process.Consult with your eye care professional about trying a different lens type or brand. You can also consider options like glasses or surgery, depending on your vision needs.Ask about new "water gradient" lenses, which claim to be more comfortable and better for dry eyes.If your contacts improve your vision but are not consistently comfortable, the benefits will be significantly reduced. Clarity and comfort are both important when you are behind the wheel.

