 At bare minimum, you should wear shatter proof glasses or goggles when machine-sharpening skates. Ear and breathing protection are also recommended. Do not wear loose clothing or accessories that can be caught in the grinding wheel. Tie back long hair and consider a protective hair covering., Make sure that your work area is free from clutter. Before powering the machine, double-check that nothing is in contact with the grinding wheel, including the diamond dresser. Make sure the grinding wheel is balanced before you begin.


Some machines require that the diamond dresser be in position, touching the wheel, before the machine is turned on. Read your machine's operating manual to determine if this applies., The default that most skate shops use is a 1/2" radius, which is standard for young skaters. A smaller radius will create a deeper hollow, creating better grip and more drag. A larger radius, on the other hand, will produce a shallow hollow with worse grip and less drag. Grip determines maneuverability, while less drag allows for greater speed.


The "radius" refers to the shape the grinding wheel takes out of skate that's brushed against it. You may remember from geometry class that the radius of a circle is half its width. Think of a circle with a small radius and how that can cut into the end of a rectangle. It can overlap much more than a circle with a larger radius. Thus, smaller radii create much more dramatic edges (a deeper hollow) than the more blunt edges of larger radii (a shallow hollow).Typical starting radii include: 3/8" for very light skaters, 5/8" for average skaters, 3/4" for heavy skaters, and 7/8" – 1 1/4" for hockey goalies. Start with these guidelines but tailor your radius to what ends up working best for you.
For increased glide, select a radius of 1" or higher. For better grip and control, pick one that is 3/8" or smaller., Change the dresser's position within the dresser arm to achieve the appropriate radius size. In general, you will loosen the diamond's arm grip with a thumbscrew and move the dresser backwards or forwards. The diamond dresser will be marked with lines according to radius size., Press the diamond dresser into the moving grinding wheel for a few seconds. In general, the dresser will be attached to a tool that you will move up and down across the wheel.


The exact method for dressing your wheel, and for machine-sharpening in general, will vary depending on the model you're using. Always consult your machine's user guide and documentation for details.
 Your sharpener will most likely have come with a special skate holder or sharpening jig. Make sure that the blade lines up with the center of the grinding wheel. Use a black marker to color the edge of the blade to serve as a guide.
 Starting with the toe, lightly touch the edge of the blade to the spinning grinding wheel. Move the skate holder so that the entire length of the skate has been run through the grinder. Try to do this as smoothly and consistently as possible to prevent an uneven sharpening. Do this two or three times., If you have successfully sharpened the entire length of the skate, there should no longer be any visible black marking. If there is, do one or more passes until it disappears. Look down the center of your blade to make sure that the hollow is in the middle. If it isn't, adjust the holder to better line the skate up with the wheel and try again.

