 For example, "Agnes's book," "Mary's book," and "the dog's toy" all follow this rule. , If the word ends in an "s," add an apostrophe after the "s." If the word does not end in an "s," add an apostrophe followed by an "s."If you want to make an irregular plural noun possessive, you need to add an apostrophe followed by an “s.”


The possessive form of "lions" would be "lions' ", while the possessive form of "children" would be "children's", as in "The children's toys fell into the lions' den at the zoo."

, The correct forms of the third person singular "he", "she" or "it" are "his", "hers" and "its", without apostrophes. The correct form of the first person "I" is "my" if the item possessed is named and "mine" if it isn't. Similarly, the possessive forms of the first person plural "we" are "our" and "ours", respectively; for "you", they are "your" and "yours", respectively; and for "they", they are "their" and "theirs", respectively. , The placement of an apostrophe is different when the nouns act separately or together. In this sentence, the compound nouns are acting separately: “Jane’s and John’s bikes are in the garage.” Both Jane and John have their own bike in the garage. In this sentence the compound nouns are acting collectively: “John and Jane’s bike is in the garage.” This sentence indicates that John and Jane share possession of a bike.


Just think if the entities share ownership over what they possess, then they also share the apostrophe. If they own separate things, then they each need their own apostrophe.
While the first component in a compound noun, such as "daughter-in-law" or "attorney general", may pluralize the first word in the compound, the possessive is always appended to the last word in the compound, as in "daughter-in-law's" or “attorney general’s.” In the case of the plural possessive, it would be acceptable to write "daughters-in-law's" or "attorneys general's", but it would be less confusing to show possession with a prepositional phrase, such as "of my daughters-in-law" or "of the attorneys general."

