 Fatty foods slow down your digestion and give it more time to ferment and produce gas in your bowels. Deep-fried foods and fast food are particularly likely to do this.Your body needs some fat to help it absorb fat soluble vitamins, but that is easily attained even with a low fat diet.Get proteins from low fat sources like lean meats, poultry, fish, and drinking low fat milk.Though meat and animal products are common sources of protein, you can also get all of the proteins you need from plant foods by eating the right combinations of beans, nuts, and other foods.
Many restaurants cook with a lot of fat such as cream, whole milk, or butter because it gives their food a rich flavor that people like. Reduce your fat intake by cooking yourself.
 Some foods produce a lot of gas when they are digested. Many people feel gassy after eating:Beans
Broccoli
Brussels sprouts
Cabbage
Cauliflower
Lettuce
Onions
Fruits like apples, peaches, and pears
Replace gassy vegetables with those that don’t give you discomfort. You may need to experiment a bit to figure out what works best for you.
 Ease off on high fiber foods. High fiber foods can increase gas production as they are digested. These include whole-grain breads and bran.If you recently increased the amount of fiber in your diet, reduce it again and then add fiber more slowly so your body has time to adjust. It may take a few weeks.
If you are taking fiber supplements reduce the amount until your symptoms subside. Then increase again slowly at a rate you can tolerate.
 Some people become lactose intolerant as they get older. This can cause gas and bloating.If this is the case for you, you may need to reduce the amount of milk products in your diet such as milk, cheese, cream, and ice cream.
 A healthy digestive tract needs lots of different microorganisms which contribute to digestion. Eating fermented dairy products like yogurt or kefir will help maintain bacterial community in your digestive system.This may improve or prevent health conditions that can cause bloating:


An unbalanced bacterial community in the gut after antibiotics
Irritable bowel syndrome

, Eating too much salt can make you retain water and feel bloated. Reducing the amount of salt in your diet will make you not only feel better, but lower your risks for high blood pressure.You can generally get all the salt you need through a healthy diet. Adding extra salt to your diet is usually not needed.
One teaspoon of salt is plenty for an adult each day. For some people with health conditions, it may be too much.
Canned foods, restaurant foods, and fast food often have significant amounts of salt added. Eat them sparingly.
 Some people get gas and diarrhea from sweeteners that are added to lots of foods. If you think this might be the case for you, scrutinize the ingredients lists carefully on packaged foods. Common ones are that are in lots of gums and candy are:Sorbitol
Mannitol
Xylitol

, Drinking enough water will help your body flush out toxins, keep stool soft to prevent constipation, and help your body digest fiber.The amount of water you need will be depend upon your activity level, and climate you live in and your diet.
If you feel thirsty, that is your body telling you that you have not drunk enough water. Drink more right away.
If you urinate in frequently or pass dark or cloudy urine, this is a sign of dehydration.

