 Grapes themselves make a great snack and a tasty addition to many meals, but there are many other forms in which you can eat (and drink) grapes. To start, have a glass of grape juice when you’re thirsty — the juice contains many of the same healthy and powerful antioxidants that are found in whole grapes. Raisins are also a popular snack and, since an individual raisin is smaller than a grape, can be eaten when you’re in the mood for a light snack.If you’re put off by the grainy texture of grapes that contain seeds, look for seedless grapes at your local supermarket.
Additionally, there are many types of grapes, each with a distinct texture and flavor. Red and green grapes are most commonly found in grocery stores, while Concord grapes (often purple in color) are typically used in grape juice and jams.
 Many studies have emphasized the health benefits of wine — especially red wine — when consumed in moderation. Some of the health benefits associated with red wine consumption include: the prevention of colon cancer and decreasing the rate of bowel tumors, the prevention of breast cancer, and the reduction of the risk of developing dementia.Resveratrol is an antioxidant that is found in red wine and may prevent damage to blood vessels, reduce LDL ("bad") cholesterol, and prevent blood clots. It may also support heart health and reduce inflammation, though more research is needed.Many of these benefits are also associated with frequent consumption of unfermented grapes.
Fewer studies have focused on the health benefits of moderate white-wine consumption, although white wine may also bring similar health benefits.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture defines “moderate” drinking as a single drink per day for women, and up to two drinks a day for men.
 In addition to looking for new ways to eat grapes as a fruit, you can also find ways to drink the grapes in a liquefied form. If you’d like to consume grapes in a nutritious, filling, sweet, and nonalcoholic way, try blending grapes and other fruits into a smoothie. To make a smoothie, you can blend several compatible fruits together, including pineapple, peaches, and strawberries.If you’re looking to cool down in the summer, drop a handful of ice cubes in your smoothie (before or after blending it) to make the smoothie ice cold and more refreshing.

