 Wolf fiction is best when it has plenty of realistic wolf behavior. Research their diet, fur,and hunting as well as anything else you encounter and you're unsure of.
 Short stories usually are about one significant event. You could write about a wolf's last hunt, for example. A novel is more like a set of events that connect somehow, the best ones have complex lines that surprises the reader yet all fits with each other perfectly. Most mystery novels have that.


Make sub plots, such as two cubs playing tag during an event or little mini story lines that are appreciated.
 Is it a wolf telling the story (first person), the author seeming to tell the story (third person), or even a character using words like "you" as if you're a character in the story (second person)? Find which one your best at or stretch your limits. Whatever you do, make sure your enjoy it.
 Many wolf authors start with the main character being born, but you could also introduce the main character doing something else, such as hunting. Or even you could start by introducing the mother for the first chapter/next few chapters and then the character is born or a friend meeting the main character. Add detail but don't add so much that it confuses the reader, more than three sentences of detail is too much. Remember, you need to make the reader comfortable with the book. It's like making a friend, make a good first impression and slowly introduce the book.
 Keep introducing the main character and add a few snippets of what would become the plot. Example: The wolf always wondered what hunting would be like.
 Sub plots can come in between the beginning and the middle and an event or two, big or small is always good as a filler. But make sure you don't bore the reader

, You might want to write another part of the book, such as the end, pretend to " interview " a character, introduce a new one or even just read some other wolf fiction such as White Fang by Jack London or Promise of the Wolves by Dorothy Hearst. Remember, give yourself a chance to breathe. You don't have to write 24/7.
 This is where the conflict is and something happens that needs to be fixed. Lace it with suspense as well. The plot needs to come Hard and understandable. Have a few down moments but give the reader enough hope for the end.
 Make it happy but also make room off another book if your willing. The reader needs to feel happy and satisfied with the ending and whole book.
 It was coming and despite the fact many writers dread it, clearing the first draft of all errors and even adding extra chapters or taking away the not needed can be quite enjoyable. You may want to let the book sit for at least a week before revising.

