 The Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) is designed to determine how well you have mastered basic concepts in biology, general chemistry, organic chemistry, physics, psychology, sociology, and biochemistry along with your ability to solve problems and think critically.


The test is offered multiple times throughout the year from January to September. Registration opens in October for all the winter and spring test sessions, registration for summer and fall opens in February.
The test is broken into four sections: Biological and Biochemical Foundations of Living Systems; Chemical and Physical Foundations of Biological Systems; Psychological, Social, and Biological Foundations of Behavior; and Critical Analysis and Reasoning Skills.Register online using via your AAMC account. The registration fee for the MCAT exam is $305; this covers the cost of the exam and distribution of your scores. Additional fees are may be given for late registration, changes to your registration, and testing at international test sites.View the calendar on the AAMC website for a list of registration, late registration and exam dates.
 The MCAT is a challenging exam with a total content test time of four hours and five minutes. You'll perform better and feel more confident if you start studying early and prepare thoroughly.


Take a class. Choose a professionally designed MCAT course such as Princeton Review or Kaplan to give you an overview of the exam, tools, and practice you will need to earn the best possible score.

Be sure the class is led by a highly qualified instructor and is kept small so you can receive one-on-one help.


Join a class that meets a few months before your exam date. By doing so, you can take what you learned in the class and spend time on your own reviewing and reinforcing the material.
Hire a tutor. Some students who have received high scores themselves on the MCAT exam offer themselves as tutors for those who plan to take the test. They can help assess your abilities and determine and help correct any areas of weakness.
Take practice exams. It is one thing to know the kinds of questions that will be on the test, but it is another to try answering those questions following the real test format and timing guidelines. Working with practice exams is great preparation--both academically and mentally-- for test day. Practice questions and tests are widely held as the most crucial part of exam training. As your test day approaches, shift your efforts to completing more questions.

The AAMC website offers practice exams or you can but test prep books with sample tests or find practice exams online.
Take a proctored exam with other students. This will give you an accurate sense of what the testing environment will be like so you will know how much focus you will need to perform well in a room filled with other students.
Some MCAT classes include practice testing, so if you plan to take a class, look for one that offers that feature.
 Anxiety is common when facing this important exam, but knowing what to expect and being ready will help put some of your fears to rest.


Check in at least 30 minutes prior to your appointment time for the exam admission. Your ID will be verified and you will be given a key and a locker for your personal items, a copy of the admissions procedures and a seat assignment.
Be prepared for security. A digital image of your fingerprint will be taken and you will be scanned with a metal detector wand when you enter (and every time you re-enter) the room. The only things you may bring with you into the room are your ID and a pair of earplugs (sealed and inspected by the test center administrator). You may be asked to turn your pockets inside out to show that they are empty. Your photo ID must be visible on your desk at all times.Dress comfortably. It is difficult to predict how warm or cool a room will be, so it might make sense to dress in layers. However, if you need to remove an article of clothing, you will have to put it in your locker and the clock will not stop for you to do so. Hats and headscarves are not allowed (unless for religious purposes), and if you are wearing a hoodie, the hood must stay down at all times; it cannot be pulled up onto your head.

