 The most effective method for keeping your dog's teeth healthy and breath fresh is brushing its teeth as often as possible.Before you can brush your dog's teeth, you need appropriate supplies. Choose dog-friendly products from the pet store or your veterinarian.


Human toothpastes are not suitable for dogs because they are not safe to swallow in large amounts. You can find dog toothpaste at your local pet store. These come in a variety of flavors including chicken, liver, and peanut butter. Try a few different types until you find one your pet likes.Pet stores also sell toothbrushes for dogs, including some that fit on your finger. They also sell dental sponges that work equally well. A piece of clean gauze wrapped around your finger will also work as a toothbrush.If you have problems using toothpaste and a brush, you can also use single-use pet dental wipes. These come pre-moistened with a cleaning product suitable for your dog's teeth.;
, Do not expect to be able to thoroughly brush your dog's teeth immediately. You'll need to teach the dog that brushing is a pleasant experience.


Start by dipping a finger in peanut butter, chicken broth or something else the dog likes. Let the pet lick it off your finger. While it is doing this, gently rub your finger against the dog's teeth and gums.
If the dog allows you to rub its gums, lift its lip as you would if you were brushing the teeth. Do this for a few days, alternating tasty treats with your dog's toothpaste.Once your dog is comfortable with you touching its teeth and gums, you can move on to using a brush or sponge.Don't rush this. Make sure to go at your dog's pace and stop if it seems nervous or aggressive. Your safety and your pet's comfort are important.
 Once your dog will allow you, brush its teeth often. Daily brushing is ideal, but even doing it a few times a week can help ward off dental disease. Here are some tips for effective brushing:Use a small amount of toothpaste on the brush or sponge.
Place the brush or sponge against the teeth at a 45-degree angle to the surface of the tooth. If using a brush, point the bristles, toward the gumline.
Work the toothbrush in a circular motion, covering two or three teeth at a time.
Brush all the teeth if possible, but concentrate your attention on the outer surfaces of the upper teeth.
Try to spend about 15 seconds on each side of the mouth.
When finished, reward your dog with a play session, a special toy, or a dental chew. This will help build a positive association with tooth brushing.

