 Hazardous waste can find its way into most household. The most common hazardous wastes you’ll come into contact with at home are:


Harsh chemical cleaners
Paints/thinners
Antifreeze
Weed killers
Insecticide/pesticide, Many communities have set up an easy to follow home pickup system. Never mix hazardous waste with normal trash. Your community will benefit from separating the two. Unfortunately pickup systems aren’t mandated on the federal level, so there is a chance you won’t have access to these services. Many times this service will charge a fee.


Check the waste management's location tracker to see if your address is eligible.There are various different types of receptacles that can be used for different wastes. For instance you can request special containers for used batteries, syringes, and extra durable bags for heavier waste.
 For those unable to use a pick up service, dropping off your waste to a facility is another option. Most local government websites can direct you to the appropriate contacts to help dispose of hazardous waste. There is usually a day of the week where facilities accept waste like: paint products, motor oil, and other common household wastes., You might be able to recycle some of your hazardous waste. Many sites will accept materials like batteries and used cellphones to be recycled on a daily basis. Be on the lookout for other recycling opportunities. Many schools and community groups will accept leftover paint supplies, and give them to the people who can still use them.Check with your auto garage if they’d accept used or spare fluids from your car. Some will even accept antifreeze and recycle it., Some organizations, like waste management, will send you a mail-in kit for your waste. After you confirm your location, you’ll fill out a form online. In this form you’ll indicate certain information about the waste and your address. You’ll receive a recycling kit that is postage paid. The kits will vary depending on what information about the waste you included on your form., Depending on how established waste management is in your community, they will come out and work with you. You can organize a regular hazardous waste drop-off if there isn’t already one in your community. Contact waste management for information about setting up or attending a hazardous waste drop-off.These can be a recurring event or a one time drop-off.
You should always consult with waste management about a potential hazardous waste. It is not recommended to dispose hazardous waste manually.
 As a general rule, only buy what you need and consider alternatives when available. Instead of using a chemical drain cleaner, use strainers to catch the debris that may clog your pipes. Flush your drains weekly with hot water or warm vinegar.


Use baking soda and a steel wool pad instead of using intense counter top cleaners.
Consider using non-aerosol products like those with pump sprays. Instead of using an aerosol air-cleaner, keep an open box of baking soda in a room or create potpourri out of scrap orange peels.