 You might like to sit in a rocking chair or a cozy love seat for your bedtimes stories. You can also cuddle in your bed or your child's to help induce sleepiness.


Let young children sit on your lap, and cuddle with a blanket while you read. Older children can snuggle next to you with your arm around their shoulders. If your child doesn't prefer to cuddle, that's ok too. Being together is what matters.
 While there are certain stories that are traditionally read at bedtime (like Goodnight Moon), you can read almost any type of story as a bedtime story. Most children express interest in certain types of books, and their interest can change over time. It's perfectly ok to choose a "bedtime story" that is not a typical story.


For instance, many children love to look at seek-and-find picture books, or may find looking at an almanac of dog breeds interesting. The important thing is to spend the time with your child and a book in a low-pressure, reassuring environment.
 Children of all ages love to listen to expressive tones of voice during story time. When you read a bedtime story with expression, your child will pick up on your enthusiasm and listen intently to the story. Try giving every character a distinct voice, and don't be afraid to be silly.
Build anticipation for what will come next in the story by adding strategic pauses or exclamations to the words on the page. For instance, instead of saying, "Outside the window, she saw a big brown bear," you might say, "Outside the window she saw a big… brown…. BEAR!"

, Even if your child can't yet read, there are a few things you can do to help them acquire the skills needed to begin reading. Try:


Pointing at words as you say them. This helps to teach the child that words on the page correlate to spoken words.
Anticipating what will happen next. Ask your child to predict what will happen on the next page. This encourages them to use context clues and decipher the story arc.
Read a few words, then ask an early reader to read a word. You can point to sight words they've learned recently, or ask them to sound out a word they don't yet know.
 You don't have to just read a story straight through; you can stop at any point to discuss what you've read, ask your child questions, or let your child look at the pictures in detail. A bedtime story should be enjoyable and relaxed.
 At the end of a long day, it can be hard to muster excitement for another round of Goodnight Moon when all you want to do is put your children to bed and enjoy some quiet time to yourself. But your children will pick up on your enthusiasm or lack thereof.


Remember that this time with your children is something they look forward to all day. Try to be present in the moment and enjoy it.
 Children learn a lot during bedtime stories. You can help grow their vocabularies by reading a book that is just a bit difficult, so that they are exposed to new words and slightly longer sentences. If your child is four years old, try books geared for five or six year old children. Generally, the age recommendations for picture books can be found on the back of the book's title page.


If you come across a word that your child does not know, briefly define it as you read. For instance, as you are reading, you might say: "The princess memorized the secret code. Memorized means she learned it so that she could remember it later."
Don't read a book that is too difficult. If you see your child losing interest, you might want to choose a different book.

