 Mental, Physical, and superficially physical.;
, Obviously as time goes by you will as a human feel the effects of aging so that's why you should at all times, be trying to help your body. As time goes on especially at the age of 60 you lose 10-15% of muscle mass. This is why you should try to do some very light exercise so as not to strain yourself, maybe swimming, walking etc. Also try taking supplements make sure they go in accordance with your diet and any medication you may be taking.
 A big thing is not to isolate yourself because this can really desolate your mind. You must be very sociable; it helps also in later life. You will be incredibly pleased that you did this. If you start to need glasses to read, do sudoku or crossword etc, wear them! They don't make you look old, they stop you getting headaches.
 You may find that what you have been doing for the last ten years, is not as effective now. Try using simple but effective creams, cleansers etc. Or, splash out and treat yourself to some of the fancy deluxe skin products that are available. Find something that suits your skin and stick with it.
 It is often the case that shorter hair suits older ladies. Sometimes a bob or a sweeping chop takes years off. At this age you can really pull off brilliant colour too, if you want to. Only go down the blue rinse route if you are sure it's right for you. Don't do anything because you think you should. Do your hair how you want, not how you think a sixty-year-old's hair should be. What you had at fifty, or even forty or thirty, may still look gorgeous.
 This is an incredibly aging effect on anyone. Try using serum or blow your hair daily.
 At this age you must have one that will give you a glow; otherwise, your skin can really lack luster.
 This is because at 60 you will may have darker circles and bags under your eyes. Dark mascara on the bottom lashes will worsen this effect. If you really want added length on your bottom lashes, use a small amount. It is recommended that you use brown mascara, or even grey. It really will soften your features compared with black mascara.
 Try to make it look natural if you wish. At this age they will thin and fade. This can leave you with a haggard, gaunt look. Soft eyebrows that complement your skin tone will really help.
 This will do wonders for your skin. Also, try investing in a rich, heavy body cream to keep your body in tip-top shape

, With your clothes, it is recommended you wear classic pieces with modern twists. Also, tailor your style to your skin tone and hair. If you have pale / normal skin and blonde or white hair, try channeling your inner Channel; wear classic tweed suits, etc. Very chic. This also works for darker-skinned ladies if you want that Sophia Loren look!

,, If you keep a young mind, you will portray a young person!

, *Don't get obsessed. One of the things about turning 60 gracefully is letting things go gracefully. Don't obsess; just let things happen as they do.

