 ALWAYS memorize your schedule within the first two weeks of the school-year. It makes it much easier...and faster... to get places without having to refer to a schedule sheet between classes.;
, Don't ever set it for all three because most likely some older kid will come along and pull up on the handle and steal your stuff. It makes getting to classes much faster. Especially do this with classes far away.
 If you have a shelf, great. If not, either get one or make-do without one. Keep your coat and book bag hung up. Put gym clothes on the bottom of your locker. Then have a spot for books and to put your notebooks between classes and such. DON'T LET YOUR LOCKER BECOME A PIGSTY! It's harder to get to classes when you have to turn your locker inside out to find a pencil!

, If possible, make trips to your locker only every other class. Let's say you have social studies first period and math the next. Take math and social studies materials with you to social studies. Then stop by your locker for periods three and four, five and six, etc.
 In the first week or two try experimenting different routes to find the fastest. Teachers won't mind you being a little late in the first couple weeks. They've been to middle school too, and they know it's hard!

, JUST KEEP WALKING!

, Make sure you remember everything on your schedule, roots to get to classes faster, and make sure to not talk on your way to classes. You can hang out with your buds at recess and lunch, then. Follow these steps, and it will make everything easier and more efficient on your first day of school or your first day of middle school.
 If you want to have a good beginning of the year, a new, fresh you, then yes, it does. Try getting a list of school supplies to start out with:


Binders for each subject, excluding P.E.
Paper
Writing implements (pens, markers, pencils, etc)
Backpack
Calculator
Pencil case
Chemistry set (protractor, compass...)
Text books
Highlighters
At least one pack of lined paper to fill your binders more if needed
a journal/diary/notepad to write things you need to remember, like stuff for homework, or just use your agenda
pack(s) of page protectors
lots of post-its (sticky notes)

, To make your locker more homey, get lots of magnets and stick photos and note things in there. Also, buy a mini magnet white board w/ dry erase marker/bulletin board w/ thumb tacks to also write or post notes to remember your schedule or something - like a to-do list. Also, possibly buy a magnet mirror to fix your self up. Make sure to have little nooks and crannies in your locker to put things you need like notes, pens, possibly makeup, to make things easier to find and make you go faster . Also, make sure it is neat and tidy in there, to make things easier to get, too.

