 Show her how much you care by respecting her opinions and not making fun of what she says. If you two have the same likes and dislikes, that's good! But do try to get used to what she likes to do and eventually try it for yourself.;
, Girls do talk a lot about how they feel towards you, friends, family and if she's upset, let her vent to you. Make sure she's comfortable with telling you the bad things and the good things. If she cries, wipe away her tears and hug her while holding her hand. Make her feel safe with you! Not insecure.
 Even if the people make you stand outside of the door while she's waiting or performing, always, always, ALWAYS be there with her. No matter what audition, even if you hate what she's trying out for, stand by her side and protect her.
 Examples? Well, on Valentine's Day, bring her a lovey build a bear. On Halloween bring her some sweet treats. On Christmas, make her feel special by bringing her a little rain deer(Fake of course) from Santa! On her birthday, you cannot forget it's her birthday! She will cry. Bring her a thing she likes! For instance, my girlfriend LOVES dogs, so if your girlfriend loves dogs, bring her a stuffed dog!

, In fact, if you feel silly, you two aren't really mean for true love yet! You need to have pride in you love and relationship, so show it! You want people to know, 'They ain't gonna take your perfect lady!' Remember that. Don't make out in public, a little smooch here and then is fine. Hug as much as you want. Parents with children don't want there kids to watch two people kiss each others face off in public. Go somewhere more private for that.
 Go zip lining, ATV riding, to the zoo in the new Koala bear exhibit at the San Diego zoo! Just make sure not to take her to the national spider convention.
(Yes legally unless you and your girlfriend want to spend ten years in jail together)

, Girls rant the ones that are supposed to come up with dates and times. Girls hate doing that. guys love it. Plan to take her to a movie and buy the stuff for her, to be a gentlemen.
 Usually it is but be cautious. Don't lie to her. Stay truthful to yourself and her. be yourself, that's why she chose you not any other guy, you! Man! She loves YOU so love her back! And if she says no to something, don't do it! that will make her uncomfortable, so don't.

