 A lot of sugar in your diet comes from sweets – ice cream, cakes, pies, candy, soda, juice, sports drinks, and sweetened coffee or tea. Stay away from anything that tastes overly sweet, that contains honey or molasses, or that lists sugar in the ingredients. This can be a big challenge for people. Exchange your current dessert option for fruit, or start by decreasing your portions of sweets.
 Bread and pasta are key starches that are high in glucose.Increase ketosis by avoiding bread, pasta, rice, and grains. This includes whole grain products.Replace these in your diet with foods that are lower in starch, like lentils and vegetables., Sugar is also found in less obvious places like fruit and dairy.Avoid milk sugars by replacing cow’s milk with soy milk or almond milk.

Make sure you get enough calcium in your diet with non-dairy alternatives like sesame seeds, chia seeds, sardines, canned salmon, beans, lentils, almonds, spinach, kale, rhubarb, and tofu.If you do eat dairy, choose full-fat options to add to your dietary fat intake.
 A healthy diet should include fresh fruits, so don’t fully avoid eating fruit. Choose fruits that are lower in fructose (fruit sugar) than others, such as bananas, blueberries, strawberries, kiwi, and citrus.Stay away from fruit juice and dried fruit.
 Most vegetables are great to have in a ketogenic diet, but tuber vegetables contain a lot of starch and should be avoided. Stay away from veggies that grow underground, such as:

Potatoes
Carrots
Radishes
Beets
Parsnips
Turnips

, Stop drinking alcohol altogether or drink it only in very small amounts, such as one glass a week. Alcohol contains a lot of sugar.If you’ve been drinking and feel like you need help to quit, talk to your doctor.

Drink unsweetened tea or water flavored with citrus instead.
 Avoid any product that contains high-fructose corn syrup.This is found in many products and is very high in sugar. Stay away from products containing any of these other high-sugar additives, as well:

Fructose
Crystalline fructose
Honey

, To cause ketosis in your body, you need to eat – on average – fewer than 25 grams of carbohydrates daily. This is a very low number and will take some effort. Keep a diet journal to keep track of your carb intake, or use an app for this purpose. Read the labels on your food products, and take serving size into account.

If a serving size is 1 ounce and contains 10 grams of carbohydrates but you’re eating 2 ounces, that equals 20 grams of carbs.
Eat at least 20 grams of carbs daily. Your body needs this much to function properly.
 The most effective ketogenic diet provides calories mainly from fat, very little from carbohydrates, and an appropriate amount of protein. The general rule is to obtain 75% of your daily calories from fat, 20% from protein, and 5% from carbs.Use your diet journal to keep track of the math.

There’s some leeway in these numbers, and since everyone is different you should see what feels best for you: get 5-10% from carbs, 20-25% from protein, and 70-75% from fat.
For example, a meal could be beef stew with roasted butternut squash, teriyaki turkey and lettuce wraps, or a hamburger without the bun and a side of broccoli., It can take up to 3 months for your body to adapt to burning fat completely, though you may start seeing subtle changes from the diet in 6-8 weeks. For best weight-loss effects, stick to your ketogenic diet for the long-term., Inducing ketosis isn’t right for everyone, and for people with certain medical conditions it can cause serious health consequences. Talk to your doctor before starting any drastic diet. They will discuss your health history and possibly do a physical exam. Tell them what your goals are and discuss alternate diets.It’s especially important to talk to a healthcare professional before dieting if you have diabetes, severe kidney disease, or you take a diuretic medication.
Say something to your doctor such as, “I want to use ketosis to lose weight. Is this a safe option for me?”

, This is regarded as a high-fat diet, which may not be appropriate for people with some medical conditions. Talk to your doctor or a dietician first if you have heart disease, high cholesterol, atherosclerosis, or you ever had a heart attack. This diet may be helpful for you, but consult a healthcare professional first to make sure you won’t be putting yourself at risk., If too many ketones build up in your body, it can cause ketoacidosis – a state that basically poisons your body. This can happen quickly, even within 24 hours. It’s a medical emergency and can lead to coma or death. Seek medical care immediately if you are dieting to increase ketosis and experience any of the following:Abdominal pain
Difficulty concentrating or confusion
Dry mouth and feeling very thirsty
Flushed skin or dry skin
Urinating much more than usual
Nausea and vomiting
Feeling short of breath or breathing rapidly
A fruity smell to your breath

