 Always call your doctor if you suspect that a symptom may be a sign of labor. A backache that can’t be eased by changing positions or seeking comfort other ways can be a sign of labor.Rhythmic cramping pains may also be a sign of early labor., You should consult with your doctor about what medications are safe to use. In general, acetaminophen (Tylenol) is usually safe during pregnancy, while aspirin and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen or naproxen are not., An osteopath or chiropractor can assess your back pain and offer therapeutic options or refer you to the right health professional. If you are going to consult one, make sure you go to someone who specializes in pregnancy and has had years of experience in this. You can reach out to the local chiropractic or osteopath society for a referral.


In a recent study, it was found that 6.1 % of pregnant women consult an osteopath.A chiropractor and osteopath may perform osteopathic manipulation therapies, and have been shown to be helpful in women with low back pain while pregnant., Acupuncture has been shown to relieve lower back pain in pregnant women.Ask for recommendations from friends or other medical practitioners when searching for an acupuncturist. Ask a potential acupuncturist about what kind of training and continuing education she receives, what her recommended course of treatment for you is, and whether she can work with your insurance (if applicable). Work with someone who makes you feel comfortable and whose office is convenient.,, Ask a loved one to gently rub your back.You may also get a prenatal massage from a trained massage therapist.
 Ask your physician, midwife, friends, or faith leader about finding a good counselor. You might need to speak with a few therapists before you find a good match. Ask a potential therapist about their experience treating your issue and about their areas of expertise.You might also find relief from talking about your stress or worries with a trusted friend or relative.