 Follow that link for a basic pattern-purchasing guide. Keep in mind that since Barbie is a licensed brand that pattern manufacturers cannot use, you will need to look for 11 1/2 in. doll clothes or fashion doll clothes.;
, On the back of your pattern envelope, near the top, is a list of suggested fabrics for the Barbie clothes you will make.
Further down, it will also tell you how much fabric you need.For most Barbie garments, 1⁄4 yard (0.2 m). (or meter) is more than enough.

There is also a list of the notions you need on the back of the pattern envelope. Purchase both fabric and notions before beginning your project.
 Find the pattern pieces that correspond to your view, cut them out, and pin them to your fabric (following the straight grain; see pattern layouts in the pattern instructions for more information), and cut. Assemble the cut pieces in stacks, a separate stack for each individual garment. Find the instructions for your outfit. Now you're ready to sew!

, Follow the instructions carefully and make sure that your seams and darts are uniform. Tiny facings can be hard to work with; just take your time and pay close attention to the directions. Press the garment after each step. This will aid greatly in creating professional-looking garments. If you wish to finish the seams, pinking shears or a machine zig-zag stitch work best. Sergers are too large and difficult to control for Barbie clothes.
 Add 1/4" and 1/8" wide trims, such as ribbon, rick-rack, lace; try tiny buttons, rhinestones, or whatever you like. To attach rhinestones, use some strong, waterproof fabric glue. Make sure it's a kind that will be ok if you ever need to wash the Barbie outfit.
 1/4 in. metal snaps usually work best. In most sewing books, you can find a tutorial on how to attach these securely. Velcro is also a viable option, especially if the clothes you are making are for a young child. Iron-on velcro is easiest to attach and it doesn't damage your sewing machine, as regular velcro can.
 Decide what you like and dislike about it and apply what you've learned to your next Barbie outfit. If you're dissatisfied with the result, remember, practice makes perfect, especially when sewing.
Find a sewing mentor who can answer your questions and help you with problems. There are many nice ladies at your local sewing stores (such as Hancock's and Joann's), who are probably more than willing to help out, and many sewing teachers who would love to help you with your sewing projects.

