 Practicing gratitude will require you to focus on the things in your life that you are thankful for. You'll need to pay attention and look for all the good things in your day and in your life. Seeing all the positive aspects in your life will help you realize just how much you have to be grateful for.Periodically ask yourself something like “What am I grateful for right now?” or “What am I thankful for today?”
Be on the lookout for small compliments you might receive or little gestures of kindness from others.
Focus on the positives, no matter how small they might seem. This could be a bunch of pretty flowers that you spot on the way to work, or a beautiful sunset in the sky on your walk home. Take a moment to appreciate the positives in your life, even if they seem insignificant.;
, Not every good thing in life will be obvious or a big deal, which can cause you to miss a lot of good things in life. Throughout the day, try to think of all the little things that you were thankful for. Chances are, you'll be able to find a lot of small events that will add up to one excellent day. Try to be aware of all the good in your life, big or small, to help you practice feeling grateful.For example, a sunny day with warm weather might be something you're thankful for.
Even if it's a rainy day, you might be grateful for the chance to stay at home and clean or enjoy something indoors.
Things like having a clean pair of clothes to wear or a comfortable bed to sleep in might be little things you're grateful for.
 Although you are working to focus on the good things in your life and being thankful for them, you won't want to ignore challenges or negative aspects. Disregarding difficult things and focusing only on the good in your life can cause you to become unbalanced and may even cause trouble in your life. You can still acknowledge a challenge without it bringing you down or preventing you from practicing gratitude.Ignoring a serious issue may actually be detrimental. Try being grateful that you were made aware of an issue or that you have the ability to meet a challenge.
You could try thinking about how grateful you are for the support of your friends or family during a tough time.
 It's okay to feel negatively about tough situations. Remember that life won't always be smooth sailing. If you are having difficulty finding things to be grateful for, don't worry. Take a few moments to relax and find a couple of things that you feel thankful for to help you get back on track. You might even find that a tough time or challenge is something to thankful for itself.If you find yourself being resentful or overly negative, don't let it bother you. Readjust your outlook, try to find at least one thing you are thankful for and resume your practice.
It can be difficult to settle into this new way of thinking. Be patient with yourself and don't be too critical if you find yourself being more negative than you'd like.

