 Friends make even the worst experiences bearable. Going to the gym is no exception. Ask a buddy to join you and you’ll benefit from increased motivation, and likely increased compliance. When you’re going in alone, it’s easy to make up excuses not to go, but it’s harder to do that to a friend. So find someone who needs motivation and be each other’s accountability.It may even be nice to set up friendly competition with your pal. For instance, the person who does the most reps in strength training gets a free lunch courtesy of the other.
 The right music can totally transform your workout. Figure out which songs add energy to your workouts, and create a playlist of them. Bring your headphones and pump up the music for instant motivation., Heading off to the gym in the same old t-shirt and shorts makes for a lackluster visit. Spice up your fitness routine by purchasing a few new articles of active wear. You just might get the burst of enthusiasm you need to take your workouts to the next level.You don’t even have to break the bank to reap the benefits of a new workout wardrobe. Just choose some items that fit in fun colors and styles.
 If you’re still doing the same routine you were doing six months ago, it’s no wonder you’re feeling uninspired. Change it up to add interest to your fitness routine. This might include trying a new machine or joining an engaging fitness class.For instance, if you always use the treadmill, try the elliptical or stair climber. If you have been doing the same thigh exercise, challenge yourself by doing more reps or including new moves.
 A personal trainer can do wonders for your fitness motivation. Hiring a trainer costs extra money, so you’re more likely to put your all in. Plus, you’ll feel motivated to do your best because you’re taking special time from someone else’s schedule.Find a trainer whose style works for you. You may want someone who acts like a military sergeant, one who is supportive and encouraging, or one who is fun and humorous.

