 When you learn that a schoolmate has died, you may feel emotional and sad. That is okay. It is normal to feel sad and feel like crying. Alternately, you might feel angry, be in denial, be shocked, or feel nothing or be numb. All of these emotions are perfectly okay.Tears are common when something tragic happens, like the death of a schoolmate. Let it out and cry. You’ll probably feel better afterwards.You may experience some or all of these emotions as you work through the grieving process.;
, Consider talking to someone about what you are feeling. You can talk to your parents, a teacher, school counselor, or your friends.Consider seeing a professional counselor or grief counselor. They can help you work through confusing and distressing emotions.
Talking about the event and your feelings helps you heal and work through your grief.
For example, say, "I am feeling very sad because John died" or "I'm scared about my own death because John died." You can also say, "I am confused about how I feel because my classmate died."

, Having someone you know who is so close to your age die can be a frightening and confusing experience. Maybe you have not thought that young people could die, so you feel scared. This is okay. Maybe you want to question the concept of death or life. You may ask adults about the nature of death, what happens after death, or what happens to a physical body after death.It’s natural to feel scared and think about your own eventual death when someone dies. Talk about these feelings with your parents or teachers.
If you feel obsessed about your own death or become scared you are going to die, talk to an adult. If you feel uncomfortable talking to your parents, then talk to a teacher or school counselor.
 When you are dealing with traumatic events, try to find some comfort in things that make you happy and feel safe. You might spend time with those closest to you. Spending time with friends and family can help provide comfort when you are scared, sad, or grieving. You might feel safer if you are around people instead of alone.If you find comfort in being alone, you can listen to your favorite music, read your favorite book, or watch your favorite movie.
You may want to spend time with a pet, or curl up with your pet as you listen to music or watch your favorite show.

