 The dating game is still about captivating one another, impressing one another, and being on your best behavior. Behaving in an ungentlemanly manner might get some laughs in the retelling and it might even temporarily attract a woman who is into the date for a lark but it won't get you a long-term commitment and it definitely won't win you respect. Boldly stating that women are equal so they can jolly well pay and put up with you as you are is a blinkered approach to dating. The importance of indulging in a little etiquette when dating will be repaid by a dating experience that is considerate, caring, and most of all, more fun because your date will definitely be impressed by your manners and what used to be referred to as "good breeding". So, it's time to dress well, plan a decent date, and polish up your gentlemanly ways.;
, A gentleman never keeps his date waiting but is punctual and ready to go at the appointed hour. Set your alarm if needed, and plan how long it will take to arrive at your destination ahead of time.


Don't be late without a very good excuse and be sure to phone her to explain what has happened to hold you up. She may not wait long, especially if she's had previous experiences with non-gentleman types standing her up.
 Women like reassurance when it comes to their appearance. A great way to make a positive first impression is by offering a compliment on your date’s appearance. Be cautious though. Using cliched pick-up lines and corny compliments would make most women sprint back to their apartments. Be careful not to come across as creepy. No girl likes to feel objectified. Keep the compliments light and innocent.


Never insult your date. One quick way to guarantee you don’t get a second date is to insult your date. If you recognize that you are a person prone to criticizing, try to hold back on even the slightest criticism. Making any criticism, no matter how constructive you feel it to be, will probably come across as an insult which will start the downhill spiral of your date. If you recognize that you are a sarcastic or humorous person, be careful not to take a joke too far. Even if you’re joking, a woman may take your joke the wrong way. It’s best to avoid anything resembling an insult or a sarcastic tone altogether, and if it's politically incorrect, volatile, or gossip, don't say it.
 Men, this is chivalry 101. When walking out of any door, make sure you hold the door open for your date and let her walk out first.This will make your date feel special and respected. There's no need to do this with flamboyant gestures though; just do it subtly and thoughtfully.


Don't let the door slam on your date. This should be a given. When walking out of doors, it’s rude to walk out first, especially when that means letting the door close on your date. To women, this action signals selfishness. Men, if you’re afraid of looking like you care too much, don’t. It’s not a sign of weakness to open doors for your dates, in fact, it is just the opposite.
 This may seem odd because it doesn’t happen very often these days, but by pulling out the chair for your date so she can sit down first, this shows your date that you care about her interests before your own. It is also a very gentlemanly gesture liable to score you a big win in the manners stakes.


Don't pull the chair out so she falls down. Remember how old you are; this kind of prank didn’t work in the sixth grade, and it definitely won’t work now. Your date will be embarrassed or shocked and if she doesn’t leave right then and there, she definitely won’t stick around for a second date.
If you are eating with others at the table, wait until everyone is seated and ready to eat before beginning to eat. A gentleman does not bolt down his dinner.
 Be a good conversationalist. Don’t be afraid of awkward silence; instead, keep the conversation rolling by coming prepared with plenty of things to talk about. Your date will feel respected if you listen to what she has to say and she will be impressed if you don’t let the conversation drop.


Don't play with your food, talk while chewing, yawn, etc. Being a modern gentleman means sitting up straight and looking your date in the eye when you’re talking to each other. Don’t spend too much time looking down at your plate – your mashed potatoes can’t talk back.
Don't flaunt being wealthy or talk derogatorily about people who are wealthy. Both approaches show a total lack of refinement and cause the listener to squirm uncomfortably, wondering what personal takeover or revolution you're planning next. If you are wealthy and you want to make this evident, wear quality clothing but don't brag.On the other hand, no man needs to be wealthy to have good taste, so wear good, clean, and well-pressed clothing whatever your means.
Read How to make small talk for more ideas on finding topics to talk about.
 If she offers to pay, kindly refuse. Remind her that you are on a date and it is your pleasure to take the bill. There is a lot of confusion about this aspect of a date but a gentleman is never confused; a gentleman simply gets on with paying.


Don't use the ruse of leaving your wallet behind and expecting your date to pay. Even if you don’t "forget" your wallet, don’t expect your date to pay for her own meal. When the waitress comes by with the bill, don’t hesitate to grab it. By leaving it on the table for too long, your date might get nervous wondering if you’re going to pay.
 This is a gentlemanly act and it is also one guaranteed to help your date when she's walking on uneven ground in her high heels. While it is an intimate act, it is perfectly acceptable for a gentleman and means nothing more than being respectful.Always walk alongside a woman when walking down stairs, not behind her.It's also a good idea to help her to put on her coat when leaving a building during the colder weather.Always walk next to the road on a roadside; that way if there is any splashing from puddles, it'll hit you, not her.
 Keep your boundaries by being polite and respectful. Women don’t like to feel forced into a goodnight kiss or anything more.


Don't try to force any moves, especially if she seems unwilling. Treat her with respect. It is a huge turnoff when a man assumes his right to move in on his date.
Maintain her honor. Never kiss and tell.

