 When most people think of chunky heeled, platform shoes they imagine towering heights that seem impossible to walk in. However, chunky heeled shoes come in a variety of sizes, you just need to figure out what works best for you. For example, if you're looking to elongate your legs but still want to be comfortable, buy a moderate sized 2½” heel. Or, if you’re already tall and are just looking for a little pop, try sticking to only 1”-2” heels.Of course, if you want to make a statement, you can always go for 4” or more.;
, Outside of adding height, the heel of a platform shoe can work for or against the look of your legs. Pick a width that matches your shape. For example, if you have thicker, more athletic legs, a thinner heel may emphasize their size. However, if you opt for a chunkier heel, it will work with your silhouette instead of against it.
 Go for something neutral and adaptable. You want to choose a platform shoe that can go with the majority of your outfits, both casual and dressed-up. Try for a minimal design like a peep-toe or closed pump in leather or canvas., Platform boots are a great choice in winter and fall. Not only will they keep your feet warm and dry, they also pair well with cold-weather outfits. Try coupling them with your favorite skinny jeans and a cropped sweater or with some black leggings, a flannel, and a short leather jacket.
 Though platform shoes may not seem like a typical summer choice, chunky-heeled sandals are the perfect addition to your favorite summer clothing. Try pairing a strappy pair of brown sandals with a lacy white slip dress or a 50s inspired floral print.
 Depending on where you work, you are likely required to meet a professional standard. This means dressing in a polished manner. Colors like black, navy blue, nude, or brown are not only the perfect shades for a day look, but also pair well with any business attire.
 Make your shoes an accent piece to your outfit. Try large prints like thick stripes, polka dots, or leopard print. You can even go further with unexpected designs like birds, lightning bolts, and even ice cream cones. Let your shoes be the focal point and build your outfit from there.
 If you're looking for a shoe that pops, get adventurous with colors. You can try a girly, fun look with a bubblegum pink or a daring look with scarlet red. Match the colors to your outfit of the day or contrast them completely. It's up to you!, Stay traditional for nights out on the town or dressier occasions like work events and weddings. Black is a color that goes with everything and still stands out. It also takes some of the stress out of the "what am I going to wear?" debate.
 A chunky heeled shoe can be added to any of your usual go-to outfits. For example, your favorite jeans and t-shirt can get a makeover by pairing them with an open toe, chunky heeled sandal. Or, if it's colder, pair a black leather platform boot with a pair of dark skinny jeans and oversized, corded sweater.You can even pair them with your favorite summer dress. Try a light pair of cork platform sandals and a loose, lace, off the shoulder dress for a cute, boho-chic outfit.
 Choose a neutral black, brown, or nude closed-toe chunky heeled, platform to pair with your work outfits. For example, a pair of loose trousers, a white blouse or t-shirt, and a men’s inspired blazer in tan or taupe can create a fun, fashion-forward look when worn with an all-white, pointed toe platform.For a retro look, try a tweed dress suit with a pair of round-toe, black, platform pumps and tights.
 If you're going out for the evening to a club or party, let your shoes work as a fun accent piece. Choose a high heeled platform in a bright color like turquoise or ruby. You can also try a patterned pair of leopard print pumps. Just make sure you pair these statement shoes with a neutral piece like a royal blue dress, or a black midi-skirt and knotted band t-shirt.If you want more of a subtle, chic look, try wearing a pair of open toed pumps with culottes or a maxi dress.
 If you want to stay completely casual or dress down a look, try going for a chunky heeled, platform sneaker. Wearing an all-white pair with a skirt and blouse is a great way to bring a fun contrast to your look. However, you can also wear them with boyfriend jeans and black v-neck for a put-together, casual outfit.

