 Salt and water stay in and leave your body together, so keeping a balanced fluid level is important. In general, men should drink around 13 cups of water and other fluids daily (about 3 liters), and women should aim for 9 cups (2.2 liters).Water, juice, and tea count towards your fluids. Stay hydrated every day – it’ll help keep your electrolytes in balance during and after a workout.Try to drink about 500ml (17 ounces) of fluid about two hours before you exercise.;
, Vomiting, diarrhea, and high fevers can cause dehydration and lower your electrolytes. The best way to prevent this is to stay hydrated with water, broth, tea, and sports drinks. Including soup and beverages that contain salt will help keep your electrolytes and fluid levels balanced while you’re sick., Sports drinks like Gatorade are marketed towards athletes, but they’re not necessarily the best choice to replenish the electrolytes you lose from sweating. Many sports drinks contain a lot of sugar in addition to the salt your body needs. Some sugar is good after exercise, but possibly not as much as these drinks contain. Try to replenish your electrolytes naturally with healthy food options.


Coconut water is a good way to rehydrate more naturally than with sports drinks, and coconut water contains many needed electrolytes., Signs of dangerous dehydration in adults include extreme thirst, urinating little or not at all (or very dark urine), fatigue, dizziness, and confusion.If you have these symptoms, you may need an IV of water and salt to replenish your fluids and electrolytes. Call your doctor right away or go to the hospital.


Children may demonstrate dehydration differently. Look for crying without tears, a dry mouth or tongue, no wet diapers over 3 hours, sunken eyes, cheeks, or soft spot on top of their skull, irritability, or listlessness.
 It is possible to drink too much water. When you drink more than your kidneys can filter, you retain water and can throw off your electrolyte balance.It’s important to stay hydrated while exercising, but if you’re drinking a lot of water and start to feel nauseated, confused, disoriented, or get a headache, you may be over-hydrating.


Don’t drink more than a liter of fluid every hour.
When sweating a lot, drink half water and half sports drinks that contain electrolytes.

