 If she comes over to speak to you or seems to be staring at you a lot, this is a sign she is interested. For example; If you are on the other side of the room to her, she may gravitate towards you and show an effort in making conversation.;
, Does she always look happy to see you? If she smiles when you speak to her and seems happy to be around you then this could also mean that she likes you. For example; If you ask her for a pencil, she may smile and find you one immediately.
 If she hugs you or seems to be touching you a lot, then this means that she is really into you. For example; When you sit next to her she leans into you, or she lightly brushes your arm/ back when speaking to you.
 Has she asked you if you would date her? If she drops hints that she is into you or asks you questions about herself, then she definitely wants you to ask her out. For example; She might ask you "What would you say if I asked you out?"

, For example; You could ask her "If I asked you out, what would you say?" If she says yes then you could ask her out a week later. However if she says no, this is not the end of the world. At least you have left her with the thought that you two could become an item.
 For example; You could come up behind her and hug her from the back, your head leaning on her shoulder, as a greeting. If she doesn't push you away and seems to enjoy the hug, then you are on the right track. If she hugs you back, this is a big sign that she is into you and this would be the perfect time to ask her out. Although if she pushes you off, just smile and lean your elbow on her shoulder as this will make it look like the hug was only a joke. It would be best not to ask her out at this stage because it means that she feels uncomfortable around you.
 For example; You could say "You have really nice eyes" or "I think you're really pretty". Girls love this. If she seems to appreciate the compliment and thanks you, then you are ready to ask her out. However if she gives you a disapproving stare or seems to be uncomfortable after your compliment, then it would be best not to ask her out.
 Start off by complimenting her. For example; You could say "I think you're really hot/ pretty," or get more specific, like, "I've never seen eyes that blue!" If she seems to like being complimented, then you can move onto the next stage. If she looks uncomfortable, just finish it off with something like "Because your hair really suits you" or "That shirt really works for you". This will repair the damage for you and then you can just walk away.
 For example; If you are both walking home together and you are alone. Do not ask her in front of her friends as this could influence her decision. Picking the right place and time is crucial. Make sure that she is in a good mood too, or she may be more inclined to reject you.
 For example; You could say "I wish you were my girlfriend" or "I want to go out with you." This will brace her for what you are about to ask, otherwise she may think it's a joke and not take you seriously.
 Say "Will you go out with me?" or "Will you be my girlfriend" and smile while you wait for a response. If she seems to be taking ages to decide, then you could suggest that she meets you somewhere the next day once she has decided.
 If she says yes, then just casually be positive; don't overdo it, but show that you're happy to be going out with her. Then you could say something like "See you later" and walk away to prevent a feeling of awkwardness. Although if she says no, don't get embarrassed or show weakness. Nobody can blame you for asking and if she is mean to you, then you deserve better anyway. Just smile, look calm and  say "Alright, you can't blame a guy for trying!" and walk away.
 No doesn't necessarily mean no forever, but you don't want to overwhelm her. Once the idea of going out with you is in her head, she may begin to like you. Most girls are more attracted to the one who is attracted to them, it's in their nature! So don't give up. or you may decide you like another girl who seems to be more interested. However don't be annoying or harass her.
 Don't feel embarrassed, this girl is likely to admire you for building up the courage to ask her out. Good luck!

