 If exercise has become a chore, you've probably come up with several reasons why you just don't have time to do it. Take some time to think about those excuses you use, and you can find your way around them.For example, if you believe you cannot exercise because you are too busy, take a usual day and journal the tasks you do that day. You may be surprised at how much time you spend on unimportant activities. If you decide to make exercise a priority, you can always find a way to fit it in to even the busiest schedule.
Keep in mind that your exercise shouldn't be painful. If your excuses for not exercising are that it's too difficult or it hurts, try something more low-impact such as going for a walk, or talk to your doctor.
 Exercising at the same time every day is part of what turns it into a routine. If you get used to working out at a specific time of day, or tie it to other activities, it can quickly become an essential part of your daily routine.For example, you might decide to start going for a 15-minute walk in the morning. Sleep in the clothes you plan to walk in, and set your alarm a few minutes early. If you drink coffee in the morning, pre-program your machine to start making it half-way through your walk, so you'll be greeted with the smell of coffee when you return.
If you're just starting to exercise, make it a goal to exercise for a short period of time every day, rather than only exercising two or three times a week. Exercise will more easily become a part of your routine if it's something you do every day.
 Sometimes it's easier to overcome mental blocks and make exercise a regular part of your day if you have someone else depending on you to be at a certain place at a certain time. Spending money on a trainer also can be its own motivating factor, since you probably don't want to waste that money.Consider joining a gym that offers personal trainer services for free or at a reduced rate for members. You also can save some money by joining a class or scheduling group sessions with a trainer.
If you're already a member of a gym, the amount you're spending each month on your membership can be a motivating factor as well. However, this may not be the case if you've already paid for several months, since that money is already gone. Paying for your membership once a month rather than paying several months in advance can serve as a reminder.
Keep in mind that motivating and encouraging people to work out is part of a trainer's job. Once you show up, a good trainer will know how to keep you motivated and help you enjoy your workout.
 Daily reminders will trigger you to automatically react and go work out, although it may take a couple of weeks. Leave yourself reminders and visual cues so you'll remember when it's time to exercise.For example, if you've decided to go on a 15-minute walk first thing in the morning, you might set your sneakers and clothes right by your bed as a trigger to your brain that you need to exercise.
If you're headed to a gym, putting your workout gear next to the front door also can serve as a trigger.
These reminders also serve to remove any obstacles that get in the way of you going out to exercise. Plan everything in advance, and make it easy for yourself to go exercise, rather than leaving a lot that needs to be done before you can begin.
 If you find yourself getting frustrated, part of the problem may be that you've set goals that are too long-term or too vague for you to meet. Smaller goals that you can meet in a few weeks time will help you set the pace for continued progress.For example, if your goal is to lose weight, you may have set an overall goal that you want to lose 50 pounds. However, you're not going to lose 50 pounds after a week of exercise, and failing to meet your goal over a longer period of time can be discouraging and make it difficult to continue.
Since weight can fluctuate for a number of different reasons, you might set small weight loss goals, but focus on losing size, such as inches around your waistline, rather than a set number of pounds. Or you can break up the goal into manageable pieces, such as lose five pounds per month. Get out for a walk four times every week this month.
If you're trying to build strength or flexibility, focus on incremental increases rather than your overall goal. Being able to bench press your own weight may be your overall goal, but set smaller goals to gradually increase the amount of weight you can lift each week.

