 Since you’ll most likely take your dog outside with you once it’s grown and has becomes an adult, you should familiarize your pup with the outside world from an early age. Take the puppy to the vet, to various parks, to your office workplace (if permitted). Walk the pup along roads so it can see and hear traffic.A puppy that’s cooped up inside and never experiences the sounds, smells, and sights of the outside world will grow into a fearful, shy dog and make an unpleasant pet.
 Pups will likely be most comfortable with other puppies and dogs, but it’s also important to allow them to meet other species of animal. This is especially important if you own another pet, like a cat, bird, or hamster. Allowing your pup to spend time with other species will familiarize the pup with these animals and help it prevent it from barking or chasing other species when it sees them first the first time as an adult.If there is a pet store in your vicinity, take you pup to visit. Let it walk through the store and smell the animals in their cages.
Ask your friends if they have other pets, and if so, bring your puppy to their house. Allow the animals to sniff each other and, if both animals seem comfortable, allow them to play together as well.
 In addition to socializing your pup with other puppies, you should let it meet adult dogs. Since older dogs may be hostile towards puppies, introduce the animals with both on a leash at first, or put the puppy in a crate for the older dog to smell. Once the puppy and dog have sniffed one another, and if there are no signs of fear or hostility, you can let the dogs off their leash. Let the two dogs play together, but keep an eye on your pup in case the older dog plays more aggressively than the puppy can handle.If you see a dog owned by a stranger—for example, at the dog park—confirm with the owner that the dog is friendly and will not attack your pup. If your puppy runs up to an older dog that happens to be aggressive, the dog may attack and harm your pup.

