 Around the age of 11 or 12, you may decide you can leave your child home alone. If your child is ready for this, start off slow. Only leave them alone for short periods of time at first, like 15 or 30 minutes. Increase the time away as your child demonstrates their responsibility.Be sure to discuss this with your child so that they understand they are earning independence and can also lose it if they violate your trust. Talk with them after time alone as well and make sure they feel safe.
Make sure you go over emergency procedures with your child. Go over emergency phone numbers and where they are posted, what is off limits while they are home alone, and touch on other safety rules.
Check on your child if you need to. Text them or call them just to touch base, but don’t smother them by doing it too much.
 As your child becomes a teenager, they start spending more money doing things with friends. Early teens, around 14 or 15, is a good time to make your child get a job. This will teach them responsibility, how to save money, and give them independence and pride because they work for their money.Your child’s age will dictate what kind of job they get. For example, if they’re 14, they may only be able to babysit, mow lawns, or shovel snow. At 15, some places will allow a child to work with a work permit.
Use this time to equate working hard with saving and making purchases. For example, if your child wants a $150 electronic device, explain how that it will take working 15 hours at $10 to save for that.
Be sure to pay attention to how your child is doing in school and consider whether their job is affecting their performance. Help your child to develop an appropriate balance between work and school because this will help them later in life.
 Adolescence can be a difficult time for your child. Their bodies are changing and they are experiencing hormonal shifts. They start to care about their appearance and peer pressure becomes a problem. To help with this, emphasize positive body image.Remind your child that adolescence is an awkward time that everyone goes through. Acne, hair growth, and developing body odor is normal. Teach them proper grooming habits to lessen some of these issues.
Talk to your child about realistic standards of beauty. Help them understand that what they see on television isn’t reality and they shouldn’t hold themselves to that standard.
Encourage healthy choices as your teen becomes independent and starts making their own choices. Emphasize how important it is to have positive friends, along with the dangers of drugs and alcohol.
Encourage your child to get involved in activities or sports. Help them get outside and stay active instead of staying inside all the time.
It is also important to lead by example, so make sure that you model good eating and exercise behaviors for your children.
 Starting their period is an important milestone in a young woman's life. Help her get used to this idea by not making her feel embarrassed or ashamed of this natural part of life. Encourage the whole household to not be squeamish or negative about this bodily change.


Teach your daughter proper technique for using pads or tampons. Help her understand good menstruation hygiene so she can stay clean and avoid any problems.
Encourage her to keep extra clothing in her locker at school until she learns how to manage her periods.
Consider doing something nice for your daughter at this moment, like taking her for a special treat like a dinner or a mini young adult shopping spree.
 Driving is one of the biggest milestones as a child grows up. It can be hard for parents to let go enough and trust their children behind the wheel. When you are teaching your child to drive, be their co-pilot and support them. Don’t hover, criticize, or make them nervous.Let your child experience all kinds of roads with you as they are learning. Take them through small town, on highways, through big cities with crowded streets, and even on the interstate. This helps you guide them and teach them how to navigate so they don’t have to do it on their own.
Be sure to have your child get their learning permit first so that they will get lots of practice before getting their license.

