 Since Bulova watches are marked with date codes, you won't usually need to rely on the watch appearance for dating purposes. There are some circumstances that make this a beneficial practice to know, however.


For example, if the date code has worn away or is otherwise obscured, your next best option is to date the watch by appearance.
An understanding of watch styles can also help you narrow down a date for pre-1950 Bulova watches. Some of the date symbols used for these watches were shared with watches of other decades. For instance, the asterisk marked watches manufactured in both 1924 and 1941. Knowing the difference between a 1920s style watch and a 1940s style watch can help you determine which date (1924 or 1941) an asterisk-marked Bulova was made in.
Note that dating a watch by style will only tell you the decade the watch likely came from, not the exact year.
 Most Bulova watches from the 1920s feature a "deco" style common to other fashions and decorations of the decade.The hands of the watch are usually thick.
Look at the style of the watch face. The sides and front of the metal will usually be decorated with engraved patterns.
 Watches of the 1930s were smoother and more elegant than those of the previous decade.


The lines of the watch are generally fairly clean. Watch faces no longer had much engraving on them, and when engravings were used, they were minimal.
Square watch faces came into fashion during the 1930s. Rounded faces were still common, especially early in the era, but rectangular faces were more prevalent in the later part of the decade.
Watches in general had a more straightforward, "masculine" appearance during this decade.
 Watches made in the 1940s were very similar to those made in the late 1930s, but the designs were even more rigid.


The lines and angles were much more rigid, with very few rounded edges. Rectangular watch faces were common, while founded faces were fairly rare.
Watch faces were small, but the designs were bold and blocky. The hour markers were quite simple, though.
 Watches manufactured during the 1950s were more decorative than in the previous two decades.


This decade marked an era of technological and scientific advancements, and this trend shows up in most watch styles of the decade. Many watches took on what would have been a "futuristic" appearance.
Bold, fancy watch faces were back in style. The numbers and hour markers became elaborate again, and the metal surrounding the watch face was often curved or angled in a decorative, rather than straightforward, manner.
Rectangular faces were still common, but rounded faces came back into style again.
 During the 1960s, watches were bolder and took on an appearance inspired by the modern art era.


Most watch faces were round and notably larger than in past decades. The metal surrounding the face was usually quite thin and simple.
The hands of the watch were usually wider, yet they also came to a sharper, more defined point.
 In thee 1970s, watches were heavy, big, and fairly flashy.


Square faces were back in style. The metal surrounding the watch face was simple yet heavy and blocky.
Hour digits were somewhat rare, and most watches marked the hours exclusively with lines or dashes.
Metal bands were more common than ones made of leather.
 Many watch styles from the 1980s and beyond were quite varied, making it difficult to pinpoint a specific style to a specific decade.


If you suspect that your Bulova watch originated during one of these decades, you may need to turn to an expert jeweler or appraiser for a more exact idea of the likely date.
That being said, there were still a few key design elements were noting from each decade.
During the 1980s, metal watch bands and simple hour marking were in style.
In the 1990s, decorative leather bands and hour digits came back into fashion, but metal bands and plain hour markings were also common enough.
Once the 2000s hit, watches of nearly all previous style eras could be found on the market.

