 Before you rush to judgement, take a moment to reflect on your own feelings. Maybe you have a sense that the new woman in your yoga class is unfriendly. But are you actually projecting?Think about your own state of mind. Are you frustrated because you had a bad evaluation at work? You might be letting your bad mood color your perception.
Does your new co-worker seem like a know-it-all? Take a moment to think about your own role at the company. Are you actually just nervous that you won't receive a much-wanted promotion?
Your own emotions definitely impact how you view the world. And that includes how you judge character. Make sure to keep that in mind.
 When you are judging someone's character, it is important to keep an open mind. That means thinking about your own biases. And it means that you need to be a good listener.Maybe you've always assumed that your upstairs neighbor is just rude and cranky. If you actually have a conversation with her, you might discover that she's upset because she is coping with the loss of a loved one.
Limit distractions. Maybe you've always found your brother-in-law annoying. Instead of texting your friends about your dislike, put down your phone.
Take time to actually listen to others without distractions like phones or televisions. You might discover that there are some parts of their personality that really appeal to you.
 When you are keeping an open mind, try to avoid focusing on negative personality traits. Instead, make an effort to concentrate on the positives. Shifting your focus might help you arrive at a more positive judgement.For example, maybe you have always noticed how impatient your co-worker is. But have you taken the time to notice that she is always willing to help someone who is struggling to meet a deadline?
You can also avoid anticipating negative outcomes. Maybe you've never had a positive interaction with your landlord. Keep an open mind and allow your next encounter to be more positive.
 Keeping an open mind means that you are comfortable with people being different from you. Maybe a new person in your social group has a very dry sense of humor. It's okay if you two laugh at different things. It doesn't make one of you a better person than the other.Keep in mind that you might come from different backgrounds. People who are have different experiences might react differently to the same situation.
Be willing to accept that people are different. Just because someone has different personality traits that does not mean they have poor character.

