 To avoid smelling when your body naturally sweats everyday, you should wear deodorant. This will help cover up and block the musty smell of sweat and keep you cleaner. You can also buy antiperspirant, which helps prevent your from sweating and dries up the sweat when you do. Many brands offer a combination antiperspirant/deodorant.


There are many different types of deodorant and antiperspirant, some targeted to girls and some targeted to boys. You can pick whichever works best for you. Some scents may be too overbearing or not work well with your body chemistry. Just keep trying until you find one that is subtle, keeps your dry, and makes you smell good.If you have trouble with excessive sweating, or you continue to have body odor problems despite good hygiene, talk to your doctor. You may have an underlying condition that requires treatment.
 You want to smell good, but it is just as bad to smell too much like perfume or cologne. When you pick a fragrance, you should find a scent that is pleasing, but not overwhelming. If it is stronger than some, you should apply it lightly, putting on just enough for people to smell it but not for it to be overpowering.Don't use sprays to cover up body odor smells. They should be used to make you smell nice, but not to try to cover up body smells. If you are experiencing body odor, you should find the cause and take care of it instead of trying to cover it up.
 In order to promote good personal hygiene, you should change your clothes daily. You should also wash your clothes often to ensure they are clean and smell fresh. Most clothes can be worn at least two times before you wash them, with the exception of socks and underwear. However, if you think that your clothes have an unpleasant smell, do not wear them without washing them first.Any clothes you wear to the gym, while playing sports, or during any other activity where you sweat a great deal should always be washed after one use.
 Just like you need to change your clothes often, you need to change your sheets. You sweat at night and loose dead skin cells, and they can build up on your sheets over time. If you change your sheets frequently, you don't run the risk of sleeping in your dead skin every night or transferring the sweat smells from previous nights onto your skin while your sleep.


You should change your pillowcase more often. Your face has more oils and you may also drool overnight, which also builds up on your pillows as well., Smelly, sweaty feet can also promote infections like athlete's foot.Using a drying or an anti-fungal foot powder on your feet and in your shoes can help your feet stay drier and germ-free.
 Certain foods and beverages can cause body odor. Avoid foods with strong odors, such as garlic or onions, if you need to smell fresh. If you enjoy these foods, make sure to brush your teeth or rinse with mouthwash after eating if you're going to be in public.

