 Think of how much time you spend staring at a screen everyday. Eye strain from consistently working on a computer, or watching T.V. can cause dryness and itchiness in the eyes. Often eye strain is due to decreased blinking, focusing on a screen that is too close (less than 20 inches away) or not wearing prescribed lenses when they are in fact needed. Eyestrain is on the rise due to the proliferation of screens, including televisions and computers but also more recently, smartphones.


Symptoms included a itchy and dry eyes, pain, a sensation of a foreign object being in the eyes, and the feeling of tired eyes.
You can take both treatment and preventive measures to deal with eyestrain. Refer here for more treatment information.
 It's possible that your eye pain is due to an infection, such as conjunctivitis, known more commonly as pink eye. If the eye looks pink and slightly cloudy, it is possible that you have contracted pink eye. Symptoms range from eye discharge (pus or increase in tears), pain with light, and fever depending on the agent. Pink eye is a common, yet troublesome disease that can either be treated at home or with antibiotics from a doctor depending on the severity and type of infection. Click here for more detailed information.


Another possible infection is a stye, which is an infection of the eyelid caused by bacteria from eye makeup or contact lenses blocking the glands of the eyelid. Symptoms are pain with blinking, pain with light, red eyes along with eye pain. Typically, hot compresses for 20 minutes four to six times daily can remove the blockage

, One of the most common conditions causing eye pain and irritation is allergies. If you have allergies, your body treats a normally harmless substance as a threat and responds by releasing excess histamine. This will cause your skin to itch, your throat to swell, and your eyes to become itchy and watery. If you have these symptoms, click here.


Itchy eyes are usually not the only symptom of allergies. If your eye pain is accompanied by itchiness in other parts of your body, sneezing or a runny nose, you likely have allergies.
Most people suffering from allergies notice that these symptoms are more pronounced during spring or autumn seasons where the pollen count is usually highest. Others may find that there allergies are related to certain animals, such as cats or dogs., It is important to note that your eye care professional be informed of any eye pain to properly diagnose and treat your condition. If your symptoms worsen or become increasingly bothersome, contact your doctor immediately to avoid any serious complications.

