 Prove to her that you’re going to get a lot of use out of the clothing you want now by showing her that you still wear clothes that you wanted really badly in the past–even if you hate them now. If you can’t stand being seen in them, save them for the weekend and family functions, when you’re less likely to see schoolmates.;
, Feel free to take fashion cues from your friends (it’s perfectly normal for you and your friends to influence each other),but stop short of wanting something just because that’s what they’re wearing these days.The more you follow your friends’ lead, the less likely your mom will buy the clothes you pick out if she doesn’t like them, just because she doesn’t think your fashion choices are your own. Dress the way you want to dress and convince your mom that she won’t have to buy you a whole new wardrobe the next time your friends switch theirs.


If you’re adopting a certain style, start small. Say you’re Goth; your mom might refuse to buy you really ornate outfits right away because she thinks this is just going to be a “phase” for you. Choose simple ways to dress Goth in the beginning. Stick to black jeans, black shirts, black jackets, etc. Prove to her over time that this is more than just a phase. Convince her that more elaborate clothing won’t be money wasted.
 Convince your mom that this isn’t just an impulse buy. Go to stores on your own or ask your mom to take you so you can just look at stuff. Try clothes on and see what you like. Then tell your mom you’ll think it over before asking her to buy anything. Show her that this is something you really want and not just a passing fancy.
 Ask yourself why you like these clothes in the first place. Based on your answers, come up with clear reasons why it’s important for you to have them. Use these reasons to convince your mom. Show her that you’re putting actual thought into this, like an adult.For example, if she argues that these clothes are too “old” for you, tell her that you’re only growing older; mention things like job- or college-interviews as reasons why you need to look more mature. Or, if you’re talking about clothes for sports, show her why these clothes are better than others;if they’ll last longer or prevent injury, point that out to her.
 Think of why your mom might object to something before you show it to her.If the clothes you want really are too expensive, revealing, or outrageous, agree with your mom when she says so. She might still say no in the end, but she’ll probably put more thought into it if you show her that you have, too–which means she might end up saying yes.
 Stop your mom from trying to force some other piece of clothing on you as a substitute. Explain to her exactly why you don’t like it, whether it’s the material, the cut, the fit, or whatever.Let her know what you’re definitely not looking for and why so she knows what not to suggest.
 For every item that you’re shopping for, find a bunch of stuff you like; if you’re only looking to buy one shirt, pull several off the rack. Show them all to her. Let her choose from your selection. Make her feel like she’s still the one in control by giving her the final say.


Improve your chances of getting what you want by including things that you know she won’t buy. Want a bikini that’s a little revealing? Add an even skimpier bikini to your pile. Want something that costs more than she’d like? Find stuff that costs even more than that so what you really want seems cheap in comparison.

