 It has been a long-held belief that certain things, such as saturated fats, should be banned from your diet; however, new studies are showing that saturated fats may not increase cardiovascular mortality.In fact, a low-fat diet may actually increase your risk of heart disease, because the fat is replaced by carbohydrates.If you are concerned about eating for a healthy heart, stay abreast of the most current dietary information.


It still stands that trans-fat is very bad for your heart heath and is linked to a host of negative side effects. Decrease the amount of foods you eat that contain trans fats, such as fried foods, packaged foods, margarine, and processed baked goods.;
, Omega-3s are a healthy type of polyunsaturated fat. Omega-3 fatty acids offer protection from heart disease and can be found in foods such as salmon, mackerel, flaxseed, and walnuts and in certain vitamin and mineral supplements.Try to incorporate wild-caught fish into your diet twice per week (farmed fish are often not as high in Omega 3's)., Set a goal of 10 servings of fresh or frozen produce per day. The healthy plant substances found in fruits and vegetables can help prevent heart disease., They are an excellent source of fiber and contain several healthy nutrients that can help regulate blood pressure and improve overall heart health. Though whole grains are much better than refined grains, a diet that is low in carbohydrates been shown to improve cardiovascular health.Replace refined grain products with whole grain products.
Choose whole-wheat flours, 100% whole grain bread, high-fiber cereal, whole grain pasta, steel-cut oats, brown rice and barley.
Stay away from white or refined flours, white bread, frozen waffles, biscuits, corn bread, egg noodles, granola bars, high-fat snacks, quick breads, cakes, pies, donuts and buttered popcorn.
 Although what you eat is important for heart health, how much you eat is also a factor in improving overall heart health. Refrain from overeating, which can lead to excess fat, cholesterol and calorie intake.Keeping portion sizes under control is essential to healthy eating. Use measuring cups and spoons and weight scales to measure your portion sizes until you become familiar enough to recognize them by sight only. Some ways to remember appropriate portion sizes include:


3 oz. of lean meat is about the size of a smart phone.
¼ cup of nuts is about the size of a golf ball.
1 cup of vegetables is about the size of a baseball.

