 The dentist will most likely try to drain the abscess first by making a small incision, ideally after administering anesthesia around the painful area, and allowing the pus to flow out. Your dentist will then investigate further to determine what other treatment may be needed.


Keep in mind that in some cases, anesthesia is not needed because patients may not feel any pain at all. Sometimes some of the pus has already come out through a small hole in the gum called a dental fistula.
 Your dentist may recommend a root canal, performed in either her office, or by a specialist. During a root canal, a dentist will drill into the tooth and remove the diseased pulp, completely sterilize the entire canal of the tooth, and then fill and seal the tooth's inner chambers and cap the tooth using a filling, onlay or even a crown when there is not enough dental substance. Teeth that have undergone this procedure can, with proper care, remain intact for the rest of your life., In some cases, a root canal is not possible or feasible, and you will need to have the tooth pulled instead. A simple tooth extraction only takes a few minutes. The dentist will first numb the area with a local anesthetic, and then cut away any gum tissue that surrounds the tooth. She will then use forceps to grasp the tooth and rock it back and forth to loosen it, before finally pulling it out.Be sure to care for your tooth socket properly after an abscess. Your dentist will give you detailed after-care instructions, and it important you follow them all. These include: using gauze to control the blood loss in the first day, letting a blood clot form in the tooth socket, and keeping your mouth clean while the socket heals.Call your dentist immediately if you have problems, such as bleeding that won't stop, or if the pain does not subside after several days, or comes back.
 Antibiotics are a critical part of the treatment for an abscess, and are necessary to ensure that the infection is completely gone and does not come back.They can also help to prevent severe pain, such as from a dry socket.
 It is important get it treated properly. If you do not have dental insurance, try to find a free or reduced-cost dental clinic near you, and remember that any dentist should be able to simply pull your tooth for under $100.If the abscess is visible, meaning that you can see and touch a bump on your gums next to one of your teeth, then your dentist will not be able to pull the tooth out right away. You will need to take antibiotics for at least two days first to reduce the risk of bacteremia.
Don't hesitate to go to the emergency room right away if you develop signs of major infection. They may not be able to fix your tooth, but the hospital is obligated to treat the infection, even if you don't have insurance.

