 We've all heard of "eyes being too big for our pockets," so before you fall in love with a property make sure you've got your financing set up. Inexperienced borrowers or those who are naturally impulsive should take extra care. It's one thing to overspend when you're buying a dress, but it's another thing when you're buying a house.


It's a great idea to have pre-approval for a loan before beginning your property search. This way you have a limit to observe and can avoid taking on too much debt.
To get pre-approved, consult with a lender to discuss your loan options and your budget. The lender will then check your credit. You'll need proof of income, proof of assets, good credit (usually 620 or higher), and proof of employment.Familiarize yourself with the different types of loans that are available. VA, FHA, and conventional loans are all available through banks and other approved lenders.VA loans are guaranteed by the Veterans Administration (VA) and are available to veterans, current members of the U.S. Armed Forces, or eligible surviving spouses. A benefit of VA loans is that they do not require a down payment.
FHA loans are guaranteed by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA). Anyone can apply for these loans, and they often offer good benefits, such as low closing costs and low down payments. There is, however, a limit on how much you can borrow.
Conventional loans are not government-backed like VA or FHA loans, so they may be more difficult to secure. If you have good credit, a steady income, and can afford a down payment, you should be eligible for a conventional loan.


Make sure the mortgage loan originator sees your credit report and your income and asset documents to verify all information prior to issuing a pre-approval. You don't want an uninformed pre-qualification. That could lead to debt problems later.;
, Lenders consult major credit-reporting agencies before they complete a loan application. Bad credit can result in higher interest rates or rejected loan applications and prevent you from owning your dream home. Take steps to raise your credit score and remove any erroneous information in your credit reports.Research your credit rating a couple of months before applying for a loan. This will give you time to repair any mistakes that may be on your credit report.You can get an FHA loan if your credit score is under 580, but you will have to pay a higher down payment. The VA does not have a requirement for credit scores, but most private lenders will be looking for a score of 620 or higher. For a conventional loan, your score should be 740 or higher.
Don't sugar-coat a bad credit rating. It's best to report your credit rating and personal debt accurately. Doing otherwise is not only illegal but extremely unwise.
You can usually boost your credit score by lowering your credit card balances or paying down other debts.
Check your credit score on a free credit reporting website, such as www.creditkarma.com.
 When considering how much home you can afford, know your borrowing capacity. This figure is based on your income-earning ability, not the assets you own; however, if you do have a large amount of assets, you can sell off some of the assets to place a larger down payment on a home. This will lower your payments.
 First-time buyers rarely understand how many additional costs come with homeownership. Consult with your real estate agent and mortgage lender to get an idea of what additional fees you'll be responsible for. Remember to budget in the following when setting up your financing:


Homeowners insurance
Appraisal fee
Property taxes
Moving costs
Escrow fees
Other fees and taxes, where applicable., You can either go the traditional route and pay about 20% of the home's value as a down payment or finance more purchase at once with a smaller down payment. Keep in mind that saving for a larger down payment is still considered the safer route and is always cheaper for you.


Gone are the days when you had to save up for a 20% down payment in order to own your dream home. In some cases, you can borrow up to the full price of the property, which means you don't have to spend years saving for a down payment before buying.
However, if you do put down less than 20% of the purchase price, you will likely be asked to buy private mortgage insurance (PMI), which is not cheap. This protects the lender, not you. Avoiding PMI by making a 20% down payment is usually considered a good investment.You may also have to pay higher closing fees or a higher interest rate on your loan.
There is no down payment required for a VA loan. An FHA loan requires a minimum down payment of 3.5% if your credit is 580 or higher. If your score is under 580, a 10% downpayment is required.
 If you can afford to make more than your scheduled mortgage payments, do so. With interest calculated daily and charged monthly, larger or more frequent payments will reduce the amount and length of your mortgage. In general, make sure that you expect to have an income stable enough to pay down the mortgage over the life of the loan.
 Even if you're not considering moving for some time, remember that your situation can always change and you may choose to or be forced to sell. Think about how well you could sell the house in this situation. Would it go quickly if put back on the market?Additionally, think about purchasing a house that will be worth more in the future, perhaps in a growth area or new development neighborhood.
 Choose a real estate agent who has the time to answer all of your questions and provide you with useful information about your home purchase. Be sure to also choose an agent who you are comfortable with and trust. Ask friends and family for recommendations.Remember that an agent typically works for the seller and will benefit from getting the highest possible price in a sale. You can offset this situation by hiring your own agent to look out for your best interests.
While the services of a buyer's agent or a property advisor don't come cheap, they can be worthwhile. They will advise you about the age and soundness of the home as well as the desirability of the neighborhood and its outlook for the future.
A buyer's agent will not usually increase the cost of the home for the buyer, however. This is because the selling agent will have already added their commission to the listing price of the home. If there is a buyer's agent, then the commission will be split between both agents. If there is no buyer's agent, then the seller's agent will keep the entire commission.
 Give your agent as much information as possible about your needs and desires. This will help them find the best houses for you. Once you've started looking at potential homes, don't let your agent talk you into something that you don't want. Remember your needs and remind your agent of those needs if necessary., Be sure to do research at several different mortgage lenders around your area and find the best possible rates you can get. Ask questions about any part of the lending process that you don't understand and have the broker walk you through it if necessary. Make sure you're as comfortable with your lender as you are with your real estate agent., Even though the house has already been appraised, you'll want to hire your own inspector to give the house a thorough check-up. The inspector will spot problems throughout the house, if any exist, and can also give you an estimate of the cost of repairs. This can allow you to negotiate a lower price with the seller.


Get inspector recommendations from your realtor or friends who have purchased homes in the area., Many buyers make the mistake of ignoring huge flaws in a property simply because it perfectly fulfills one of their wishes. Maybe the house has an unstable foundation but the backyard and kitchen are perfect. Step back and take a breath, weighing the ups and downs of a property with a cool head before settling on a property. If in doubt, talk it out with friends or family.


You may want to talk with a builder before purchasing a home. Depending on the market, you may be able to build a brand-new home for around the same cost of a pre-owned home.
It may help to treat the house an investment. Consider the value you're getting and resale value you can get back., Research the areas that your potential homes are in. Make sure they have all of the amenities you need. Make sure they're safe enough. Consider the amount of time it will take you to get to work or nearby schools. Consider the following:


The lighting and mood of the home, street and neighborhood at night
Listen for noisy neighbors.
Is public transport within walking distance?
Are your living and social needs adequately provided for in the area?
Research the area on real estate websites.
Look for nearby parks or recreation areas.
Keep your eye out for information regarding trends in the area.
Check out the local council's and services' websites. Does your area have what you're after?

, Whether or not they are things you feel you can fix yourself, negotiate a lower price to offset the cost of repairs. Chances are, your inspector will spot and mention these flaws or damages to you. But be on the lookout for anything unexpected yourself, just in case there's anything else you want to ask about. Be sure to bring up any concerns you have before signing the contract to buy.


Get any agreed-upon repairs in writing and double check to make sure they make it into the final contract before signing., A big mistakes often made by homebuyers is rejecting a good fit simply because they didn't like one element of the house, for example paint colors or the type of cabinets in the kitchen. Recognize the difference between things that are easy to change and those that are not. Look at the "bones" of the house, like the layout, windows, and other elements that would be difficult and expensive to change. If these are good, you can change the rest to suit your needs., If you choose a house with the intention of making major changes to it, consider the price of doing so beforehand. You may even want to hire a contractor and get an estimate of what your addition might cost. You don't want to get into the new house only to find that you can't afford the changes you wanted to make. Factor them into your budget before buying.
 Take a moment to consider the seller's perspective, which may give you an idea of how motivated they are to sell their home. Consider things like how long the house has been on the market, the status of the local real estate market, and any other information you can obtain about the seller. If you find out that they have already accepted a job in another state and are looking to move, or are headed into bankruptcy, or if they just went through a divorce, you may find that the seller is willing to accept a lower price because they just want the house off their hands. This type of information can give you more bargaining power.That being said, try not to give the seller the same advantage. Don't give up too much information about yourself, or your attachment to the house. Even making it clear that you want to pay cash for the purchase may make it harder for you to negotiate a good price.
 Use the information you gathered during your investigation of the house and its location to negotiate a price. Things like the sale prices of comparable homes, knowledge of any repairs you will need to make, and the community can all give you leverage while trying to determine a price. The more information you have, the better.
 You may miss out on your dream home if you become too stubborn during negotiations. Put your ego aside and think about the important things — Do you really like the house? Does the price still fit your budget? Did you try negotiating? If you're holding out for the seller to drop the price lower not because of your budget, but because you want to feel good about your negotiation skills, let that go and accept the offer. Don't lose out on a great house because you had too much pride to pay a little more that you hoped.If the seller doesn't negotiate down to a price that is within your budget, then it is okay to walk away.
 The lender will check your credit before the closing to make sure nothing changed after they approved the loan. You may want to take out a loan to furnish your car or make another big purchase, but hold off until the deal is closed. A new loan on your credit report can put your home loan at risk.