 Next time you see her, start talking to her. Don't go right out and say "I like you." That isn’t always the best technique, but being direct is a positive trait. Talk to her about a casual topic like school, sports, or teachers. Try to get to know her better. Find out general information about her, but don't get too personal. Become her friend.


If you’re unsure about what to say, just say “Hey Kristen,” when you pass her in the hall. It might not seem like a lot, but it is sure to catch her attention.
Don't be scared to talk to her.
 Find a mutual interest and talk to her about it. Say you both enjoy drawing, ask to see one of her drawings, and tell her if you like it. If you both enjoy fantasy movies, strike up a conversation about a specific movie. One of the keys of bonding over a mutual interest is to bring up something specific.This will require you both to engage in conversation stronger than normal chit-chat.
 A good way of getting romantic thoughts into her head is to compliment her every once in awhile. You can compliment her outfit when you think it looks nice, but don't feel restricted in complimenting her appearance.You could say things like this:


”Angie, your dress is really pretty.”
”Good job on that math problem! I was totally stumped.”
”Your outfit compliments your eyes.”

, A great way to develop a closer bond with the girl you like is to make her laugh. Use your natural humor on her and don’t memorize other peoples' jokes. Even if you’re unsure or nervous, just be a little silly in front of her. Start an inside joke between the two of you. Inside jokes are a great way to bring people together., After you’ve talked a few times and you're friends, ask her if she likes you. She probably will blush. If she does, then it may mean she likes you back. If she doesn't, the odds aren't so great. Don't ask her too early in a friendship or it will seem like you are pushing it.


If she does blush or express interest, ask her out. Make sure you two are alone. Also, try to keep it low key or else it might spread throughout the whole school.
If she doesn't blush, you have to be okay with being friends for the moment. She might ask why you asked that, and don't try to play it off with, "nothing." Be upfront and honest with her.
 Regardless of how confronting her went, you need to keep yourself in check. Whatever you do, don't try to make yourself popular. Be yourself, not the person you think she wants you to be.


If she tries to change you, back down. Girls that try to change you are not right for you because they don't like who you are.
Be talented but don't show off. For instance, write a song or short story (not directly about her) and show it to your friends. When people praise your skills, it might get her interested.
The key is be yourself.