 Be sure the location gets enough light, but avoid placing it in an area where too much scorching sun or hot summer winds will force you to constantly water.;
, Improve the soil by recycling materials such as grass clippings and leaves found around your home.
 Simplicity is the key to a low maintenance garden.


Adding some extras such as water features, wildlife feeders, and such, for example, requires more maintenance.
Plant fewer types of plants, but plant them in mass. Having many of the same kind of flower or shrub growing together makes tending them easier. They will have the same requirements and you can provide necessities such as the proper amount of water and fertilizer all at once.
 If you have a wide bed, provide stepping stones or a path which makes easy access possible.
 Lawns require constant mowing, watering and treatments for weed control and fertilizer. Using ground covers helps eliminate those chores.


Ground cover is especially good for steep slopes on your property as it helps prevent erosion. Many ground cover plants do well in shady spots where grass often doesn't grow well, yet requires little or no maintenance compared to grass.
Most ground covers are low maintenance plants that can be grown easily and are simple to maintain. Ground covers that possess flowers also add color and beauty to your yard.
 Keep plants in pots that are easy to maintain and change out.
 You might also think about planting ground cover or using gravel around the base of a tree to keep from having to weed there.
 Check your plants for pest damage and be sure they are healthy. Strong healthy plants will grow more easily and make less work for you.
 Be sure the plants are put into holes at the proper depth. Water frequently until the root system is well established. Having well-established plants makes them easier to maintain.
 Treating these problems early will avoid widespread problems in your garden.
 Mulching cuts down on weeds and helps retain moisture, requiring you to water less frequently. Gravel, bark, and pine needles are some mulches you might consider using.
 You might think of using drip irrigation or soaker hoses.

