 Go to http://www.canon.com/icpd/. The page will list all the countries where the Canon software can be downloaded.;
, In order for you to get the correct software for your camera, you have to filter it through four different menu filters.


Under “Product Category,” select Digital Cameras from the drop-down list.
Under “Product Series,” select the appropriate camera type, ie. DIGITAL IXUS, EOS, EOS-M, Others, PowerShot, from the drop-down list.
Under “Product Model,” select the exact Canon camera model for your camera from the drop-down list.
Under “Type of document,” select Drivers & Softwares from the drop-down list.
 After the filter, you will be directed to a page where you have to choose your operating system. Choose the appropriate one for your computer.
 You will be directed to the download page. Details about the software, its system requirements, setup instructions, and a disclaimer can be read on this page; scroll to the bottom, and click on the “Download” button.
 Canon authenticates the download and verifies if you really have a valid Canon digital camera. A pop-up window will appear before the download begins.


It will ask for your camera’s serial number. Locate it from your camera or its box, and enter it here. Once you click on the “Submit” button, the download will begin.
 Locate the downloaded file on your computer and run the executable setup file. Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the installation.


The software package will install several Canon applications for your camera. It will install CameraWindow, Image Transfer Utility, ImageBrowser EX, Map Utility, Movie Uploader for YouTube, and PhotoStitch. Refer to the camera user manual for further details and usage for these bundled applications.
 Check if the computer is connected to your Wi-Fi network. Note the name of the network or access point it is using.


For details on how to check or connect your computer to a Wi-Fi network, refer to your computer’s user manual.
 After the Canon applications were installed from Step 6 of Part 1, the applications are now accessible from your Start menu. Navigate through it and open the CameraWindow folder, then select “Wi-Fi connection setup.”


Don’t launch CameraWindow yet.
 Click the “Yes” button from the pop-up dialog box. The software will make the required settings for Windows so that the camera can connect to your computer via Wi-Fi.
 Turn your camera on by pressing the “Play” button at the back. Be sure that the camera has an SD card inserted with the pictures you’d like to transfer to the computer.
 In order for your camera to be properly identified by the other Wi-Fi devices, it needs to have a nickname. At the back of your camera, press on the “MENU” button.


Select the second tab for settings. The tab has a tools icon. Scroll down the menu by pressing down on the “DISP.” circular button until you find Wi-Fi Settings then press on it.
The first item under the Wi-Fi Settings menu is “Change Device Nickname.” Select this, and enter the nickname for your camera.
Press the MENU button again to exit the screen and return to the Wi-Fi Settings menu.
 At the back of the camera, press the Wi-Fi logo at the top of the circular button. This will bring you to the camera’s Wi-Fi menu.
 From your camera’s Wi-Fi menu, select the computer icon. The camera will start looking for available Wi-Fi networks in the area.
 From the list of available networks, select the one you’d like to use. Make sure you have access to this network as you will still need to input the necessary security parameters for it.
 When asked, input your network’s password. Press the “FUNC. SET” button to bring out the keyboard and use it to enter the password.


Once confirmed, your camera will be linked with your network, and it has stored it under an Access Point.
 In order for the camera to communicate with your computer over the Wi-Fi network, it needs to be properly configured with the Canon Image Gateway service.


Refer to this article for more details on how to do this.
 Click on the Start menu and navigate through it until you find the Canon Utilities folder. Open it, then the CameraWindow folder, then click on the CameraWindow shortcut. CameraWindow will now load.
 A dialog window might prompt for available options for the pictures detected from the camera. Select the “Download Images from Canon Camera” option. This option will use the CameraWindow.


Click the “OK” button to proceed.
 On CameraWindow, select “Import Images from Camera.” Click “Import Untransferred Images” to only import those not yet in the computer.


Movies will also be imported together with the pictures. Once the import is completed, you will be presented with a confirmation message. Click the OK button to exit the window.
 You can use Canon’s ImageBrowser EX to view the pictures you’ve just imported.


Refer to ImageBrowser EX’s user manual on how to use this software.
You can also use Windows Photo Viewer, which should already be on your computer, to view the pictures.

