 The pituitary gland in humans is located at the base of the brain immediately below the hypothalamus. This anatomical structure in the brain is an important endocrine gland which is the main regulator of all other endocrine glands that are spread in the various parts of the body.;
, This relatively small anatomical structure is responsible for secreting many hormones into the blood circulation each of which is a specific signaling molecule of a different endocrine gland in the body.
 All the hormones of the pituitary gland are regulated by releasing hormones that are secreted by the hypothalamus. The hormones of the pituitary gland are all under positive feedback control by regulating hormones in the hypothalamus except for the hormone prolactin which is regulated by a negative feedback from the hormone dopamine. The secretion of prolactin is inhibited by excessive amount of dopamine in the blood. Dopamine is a neurotransmitter that is usually secreted by neurons in the basal ganglia of the brain. This hormone was shown experimentally to be involved in mediating psychotic episodes in experimental individuals which have administered excessive amounts of this hormone.
 The clinical psychiatric condition of mental psychosis is characterized biochemically by the presence of high concentration of this hormone in the blood of affected patients. Dopamine is usually synthesized from an amino acid that is called tyrosine. Patients who are schizophrenic usually secrete large amount of dopamine into the blood. One of the symptoms of this excessive secretion of dopamine is the development of psychotic symptoms that include visual and auditory hallucinations in addition to an increase in sexual desire and an increase in appetite for food.
 Patients of this clinical disorder are usually treated with antipsychotic drugs such as Zyprexa. This commercial drug is an antagonist to the action of dopamine by binding to its receptors in the nervous system. As a result of this the negative feedback on the secretion of prolactin is lifted and an increase in its secretion is observed. One of the symptoms of the increased secretion of prolactin into the blood is the development of infertility and gynecomastia or enlargement of the breast in males.
 Many other hormones that are secreted by the pituitary gland have also clinical effects in case of their deficiency or excess in the blood. An example is the regulator hormone of the thyroid gland that is called thyroid stimulating hormone. This hormone is responsible for the stimulation of the secretion of the thyroid hormone by the thyroid gland. In hypothyroidism the level of the thyroid hormone is diminished. As a result the negative feedback on the secretion of thyroid stimulating hormone is lifted and an increase in its secretion is observed. For this reason the diagnosis of hypothyroidism is usually done by finding high level of thyroid stimulating hormone in the blood.
 In hyperthyroidism the opposite effect is observed. Low level of thyroid stimulating hormone is observed in the blood of these patients due to the excessive amount of the thyroid hormone in the blood. Similar effects are observed with the other hormones of the pituitary gland. For example the hormone cortisol is regulated by the hormone corticotropin releasing hormone of the anterior pituitary gland. Excessive amount of this hormone in the blood can cause increased secretion of cortisol in the blood. This medical condition is called Addison disease.
 The opposite effect is observed with diminished secretion of corticotrophin releasing hormone. High cortisol level in the blood exerts a strong negative feedback effect on the hormone of the pituitary gland which causes its diminished secretion into the blood circulation. Clinical manifestation of Cushing syndrome includes diminished amount of corticotrophin releasing hormone in the blood of affected individuals. Testosterone and estrogen are also under the regulation of common hormone by the anterior pituitary gland that is called gonadotropin releasing hormone. The testosterone and estrogen hormones have wide spread function in the sexual organs of males and females.
 Abnormalities in their concentrations in the blood can therefore have many clinical symptoms. Tumors of the gonads in males such as prostate cancer usually secrete high levels of testosterone. This can in turn exert negative feedback effect on the secretion of the gonadotropin releasing hormone by the pituitary gland. The same effect is also observed with the excessive secretion of estrogen in females. The other pituitary gland hormones are vasopressin and oxytocin. These two hormones are secreted by the posterior part of the gland. They have distinct function in the body. Clinical symptoms are observed with concentration abnormalities of these two hormones.
 Vasopressin is the more important hormone clinically among the two hormones. This hormone is the main regulator of water balance in the blood. Its concentration abnormality is associated with distinct clinical symptoms such as increased blood pressure in the case of excess of vasopressin in the blood. Also its deficiency in the blood is associated with decreased blood pressure of affected individuals.

