 The loss of enamel can be a symptom or cause of many different mouth diseases. It might be related to gum disease, enamel hypoplasia, fluorosis, cavities, or cracked teeth. Before you visit your dentist, you should make a list of all of your mouth related problems so that they can more accurately diagnose your problem. You might note:


Sensitivity to hot or cold foods.
Bleeding gums after brushing.
Tooth pain, which can spread to the surrounding area of the tooth and affect other teeth.
Teeth becoming more jagged or uneven in appearance.;
, Your dentist will be able to tell you how eroded the enamel is, and they will be able to suggest the best course of treatment for you. They can also provide you with recommendations for toothpaste and mouthwash.Professional cleanings at the dentist twice a year can help prevent further enamel decay.
 Many people have increased sensitivity in their teeth due to weakening enamel. Desensitizing toothpaste uses a chemical that blocks sensation from reaching your teeth by creating micronic stops over dentinal tubules, thus allowing you to eat without pain or discomfort.Many brands offer desensitizing toothpaste. These will typically be marked on the box as “for sensitive teeth.”


Some toothpastes are marked as being able to strengthen tooth enamel. These brands can increase your teeth’s resistance to acid, which may help reduce further decay.Look for toothpaste that contains calcium phosphate (sometimes known as hydroxyapatite). This is the main mineral in enamel, and it may be able to help strengthen your teeth.These products can also contain the ingredient CPP or ACP, which is really active on the enamel surface and helps to provide good recoverage.
Your dentist may write you a prescription for a stronger toothpaste. If you are worried about weakening enamel, you may try asking for a prescription., You can use fluoride toothpastes and mouthwashes to prevent cavities.Fluoride products are marked either on the box or in the list of ingredients on the toothpaste or mouthwash.


One treatment that your dentist may recommend is an application of fluoride gel. Your dentist will apply this during the visit.Your dentist may prescribe you fluoride supplements. These can be taken as a pill or lozenge. They are typically given to children at high risk of tooth decay and must only be taken under the surveillance of an adult and by following the doctor's indications., You should be aware of what kinds of treatments are necessary for more advanced enamel decay. Your dentist will usually let you know if these are necessary.Crowns or fillings: if you have chipped a tooth or if your teeth have lost their normal shape due to enamel decay, your dentist may recommend a crown, veneers, an inlay, or a filling. These can protect your teeth by forming an artificial shield around them.

Root canal: this removes infected pulp from the root or nerve of the tooth. This will heal any infection which can affect the tip of the root and the surrounding bone caused by weakened enamel.

Tooth removal: if enamel has weakened significantly, you may need to have your tooth removed. This will prevent further infection in your mouth.

