 A fresh cauliflower will be pure white and will be wrapped in crisp, bright green leaves.In particular, you should pay close attention to the base of the cauliflower. Regardless of how dirty or dingy the top looks, the base should be as white as possible. The color of the base is the best indication of how fresh the vegetable is.






The floret tops along the outside of the head should be fairly compact. If they are loose, or if there are wide gaps between the tops, this could be an indication that the cauliflower has already started to go bad.





;
, Use a sharp knife to cut off the green leaves surrounding the head of cauliflower. Cut the leaves off as close to the base of the stem as possible.


Note that the leaves can be cooked, too, as long as they are fresh. They are especially useful for vegetable stock, but they could be cooked down and used in stews, roasted, or eaten raw in salads.
 To make removing florets easier, cut off the large stem just before the point at which it divides into individual florets.


The stem could also be saved and used for vegetable stock.
Technically, this step is only optional. You can remove individual florets from the cauliflower without first removing the excess stem, but doing so will be much more difficult.
 Turn the head upside down so that the cut stem end faces up. Use your sharp kitchen knife to cut each individual branch or floret off.


Slice the floret off at the point where the floret stem meets the central stem. Cut them from the central stem at a 45 degree angle.
Take the time to trim away and discolored parts of the cauliflower. Brown or otherwise off-color cauliflower will not taste as good and will lack many of the nutrients that fresh cauliflower has.
Note that small baby cauliflowers can be cooked whole. You do not need to cut them into individual florets.
 You can use the florets as they are now, but if they are still somewhat large, they might take longer to cook. Use your knife to trim the florets down into smaller pieces. They should be about the same size as you would expect frozen florets to be.


Cooking cauliflower for a shorter amount of time means preserving more of its nutrients.
 Place the cauliflower florets in a colander and rinse them under cool, running water. Pat dry with clean paper towels when done.


Dirt and debris can get caught in between the floret clusters and stems. If you spot any dirt, gently scrub it away with your fingers. Your fingers should usually be sufficient; a vegetable brush should not be needed.
 Fill the stockpot with roughly 2 inches (5 cm) of water and boil it on the stove over high heat.
 Make sure that the steamer basket does not dip into the boiling water.


If you do not have an actual steamer basket, you could use a metal or wire mesh colander instead. Just make sure that the colander fits over the mouth of the stockpot without tipping into it., Carefully dump the florets into the steamer basket, spreading them out into an even layer.


The florets should be arranged upright, with the clustered tops facing up and the stems facing down.
If possible, arrange the florets in a single layer. If this is not possible, though, you should at least make sure that the florets are distributed in the basket as evenly as possible.
 Cover the stockpot and let the gathering steam cook the cauliflower. When done, the florets should be tender enough to pierce with a fork but should not be mushy.


The stockpot and steamer basket must be covered. Placing the lid on the stockpot traps the steam inside, and the steam is what you need in order to cook the cauliflower florets with this method.
For standard-size florets, check the cauliflower after the first 5 minutes. If they still seem too tough, cover the pot again and continue cooking. Usually, it will take 7 to 10 minutes for the cauliflower to cook through.
Large florets can take up to 13 minutes.
If you decide to steam the entire head of cauliflower at once, it could take 20 minutes or longer to do so.
 Remove cooked cauliflower from the steamer basket and place in a serving dish. Season with salt, pepper, and butter, as desired.


There are other ways you can serve steamed cauliflower, as well. You could drizzle soy sauce over it, sprinkle the florets with Parmesan cheese, or season the cooked florets with spices and herbs like paprika, lemon pepper, or parsley. Precisely how you enjoy this healthy treat it up to you, so get creative.
 Spread the florets out into as even a layer as possible.


If possible, arrange the florets in a single layer. If this is not possible, though, you should at least make sure that the florets are distributed in the dish as evenly as possible.
 For a standard head of cauliflower, add about 2 to 3 Tbsp (30 to 45 ml) of water.


There should only be about 1 inch (2.5 cm) of water in the bottom of the container.The idea is to have enough water to create steam, but not so much water that you end up boiling the cauliflower florets, instead.
 If the dish you use has a microwave-safe lid, cover it with that. Otherwise, cover the dish with a layer of microwavable plastic wrap.


If your container does not have a microwave-safe lid and you either do not have plastic wrap or are uneasy about putting it in the microwave, you can cover the bowl with a microwavable ceramic or stoneware plate. Make sure that the plate covers the mouth of the dish completely.Covering the dish is essential because it allows you to trap steam. The steam created by the heated water is what will cook the cauliflower florets in this method.
 Steam the cauliflower in the microwave on high power. When done, the florets should be tender enough to pierce with a fork but should not be mushy.


Check the cauliflower florets after the first 2 1/2 minutes. Recover it and continue cooking, if needed, for up to an additional 1 1/2 minutes.
Exercise caution when you remove the lid. Open the lid away from your face so that the steam does not burn you as it escapes.
 Remove cooked cauliflower from the microwavable dish and transfer it to a serving dish. Season the florets with salt, pepper, and melted butter, as desired.


There are other ways you can serve steamed cauliflower, as well. You could drizzle soy sauce over it, sprinkle the florets with Parmesan cheese, or season the cooked florets with spices and herbs like paprika, lemon pepper, or parsley. Precisely how you enjoy this healthy treat it up to you, so get creative.

