 Box turtles need lots of room. A small storage tub or aquarium really isn't enough.


The best enclosure is a "turtle table": a wooden, shallow, rectangular box at least 3' wide, 6' long, and 1.5' tall. Basically as big as you can make it (no such thing as too much room)!
A bookcase laid on its back may also work, if it has a solid-wood back (remove the shelves).
If you choose to build the enclosure from wood, you’ll need to waterproof the inside bottom and sides. Epoxy paint or polyurethane works well. So does lining the inside with pond liner. If you do this, make sure you avoid creating folds where water can get trapped.;
, Cover half the enclosure with plain dirt (has to be fertilizer/chemical free) and the other half with sphagnum moss. Sphagnum moss is a great substrate because it retains moisture very well, just mist it daily with lukewarm water.


Check with your vet before trying a different type of substrate, as some substrate (wood chips for example) can be a hazard to your turtle.
 Your turtles need a place to hide. A tipped-over flowerpot works well.
 Place it on a far end of the enclosure so that your turtle can easily move away to the cooler side if it gets too warm.


If your enclosure is made of wood or other flammable material, make sure the light is positioned so that the bulb and any hot metal parts don't touch the enclosure, or make any part of the habitat too hot to touch. If you can't touch it, you don't want your turtle touching it.
 UV light comes from the sun. If you can expose your turtle to UV light (via a patio or open window) for at least an hour daily then great! Otherwise, purchase a UV lamp. Pet stores sell lights that are a heat lamp and UV source in one, so that's pretty convenient.
 Also, use something lightweight but durable.
If your turtle is still young and tiny, it helps to use something that isn't too thick, to ensure it is easy for climbing.
 You can use a sturdy paint tray since it has a shallow area and a deep area. Put it in a corner and fill it with lukewarm water. This is also its drinking source. Or you can have a separate swimming area: get a large storage tub and fill it with lukewarm water that is deep enough to swim in, and with rocks to stand on. Let your turtle go swimming about 3 times a week; leave him in as long as he looks like he is having fun.

