 You might encounter any number of obstacles on your walking path. While these are easy to see in daylight, they become more difficult to see at night. Keep your eyes focused on the path in front of you to avoid injuring yourself due to a nasty spill. Some of the most obvious hazards you might encounter include:roots
rocks
uneven sidewalks
potholes
bikes laying on the sidewalk
trash bags or containers

, Even though you’re walking at night, there are many sounds that you should listen for to stay safe. Cars might honk if you step into the road carelessly. Runners might warn you they’re coming up behind you. Hearing these audio cues can keep you and others safe, so listen up when walking – day or night.Listen for animals, especially when walking in a rural area.
Avoid using headphones. If you really want to listen to something, put only one earbud in and keep the volume low.
Try bringing some emergency equipment along with you like a whistle, pepper spray, phone, and flashlight or flashlight app.
 If you’re struck by an automobile while on foot, you could be seriously injured. Therefore, it’s important to limit your risk for auto accidents while walking for exercise at night. Important steps you can take to limit your likelihood of being hurt include:Walk against traffic if you’re walking in the road. In other words, walk on the side of the street where cars are headed toward you. This will allow you to better see and react to vehicles.
Always look both ways before crossing the street. Stop and look up both ways before stepping onto a roadway. Even if you have the walk signal, look both ways. Many drivers barrel through red lights.
 Jaywalking is dangerous. Most pedestrian deaths – 78% – occur outside street intersections. Always cross the street at a designated crosswalk. Wait for the pedestrian crossing signal to turn on before heading across. It might require patience and be inconvenient, but it’s also safe.If there’s no crosswalk signal at the crosswalk, look both ways before heading across.

