 If you're interested in a career in management consulting, spend some time familiarizing yourself with the career first. A management consultant is a diverse career path that allows you to work in a variety of fields throughout your career.


Consulting is a loose term that applies to a variety of advice-giving in the business world. As a management consultant, you would advice businesses on fields like product marketing, public relations, cost reduction, and other day-to-day aspects of running a business. Businesses in all fields need management consultants, to the career outlooks is good. It's a job that will always be in high demand and tends to pay high.Being a consultant is a challenging career path. Much of it is problem solving. Major issues businesses face, such as integrating new staff and restructuring after financial crisis, are often handled by a management consultant. The job can be high stress. However, some also find it invigorating. You're out there day-to-day solving real problems and pushing for quick and tangible results.Some people see becoming a management consultant as a means to an end. People plan on serving as a consultant for a number of years before moving up to higher positions. However, others see consulting as a long term career. The job is relatively stable and pays well but keep in mind hours are tough and your schedule is somewhat erratic. A 60-hour work week is not uncommon for a management consultant.;
, If you want a career in business, you need to start thinking ahead in high school. Work hard and study as it'll pay off later as you apply for college.


Keep your grades up and try to do well on any standardized tests. You can purchase study guides for tests and you can also take classes, online and in real life, that prep you for exams like the SAT and ACT. Good grades and high test scores can help you gain entrance to a reputable business school.
Take relevant coursework. High-level classes in mathematics, business, and marketing can help on a college resume to a business school. If possible, see if you can take a few low level business courses your junior or senior year at a local community college.
Look for relevant work experience as early as high school. Talk to your high school counselor about your career goals and see if he or she can help you find internships for high school students. Even casual work experience, such as working a secretary in a local business over the summers, can help. It will expose you to the professional world. If you have a specific field in mind you want to work in, try to land related work. If your ultimate goal is to work as a management consultant int he medical field, for example, try to get a summer gig as a receptionist at your local hospital.
 In college, work hard to maintain good grades. An impressive academic record is one factor employers consider when making hiring decisions.You should also choose a relevant major and look for work experience during your time in school.


Your degree should be in business administration or a related field. Talk to a college counselor for advice on what degree type to take. Consider minoring in the field you hope to work in after college. If you want to consulting for a engineering company, for example, consider a minor in something engineering or science related. Having some familiarity with a specific field in addition to a broad understanding of business can help impress future employers.Keep your grades high. While your GPA is not the number one factor employees consider, a GPA of 3.2 or greater is impressive. You should also seek to be involved on campus. Join organizations relevant to your interest and career plans. Want to work as a business consultant for a tech company? Join a club related to computers and computer sciences. Seek out leadership positions in extracurricular activities. This can really help your resume shine down the road.Work while your in school or over the summers. While employers expect college students seeking entry-level work to be slightly lax on experience, some internship experience and relevant employment history is a plus. Work as an administrative assistant for a local business. Seek out internships over the summers related to your field. Data-entry positions also look good on a resume, as they require attention to detail. Many businesses are eager to hire college students for part time data entry work so keep your eyes out for possible data entry jobs., Some businesses and agencies strongly prefer a management consultant to hold a master's degree. A master's in business administration or a related field may give you an edge over the competition on the job market. As you near the end of your undergraduate education, talk to professors, past employers, and career counselors about whether a master's degree would be a good move for you considering your career plans.