 A court could infer that you consented to someone's use of your property if you observe them but say or do nothing about it. If you don't feel safe confronting the person on your own, consider calling the police.You must let the person know that they are not welcome as soon as you learn of their presence. Even though it takes years to establish an adverse possession claim, you don't know how long they've been on your property.
Since one requirement for adverse possession is that you knew about the person's presence on your property and acquiesced to it, letting even one opportunity slip without saying anything can threaten your property rights.
Whether you confront the person yourself or get a law enforcement officer to do it for you, make sure the person is aware of the fact that they are trespassing on private property and that they are not welcome.
Let the person know that you will file a lawsuit if you see them again.
Keep in mind that if you have repeated problems and want to file a lawsuit, you have to know the name of the person as well as an address where they can be served with court documents.
For this reason calling the police to respond and remove the trespasser can be beneficial, because the officer will ask them to produce identification and will record their name and address in the police report.
 To sue someone for trespassing on your property, you must be able to prove to the court that you own the land in question and did not give that person permission to use it.The court may require you to attach a copy of your deed or other ownership document to your initial complaint.
When you gather your deed and other documents, make sure you check for any recorded easements or other uses of the property that run against your deed. These may have been recorded by a previous owner without your knowledge.
 Particularly in situations involving a neighbor using land within your property boundary, you may have to have a professional surveyor mark the property lines according to your deed so you can confirm the contested area is actually part of your property.You can expect to pay several hundred dollars for a professional survey from a licensed surveyor. If you're on reasonably good terms with your neighbor, you might consider asking them if they are willing to split the cost with you.
Look for a surveyor who is licensed in your state and who has a good reputation and experience surveying property similar to yours.
 Your complaint identifies the person you believe is trespassing on your property and lists factual allegations describing their trespass. You may ask the court for monetary damages or simply for an injunction ordering the person to stop trespassing on your property.If you have a police report from a previous encounter with the individual, you can use the name and address found there.
Look up the civil trespass law in your state and isolate the elements of the violation. Each of the parts of the law are distinct factual things that must be proven in court.
You also must include an allegation in your complaint that corresponds to each factual element of the trespass law. If you leave something out, the other party may be able to get your lawsuit dismissed for failure to state a claim.
Typically you would ask for an injunction, but you may include monetary damages if the person altered or destroyed your property as a result of their use.
 Once you've completed your complaint, you must take it along with at least two copies and file them with the clerk of the court you want to hear your lawsuit. The clerk will keep the originals for the court's records and return the copies to you.You can expect to pay a filing fee to initiate your lawsuit – typically several hundred dollars. If you don't believe you can afford the filing fee, ask the clerk for a fee waiver application.
You must provide details about your income and assets on the waiver application, and if those fall below the court's threshold you won't have to pay any court costs for your lawsuit.
Once you've paid the fees, you'll get one file-stamped copy for your records and the other to be served on the person you're suing.
 One of the copies of the complaint, summons, and any other documents required by the court must be served on the person you're suing for trespass. Typically this is accomplished by having a sheriff's deputy hand-deliver the documents.You also may have the ability to complete service by mailing the documents using certified mail with returned receipt requested. The green card you get back when the documents are successfully delivered serves as proof of service.
Because the other party must be served, it's important that you have the correct name and an address where they can be found. If they cannot be served, you won't be able to have a judge hear your case.
After service is completed, you must file a document establishing proof of service with the court. If you had a sheriff's deputy hand-deliver the documents, they usually will complete and file this document for you.
If you used certified mail, you'll have to complete the proof of service form yourself and file it with the clerk along with your returned receipt.
 When the defendant is served with your complaint, they have a limited period of time – typically less than 30 days – to file a written answer or other response to your lawsuit. If no response is filed within that time, you may be eligible to win by default.Keep in mind that even if the person doesn't respond, you still have to file a motion for default and then go into court and argue your case to the judge. You generally must be able to prove that you are entitled to the damages you requested.
If the person files a written answer to your lawsuit, it will be served on you in the same way you had the complaint served on them.
Read the answer carefully and be on the lookout for a counterclaim. Sometimes if you sue someone for trespass, they will countersue you for monetary damages stemming from injuries they sustained while on your property.
If the person files a counterclaim, you have a brief period of time to respond to their allegations, just as they had to respond to your complaint. #*Assuming all the initial documents, called pleadings, are proper, you can commence litigation towards the trial.

