 Other than diabetes and hypothyroidism, common metabolic diseases in older dogs include Cushing’s disease (overactive adrenal glands) and Addison’s disease (underactive adrenal glands). Because the problem causing each metabolic disease is different, the medical treatment for each disease will also be different.


Talk with your vet about which medication will be most effective to treat your dog’s specific metabolic disease.
Many metabolic diseases, like diabetes, are not curable. Medications can help manage the disease and allow your dog to have a good quality of life.
Other metabolic diseases, like Cushing’s disease, can be treated with medication and/or surgery. Your vet will help you determine which type of treatment will be best for your dog.;
, If you and your vet decide on medical treatment of your dog’s metabolic disease, administer the medication as prescribed by your vet. For example, if your dog has pituitary-dependent Cushing’s disease, you will give your dog either trilostane or mitotane, which are oral drugs.You can give your dog a pill in several different ways, such as crushing the pill and mixing it in with its food or hiding the pill in a tasty treat or pill pocket.
Medical treatment for diabetes is injectable insulin. If your dog has diabetes, inject the insulin by creating a tent with the skin on your dog’s back and injecting the prescribed insulin dose just under the skin.Prescription instructions vary according to the type of disease. Your vet will give you instructions for your dog’s specific disease.
To manage your dog’s metabolic disease, you may need to administer medication for the rest of its life.
 Although medications can effectively treat and manage metabolic diseases, they can also cause negative side effects. For example, levothyroxine, which treats hypothyroidism in dogs, can cause agitation and diarrhea if given at too high of a dose.Mitotane can cause vomiting, diarrhea, and weakness if cortisol (adrenal gland hormone) levels become too low.If your dog seems unwell after being on the medication, contact your vet. Your vet may need to adjust the medication’s dose, or find a different medication that can treat the metabolic disease with fewer bad side effects.
 With metabolic disease, the blood levels of a substance (glucose, cortisol, thyroid hormone) become too high or too low. While your dog is taking medication, your vet will want to monitor your dog’s blood work to ensure the medication is keeping blood levels of the affected substance within a normal range.


Your vet will recommend a schedule for follow-up appointments. Do not miss these appointments. They will help ensure your dog’s medication is working as it should.

