 Teddies nap better if they are wearing PJs. If your teddy is wearing any clothes, take them off. Put them away so they don't get dirty.;
, If your teddy bear doesn't have any bedtime clothes, then click here. You'll find some ideas on how to get your teddy tired and ready for a nap.


If your teddy doesn't sleep in anything, try giving him or her a blankie instead. This will let your teddy bear know that it is nap time. Your teddy bear will start to feel sleepy.
 Stick each foot into each leg hole. Tug the pants up. Some PJ pants will have a hole for the tail. If there is one, pull your teddy's tail through it.
 Undo any buttons and Velcro first, then put the shirt on. Once the shirt is on, close the buttons and Velcro.


If the PJ shirt does not open and close, pull it over your teddy's head first. Then, pull each paw through each sleeve.
 Pull the nightgown over the head first. Then, pull the paws through the sleeves.
 Your teddy might not need these for a nap, but they could help him or her fall asleep.
 If your teddy is not tired, he or she may not want to take a nap. You will need do some activities to get your teddy tired. This part will give you tips on how to get your teddy sleepy.
 Some teddies find it easier to sleep on a full tummy. Try giving your teddy some warm milk and cookies. You can also try juice and crackers. If your teddy not very hungry, try a piece of fruit, like a banana or an apple.


Sit your teddy at the table.
Pour some milk or juice into a cup and give it to your teddy.
Put 1 to 3 cookies or crackers on a plate, and give that to your teddy too.
 Find your teddy's favorite book and read it aloud. If it is a very long book, then read only a chapter or two.


If there are pictures, let the teddy sit in your lap. Your teddy may want to see the pictures too.
 Make sure that it is not a scary one, or your teddy may be too scared to nap. Try to find something short, like a cartoon. A movie will be too long, and your teddy may not be tired after that.


You can also share a snack with your teddy. Your teddy may like a cup of juice and some popcorn or crackers.
 Find a song that is soft and quiet. Do not play a song that is loud, or your teddy won't fall asleep.
 Twinkle Twinkle Little Star is a good one. You can sing your teddy's favorite song. The softer and quieter, the better.
 Your teddy may not be able to do the art project with you, but he or she may like watching you paint or draw.


You can also do a short craft instead. Make a paper airplane, or build a house out of Legos or blocks.
 Fluff up the pillow first. Then, pull back the blanket enough so that he or she can lie down.
 Make sure that your teddy's head is on the pillow. The body should be on the mattress.
 Your teddy won't nap if it is too cold. If it is a warm day, then leave the blanket off.
 Teddy bears are light sleepers. If it is too bright or noisy, your teddy won't fall asleep.


If you can't turn down the lights, or if it is day time, cover your teddy bear's eyes with a long sock. You can also use a folded tissue.
 Sometimes, teddies need to nap while you are in a car or on an airplane. If this happens, let your teddy nap in your arms. You can also fold a jacket into a square and place it down on the seat next to you. Your teddy can use the jacket as a pillow.
 Lean over your teddy bear and kiss him or her on the nose. Tell your teddy bear that it is time to get up. Take the blanket off. Don't be too loud, or your teddy bear get grumpy.
 If your teddy bear was wearing any daytime clothes before, put those back on. Don't forget to put your teddy's PJs away, so they don't get dirty.

