 Frequently, lifestyle changes are not enough to reduce blood pressure to healthy levels. In many cases, prescription medications must be used. In this situation, the most effect anti-hypertensive regimen is a combination of both lifestyle changes and medication. Sometimes more than one type of medication is necessary. There are several types of medication that can be used as initial drug therapy.
 This medication, such as chlorthalidone and hydrochlorothiazide, are believed to work initially by reducing fluid volume, and secondarily by causing the relaxation of your blood vessels. They are taken once daily.


Possible side effects of this medication include low potassium, which can lead to muscle weakness and irregular heart beat, as well as low sodium, which can lead to dizziness, vomiting, and fatigue., These medications, which are sometimes called amlodipine, nicardipine, nifedipine, verapamil, or diltiazem, are are potent vasodilators. They work by relaxing the muscle in the wall of your blood vessels. These are generally taken 1-3 times daily.


Possible side effects include swelling in the lower extremities and decreased heart rate., ACE inhibitors and Angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) are types of medications that inhibit a hormone called Angiotensin II, which results in a narrowing of blood vessels. It also helps increase fluid retention. They are generally taken 1-3 times daily.


Major side effects include low blood pressure and a lower pulse, which can cause dizziness and fainting. They also cause elevated potassium, which can cause muscle weakness, irregular heart beat, and cough. Up to 20% of patients taking an ACE inhibitor will develop a dry, hacking cough, generally within 1-2 weeks of starting the medication.
ACE inhibitors and ARBs work well for younger patients ranging from 22-51 years old., These medications may be used if you do not respond to other medications. These work by blocking signals from nerves and hormones in the body that cause the narrowing of blood vessels. They are taken 1-3 times daily.


Side effects for beta blockers include cough (if one has a tendency for asthma or allergies) and shortness of breath, low blood sugar, high potassium, depression, fatigue, and sexual dysfunction.
Side effects for alpha blockers include headache, nausea, weakness, and weight gain.
Beta blockers work well for younger patients ranging from 22-51 years old.