 Knowing how much other commercial properties in the area sell for and the general market value of the area will be helpful in determining what direction to go in for the commercial aspect of the property.


What is most desirable right now in this area? What does the neighborhood need? What other future developments are happening (a new school, condominium, or shopping center) that will affect the supply and demand of your investment?, Naming a property lends it character and charm, and enables people to identify its purpose and position in the market. This is integral to branding the property, which can significantly increase its value.


For name ideas, consider the property's history, placement within the community, purpose, neighborhood, and tenants.
You can also consider selling the naming rights to a large tenant.
On the topic of names, consider changing the name of the street or road where the property is located if it is odd or extremely difficult to pronounce. For instance, Shades of Death Road (located in NJ) may see some struggle on commercial property value. You can petition to your local planning and zoning departments to have street names changed., If your commercial property has space to for more tenants, there are a number of methods you can use to find tenants and increase property value.


Offer move-in specials to attract new tenants. For example, you can offer a discounted first month rent rate, a low deposit amount or a short-term lease to get tenants into your property.For example, ask existing tenants to refer new tenants and consider offering an incentive in return. Incentive examples include a finder's fee, one month of a discounted rent rate, or access to a premium property amenity.
Getting new tenants through referrals may increase the tenant synergy of the building, meaning that the types of businesses will be in similar categories. For instance, lack of tenant synergy would be having a shop selling high-end Gucci bags and women’s accessories next to a pawn shop, and this is something that brings property value down., An empty building is a certain way to decrease the value of your property dramatically. Fortunately, having the proper policies and procedures can greatly help in retaining tenants and avoiding vacancies.


Maintain an excellent relationship with your tenants. This means addressing their concerns promptly, being available, and maintaining the property. This can help to retain tenants.
Keep in touch with the wants and needs of your target tenant market. Do you own a high-end apartment building? Having gym facilities, wi-fi, and ample parking may be important.
 Commercial real estate buyers are focused on income, and one of the easiest ways to increase your income is to increase your rent. Increasing rent, however, needs to be done carefully. If your building has a very high occupancy rate (95 – 100%) this may be an indication that your rents can increase.


If your property is comprised of smaller businesses or low-income tenants, raising the rent may be unwise, since you could inadvertently decrease your occupancy rate. This could mean lower revenues for you, and more difficulty attracting new tenants.
However, if your property has higher-end tenants, if your neighborhood is popular, if there is a waiting list for your property, or if nearby property rents are higher, consider raising your rents. The goal is to charge the maximum amount of rent possible without having tenants leave or reducing your ability to attract new ones.
Consider whether or not recent investments to the property justify higher rents as well. For example, you may have invested in a high-quality parking lot, new security measures, or top-notch air conditioning. All of these could justify higher rents. 