 The above example is that of so-called "weak" induction, named so not because of a difference in quality between the two induction methods but rather to illustrate a difference between what is assumed in the inductive hypothesis of each type of proof. The two proof techniques are actually equivalent, it is just sometimes necessary to assume more in the inductive hypothesis in order to prove the proposition at hand.To return to our domino analogy, sometimes the weight of assuming P(k) is true is not sufficient enough to knock down the domino represented by P(k + 1). Sometimes you need to be able to knock down all the dominoes before it in order to prove that your proposition holds.
 To illustrate this, let us consider a different example. Let's say you are asked to prove true the proposition that all integers greater than 1 can be written as the product of prime numbers.As before, we will refer to this proposition as P(n), where "n" is the number that can be expressed as a product of primes.
Since we are talking about all integers greater than 1, "n" will have to be greater than, or equal to, 2.
Remember that a prime number is a positive integer greater than 1 that can only be divided, without a remainder, by itself and 1.
 As before, the first step in any induction proof is to prove that the base case holds true. In this case, we will use 2. Since 2 is a prime number (only divisible by itself and 1), we can conclude the base case holds true.
 Here is where the difference between "weak" and "strong" induction presents itself most clearly, as this step is the only difference between the two forms of inductive proof. The inductive hypothesis for "weak" induction would assume that for some arbitrary value of "n"—again, let's use "k"—that the proposition holds. We would then use that assumption to prove that the next value in the chain is true, allowing us to conclude our proposition is valid overall. However, for this proposition, assuming P(k) is true tells us nothing about P(k + 1). This type of "weak" assumption is insufficient here, so we will need to assume more. The inductive hypothesis for "strong" induction, instead of simply assuming that P(k) is true, assumes that, for all values of "n" between the base case and "k," that the proposition is true.We will use this comparatively stronger assumption (i.e., we are assuming more) to prove the proposition true.


This type of "strong" assumption is what differentiates the two forms of proof.
In this case, we will assume that, for some value of k ≥ 2, that each integer "n" such that 2 ≤ n ≤ k may be written as the product of primes., We will now use this strong assumption to prove that P(k + 1) also holds true, thereby proving the validity of our proposition overall. There are two relevant outcomes for "k + 1." If "k + 1" is a prime number, our proposition holds, and we are done. If "k + 1" is not a prime number, it will have a smallest prime factor, which we will denote as "p." Therefore, "k + 1" can be expressed as the product of "p" and some other number, "x." Since "x" will necessarily be less than "k," our inductive hypothesis tells us that "x" can be written as a product of primes, which ultimately means that—regardless of whether "k + 1" is prime or not—it can be written as a product of prime numbers.
 Using our "strong" inductive hypothesis, we were able to prove our proposition held when "weak" induction would have been insufficient to do so. Try "weak" induction first, because the fact that you are assuming less theoretically makes the logic behind the proof stronger, contrary to the naming conventions used for these two types of proofs. Mathematically, though, the two forms of induction are equivalent.

