 Different environments can make the girl you like more or less apt to be willing to have a conversation with you. If you interrupt her while she’s doing something she feels is important or if it’s clear that she would rather not be bothered right now, she probably won’t react well to you introducing yourself.If the girl you like is in the middle of a conversation with other people, looks deeply focused on what she is doing, or has headphones in she may not want to be bothered. You should consider approaching her at a later time.
Places like bars, coffee shops, book stores or even the gym may be good places to strike up a conversation. Many people go to such places for the social element and she may be expecting to talk to people while there.
 If you and your crush meet eyes from across the room, approach her soon thereafter. If you look at her for a long time before approaching you may make her feel uncomfortable.Looking at someone from a distance for a long time without approaching may make you seem creepy rather than friendly.
Your conversation should seem impromptu rather than planned, so allow making eye contact from across the room to be the catalyst that made you want to strike up a conversation.
Approach her and say hi, then introduce yourself the way you’ve practiced.
 Don’t simply introduce yourself and allow the conversation to fizzle out immediately. Try making a friendly observation that invites her to continue the conversation if she’s interested in doing so.


You could try being direct in your conversation. Start by saying something like, “I noticed you from across the room and knew if I didn’t introduce myself I’d be kicking myself all day.”
You could ask her a social favor like, “Hi, I’m new here and don’t really know anyone. Would you mind if I talked to you for a minute?”
If you already know each other loosely you may want to bring up a class you were in together or a party you both attended.
 No matter how much you practice, you still may get nervous talking to your crush. If you are nervous, don’t hope she won’t notice because she likely will. Instead get out in front of your nervousness by addressing it in conversation.Say something like, “I’m always so nervous when I meet new people!”
If you want to compliment her you could say, “I can’t help but be a bit nervous when I’m talking to such a pretty girl.”

, After you’ve sparked a conversation with the girl you like, you may find it starting to fizzle out quickly. That doesn’t necessarily mean she isn’t interested, so use questions about her and observations about things going on around you to fill awkward gaps.Ask her to elaborate on a statement she recently made. If she mentioned that she moved to the area recently, for instance, ask her about where she used to live by saying something like, “did your last town have a good nightlife?” Her response will help let you know what sorts of things she enjoys doing when she goes out.
Try pointing out something interesting that is going on around you. If you are in school, bring up a nearby teacher and ask if she’s had any classes with him yet, then offer your opinion on that teacher. Try saying something like, “have you had a class with Mr. Thompson yet? He’s good, but he really loads on the homework.”

, You may be tempted to lie or act like someone you aren’t to seem cooler or more confident in front of your crush, but remember that if you were ever to end up in a relationship with her you would want it to be based on honesty.


If she doesn’t seem interested, that may be hard to swallow but at least it won’t be because you were trying to be something that you’re not.
If she responds well, you know that you can be yourself with her and that’s a great place to start a relationship.
 If she seems as though she’s interested in you, the conversation will likely progress well. Take advantage of the situation by asking if it would be okay for you to call her or add her on social media.Asking for a phone number often seems flirtatious in nature, so it may be easier or more casual to ask if you can add her on social media if you’re unsure of her level of interest.
Try saying something like, “would you mind if I gave you a call sometime?”
If you would rather use social media, bring it up casually by asking if she uses the platform of your choice. Try saying something like, “are you on Facebook?” If she says yes, respond by saying, “would you mind if I sent you a friend request?”

