 Common examples of appliques include fabric patches, rhinestones, embroidery letters, or any other small decoration that can be ironed or sewed onto fabric.
 Fabric patches are a great way to use your schoolbag to express your personality. Consider adding patches from your favorite bands, or from places you have traveled to. If you don't sew, most patches can be applied by ironing them on or using fabric glue.
 Many fabric patches can be attached using an iron or with fabric craft glue. While these methods are not as secure as sewing, they are much easier and less time-consuming.Simply place the patch in the desired location on the bag and cover with a thin cloth.


Make sure the iron is turned on and set to "dry" (not steam) at low to mid heat.Slowly press down on the patch with the iron in an up and down motion (do not move back and forth) for 30 to 40 seconds. Make sure pressure is applied firmly and evenly. Finally, turn the school bag inside out and iron the opposite side for 20 to 30 seconds to reinforce the patch.Once the patch has cooled, slide your finger around the edges to make sure it is secure. Repeat ironing if needed.
 Sewn on patches are usually more secure and less likely to fall off in the wash than ones that are ironed or glued on.Place the patch in desired location. Use a safety pin or straight pin to hold in place.Alternatively, you can secure the patch before sewing by using a brush to apply a thin, even coat of fabric craft glue to the back. Place patch in desired location and smooth out edges. Allow to dry for at least 1 hour before sewing.Once the patch is secured, set machine to make a tight stitch and sew around the periphery. If possible, use a multi-stitch zig zag setting to create a strong, tight stitch., If you do not have access to, or do not know how to use a sewing machine, you can sew on patches by hand. All you need is a needle, some thread, and a straight pin or fabric glue. This may be more time consuming and your stitches will not be as even, but it is just as effective. Start as you would for a sewing machine, by securing the patch in the desired location with straight pins or for added security, fabric glue.


Cut a piece of thread that is no longer than 18 inches. Thread a needle and knot at one end. Start by placing the needle through the underlying fabric and pushing it through the patch. This will ensure the ends of the thread are hidden and not stick out from the patch. Stick the needle back through the patch and underlying fabric so it catches the edge of the patch. Pull the needle back through the fabric so the stitches are set not more than 1/4 inch apart.Repeat, stitching along the perimeter until the entire patch is sew on. Re-thread the needle as needed.
When finished, knot the thread and pull needle through patch and fabric. Cut ends of thread and tuck under patch.
 You can embellish your schoolbag using beadwork to form your initials, create sparkly floral motifs, or abstract designs.Beading requires fewer stitches than embroidering with thread or wool, and beads can be attached using almost any stitch.


Draw a design or letters with chalk, or purchase a beadwork pattern from a craft or fabric store.
Use a beading needle (these tend to be leaner and have smaller eyes than regular sewing needles) and select a size (10 to 15) based on your bead size.Thread the needle and tie a knot at one end of your string.Place needle underneath fabric and push through. Slide bead over needle and pull down length of thread until at fabric level. Push needle back through fabric alongside (not through center) of bead. Repeat 3 to 4 times so bead is secure before moving on to next bead.When finished or need to re-thread, tie several knots in the thread on the inside of the schoolbag and tuck under adjacent threads. This will keep the knots hidden, and prevent ends from fraying., Purchase flat back plastic rhinestones or crystals and fabric craft glue from a craft or fabric store. Make sure you have enough rhinestones by sketching your design on a piece of paper. Use this as a template to place (do not glue) rhinestones in desired pattern, such as a sunburst or star.Sketch your pattern in chalk on your schoolbag. This way, you can wipe it off with water if you make a mistake.
Glue the rhinestones on one at a time. If necessary, use tweezers to pick-up rhinestones. Use a toothpick to place a small drop of glue on the bottom of the stone and gently press it onto the fabric. Once all stones are glued on, let sit for 24 hours. While the glue should stabilize in about 1 hour, it takes an entire day to fully dry.Simply re-glue any stones that fall off.
 Studs come in a variety of shapes and sizes, including flat squares or spikes and are easy to attach to most schoolbags, even ones made from leather. You will need an exacto knife, small pliers, and studs purchased from a craft store. Determine where you want to place the studs. Use the exacto knife to poke two small holes. Insert your stud through the holes and using the pliers, bend the two prongs down until secure.