 While it can be a blow to your pride, you should understand that you are responsible for the grade you have received. Conflicts with professors can happen, and external factors can affect your grade, but in most situations, you have to realize that if you want to improve, you have to act., Realize that bad things unfortunately happen in life. While getting a bad grade may put you in full panic mode, you have to put the situation into perspective in order to get to that Zen place. Do you have your health? Do you have a family who loves you and friends who rally around you? Count your blessings. Remember that while grades are important, they aren’t the only thing that should matter in your life.
 When you are upset, it is all right to discuss it with a friend or family member. Do not feel as though you have to keep it to yourself. It is understandable if you are concerned about disappointing your parents, ruining your GPA, or making a bad impression on your professors. Know that you can pull through this and that you can find support.


You can even book an appointment with your college's mental health counselors (often known as the Campus and Psychological Services or CAPS). These are trusted professionals who are trained to help stressed out and upset college students.
Do not go on the internet and write your complaints online. These can be seen by other students, college officials, or possibly your professors. There can be many consequences from this. Talk in private to a friend or counselor.
 While you may be stressed out, now is not the time to neglect your well-being. Get ice cream with a friend, watch a movie, or take a bubble bath. Do an activity that relaxes you. The goal is not to run away from the bad grade but to put yourself in a mental state where you can deal with it. Once you are relaxed, look back over your grade.
 You are more than your grades. Good grades can give you great validation, but you should not let bad grades make you feel worthless. A bad grade does not mean you are stupid or that you are incapable of graduating college. Everybody has other great talents, qualities, and characteristics that can't be measured by a grade in school., When alone in your room, take a few minutes to close your eyes. Breathe in and out deeply, making sure to focus on your breath. Allow your thoughts to drift away. Think about nothing, and whenever your grade anxieties surface, push them away. You can try using soft music to help calm you. Try meditating for fifteen to thirty minutes.


Yoga is another great way to keep calm and achieve zen. Many campuses offer yoga classes. Check with your campus gym to see if you can sign up for a class.
 Sometimes you don't have time to meditate when you feel anxious or panicked. You can use short relaxation techniques to soothe your mood. Stop what you are doing. Close your eyes, and count to ten. Visualize a calm and happy place, such as the ocean or a babbling brook. These techniques will help your body relax, and they will release any anxiety you have.You can tense your muscles and slowly release them during your count. Or you can squeeze a stress ball and slowly relax your grip.While visualizing your happy place, try to invoke all of your senses. If you are on the ocean, imagine the wind, the salty taste of the air, and the sand between your toes. This will make visualization more effective.
Remember to breathe deeply. Breathe in and out for every count up to ten.
 Some people are so distressed about their grades that they start partying harder to forget about it, starting a vicious cycle. When you are stressed out about a bad grade, try to avoid drinking until you have calmed down.