 Some schools allow you to paint the lockers but others don't even allow any pictures to be hung. Read the policy (it's probably in your student handbook), and/or ask an administrator if you have any questions.;
, To make the most of your decorations, make sure you have a lot of space to work with.
 These are the classic locker decoration and are a good way to show off who you’re friends with or currently dating. Consider hanging up pictures of friends and family or other pictures that you've taken, or make a photo collage out of magazine clippings, album covers, or photos you found online. Just don’t overfill your locker with pictures or your locker will get cluttered and won't look very good.


Postcards, nice shopping bags, or posters also make great wall hangings, but choose things that reflect your own unique personality.
 This is a great way to make sure you look good between classes – not to mention take a peek at whoever is behind you.
 Use it for reminders, such as writing down a test date or homework assignment. If you share a locker with someone you like, you can also use it to leave notes for each other.


If you don't have the space to hang up a bulletin board, think about sticking up cork coasters in a pretty formation and they'll act as mini bulletin boards.
 You can buy funny magnets that show off your personality, have custom photo magnets made, or even stick magnetic letters inside to write notes. The magnets can be purely decorative, but they’re also a great way to hang notes if you can’t fit a bulletin board inside.


You could also hang functional items such as a magnetic calculator or calendar.
 Simply place a wide-mouthed envelope or small, flat canister underneath the slots so that your friends can drop notes inside.
 It’s a good idea to test a marker in an inconspicuous corner to make sure it erases before going all out and professing your undying love to your crush all over the inside. If this works, keep dry-erase markers in a conspicuous place inside the locker (ex. tied to strings and hanging from magnets) so that you never confuse them with Sharpies.
 Make sure it’s small enough that you still have room left over for the rest of your stuff.
 Lockers don't get a lot of air circulation, so consider spraying your perfume/cologne inside or adding an air freshener. (Don’t limit your thinking to those paper fresheners you find in cars; a lot of stores sell miniature bottles of air freshener that come in lots of different scents.) As an added bonus, this will it help cover up the smell of that sandwich you left in there last week.
 Once you have your content arranged, go ahead and accentuate it. You can put in ribbon streamers, fabric pieces, etc., or you can even put in a thin wooden frame around your art.
 You can keep the same theme all year or you can redo parts of it or the whole thing from time to time. Consider making seasonal changes or decorating your locker for holidays or important events. Keep it interesting all year long. You might even make new friends, too!

, Now that you've spent all that time getting your locker just right, keep it in good condition. Clean it out regularly, and keep your books organized. Just opening and closing the door of your locker will eventually make things start to shift around, especially if you haven't hung them very securely, so periodically maintain your art to keep it looking great.
 This is super convenient for us, since we definitely would want to know where to go next. You can type out and personalize your schedule using Excel. Change the fonts and colors, etc. You can make it any size you want, for example, you can make it big enough so that it is as big as a frame, or you can make it small so it's cute and just like a reminder (if you want to put a lot of other stuff). Just make sure it's legible!

