 When we live in a place for months or years, we stop seeing it as extraordinary or exciting. Reinvigorate your passion for your local area by playing tourist for the day.Visit museums, parks, and art galleries in your area. Take pictures and try to experience these locations as a tourist would. Try a restaurant you've never gone to, or order a new choice from the menu at your favorite place. Experience your life from an outsider's perspective - you just might rediscover what you love about it.
 When you think of meditation, you might envision work rather than play. Although it requires quiet and concentration, meditation can be a fun activity for you. In fact, it allows you to connect with your inner self and your outer environment, meaning you can become more conscious of all the outlets for fun around you.To make meditation fun, seek out a partner who can do the activity with you. Change up your environment, which can prove challenging and exciting. You can also find guided meditations with interesting sounds and prompts.
 If the voice inside your head is constantly complaining or criticizing, it can be hard to enjoy life. Overcome negative self-talk to invite more positive vibes into your days. To stop negative self-talk, follow this four-step process.Pay more attention to your thoughts.
Decide if your thoughts are helpful or unhelpful (i.e. do they improve or worsen your situation)?
Stop negative thinking in its tracks. Choose not to engage or entertain negative thoughts.
Transform negative self-talk into positive thoughts. For example, "I will never have time to spend with my friends because of all these assignments" can be positively reframed to "If I work really hard on these assignments and avoid putting them off, I can take a break halfway through and hang out with my friends".
 Being thankful can help you see more activities as enjoyable rather than unsatisfying. There are many ways you can demonstrate gratitude, such as expressing thanks and starting a gratitude journal.However, one of the most effective methods for changing your perspective is to change your language.


For example, we often complain or nag about all the things we have to do. One suggestions is to change your language to describe all the things you get to do. Changing "have to" to "get to" can have a tremendously positive spin on the way you look at and enjoy your life.