 Deep down, everyone is a nerd about something. Learn a little about her hobbies, or whatever makes her happy outside of your relationship. Show genuine interest in them, and she'll appreciate the effort.


You don't have to fake enthusiasm, or even fully understand what she's talking about. Just make an effort to follow her explanations.;
, Don't take the relationship for granted. Set aside time to give each other your full attention, and put in the effort to make it feel special.
 Does she stop to pet dogs on the street? Did she call something you did cute in conversation? Make a mental note of these moments, and she'll probably tell you everything you can do to make her smile without even knowing it.
 "Sexy" and "gorgeous" can be great in the right context, but people need recognition on other levels as well. Make sure your girlfriend knows you appreciate her intellect and skill.
 Every relationship is different. Remember to think of what your girlfriend enjoys, instead of repeating what worked on your last significant other.
 Sometimes, you have to let your girlfriend be mad, or sad, or whatever it is she's feeling. If she's going through a rough emotional time, don't tell her that everything's okay or that she just needs to cheer up. She should be able to trust you with every emotion she has, and seek support even when she's not up to smiling.
 Even a bad joke, silly voice, or goofy face can make your girlfriend feel better when she's glum. Your own smile and laughter can be infectious.
 Pick up her favorite food on the way to seeing her, or brew her a cup of tea.
 Hug your girlfriend unexpectedly from behind, steal a kiss, or say "I love you" in the middle of a conversation. Even holding her hand when she's not expecting it can be a tender moment.
 Brush her nose, stroke her cheek, or run your hand along her neck.
 Hold her close and let her stay there as long as she likes.
 You don't need anything planned to take a walk to the park or have a meal together. If you're girlfriend's feeling down, offer to take her to the movie theater to watch any movie she chooses.


You might make her day by surprising her at work or home, either for a special date or just to spend time together.
 If one of you normally does the cooking, make it a cooperative activity this time. Try looking up a new recipe to make it more fun.


If she always cooks for you, give her a break with breakfast in bed.
 If she doesn't like to be tickled, she may laugh on the outside, but contemplate your death on the inside. If she says she does not like being tickled, take her word for it.
 It might take a little while to figure out what kind of gift your girlfriend likes. Some people love a big expensive gesture, while others might find it impersonal or materialistic. They might appreciate something small or homemade instead.
 There's nothing quite like a massage when you're stressed. Have her lie down on a comfy bed and ask her where she's feeling tense.

