 For a very luxurious day, head to a spa where you can rest, relax, and rejuvenate. Spas often have hot tubs and cold plunges where you can soak and bubble, but also offer services like massages and facials..


Alternatively, you could set up your own spa at home. Click here to learn how to give yourself a facial and click here to learn how to give yourself a relaxing massage.;
, Soaking in a hot bath can be both peaceful and rejuvenating. Draw a hot, steaming bath for yourself and add some bubble bath, bath salts, or essential oils to give your tub an added touch of luxury.


To make your bath even more relaxing, light some candles and put on some of your favorite music. Don’t forget to pour yourself a cold glass of water (or wine) to bring into the bathroom with you.
 After you have soaked in the tub, break out the polish and toe dividers and paint your nails a funky color (or a darker color if that’s more your thing). Or, take it one step further and give yourself a French manicure.


Alternatively, you could go to the salon to get your nails done.
 Bring a pot of water to a boil and then add some essential oil (the scent is up to you) to the boiling water. Once the water is steaming, remove the pot from the stove, place a towel over your head and the pot, and breathe in the scented steam. Scents that may help you to relax include:


Lavender.
Jasmine.
Cedarwood.
Bergamot.
 Restorative yoga classes can help you to stretch away the tightness and kinks in your muscles. These postures aim to make you feel calm and balanced while also giving your muscles a gentle stretch.


Run an online search to find restorative yoga classes near you.
 This does not necessarily need to be food, but instead could be tickets to that band’s show that you’ve been wanting to see. Of course, the treat could also be a cupcake filled with custard, but that decision is up to you.
 Go on a shopping spree and outfit yourself in a new wardrobe (or at least a new outfit). Part of pampering your body is wrapping it up in comfortable, lovely clothes.


If you don’t feel like going on a shopping spree, you could also spend some time simply trying on your fanciest outfits you haven’t worn in awhile, or going through your clothes and picking out some to sell so that you can go on a shopping spree in the future.
 Have you been meaning to finally try that linoleum carving kit you bought? Maybe half of your garden has gone to seed, or you have a mountain that you’ve been meaning to climb. Whatever your hobby may be, set aside some time to pamper yourself by doing that hobby.

