 Heating and cooling can be roughly half of the utility bill costs in your home. Keep your thermostat warmer in the summer and cooler in the winter. You can also get a programmable thermostat to save money. When no one is home, you can keep your settings closer to the outdoor temperature to avoid heating or cooling an empty place.During the winter months, consider keeping your thermostat between 55 and 64°F (12.7 and 17.8°C) . In the summer, between 72 and 74°F (22.2 and 23.3°C) is probably ideal. Make sure the temperature is not set too low in the winter to avoid freezing pipes, and avoid setting it too high in the summer to avoid peeling paint or wallpaper.;
, Locate your water heater and set it to 120°F. You can save between 3 and 5% for every 10ºF you lower your heater (if it is set above 120°F). So, if it was set at 160°F, lowering it to 120°F could save you 20% on your heating bill.In addition, using insulated plumbing and insulation on your hot-water storage tank can keep water warm for longer and allow the water to retain heat as it travels through the house., Plumbing can be a large waste of water and drive up your water bill. Try switching to a shower head with less water flow and a low-flow toilet to save on the amount of water you use.Low flow shower heads put out 1.5 gallons of water per minute. In contrast, regular shower heads can put out as much as 4.5 gallons of water per minute.
Even though low flow shower heads produce less water, you should still get plenty of water pressure to stay clean. If the pressure is not enough, consider getting a low flow handheld nozzle.
Old toilets used 3 – 6 gallons per flush — federal standards now say that toilets can use no more than 1.6 gallons per flush.It may be more expensive to buy, but you will save money in the long-term by using less water.
 If you have a dishwasher, it’s important to always run it as a full load. Organize the dishwasher well so everything gets clean, but make sure there is no additional space.Also, consider turning off the heat dry on your dishwasher. Instead, you can lead your dishes air dry in the dishwasher
Wash and dry pots and pans by hand. They use a lot of space in the dishwasher, so you’ll likely use the dishwasher less if you wash these yourself.
 90% of your washing machine's energy goes toward heating the water to wash your clothes. Switching to washing your clothes in cold water instead can save a huge amount of energy.On top of that, consider hanging your clothes to dry instead of using your dryer. Set up a clothesline outside and let the sun do the work.


As with washing dishes, refrain from washing tiny loads. Don't over-load the washer, but make sure you're doing a full load every time.
 Your oven uses a lot of energy, so think about if you need it when cooking. It may be more energy efficient to use your toaster oven or microwave to cook rather than your oven in some cases.


Your toaster oven can cook most anything your oven can. If you are baking or cooking something small, use the toaster oven instead to save energy.
Baking foods like potatoes can be done more efficiently in the microwave. The microwave can also be used for reheating rather than using the oven too much.
 If you are really looking to save money, it may be a good idea to get rid of cable TV or land line telephones. These bills can really add up over time and you can work around not having them easily.If you get rid of cable TV, you can get a digital antennae for relatively cheap. Using the digital antennae, you can get local channels without a problem. For other channels, consider using online media to supplement your broadcast channels.
When you have a cell phone, it may be redundant to have a home telephone. If you don't use your home phone often, get rid of it and replace it with your cell phone as a phone of regular use.
Consider switching to a slower speed internet connection. It may take a little longer for things to load, but you'll be paying less.

