 This is 911 in the US, 999 in the United Kingdom, and 000 in Australia. The key to surviving a venomous snake bite is to get an antivenom as soon as possible.


Call the emergency responders even if you are not sure whether the snake was venomous. Do not wait to see if symptoms develop. If the snake turns out to be a danger, then the venom may spread while you are waiting.
The emergency responder on the telephone will decide whether to send an ambulance/helicopter to get you or whether you should go yourself to the nearest emergency room.
If you go yourself to the emergency room, have someone drive you. Do not drive yourself. As the venom kicks in, it may cause symptoms like blurred vision, difficulty breathing, fainting, and paralysis that could impair your ability to drive.;
, The faster your heart beats, the faster the venom will spread throughout your body. Do not attempt to suck out the venom from the bite; this will not help, it is already spreading. , When you call for help, describe the snake to the emergency responders. This may help them to prepare the right antivenom and have it ready for you, but medical staff in the emergency department may also consult Poison Control experts to choose the best treatment. If you or someone with you can safely get a clear photo, this can help a lot. Give as much information as you can about the snake’s characteristics. How long was the snake?
How thick was the snake?
What color(s) did the snake have on it?
What patterns or distinct markings did it have?
What was the shape of the snake’s head? Was it triangular?
What was the shape of the snake’s pupils? Were they round or vertical slits?
If you have a friend with you that can quickly take a picture of the snake while you are on the phone calling the emergency responders, bring the photo with you.
Do not try to kill the snake to bring it with you. This is very dangerous because you risk being bitten again, you are wasting precious time before getting an antivenom, and the more you move and exert yourself, the faster the venom will spread through your body.Some antivenom is polyvalent – that is, it is effective against multiple types of venom.
 Try your best to stay calm, still and quiet while traveling to the hospital or waiting for an ambulance. The faster your heart beats the more you increase the blood flow to the bitten area, increasing the spread of the venom.The bitten area is likely to begin swelling. Quickly remove any jewelry or restrictive clothing.
Keep the bitten area below your heart to reduce circulation of the venom to the rest of your body.
If you were bitten on an arm or leg, splint it to restrict your movement. This will prevent you from moving it without realizing it. You do not want to increase the circulation in the bitten area.
If you know someone who is strong enough to carry you, let them carry you so that you won’t increase your circulation by walking.
If you have to walk, reduce your physical exertion by not carrying anything (like a hiking backpack).
 More blood will come out at first because there are typically anticoagulants in the venom. If a snake bite is deep enough to cause spurting blood (i.e. the strike hit a major artery and you are losing blood fast), immediately apply pressure to the wound.


While some sources say washing the wound or near it with soap and water is ok, others advise against it saying that traces of venom found in or around the wound may help the medical professionals identify what kind of snake bit you and determine which antivenom to give you.Cover the bite with a clean, unmedicated bandage., The symptoms vary by what kind of snake it was, the severity of the bite, and the amount of venom injected into the wound. Symptoms may include:Redness, discoloration and/or swelling around the bite
Great pain or a burning sensation
Vomiting
Diarrhea
Low blood pressure
Dizziness or fainting
Difficulty breathing
Blurred vision
Headache
Salivation
Sweating, fever, and thirst
Numbness or tingling in the face or limbs
Loss of coordination
Slurred speech
Swelling of the tongue and throat
Abdominal pain
Weakness
Rapid pulse
Convulsions
Shock
Paralysis
Vertigo

, These days most cell phones have GPS capabilities making it possible for rescue workers and medical teams to find you even if you are hiking in remote areas, so always call emergency responders to discuss your options. Remember, the only effective treatment is an antivenom. Without it, the bite could be fatal or cause permanent injuries. If you cannot contact emergency responders, your options include:


Hiking out until you reach an area where you can call help. If you do this, try to be as quick as possible, but also minimize the exertion. If you have a friend with you, ask them to carry your backpack.
If hiking out is not an option, wash the wound with soap and water to reduce your chances of infection.
Wrap a bandage around the limb two to four inches above the bite to restrict, but not cut off, the circulation. You should be able to still get a finger under the bandage. This will slow the spread of venom without damaging the limb.If you have a snake bite first aid kit with a suction pump, use it according to the manufacturers directions. Many sources say that this is inefficient at removing the venom and a waste of precious time, but if you will not be receiving an antivenom, it is worth a try. Do not attempt to use your mouth.Rest and try to stay calm. Keep the bitten area below your heart to slow the spread of the venom. Snakes do not always inject venom when they bite and when they do, they do not always inject large amounts. You might be lucky.
 Applying cold compresses or ice packs will reduce circulation, concentrate the venom in your tissues, and this may make tissue damage more likely., Do not cut across the wound. This is often done prior to applying suction, but it increases your chances of infection.Because snake fangs are curved, the venom is unlikely to have been injected where you expect.The venom will have already begun spreading.
 And, in the process you will transfer bacteria from your mouth into the wound, increasing the chances of infection.


Most of the venom will remain in your body, making it a better use of time to get medical help as soon as possible.
While some sources recommend using a pump suction deviceothers argue that it is ineffective., Do not take any medications or painkillers unless directed to do so by a doctor. Medications are not a substitute for an antivenom., This may harm you and has not been shown to be effective., Reducing the circulation will concentrate the venom in that limb, making tissue damage due to the venom more likely and cutting off the circulation entirely could permanently damage the limb.You may consider applying a pressure bandage two to four inches above the bite to slow the spread of the venom if you are far from medical help.However, this is also likely to concentrate the venom in that limb, increasing the danger to the limb.
Do not completely cut off blood flow to the limb.
 If you see a snake, walk around it giving it a very wide berth. Snakes can move fast when striking.


If you hear the distinctive rattle of a rattlesnake, move away immediately.
Most snakes will avoid you if given the chance. They are more afraid of you than you are of it.
Do not attempt to harass or poke a snake with a stick.
Do not try to pick up snakes.
 Snake leggings are leather chaps that you can strap on over your boots, which will protect your legs from a snake bite. They are heavy to hike in and hot, but worth it if they save you from a snake bite. You can also purchase snake boots that are specifically designed to prevent snakebites.Protective footwear and snake leggings are especially important if you are hiking at night when you could step on a snake without seeing it.
 Tall grass makes it hard to tell where you are stepping or if you are near a snake. If you must hike through tall grass where there could be snakes hiding, use a long stick to sweep the grass out of your way in front of you. The stick will move the grass away so you can see the snake and likely scare it away.
 Don’t turn over rocks and logs where snakes might be hiding underneath. If you must do so, use a long stick and keep your hands out of any hole where you can't see into it.


If you are landscaping or gardening in an area with poisonous snakes, wear thick leather gloves to protect your hands. It is best if the leather gloves also have long arms to protect more than just your hands.
 To protect yourself, find out what the poisonous snakes in your area look like and be extra careful to avoid them if you see them. Also remember to be alert and listen for the distinctive rattle of a rattlesnake. If you hear rattling, back away as quickly as possible!

