 This can be a word, hand signal, or similar message. There are a lot of choices here, but you want something visible and quick that the loud talking coworker will understand means “quiet down.” You can prepare the caller beforehand by letting the caller know about frequent loud calls that disturb you and others in the office, then set up the signal


You could say, “You make a lot of loud calls. How about I wave a hand in front of you and you can quiet down some?” or “I can clear my throat and send you a text message.”

, This is similar to earlier steps in that you are getting the ongoing offender to take their loud call elsewhere. If you have a multi-line phone you may be able to reduce volume on the line itself. This is a limited option depending on the model of phone.


Tell the caller something such as, “Can you take the call in another office?” Do this each time the caller makes make a loud call.
You can consider making this an automatic request by asking the caller something to the effect of, “Could you make all of your calls in the empty corner office?”

, This may be a verbal or physical intervention. During the coworker’s loud calls you can try physically walking into the office or cubicle to get the caller’s attention. Let the caller know about reducing call volume at the time. You can also place a hand on loud talker’s phone or handset without interfering with any buttons. Never disconnect the call. However, the physical contact can begin to communicate to the caller that you want a lower talking volume.


Say something such as, “You are disturbing the others around you. Talk lower please.”

, This can be preventative as much as action taken when the call is made. Politely let the loud calling coworker know to keep a call’s to a normal volume before a call is made. Make a point of showing the caller what the proximity is to your workspace, and other offices. Also remark on the loud call’s impact on productivity.
 This can take more effort, but once in place it may solve the problem for a while to come.You’ll need to add foam and plastic to the walls and windows of your office space to accomplish soundproofing. Adding strips of foam, easily purchased at any hardware store, to cracks in walls and floors will help absorb sound. Put in extensions to walls and paneling where allowed to seal off any gaps. Use plastic sheeting (with sticky backing) on windows to keep out sound without hurting the view.
 This can offer a range of personal solutions to nullify the loud call’s effect on you every time it occurs. You might think about getting noise cancelling headphones. These use sensors to determine the frequency and volume of incoming sound and transmit a counter pulse to neutralize it. You could listen to music you prefer as a distraction to drown out the other person’s call whenever the caller is on the phone.

