 This is the most effective treatment for a black eye, and you should begin immediately.The cold will reduce swelling and pain. The color from a black eye is a result of blood pooling under the skin, and the cold will constrict your blood vessels, which may lessen or slow the bleeding.Use gentle pressure to press a bag of crushed ice, frozen vegetables, or an ice or old pack to your eye.Make sure you wrap the ice in a clean, dry cloth. Applying the ice directly to your skin could cause a cold burn.Apply the ice pack to your eye for 20 minutes each hour until you go to bed. So, you will alternate 20 minutes on, 40 minutes off, for at least the first day.Don't put a steak or raw meat on your eye. If there is bacteria on the meat it could easily infect an open wound or pass to the mucous membrane on your eye.;
, Don't try to force your eye to open while it's still swollen.Don't poke or prod the injury or press the cold pack against your eye with too much force.If you wear glasses, you may have to go without until the swelling goes down. Your glasses may put pressure on the area around your nose and eye.
Don't participate in any athletic activities that could result in further injury. Wait for the swelling to go down until you get back on the field., Acetaminophen can be particularly effective in reducing pain. Aspirin will help reduce your pain as well, but it also thins blood and affects your blood's ability to clot., A black eye is usually a simple bruise resulting from a blow to the head, nose, or eye, or surgical procedures on the face. In some cases, however, a black eye can be part of a larger problem. If you notice any of the following symptoms, call your doctor or go to an emergency room for immediate treatment:


Blood in the white or iris. You should see an eye specialist (ophthalmologist) as soon as possible.
Double vision or blurred vision.
Severe pain.
Bruising around both eyes.
Bleeding from the nose or eye.
You are unable to move your eye.
Your eye begins leaking fluid or your eyeball appears deformed.
An object has pierced or may be inside your eyeball.
If you take a blood thinner or have hemophilia, go to the ER.

