 If you're going to practice radical honesty, people deserve a head's up. This is especially true if you're practicing radical honesty with your spouse. Most people in society withhold the truth at least some of the time, so someone being so candid can be shocking. Before giving someone an uncomfortable truth, let them know you're a proponent of radical honesty.For example, before sharing your honest opinion with someone, say something like, "So, I practice radical honesty, which means I try to give objective assessments."
With your spouse, talk over the concept of radical honesty together before you begin practicing it. Talk about why it would help with your marriage and what the two of you can expect.
 If you find you've told a lie, stop and confess. Lying often comes naturally, especially white lies, so it's easy to be dishonest without realizing it. Lies have a tendency of getting out of control, so it's usually easier to be honest directly after telling a lie. If you caught yourself withholding the truth, stop and say so.For example, say something like, "I know I said I thought your proposal was great earlier today, but I actually wasn't being entirely honest because I didn't want to hurt your feelings. I actually have some concerns and wanted to talk them over with you."

, Once you're used to catching yourself in lies, learn to express yourself directly. In a situation, identify what you're feeling and any needs that result from that feeling. What do you need someone to do? How are a person's actions affecting you? Let someone know these things directly.Learn to express frustration to others. For example, "I'm annoyed that you didn't respond to our memo earlier. I need you to be quicker in the future."
If possible, express your honesty in person. It allows you to fully experience the ramifications of being radically honest, and makes it harder for the receiving party to ignore you.
 Any kind of harsh truths can be difficult for a person to hear. To minimize the impact, use "I"-statements. These focus on personal feeling over objective fact. They begin with, "I feel..." followed by immediately stating your feelings. You then explain the actions that led to those feelings and why you feel the way you do.For example, say your spouse has a tendency to be on their phone while you two are out together. You have ignored this before, but the tendency really does make you feel ignored. Do not say, "You shouldn't be on your phone all the time when you're out. It's disrespectful."
Rephrase the above statement using an "I"-statement. For example, "I feel disrespected when you're on the phone all the time when we're out together because it seems like you're not paying attention to me."

, Not everyone will accept radical honesty. Some people prefer to deny harsh truths about themselves. When this results in your boundaries being violated, it's okay to walk away. For example, if you've continually explained to a friend their behavior is hurtful and seen no change, it's okay to end this relationship.