 Find out when and where the event will take place. You can check the artist’s official website, box office websites, or ticket distributors. There are often notices in local newspapers about upcoming concerts as well. Consult your schedule and make sure you’ll be available on that date.


If you need to travel to get to the venue, clear your schedule for the length of time it will take to get there, attend the concert, and return home.
If you’re under the care of parents or guardians, make sure they will let you go to the concert before you try to get tickets. Other people who enjoy the same bands will be trying to buy or win tickets, too. You wouldn’t want to hurt someone else’s chances of getting seats to the show if you end up not being able to attend the concert.;
, Artists will often announce tours on social media or their websites first.Go to the artist’s website and sign up for their electronic mailing list.Follow the performer’s profiles on social media sites, such as Facebook and Twitter. You can usually find links to their official social media pages directly from the band’s official website.


Use social media apps that will give you real time alerts on your mobile device when the band you’re following posts something. For example, Snapchat, Twitter, or Instagram.
If the band’s website has a blog with an RSS feed, you can use an app like Boxcar, Newsify or RSS Bot to get notifications as soon as their blog posts an update.
 Some credit card companies offer presale tickets deals to their cardholders, and will send out emails about upcoming concerts before the general public even knows about them. Check the website of credit card companies you are a cardholder with or call their customer service number on the back of your card. If they do offer such promotions, sign up for their email list to be notified about special offers.


Try asking, “Do you offer presale deals on concert tickets to your card members?” If the answer is yes, you can ask something like, “How can I submit my email address to be notified about those types of offers?” The representative may guide you through the process or offer to sign you up right over the phone.
For example, American Express, Citibank and MasterCard all have special ticket offers for cardholders.
 Check the artist’s website a few months before the event and look for requests for volunteers. If you apply as a volunteer and are accepted, you will get free access to the show. You can also check with the venue itself to see if they need volunteers.


If you have relevant experience such as with sound, lighting, or musical equipment, be sure to mention that. If not, you may be able to assist with setting up or cleaning up after the event.
 If you plan to purchase tickets through a distributor, sign up for their website ahead of time. Enter your payment information and verify your account via email if required. Then when the tickets go on sale, you can attempt to buy them right away.Sign up for their mailing list to get notifications ahead of time.
If the website has an app for ticket sales, install it on one of your devices. This can give you real time information on ticket availability. Also, you may be able to bypass potential problems with their website loading on the day tickets go on sale.
Practice purchasing tickets ahead of time (for any event) on the website without completing the process. Then you will be familiar with the process so that you are prepared to do it quickly when the tickets you want go on sale. Make sure to remove the test item from your cart afterwards.
 If you know where the venue is going to be, go on their website and view their seating chart. Print it out or save a copy it for easy access. You don’t want to make a mistake by purchasing tickets to seats in a different area than you thought they were.During the public sale, tickets sometimes sell out very quickly. Having a seating chart for easy reference when ticket shopping can save you precious time.
 You can monitor the internet for new content about the artist whose concert you wish to attend. Use a service like Google Alerts or IFTTT (“If This, Then That”). Then if there are news articles or blog posts about ticket sales or giveaways, you’ll be notified by email.


For example, specify that you want to be notified of all new results that include the artist’s name and the keyword “tickets.”

