 Brainstorming involves throwing out ideas, then reflecting on and building on those ideas in order to create even more ideas. Allow 30 to 60 minutes for brainstorming, using the following technique:


Specify the problem that you will focus on.
Commit to withholding judgment. Volunteer anything and everything that comes to mind regarding the problem, no matter how unrealistic it may seem.
Avoid immediate analysis of ideas you come up with during the brainstorming session. You can filter through the useful and useless information later in the decision making process, but during the brainstorming, it is important to allow a free-flow of ideas.;
, You can invite others into a brainstorming session, or garner contributions in the following ways:


Hold a meeting. This method is more rigid than brainstorming, as it requires that you develop an itinerary and instruct team members to contribute ideas during the meeting.
Hand out questionnaires. The advantage to this technique is that people may feel free to contribute an alternative perspective without fear of judgment.
Have conversations with people. When you share the problem with other people, you not only get other viewpoints, but your own thinking is also catalyzed into action. Try talking with a friend, a mentor, someone completely unrelated to the problem or even a child to gain access to new perspectives outside of your own.
 Just imaging you are making a decision from a different viewpoint can provide you with new perspective. For example, if you are a sales person choosing between 3 different marketing campaigns, try imagining the decision making process from the point of view of an accountant, or even a customer.
 Repeating the same scenario over and again in your head may only lead to the same perspective. To develop alternative perspectives, try rewording the issue at hand. For example, if you are faced with deciding how to seat students in a classroom and are stuck on the phrase, "how to create a seating chart," then it may be beneficial to reword the problem as, "why the seating chart is needed," or, "the benefits I hope to gain from creating a seating chart."

, Imagine you are being tasked with creating the problem, rather than solving it. For example, if you must make a decision on how to clean a floor, then imagine how you might mess up a floor in order to identify new approaches to cleaning it.
 Viewing a decision from different surroundings may alter your thought process and perspective.
 Write down, recite out loud, construct 3-dimensional models and/or physically reenact thoughts and ideas that come to you while envisioning alternative perspectives in order to build on those ideas and stimulate your ability to create new ones.
 Include works of non-fiction and fiction in order to gain new perspectives.

