 Authentic Turkish carpets are hand-knotted, and can take months or even years to complete.


Understand the 2 types of knots used in Turkish rug weaving. The double knot, also called a Gordes knot or Turkish knot, provides the most durable carpet. In a double knot, a strand of yarn encircles 2 threads. The single knot, also called a Sennah knot or Persian knot, encircles 1 thread.
Examine the underside of the rug for imperfections. The underside of a hand-knotted rug will show some imperfections in the knots. If the back of the rug is perfect, it probably was made by a machine, not a person.
 The higher the KPSI, the higher the quality. Approximately 150 KPSI is considered average, while fine Turkish rugs may have KPSI counts of 500 or more.


Examine the design on the underside of the rug. The greater the number of knots, the more distinctive the design will be on the back of the rug.
 Turkish rugs and flatweaves are made from 5 materials: sheep wool, goat hair, silk, floss silk and cotton. Select rugs made from natural materials, which are more durable than synthetic materials.


Consider Turkish carpets made from wool. Wool carpets are the most traditional type of Turkish rug, and are woven by hand in countryside villages. Wool quality varies by region and climate, with the higher quality wool coming from sheep found in cooler and higher elevations. The wool typically is hand-spun using a drop spindle, called a kirmen, and spinning wheels.
Evaluate silk Turkish carpets. The silk used in Turkish rugs comes from silk cocoons. When unrolled, the single thread from a silk cocoon can stretch up to 25,000 meters (82,021 feet). The silk fibers are strong and can be twisted easily. Because of the fine fiber, silk rugs can feature about 625 KPSI. Large silk Turkish carpets can take up to 6 years to complete.
Consider floss silk Turkish rugs. Often referred to as art silk, floss silk is mercerized cotton that has a sheen similar to silk. It is used primarily in rugs woven in Kayseri.
Evaluate goat hair carpets. While historians believe that Turkish carpets were originally woven with goat hair, very few rugs today are made with goat hair. Occasionally, goat hair will be used in the bindings of Turkish carpets.
Consider cotton Turkish carpets. Cotton is usually considered more resistant and less elastic than wool, so tighter knots can be achieved. Cotton is used primarily for creating flatweave Kilim rugs, although it can be used to create hand-knotted Turkish carpets as well.



Evaluate natural dyes. Authentic Turkish carpets are made from natural dyes extracted from vegetables, roots, flowers and insects. Natural dyes provide greater authenticity and will increase the rug's value. However, natural dyes will mellow over time.
Evaluate synthetic dyes. Synthetic dyes are available in a wider range of colors than natural dyes. However, unlike naturally dyed fibers, synthetic fibers don't hold dye throughout the entire fiber. A closer examination of a Turkish carpet created with synthetic dyes will reveal that deeper fibers don't have the same color as fibers closest to the surface. Synthetic dyes usually hold their color better over time than natural dyes.

