 If you still have the packaging for the USB drive, check the instructions to see if a driver is included for installation. A driver is a piece of software that allows your computer to communicate with the drive. All operating systems are designed to automatically download the required drivers, but if you have no Internet connection, or if the instructions specify to install the driver manually, you should do so.


The driver will generally be included on a CD if manual installation is necessary. Insert the CD and follow the prompts that appear to install the driver.;
, If your USB drive has a power switch or power cord, turn the drive on before attempting to connect it to your computer. Turn on your computer as well.
 Small storage drives will typically have an integrated USB connector, but portable hard drives and other devices may need a cord. Plug the cord into the device to ready it for connecting to your computer.
 USB ports look like small, rectangular openings with 4 metal contacts inside. The ports will have the USB logo next to them, which shows a circle and a 3-pronged arrow. If you plan on using the device on a permanent basis, use a USB port located on the back of your computer. Front ports are a better option for quickly attaching devices and removing them shortly after.
 After deciding on a port to use, simply plug the drive's USB connector or cord into the port. The connector should fit easily and snugly into the port; it will only fit in 1 direction, so flip the connector around if the fit seems wrong.
 If attaching the drive for the first time, your operating system may search for and install the necessary drivers. You will see a prompt after a few seconds that the drivers have been installed and that the device is ready for use. If you already installed drivers manually, you don't need to wait to use the drive.
 After using the device, you need to eject or "unmount" it first. In Windows, you can right-click on the drive's icon in Explorer and select "Eject." In Mac, drag the drive's icon to the trash bin, which will show an "eject" icon while you have the drive selected. After doing this, physically remove the drive by pulling on it gently.

