 This is essential to understand before setting about persuading people you're worth the effort of love. Second, understand that you're not going to benefit from chasing love. Rather, this has to be about you being your best self and caring for people you know and meet because you want to be that way. But more on that later.
 Do not confuse the two concepts. They are worlds apart.
 If you want to be loved, love everyone. Be nice, gentle and friendly toward everyone. No one can find fault with the kindest person. Speak in a gracious way. Be respectful to all.;
, Attend to personal hygiene and dress appropriately for your age and peer group. If you respect yourself and take pride in your appearance, people will appreciate this and respect your effort in turn.
 Be full of compassion. Even if a person says or does things with which you do not agree, be compassionate and try to stand in their shoes to reach an understanding of their motivations. Practice this regularly until it becomes a habit.
 Live by your morals and ideals. Do what you say. Always be learning.
 The greatest thing you can give is your time and energy.
 You want people to like you for who you are- not for who they think you are or represent.
 When you are around others, don't be uptight or nervous. Make sure other people around you see that you are relaxed and happy, not stressed out and upset. If people think you are carefree they will want to be around you more than if they think you are nervous about everything and this will make them love.
 Be authentic when you compliment and actually mean what you say. If there isn't anything nice to say, you could say nothing. However, even better is to challenge yourself to find at least one good thing about someone that you can say without making it up. Give it a try––it'll help you see the better side of everyone you meet.
 Clinginess terrifies people because they are being made to feel responsible for the person clinging. This isn't lovable behavior––it's a form of suffocation. If you find yourself being clingy, remind yourself of the value of being independent and giving people the best of yourself rather than trying to hide under the shelter of another.
 Don't judge others for their mistakes; there but for the grace of circumstance go you. Always remind yourself that the position someone is in could very well be the position you're in some day thanks to the vagaries of life, luck and coincidences. Be understanding, be ready to investigate deeply and be ready to forgive.


Remember this: If you want your friends and close ones to love you when you're unlovable, the same is expected of you for them. It's only fair.
 Send love out there to others. Have the faith it will come back to you from the persons who matter.
 If you have a lot of emotional baggage and inner turmoil, you won't be able to inspire, help or support others because you're not in the right place. On the other hand, if you take care of yourself first, there will be room for caring for others as well.


Self sacrifice may seem noble but it comes at the expense of expressing yourself properly. It can lead to resentment, bitterness and feeling unfulfilled. Seek a balance between being there for others and being attentive to yourself too.
 Consider your body a sponge absorbing everything around you. You can only have so much happiness before you will start to give it off to those around you. Same with anger, sadness, jealousy. It is a way to keep your emotions balanced.


This doesn't mean dismissing those you care about when they're down and going through hard times. People need support during such times, and their negativity is temporary and does not define them. Be helpful and kind, help them through these times by letting them know they have your support.
 These are limits that others see and respect. If your limits are low, people will cross that line and respect you less for that. If you want people to love you, love yourself in order to be lovable.


People can't love you if you don't love yourself.
 When someone has low self-esteem, people usually don't want love them. If people realize that you are confident, while at the same time being selfless they will want to be around you.
 This may sound like a bizarre ending to an article about which getting people to love you is the very essence. But the point is this––you can be as lovable as you can be but what matters is the why. If you are being lovable because that is your intrinsic nature, your dearest desire and your thing that you want to put out there into the world, then it's authentic, good and self-nurturing. On the other hand, if you're doing this to be liked, to be loved in turn, then you're chasing validation rather than expressing yourself genuinely. Be careful not to get this motivation mixed up and most of all, don't be a sucker for needing validation from other people.Remind yourself often that this is about you being you, not about garnering the world's love in return. Love will come but it's not the end point for your exercise in being a lovable human being.


Be lovable in order to express your true self, not to gain accolades and win friends.
Realize that even with the kindest, most caring intent in the world, you will still rub someone people the wrong way and some people will just dislike you, because they can or want to.

