 Lightly spray the inside of a small custard cup or ramekin with cooking spray to prevent the fondant from sticking later on.


You could also use shortening to grease the dish.
If making more than one fondant tulip, consider using a cupcake pan with multiple slots.
 Use a rolling pin to flatten a portion of fondant so that it is roughly 1/8 inch (3.175 mm) thick.


The fondant should be about as thin as a nickel or dime.
Use any color fondant you want.
To prevent the fondant from sticking to the rolling pin or the surface, dust both the rolling pin and the working surface with cornstarch before you begin.
 Use a cookie cutter or fondant cutter to cut out five ovals with a height of 3 inches (7.6 cm) and a width of 2 inches (5 cm).


You could also cut the ovals out freehand if you do not have an oval cutter. Use a butter knife dusted with cornstarch to do this.
If the cutter threatens to stick to the cutter, dust it with cornstarch or apply shortening or nonstick cooking spray.
 Thin it out just enough to cause the petal to curl a bit.


If you do not have a round ball tool, you could do this with a spoon or your hands.
Do this with each petal.
 Melt a few chocolate chips or wafers that match the color of your tulip. Apply a small dot of this chocolate in the bottom of your prepared dish.


The circle should be about 1 inch (2.5 cm) in diameter.
You could also form a paste with meringue powder and water instead of using chocolate. The choice is yours.
 Slightly bend one short edge of the petal inward and stick it into the melted chocolate.


The center of the petal should hit the center of the custard cup, but the top part of the petal should rest against the side of the cup.
 Bend one short edge of each petal inward and stick it into the center of the melted chocolate, as you did with the first petal. Each petal should slightly overlap the one before it.


All the thin edges should face the same direction.
 Let the tulip dry in its custard cup for a few minutes. Once it feels somewhat hard and set, you can safely remove it.


Use the tulip to decorate as desired.

