 While some therapists may encourage art as a form of expression or stress relief, only credentialed art therapists that meet the Art Therapy Credentials Board’s standards are considered practicing art therapists. Search the ATCB or your national art therapist regulating body’s directory to find a credentialed art therapist near you.Art therapists go through all the schooling expected of any therapist, including a master’s degree, and receive further training under practicing art therapists before becoming certified.
You can search the ATCB’s website for a credentialed therapist and filter your search based on preferences such as area.
If there is not a certified art therapist in your area, doing art therapy with a regular therapist can still be beneficial. For instance, you could do an exercise at home, such as painting your emotional state, and then bring it to to discuss during your session. You can also ask your therapist if they can help you come up with more creative stress management techniques.
 Just as with most therapists, you will need to set an initial appointment to meet with your therapist before you begin the actual art therapy practice. Call a practicing therapist's office and let them know specifically that you interested in their art therapy over their other practices.Intake appointments often include some questions about personal history and present emotions. Always answer honestly to the best of your ability, but know that you do not have to provide any information that makes you uncomfortable.
Let your therapist know that you are interested in their art therapy practice for the purposes of stress relief. This helps them create a plan that is tailored to you.
 Once you have met with your therapist, you are ready to start attending sessions as you and your therapist see fit. Call their office to set appointments, and start working with your therapist directly on establishing your comfort level with art and setting goals for your therapy.Know that your therapist will likely watch you intently and speak with you regarding your creation throughout the session.
This is not so that they can correct or judge what you are doing, but instead so that they can help you through the emotional process you experience as you create your piece.
 If you are not ready for one-on-one art therapy or want a cost-effective alternative, you may opt to join an art therapy group. These groups are generally offered directly by practicing art therapists and often meet once a week or once every month.Contact your local art therapists’ offices to ask about any new art therapy groups that may be starting in the near future.
Groups generally run in sessions of a few weeks to a few months. If no one has a spot open for you now, ask to receive a notification to sign up for the next session before it starts.
Group sessions are generally more affordable than individual sessions, and may or may not be covered by insurance. Ask your provider for your specific coverage information.
If group art therapy is not available, you might look into more casual group art activities. These have grown in popularity in recent years, and you may find that going to a painting or ceramic class (over a period of weeks or even just for a single evening) with friends helps you engage your creative side and de-stress.

