 We’re now getting into more sophisticated listening equipment. You can either make a listening stethoscope on your own or buy one. Premade models will save you time but can cost several hundred dollars. Unlike a premade model, however, making your own stethoscope will probably cost around or under $25, provided that you already have a fairly good MP3 player.


You can typically find a stethoscope at your local drugstore for about $10. The quality of the stethoscope is unlikely to make much of a difference.You will also need microphones. Stereo multimedia microphones are preferable, as they are cheap (around $15) but have fairly good sound specifications. That is, you should be able to pick up sound with them pretty easily and with fair quality.Finally, you will need to have an MP3 player to record sound as well as a 3.5mm (mini) Stereo Y-adapter cable. The cable will be quite cheap, about $3 or $4 dollars. The MP3 player will be the most expensive item if you do not already own one. Keep in mind that it must be able to record, which probably means that you will need a newer model (many older ones do not record but only play music)., You will need to cut down the middle of the microphones in order to get to the wiring, remove the tops or headers, and release the microphones. You will then insert the exposed microphones into the stethoscope earpieces.A good tool for doing this is an X-Acto knife. It will make a clean cut through the outer parts of the microphone and let you get to the innards. You should be left with 2 mics and 3.5 mm connectors (the cabling).
 Remove the earpieces from the stethoscope. This is fairly easy and they should just pop right off. Don't get rid of them, however, as you'll need to attach them to the microphones.


Next, gently drill shallow holes into each of the plastic earpieces to a diameter that matches that of the microphone housings. The size of these holes needs to be exact, as the microphones must fit squarely inside of them. A power drill or grinder can give you the desired precision.Glue the microphones inside the earpieces. Put a dab of glue around the edges of the microphone housings and then insert them into the holes that you have just drilled in the stethoscope earpieces. Reattach the earpieces back to the stethoscope and let the glue dry.
 Last, attach the stethoscope and microphones to the MP3 player. Use the Y-adapter cable to connect the microphones to the MP3 player. The sound that you pick up through the wall will now be collected and amplified by the microphones, transmitted to the MP3 player, and recorded or saved.Plug the single stereo connecter in to an MP3 player. Your spy stethoscope should be ready to go now.
 Practice first with your stethoscope. As with an ordinary glass, you may have to experiment a bit to find a good placement on the wall or to get the hang of recording. However, unless the walls are double-glazed or have thick insulation, you should be able to hear what is being said on the opposite side.

