 When you find yourself stalling in your life, it's time to start figuring out where you want to be. Take some time to think and write about how you want your life to change. Maybe you're unsatisfied with your job or with your health. Once you figure out where you want to be, you need to set goals to get there., For goals to work, you need to be able to meet them regularly. That means that your goals need to be measurable and in small chunks.For instance, if you want to change your career, don't just state "I want a new job." Instead, break that down into small, measurable junks, such as, "I will search job sites every night this week for 30 minutes, and I will apply to at least 3 jobs this week."
Make sure to include a time element, as otherwise, the goal is too vague, such as "I will have a new job by the end of next month."However, be realistic. You can't change your whole life overnight.
 Some goals can't just be met without changing your life around a bit. You don't necessarily need to make drastic changes, but if your goal is to say, get a new job, you'll need to find time to look. If you can't realistically do it in the evening, try stealing 20 minutes in the morning by getting up before everyone else., Now, you need to start acting on your goals. Take the time you need each day to move forward.In addition, try building in some rewards for when you do follow through. For instance, maybe you'll take yourself to the movies if you follow through with your goals for a week., Meeting people helps inspire you to new ideas and new possibilities. In addition, building a network of people is useful for when you want to change jobs or start a new project, as you'll have people to rely on. Plus, new people can help you consider new interests, as you learn about their lives.Try meeting up with people who are already in your contact list for coffee or drinks. However, also take time to meet new people. Try taking a class at your community college or with your parks and rec department. Alternatively, try networking events or meetups you find on social networks.

