 Collect data about your customers and their behaviors. Use this data to create customized and relevant content. Time the delivery of this content to take advantage of your customers’ shopping habits. For example, if your target customers are teachers supplying their classrooms, you would want to know when they are most likely to shop for supplies. Gather this information from online profiles, surveys and browsing activity on your website. Marketing automation systems are available to help with this process., On ecommerce sites, this is typically found in the form of customer reviews. Shoppers trust consumer reviews more than traditional marketing and advertising. They believe that reviews from real customers are more authentic and believable. Display customer reviews prominently on your site. Having them has been proven to translate into increased sales., Encourage customers to leave reviews by creating badges, leaderboards and user profiles. This not only increases the quantity of reviews, but also the quality. Customers have an incentive to write longer, more detailed reviews. They will also include other content such as photos and videos. These reviews make shoppers more likely to purchase because they will trust customer reviews more than other content., Shoppers prefer a native-language shopping experience. More than two-thirds of online shoppers have native languages other than English. This includes customers both in and outside of the United States. Providing the ability to shop in their native language gives customers a more satisfying experience. This translates into increased sales., This is the process of comparing two versions of a web page to see which one performs better. Show two variants of an element on your website to similar visitors at the same time to determine if one results in more salesFor example, test two "Add to Cart" button designs for your website. Option A is your existing button, and option B is the new design you want to try. Direct live traffic on your site to either option. Determine which button generated more clicks. Other elements to test include layout, pricing, promotions and images., One of the most effective online marketing techniques available is also one of the oldest – digitally speaking, of course. What is it? Email! When you get people to sign up for an email list, you’re building a group of potential customers who are already engaged enough to want communication from you. With an email list, you can keep interested people aware of new products, sales, deadlines, and more so that they’re more likely to make purchases. How likely? According to a survey from Marketing Sherpa, businesses report a 119% ROI for their email campaigns. That’s sure to help you sell products online.
 Want to sell products online? People have to trust you. How do you get that trust? Start writing. It’s not as easy to quantify the ROI that businesses see from blogging and other forms of social media, but it’s clear that engaging potential customers in this way can definitely help raise brand awareness, cause people to see you as an expert in your field, and make them more likely to think of your store when they need products like the ones you sell. You just have to be smart about it.


For example, if you sell mainly gardening products online, your blog shouldn’t be an explicit advertisement for those products – instead, offer DIY tips, talk about industry trends, and share examples of awesome gardens you find. The idea is to present your company as one that knows all about gardening.


When it comes right down to it, the best way to sell products online is to reach qualified leads in any way that you can. Get the right people coming to your shop and the sales will come.

