 Some eyeglass frames can cast dark shadows around the eyes in certain light. To combat this, blend a lighter-toned foundation under your eyes and down the center of your nose. This technique, known as contouring, makes you appear fresher and highlights your eyes. If you like, you can take this one step further and fully contour your face by bronzing your cheek bones, the top of your forehead and either side of your nose. Be sure to fully blend the highlighting foundation and bronzer with your natural-colored face makeup., Eyebrow styling largely depends on the size and shape of your eyewear, as well as the thickness and contour of your eyebrows.Full, defined, arched brows may be in style, but they do not always mix well with glasses. Avoid heavy eyebrow makeup if you wear big, thick frames. The same goes for those with naturally light hair or thinner eyebrows. You don't want to fill in your eyebrows with a color that's too dark or make them appear too full.
If you wear smaller, subtle frames, try filling in your eyebrows with your natural color. This can help draw focus to your eyes and accentuate your look. Use an eyebrow pencil—or eyebrow powder and a thin brush—to carefully fill in your eyebrows using short, dash-like strokes. Be sparing with the makeup, and follow the natural arch of your brow.
 Draw attention to your eyes with striking cat-eye eyeliner, well-defined eyelashes, and pops of eye shadow color. If you choose a bright eye shadow color, make sure that it complements the color of your frames. If your eye shadow clashes with your glasses, the effect may look cheap or gaudy., It's best to highlight either your eyes or your lips — avoid coloring both. If you have eye-catching eyeglasses and you want to wear eye shadow, try pairing your look with a colorless lip gloss or slightly tinted lip balm. If you'd rather draw attention to your lips than your eyes, pass up the eye shadow and wear thin eyeliner or mascara with a bright, cheery lipstick. Some people like to complete this look with vintage-style glasses.

