 Your first step should be explaining why education is important. In doing this, you should focus on both the abstract and concrete.


Education is important for starting a good career and making a person into a good citizen. Tell them that through education, they’ll be able to understand complex problems that we, as citizens, must grapple with. Say something like: "Education will make you a better neighbor, it will make you a better voter, and it will probably make you a better friend."
Education is important in helping us understand the world. Without education, we won’t have the knowledge to understand the world around us. For example, explain how their science classes will help them understand how the natural world works. Use the example of plant leaves and photosynthesis, and explain how science helps us understand how plants function and grow.;
, If the teen has any interest in attending college, they should be concerned about their grades. Because of this, you should spend a little time explaining how colleges evaluate potential students based on their grades.


If the child is in middle school, explain to them that excelling there will prepare them to excel and get good grades in high school. Say something like: "While you don't think it matters now, your education is preparing you for challenges you'll meet later!"
Tell them that “Colleges look very carefully at your grades when they are considering admitting you!” You might remind them that grades start counting towards college in 9th grade.
If the teenager says they don't care about college, you might remind them that a good college education can give them a better career and standard of living later in life.
Explain how it is never too late to improve their grades in high school. If the teen in question is in eleventh or twelfth grade, let them know that some schools may weigh the last years of high school more heavily than earlier years.
 While some teens think that it is uncool or nerdy to perform well academically, kids that perform poorly in school are actually looked down upon by their peers. Thus, you need to explain that while they may want to seem cool, they might gain a poor reputation if they consistently fail.


Discuss how they can balance their desire for social acceptance or “coolness” with positive academic performance.
Remind them that they shouldn't care what other students think about their grades. You may want to encourage them to avoid telling other students what their grades are.
Explain to them that regardless of what they think, people have linked popularity to academic success.
Say something like “You can be smart and cool, too!”, After you’ve explained why grades are important for their future, you need to briefly discuss that they’re not everything. Ultimately, you want the teen to understand that they need to be a well-rounded person who earns good grades, but also excels in other aspects of their lives.


Explain how they might not be able to earn top marks in every class. Let them know that not everyone can be good at everything. Say something like “It is okay to not be the best in every subject.”
Let them know that it is okay to balance academics with other things they excel at, like sports or other extracurricular activities. However, also let them know that it is not ok to sacrifice academics for the sake of sports.
Tell them that poor grades don’t mean they’re not intelligent. Ultimately, if a teen thinks that they can’t succeed, it will be very hard to motivate them toward success.Keep in mind that there are other ways than just college for a teenager to succeed after high school. They could go to vocational school or community college.
 By the time you realize the teenager is failing, it may be late in the semester. Make an effort to learn about their successes and struggles throughout the school year so that you can help them as soon as possible.

Talk to them frequently about school. How are they doing day to day? Is there anything they enjoy about school? What do they dislike about it?
Review grades on assignments, tests, papers, and other submitted work. If the child doesn't do well, instead of punishing them, have a chat about why they struggled. Is there anything they can do next time to improve?

, Get a tutor to help the teen in subjects they are struggling in. A tutor might provide the teen with the type of intellectual and academic support to help them go the extra step toward success.


If you’re a parent, ask your teachers if they know of any school resources or any private resources available to help your child.
If you’re a teacher, see if your institution has any tutoring resources for the teen in question.
Spend time working with the student individually., Depending on your position, you may be able to provide different types of rewards for academic performance. You might find that a reward – even if it is simple – will go a long way in motivating the teen.


Offer rewards for grades. This could be in the form of meals, presents, trips, or anything you deem appropriate. While this might seem like bribery, it could just work.
Verbally communicate your pride or happiness when the teen succeeds academically. Say things like “I am so proud of you” or “I knew you could do it.”, You also need to make a concerted effort to communicate with all people relevant to the teen’s success. After a little work, you may find success by recruiting a team to motivate the teen.


Ask your teenager who they want to be involved in this process. They may have a mentor, friend, spiritual leader, or family member who they feel comfortable in approaching about these issues.
If you’re a parent, make sure you maintain a dialogue with the teen’s teachers. Encourage the teacher to motivate the student and say things like “I know you can succeed.”
If you’re a teacher, make sure you’re engaged with the other teachers and the student’s parents. Let them know that you’re working to motivate their child and any support they could offer at home would be helpful.
Make sure everyone is providing positive motivation and is encouraging the teen on a daily or weekly basis., Sit down with the teen and talk about creating a schedule to balance their obligations. By doing this, you’ll give the teen tools to help them deal with their responsibilities. At first you may have to monitor them frequently, but as they get better, you can give them more and more freedom. In the end, they’ll likely be better organized and more motivated.


Suggest they create a to-do list.
Suggest they get a day planner so they know when projects are due and tests are scheduled.
Help them design a study or homework schedule., Sleep is a major factor in educational success for teenagers, but many teens don't get enough sleep. Encourage your teenager to sleep at least 8-9 hours a night. This means that they may have to go to bed a little earlier so that they can wake up for school. More sleep will help them pay attention in school and give them more energy to complete assignments.Avoid letting them have any caffeine in the evening so that they can sleep well at night.
If your teenager has problems sleeping, take them to a doctor.
 One thing that might be holding the teen back is undiagnosed learning disabilities. Not only can learning disabilities inhibit the student’s capacity to learn, but having an undiagnosed disability may lead some teens to feel inferior or like failures. Once you’ve diagnosed any problems, you can take steps to provide learning support and motivation to the teen.


Schedule a visit with a professional who can evaluate the teen’s intellectual and academic capabilities.
Have the teen take an IQ test or aptitude test.
Talk to the student about why they think they are failing to excel.
Remember that teens who struggle with learning disabilities may feel as if they can’t succeed. If they think they can’t succeed, they won’t be motivated to do so., Emotional or psychological problems could be hampering the teens motivating and undermining their ability to succeed academically. By identifying any underlying emotional or psychological problems, you’ll be able to help the teen get treatment and motivate them toward academic success.


If you’re a teacher, recommend that the student sees your school counselor or mental health expert.
If you’re a parent, locate a mental health professional that specializes in children.
Common problems may include depression, anxiety disorder, attention deficit disorder, and more.
If you’re an educator, you should consider whether the teen is being psychologically or physically abused at home. To do so, schedule a meeting with the teen and ask them if they’d like to talk about anything. Don’t compel them to talk, but ask them if they’d like to volunteer information. If you think they are being abused, contact a school counselor or law enforcement., Certain drugs may undermine a teen's motivation and impede their ability to maintain high grades. Because of this, you should watch for warning signs associated with drug abuse.


Marijuana and other drugs may impede the teen’s academic performance. Watch for signs such as blood shot eyes, extreme moodiness, disinterestedness in socializing, or in the case of uppers – extra energy.
Watch for the abuse of prescription medicines such as Xanax, Valium, OxyContin, and Adderall.
if you suspect a teen is abusing drugs, contact their parents, your school guidance counselor, and other authorities (if necessary).
Consider if the teen is going through normal teenage problems, such as relationship issues. The teen might be melancholy or disinterested in academics because they’re depressed about a relationship or just simply distracted by other stuff going on in their lives., Ultimately, whatever the non-academic problem the teen is facing, you need to get them help. By getting them help, you'll clear up the larger problem that is sapping their motivation.


Contact a learning disability specialist to help if your teen has a learning disability.
Get a psychologist, psychiatrist, or counselor for teens with emotional or psychological problems.
Enroll the teen in a drug rehabilitation program if they need.