 Email a local university to see if they offer independent study courses, where you learn at your own pace online. Most colleges will let you take their courses without applying for a program. Independent study can be a great option if you're too busy for scheduled classes.

How much you learn in an independent study course is up to you. You will benefit the most from the course if you maintain strong motivation., Plenty of online resources offer free study materials in mathematics, sciences, humanities, and other subjects. An educational resource site might have practice exercises, videos, and other coursework to help you learn. You can use educational resources as a supplement to your courses or as a primary source of learning.

Khan Academy is a volunteer-run nonprofit offering study guides for computer programming, math, science, history, economics, and other subjects. Their courses have been translated into dozens of languages, including English, Spanish, French, and Portuguese., The Small Business Administration (SBA) was created by the United States government to advocate for and assist locally-owned businesses. To further their mission in building and growing small businesses, they offer free online business classes like "Understanding Your Customer," "Establishing Values for Your Business," and "Introduction to Pricing."You can access free courses through their online Learning Center.
 Many respected universities (like Stanford, Yale, UC Berkeley, and Harvard) offer free online courses or lecture series. You can watch videos, complete assignments, and even receive a certificate for your portfolio. Some courses even let you interact with the professor as you learn., MOOCs offer educational courses to anyone who wants to learn, with no limit on class attendance or geographical location. Most MOOCs are structured similarly to university courses, though they don't usually offer academic credit. Through MOOCs, you can receive free distance learning at little-to-no cost.MOOC professors are usually established in their field and provide accurate, enriching content for students.One downside of MOOCs is that, because of the large class size, you don't typically get to interact with the professor. Messages or questions are usually addressed by other students, and grading is often automatic.