 There are a number of different recipes, or essential oil combinations, that can be made for different concerns. You can use these in any diffusing method of choice. If you suffer from anxiety, make an anxiety-reducing essential oil recipe. Mix two drops of bergamot oil, two drops of clary sage oil, and one drop of Frankincense.


You can also mix three drops of Lavender oil and two drops of clary sage oil., If you need to relax, there are a few essential oil recipes you can make to help. For a calming effect, mix one drop of lavender oil and two drops of chamomile oil.If you are having a problem getting to sleep and need to relax, mix two drops of chamomile oil, one drop of clary sage, and one drop Bergamot oil. You can also make a mix of two drops chamomile oil and two drops of lavender oil., To help reduce depression, make a mixture of three drops orange oil and two drops grapefruit oil. If you sensitive to citrus, try a mixture of three drops bergamot oil and two drops clary sage.


A third mixture you can make is three drops of bergamot oil and two drops ginger oil., To help with stress reduction, mix an essential oil mixture with three drops of grapefruit oil, one drop of ylang ylang oil, and one drop jasmine oil. If you are sensitive to citrus, mix two drops chamomile oil and two drops lavender oil. You can also try mixing three drops of bergamot, one drop of geranium oil, and one drop of frankincense., To help your concentration and memory, mix two drops of orange oil and two drops of peppermint oil. If you are sensitive to citrus, mix three drops of bergamot oil and two drops peppermint oil., If you are having issues with immunity and your respiratory system, mix one drop of rosemary oil, one drop of clove oil, one drop of eucalyptus oil, and one drop of cinnamon oil. You can also try mixing one drop of lemon oil, one drop of eucalyptus oil, two drops of peppermint oil, and one drop of rosemary oil.


If you are citrus sensitive, mix one drop of bergamot oil, one drop of patchouli oil, and one drop of ylang ylang oil.