 Holding on, worrying, and fretting can help contribute to negative attitudes and have adverse affects on your mental health. Instead, recognize that you can't control everything. You can't control that someone else got a promotion over you. What you can control is how those events affect your attitude and how you respond. Minimize the room for negativity by letting go of what you can't control. Move on and try not to let those things sour your general outlook on life.One way to let things go is to try to avoid thinking that you have been personally singled out for suffering, pain, sadness, etc. Most of the time, life amounts to a series of circumstances and events that have little to do with us individually. Try to avoid thinking of yourself as a victim. Seeing yourself as a victim will cause you to think repeatedly about the negative emotions you have experienced.
Remember that life is for living, not dwelling.
 Focus on your strengths to help create more positive emotional experiences and attitudes. It also provides you with a reservoir of positivity during moments when you may be experiencing more negative attitudes. In turn, this will make handling adversity easier.Consider writing down your achievements and positive attributes in your diary or journal. You can write in a freestyle manner or create a list of different categories. See this exercise as never-ending. Always add to the list as you do new things, such as graduate from school, rescue a puppy, or get your first job.
 Another way to build up a reserve of positive experiences is to make time to do things that you make you happy. If you like music, set aside time to listen to your favorite albums. Other people like to have time to read each evening in a relaxed environment. You can also do your favorite physical activity, whether that is going for an evening walk, doing yoga, or playing a team sport.


Stay active doing the things that bring you pleasure. This is a great way to maintain a positive and healthy attitude.
 Every day devote 10 minutes to writing in your journal about any positive experiences that you had. This gives you a chance to review and reflect on the day and to seek out the positives, even if they may be small things. These can include things that made you happy, proud, awestruck, grateful, calm, content or pleased. Re-experiencing positive emotions can help you adjust your perspective on the negative moments.For example, reflect on your morning routine to identify if there were moments where you felt noticeably happy. Perhaps you enjoyed the sunrise or had a friendly interaction with a bus driver or maybe it was the first sip of your cup of coffee.
 Be sure to also take time to acknowledge your gratitude for all the things you have in your life. Gratitude correlates strongly with optimism. Maybe someone did something nice for you, such as paying for your coffee or making the bed. These can be small things, such as gratitude for your partner making the bed. You might also take pride in the way you accomplished a task.You could even keep a "gratitude journal". That is a notebook specifically designated for things you are happy and grateful for every day. Writing things down often helps solidify them more into our consciousness. Having a written record means that you will have something to consult when you need a gratitude boost!

, Consider negative thoughts or experiences that you have had. Then, try to re-frame them in a way where you can get positive (or at least neutral) emotions out of these experiences. This re-framing action is one of the cornerstones of a positive attitude.For example, a new co-worker may have spilled coffee on you. Instead of getting angry and passing a judgment that she was clumsy or stupid, think of it from her point of view. It was an accident and she was likely embarrassed. Instead of developing a negative attitude towards her, pass the incident off as one-off. Maybe even make a joke about what a great "ice-breaker" that was for her first day.
Re-framing your thoughts and experiences doesn't mean assuming everything is fine. Instead, it means not letting negativity overtake you. This will help you find a more positive approach to life in general.
 Our competitive nature as humans means that we have a tendency to compare ourselves to others. You may compare your looks, lifestyle or general attitude to those qualities in others. When we compare ourselves to other people, we tend to see only the negative of ourselves and only the positives in the person we are comparing ourselves to. It's far healthier and more realistic to acknowledge our strengths. The key is not to compare and just accept who you are. Accepting yourself gives you the power to control your own thoughts, attitudes and life more generally. This will aid you in making less subjective inferences about other people’s behavior.Every single person is different. So, there’s little reason to judge yourself based on other people’s standards. You may enjoy things that other people don’t enjoy and take different life path.
 If you want to improve your attitude, then you need to surround yourself with people who will encourage a more positive attitude. The people you spend your time with - your family, friends, spouses, co-workers - have an impact on how you view the things that happen in your everyday life. So always make sure that these people share your positive vibe, and lift you up rather than bring you down. This social support can help bolster you when you do feel yourself experiencing negative attitudes.


Research has shown that people who experience major life stresses can navigate the ordeal more easily with a network of friends and family upon whom they can rely.Spend your time with people who are positive forces in your life. Surround yourself with people who make you feel appreciated, valued, and confident. Allow these people to encourage you to be your best possible self.
Avoid individuals who are negative and who feed your negative thoughts and judgments. Remember, negativity breeds negativity. Try minimizing your contact with the negative people in your life. This helps to foster a generally positive attitude.