 Sometimes each player has grown up knowing a slightly different set of game play. Outline the basics before you start thinking and guessing.









What kind of categories does the questioner start with? Will you have to start or will the guesser ask?

Choose between the following: animal (it's alive and breathing), vegetable (it grows), and mineral (it's not alive and comes from the ground) or person, place, and thing. AVM can lead to technicalities (is a wooden table a vegetable or a mineral?) but PPT opens up the entire world (the Seattle Space Needle).


Does the object have to be in sight? In the room? Or anywhere?
Will you allow a final guess as a sort of 21st question?
Are answers strictly limited to yes/no, or do they include "sometimes," "usually," or "rarely?"
Who's keeping track? Are you monitoring their questions or are they monitoring their own?

, It's best to go outside yourself a bit and think of an object neither party has on the brain. Pick an object that both parties are familiar with and is improbable but definitely not impossible.









Do not pick your younger sister's diary she hides under her bed. There is no way the guesser will ever get that. It's just not fun.
If you're obsessed with Star Trek, don't choose Star Trek. If Garfield wants to fool Odie, he's not going to choose lasagna. Pick something your partner doesn't expect--especially if it's a friend who knows you well.
 If you don't know the answer to a question, you may make a guess, but let them know you're not entirely sure. Don't lead them down the wrong path.









Don't think too much. If they ask you, "Is it bigger than a refrigerator?" don't reply, "Maybe? What size refrigerator are you referring to?" Think in standards. If you don't think too much, you'll stay on the same page.
 On the 20th question (and remember: guesses count!), the game is over. If they haven't read your mind, you win! Time to fool them again.









If they did guess the object, hand them over the rights to be the questioner. Hopefully they'll be as nice to you as you were to them.

