 Research has shown that certain vitamin and nutritional supplements can help lessen menstrual cramps when taken daily. The mechanisms for this are not well understood, but the many dietary supplements have been shown to reduce cramping. Take 500U of Vitamin E, 100 mg of Vitamin B1, 200 mg of Vitamin B6, and a doctor approved level of Vitamin D3 daily.


A blood test can assess if you have enough of these vitamins in your diet, and a regimen of supplementation can be take accordingly.
You can also take a supplement of fish oil or cod liver oil., One study showed that a diet low in fat and rich in vegetables helps decrease menstrual pain.You should eat green, leafy vegetables, which are rich in Vitamins A, C, E, B, K and folates. Much like with the supplements, these vitamins and minerals can help menstrual pain. These foods can also help prevent anemia from menstrual bleeding by providing nutrients necessary to create new red blood cells.


You should increase your iron as well while you are menstruating. You can eat lean red meat or take supplements to help prevent menstrual anemia.
Green vegetables and berries also contain antioxidants, which may play a role in fighting inflammation related to bloating.
Another study showed that women who ate 3-4 servings of dairy daily had lower rates of cramping. You should not eat this much dairy if you are prone to be gassy or bloated if you consume too much dairy., Different varieties of teas may help to soothe cramps. Make sure when choosing a tea variety that you choose decaffeinated versions so you don't cancel out the soothing effects of the tea by increasing cramps with the caffeine. Raspberry, chamomile, and ginger tea may have anti-inflammatory capabilities to help relieve cramping.You should avoid caffeinated teas because caffeine encourages anxiety and tension, which can make your cramps worse.
The amount of tea needed to provide relief is not documented, but as long as it is decaffeinated, you can enjoy as much as you’d like.
This can also help to keep you hydrated.
 Alcohol can cause water retention and bloating. Nicotine in tobacco can cause increased tension and cause a narrowing of vessels called vasoconstriction. This issue leads to decreased blood flow to the uterus and a worsening of your cramps.