


Have at least two numbers to multiply. It doesn't matter if they are one digit, two digit, or even ten digit numbers. You just need more than one number to multiply. For example: twenty-three and forty.;
,


Take your largest number and write it clearly on a sheet of paper. Take your second, smaller, number and write it directly underneath your first number, aligned to the right.
Underline the bottom number. This is to ensure a separation between the two numbers you have chosen and the solution.
(Optional) Add a multiplication symbol to the left of the problem. This is to provide clarity and help you remember what you were doing if you are looking over past problems.
Make sure your writing is neat and clear to avoid mistakes.



Now look at the digit furthest to the right on the bottom number. Or, in other words, the number in the smallest value place. Take that digit and multiply it by the digit furthest to the right on the top number. With the two numbers chosen in the previous example (twenty-three and forty) the two digits we will multiply are three and zero. Three multiplied by zero, or three groups of zero, results in a total of zero. Place this zero underneath the line (that you created when you underlined your bottom number) and directly under the digit three in the number twenty-three.
It is important to keep your numbers aligned at all times to avoid errors.



Begin again with the digit furthest to the right on your bottom number. (Three in our example).
Multiply it by the next digit in your top number. (Four in our example). This results in twelve. Write twelve next to the zero under the line. The two in twelve will go directly below the two in twenty-three, and the one in twelve will go in front of the two. This will result in the number one hundred and twenty being written below the line.
If you have a number longer than two digits as your top number, then continue to repeat this step until you have multiplied your digit in the bottom number by every digit in the top number.



Before you look at the next digit, write a zero directly under the zero in one hundred and twenty. The reason you do this is to move your value place over and keep your digits in line. Remember, the first digit you multiplied was in the 'ones' place in our example. This next digit is in the 'tens' place. So when we add our numbers together at the end to obtain the final result we will need to add the actual value. The zero serves as a placeholder and reminder that you are now multiplying from the 'tens' value place.
Shift your focus and look at the next digit in your bottom number. (Two in our example).
You will now repeat the steps that you did with the previous digit in the bottom number.
Per our example problem you would take the two in twenty-three and multiply it by the zero in forty, then take the two again and multiply it by the four in forty. This will result in eight hundred being written under one hundred and twenty. Remember to write the digits under the line before one another as we did with the previous digits.



Here is where the importance of keeping your numbers and digits in their correct columns comes into play.
According to our example, when you add the numbers up, you will be left with an answer of nine hundred and twenty.

