 This is a short term, immediate solution. If the problem persists, think about how to avoid it in the long run.


Use earplugs and headphones to drown out the sounds.
Soundproof your room. This is a long term solution, but it doesn't always have to be expensive.
Move your furniture- it does make a difference whether your bed is right next to their bedroom wall, or across the room. If possible, put a bookshelf to the shared wall.
Listen to your own music- whales songs are very effective, as the sonar sounds drown out a lot of moans and sighs. Alternatively, didgeridoo or vuvuzela sounds also drown out most other sounds.
Buy a white noise machine.These devices produce different kind of noises, and are designed to drown out other sounds to protect privacy- your parents' and yours. , They may not even be aware that they can be heard. You giving them a subtle hint will make them aware and prevent further "noise disturbances."


Send them a text message. Be subtle in approach and vague. For example, just type the word "Noise." They will not read the message until later, but they might take more precaution the next time (because chances are, there will be a next time).
Print out an advice column on "how to deal with overhearing your parents having sex" and slide it under their door. Again, they will find it later, but it will make them aware of the situation.
Don't mention the incident afterwards. Pretend that nothing happened, and put it behind you.
 If they don't understand the polite hints you've been giving them, try a more straightforward approach.


Walk past their room shouting "you're not alone in this house"- the reversal of roles in the admonishment that most of us received as children puts a humorous spin on the situation and hopefully relaxes it.
Play songs that tell them that you can hear them at full volume, such as "Let's talk about sex" by Salt N' Pepa,or the Bloodhound Gang's "The Bad Touch."Bang on the wall, preferably with a broom or a stick. This is maybe not the most subtle method, but they'll get the drift.
 This is a long term solution, but it depends on whether there are other rooms free in the house and other practicalities.


Pick the basement, attic or any room as far as possible removed from their room.
Smile and tell them, "we're all grown up now, and everybody deserves privacy." Not only is this an indirect way to tell them what you've heard, it also protects your privacy in the future- if you can hear them, that means that they can hear you and your new girlfriend/boyfriend.
 Only resort to this if there is truly no other option- you can't move rooms, they haven't understood the hints you gave them, and you truly see no other option.


Prepare for awkward silences- nobody wants to be confronted by their own child about their sex life.
Be calm, mature and friendly.
Tell them calmly, that some of their private activities are not so private thanks to noises and that you'd prefer not to be a witness.
Change the subject immediately, and even leave the room- really, there is nothing to "discuss", and your parents will be eternally grateful to offer them an "out."

