 If you have been accused of violating someone’s IP rights, then you might want to try and negotiate a settlement. Alternately, if you are the IP rights holder, then you might want to settle the dispute as well. Settlement has many advantages:


You can avoid a trial. Lawsuits are lengthy and expensive. They are also stressful. You can avoid all of these problems if you settle.You control the result. Negotiation is voluntary. At trial, a jury or judge will issue an award, which could be smaller than you hoped or much larger than you feared. With negotiation, you can come to a final resolution to the case that you can live with.
 An international dispute has many challenges. For example, you might not be able to negotiate in person because it costs money to fly and get a hotel during the negotiations. Instead, you would have to negotiate over the phone or through letters. Regardless of the method of negotiation, remember the following:


Pay attention to cultural differences. Negotiators can approach the bargaining table with either a “win-win” or “win-lose” attitude. The former may be more open to reaching creative solutions that benefit both parties, whereas the latter might drive a hard bargain. According to research, most Japanese approach negotiation with a “win-win” attitude whereas most Spaniards approach negotiation with a “win-lose” attitude.Walk away if the other side cannot meet your absolute minimum. You are not required to come to a settlement.
 If you do reach an agreement, then each side should sign a settlement agreement. A settlement agreement is a contract between the two parties.Make sure that the settlement agreement includes a “full waiver and release” of all claims. By signing this agreement, the person who owns the IP promises not to continue with any lawsuit or to file a lawsuit in the future based on the current dispute.
The settlement agreement should also include a dispute resolution provision. For example, either party might not follow its promises made in the settlement agreement. In this situation, you will need to go into arbitration or court to settle the dispute.
 Arbitration is like a trial, except evidence is presented to private individuals called “arbitrators” and not to judges. Arbitration is generally more flexible than lawsuits. For example, both parties can decide the rules of evidence, which will determine which kinds of evidence is admissible.


Arbitration is also generally cheaper and faster than a trial.Parties must agree to arbitrate. Typically, they include arbitration clauses in their contracts or they sign a mutual agreement to arbitrate. You cannot force a party to arbitrate.
 You can start an arbitration by filing a Request for Arbitration with an arbitration association. The World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), for example, provides arbitration services for international intellectual property disputes. To submit a Request for Arbitration, you should include the following information:a request that your dispute be referred to arbitration under WIPO’s Arbitration Rules
the names and contact information for both parties and their attorneys
a copy of your agreement to arbitrate
a brief description of the circumstances that gave rise to the lawsuit, including a description of the rights and property involved
what relief you want the arbitration panel to give you
the number of arbitrators you want and their expected qualifications

