 Not every eighth-grader in New York City is required to take the SHSAT. Only those who wish to enter a Specialized High School (or, one of 9 public high schools for especially talented students) are required to take this test.In order to qualify for the exam, you must:


Be a resident of New York City
Be in the 8th grade
Register for the SHSAT during the Fall of your 8th grade year
Be interested in attending a Specialized High School--most public schools do not require the exam
Eighth-graders can apply for the SHSAT no matter what school they attend--public, private, parochial, or home-schooled--as long as they are a resident of New York City.Some 9th graders can also take the exam for admission to grades 10-12.;
, There are over 400 public high schools in New York City. However, there are only 9 Specialized High Schools out of which just 8 require an exam.For these schools, a student's score on the SHSAT is the sole basis of admission--not essays, academic records, or letters of recommendation. These schools are:Bronx High School of Science
Brooklyn Latin
Brooklyn Technical High School
High School for Math, Science and Engineering at City College
High School for American Studies at Lehman College
Queens High School for Sciences at York College
Staten Island Technical High School
Stuyvesant High School
The ninth Specialized High School is Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts, where admission depends on a student's audition and academic records, not the SHSAT., The SHSAT is formatted as a multiple-choice standardized test. It tests students on both their math and their verbal skills, and take 2 hours and 30 minutes to complete.There are 95 questions total on the exam (5 of them are scrambled paragraphs counting for 2 points each, so you can earn a raw score of 100 points).You can allot your time between the verbal and the math sections as you see fit.The verbal section asks students to read and interpret passages and answer logic questions. The scrambled paragraphs section of the test has been removed due to lack of teaching this in most schools. There are 45 verbal questions on the exam.The mathematics section requires students to answer questions that involve simple arithmetic, algebra, geometry, logic, probability, and statistics. Ninth-graders who take the test will also have to answer trigonometry questions.There are 50 mathematics questions on the exam.Scores are usually released in the February or March following the exam., While the specific dates of the exam change from year to year, students will take the SHSAT around mid-October. It is a good idea to take at least three months to study for the exam, which means you should start studying in July at the latest, though June is even better.This should give you a lot of time to take practice tests, find tutors if necessary, and figure out which kinds of problems you struggle with.


Don't leave all your studying to the Fall: you will be busy with school and other activities. Give yourself a chance to study during the summer break when you have more free time.
Some students even spend several years preparing for the SHSAT. If you are in 6th or 7th grade, you can certainly start studying early! However, don't panic if you haven't started studying yet: 3 or 4 months should give you lots of time to build up your test-taking skills., As soon as you think you might want to enter a Specialized High School program, you should talk it over with your guidance counselor. It is your guidance counselor's job to help students enter the high schools that are the best fit for them, and your guidance counselor will have a lot of knowledge and experience with test-taking preparation. Make an appointment to speak with your counselor, and consider bringing your parents along as well. Come up with a plan to increase your likelihood of admission to a Specialized High School.Your guidance counselor might be able to recommend specific books, classes, and tutors to help you as well.
 The Specialized High School Handbook is revised each year, and it provides middle-school students and their parents with important information about the admissions process. The 2016 version of the handbook can be accessed here: http://schools.nyc.gov/NR/rdonlyres/441F37BC-FF75-403D-B265-60F3B1F4C84D/0/2016SHSAT_English.pdf. The handbook includes study tips and practice tests as well as a list of exam dates. Read this handbook carefully, as soon as it is published online.Taking the practice exams in the handbook under test-like conditions is a great way to get a diagnostic for your general performance. Use your score on the practice tests as a baseline to help you determine your future test-taking strategies., The DREAM course is designed to help low-income students perform well on the SHSAT. The program begins in 6th grade and lasts for 22 months.It is an intensive, rigorous program, and students only qualify if they have excellent 5th-grade attendance, have qualifying scores on 5th-grade standardized tests, and are considered low-income.If this applies to you or someone you know, sign up for the course right away for 22 months of excellent, free study prep.
 There are several testing companies that provide excellent practice questions and study tips in their published guides. Reputable companies include Kaplan, the Princeton Review, Barron's, and McGraw-Hill.Most large bookstores and online book providers will have study guides you can purchase, for between $15-30. Additionally, online SHSAT options have become available in the last few years at a similar price range under $50 annually.


Online courses may require a good internet connection and computing device, but typically they cover more content and features than study guides.
If you purchase a study guide in a used book store, make sure that the practice tests have not been filled in. The most useful parts of these books are the practice tests, and you don't want to take a practice test where the answers have already been filled in!
Make sure you are purchasing the most updated study guide you can. The test's format has changed some over the years, and you should not practice with an outdated guide.
Additional SHSAT guidance is available from non-profit organizations and various online test preparation courses.
 You can pay a test prep company to receive specialized training leading up the the SHSAT. There are numerous SHSAT courses offered, through companies like Kweller Test Prep, Kaplan, and the Princeton Review, as well as other private tutoring companies. This can be an expensive option, costing anywhere from $800-1500 for 8-15 lessons.However, students who require some extra attention and guidance than what is found in a study guide might find a special course useful.


Most courses can be taken the summer before the exam, though there are some last-minute courses that are offered in the early fall as well.
As a middle ground option, for under $50, an alternative is to enroll in an online course. Many of these include extensive practice materials and the ability to interact with tutors and track your progress

, If you require one-on-one attention in order to perform well on the kinds of questions asked on the SHSAT, you can hire a private tutor. Private tutors can be found through tutoring agencies, Craigslist, online searches, or through personal recommendations. Tutors vary widely in price, though $100 per session is a common figure.
 New York City offers a wide variety of enrichment programs that are free or very low-cost to qualifying students.These programs can help with homework, math skills, study skills, reading and writing, science, and the arts.Even though they are not necessarily tailored to the SHSAT, the kinds of skills they help middle-schoolers build can help them perform well on the test. This is a great option for students who cannot afford a specialized course., One of the best ways for any student to do well on the SHSAT is to keep up with schoolwork. Do your homework, pay attention in class, and study for your school exams. These will help build many of the SHSAT skills naturally and gradually. It is also help for you to read widely in order to build your vocabulary., If you like, you can search on Facebook or Twitter for students that currently attend the school of your choice. Ask them for any suggestions or tips on taking the test.


Many schools also offer open houses, fairs, or other events to introduce students to potential high schools. Network with other students and potential students at these events to get their advice about the exam (and to determine whether you wish to attend the school!)., Do so under your testing conditions: silent, without a calculator, using a number 2 pencil. Follow the exact time limits of the exam and answer the proper amount of questions. These practice tests will not only help you figure out what you need to study most, but they are also essential to getting you comfortable and relaxed enough to perform well the day of the test., Be aware of the items that you must bring to the exam. It is best if you have these ready to go the day before the test, so that you don't have to worry the day of the exam. Do not bring any electronic devices with you such as a calculator or ipad: you are not allowed to use these items on the test.What you should bring are:Several well-sharpened number 2 pencils
A watch to keep time (make sure the watch does not have a calculator or computer function, however: those are not permitted)
Your Test Ticket with your signature and the signature of your parent/guardian as well as your ranking of the specialized high schools you wish to apply to
Comfortable clothes and shoes

, Listen to your proctor, and read the written instructions carefully. Breaking any of the rules might lead to your test being invalidated.Do not attempt to go over time, exchange answers, or use an electronic device during the test.
 You can use your test booklet for scratch paper. However, your official answers have to be entered into the formal answer sheet. This is a multiple-choice test scored by machine, so you have to be careful to fill in the correct bubble on your answer sheet. Be sure that you do not accidentally fill in two bubbles for the same question, since that will automatically count as a wrong answer. Make sure that the number on your answer sheet matches the number in your test booklet: it can be easy to accidentally skip over a number, leading you to inadvertently answer questions incorrectly., Unlike other exams, the SHSAT does not penalize for wrong answers. This means that you should put an answer down for every question, even if you are not confident in your answer. By random chance, you might get it right. You will certainly get it wrong if you put nothing down., Unlike other exams, the SHSAT does not allocate your time for you. You have 2.5 hours to do the entire test: how you divide that time between math and verbal is up to you. Many people like to spend 75 minutes on each part of the exam. However, depending on your strengths, you might wish to spend more time on one portion or the other.Use your watch to make sure that you are staying on track in order to complete all 95 questions within the 150 minutes you have.


If you have a tutor or guidance counselor, she might be able to help you come up with an optimal plan for how you will spend your time during the test.
 It can be tempting to rush through an exam. However, jumping to conclusions can be harmful to your score. Take your time and make sure that you understand what the question asks of you. Resist the temptation to skim questions and make assumptions without a firm basis., Many of the verbal questions depend on your understanding of various reading passages. Do not skim these passages: read them slowly and carefully, underlining key words and phrases. The questions will quiz you on your understanding of the detail and nuance of the passages: a quick skim of the passage will not give you the information you need to do well., The jumbled paragraph questions will provide you with a list of sentences that you have to place in the correct order. It is worth taking some extra time to focus on these paragraphs because they are worth 2 points, whereas the other questions on the exam are worth just 1 point. Do not rush through these since they double-count toward your score.