 Stand with your feet about shoulder width apart. Bend your knees and drop your butt to straighten out your back. In this stance, you’ll be able to generate the maximum amount of power., Hold the bat somewhat loosely. The bat should be touching your hand where your fingers meet your palm. If you hold your bat too high in your fingers, you won’t have as much control over it. If you bury the bat in your palm, your wrists won’t be able to push the bat smoothly.


If you tend to hold to the bat too tightly, try gripping the bat with only your middle, ring and pinky fingers. Your thumb and forefinger will naturally tighten when you make contact with the ball.
Your dominant hand should be directly above your weak hand and the knuckles of both hands should be lined up.
 Your front elbow should be down so that the top of your bat is at a forty-five degree angle behind your head. If your front elbow is up, your bat will have to travel further to reach the strike zone slowing down your swing significantly.


Make sure your bat isn’t straight up and down or you won’t be able to take a full swing.
Your back elbow should be slightly higher than your front elbow.
 Try to get rid of all your tension. You may think that tensing up your body helps you concentrate, but in reality all it does is waste your energy and prevent you from having a smooth swing.Save your energy for your swing.
 The speed of your swing is dependent on how much torque you can generate. Your swing starts in your legs, moves up to your hips and finishes by travelling through your arms to the bat. To perform a smooth, quick swing, your entire body should work together.









Torque is the power generated from your body’s twisting motion.
 Imagine that you are swinging through the ball. Flip your wrists at the climax of your swing to complete it. You want to drive the ball outward. If you stop your swing midway, it won’t be as powerful.









Don’t let your head follow your swing. Keep your eyes on the ball.

