 Your state may have created standards that you must take into consideration when selecting the handler. For example, California’s standards recommend the following:The handler should have strong character traits, such as patience, flexibility, maturity, dependability, and initiative.
The handler should be mentally and physically fit.
The handler should exhibit emotional stability.
Than handler should have good communication skills, including verbal and written.
The handler should be comfortable around dogs.;
, You shouldn’t rely on one person to select your dog handler. Instead, create a board to meet with and select the best candidate., You should fully document your selection process, which should include a full background check and a check of references. Hold onto all paperwork submitted, including letters of recommendation, CVs, or resumes.


Definitely call references and look into the handler’s disciplinary history. For example, you should look closely if the officer has had complaints filed against him or her for excessive use of force or violent behavior.These could be signs that the handler won’t restrain the dog properly.
You should hold onto your paperwork for the duration of the handler’s employment and for several years after he or she leaves. You could be sued a year or more after a dog bite, so hold onto paperwork for as long as possible.
If someone brings a lawsuit, then your paperwork, including reference and background checks, will serve as proof that you weren’t careless when hiring and assigning handlers.
 If the dog bites someone, then you could face legal liability for choosing dogs which shouldn’t have served in a K9 unit. The dogs you pick must be predisposed to handle stress. One way to assure that you aren’t negligent in selecting the dog is to send two people to look at dogs., The trainer should have a thorough understanding of dog behavior. If you have multiple trainers, then make sure the trainer who will actually work with the dog goes to select it.Few dogs have the temperament to succeed as police dogs, so you will want an expert who can recognize these traits., You will probably put dogs through multiple tests. Make sure that one is a “stress test,” sometimes called a “stake out test.” Also keep the following in mind:You should also use social behavior and social aggression testing.
Test in multiple locations and at neutral locations as well. You shouldn’t test the dog in its backyard, since it will not be working in its backyard.You want to see how well the dog responds in new situations.
 You should take the dog to the vet.One thing the vet should check for is hip dysplasia, which can cripple a dog. The vet will need to take an X-ray to test for this condition.Be sure to use a licensed veterinarian and not someone who is unlicensed.
Hold onto all veterinarian records and be sure to respond to any problem identified by the veterinarian.
 Some states have drafted standards that must be followed when training K9 units. You should find your state’s standard, which may be published online.For example, New Jersey has published its K-9 Training Standards and Qualification Requirements, which generally covers the following:basic training for K9 patrol teams
training for specialty teams
re-evaluation and in-service requirements
requirements for training facilities

, In the United States canine industry, minimum maintenance training is 16 hours per month, for an average of four hours a week, per team.This is the absolute minimum; however, states can and do set higher minimums which you must follow. Find your state’s standards and follow them.


Dogs which are multi-discipline and cross trained will need more hours of training than the minimum.
 You should have your teams certified at least yearly, though your state standards could require more frequent certification. You generally have two ways to undergo certification:In-house. Make sure that whoever performs the certification does not have a conflict of interest. The person cannot be the dog’s handler or trainer, or anyone with a financial interest in the K9 unit.
Out-of-house. You could have a K9 agency or a K9 evaluator perform the certification. The third party must not have a conflict of interest, either.
 Instead, it is unconstitutional to allow a dog to use “excessive force.” To determine whether force was excessive, a court will analyze whether using the dog was “objectively reasonable” based on the circumstances:The severity of the crime. In some states, it is unreasonable to use a canine on someone suspected of committing a misdemeanor, though this is not a nationwide rule.
Whether the suspect posed an immediate threat to the safety of the officers or other people. This factor, like all factors, must not be analyzed in hindsight. For example, a suspect who refuses to show their hands to police might be concealing a weapon. Even if, in hindsight, the person did not have a weapon, it might be reasonable for the officers to assume he did during the encounter.
Whether the suspect was actively resisting arrest or attempting to flee the scene.
Any other relevant factor.
 States and local governments might also create laws regulating when a dog can bite a suspect. For example, in California, your unit can be liable if the person bitten was not a party or participant in the crime that prompted the use of the dog, and the person wasn’t suspected of the crime, either.Check with your relevant municipal lawyer to make sure you understand all relevant laws.
 Your policy should describe when it is necessary and appropriate to use of a police dog. In fact, some cities will make you liable for dog bites if you don’t have a policy in place.If you need help coming up with a policy, then try contacting another K9 unit in your state. You can also look for policies online.


Your policy should probably include warnings that the officer gives suspects before unleashing the dog. For example, an officer could say, “This is the police. If there is anyone in the building, come out now. If you do not, a police dog will be sent in to find you and you may be bitten.”Giving this warning can protect you in a lawsuit if a person is bitten.
 Have officers fill out bite report forms whenever there is a bite. All bite incidents should be thoroughly analyzed so that you can determine whether the bite was appropriate and necessary. Analyze the following:


whether the handler issued the correct commands
whether the dog responded correctly to commands
whether the use of force was justified based on the severity of the crime and the behavior of the person bitten
the race and ethnicity of the victim

, You shouldn’t review the K9 team irregularly or once a year. Instead, you should commit to a monthly review of the unit. Make sure to review the following:training
current yearly certification
all deployments of the K9 team
the team’s physical and mental stability

, It is a good idea to create a basic K9 manual, which you will distribute to all employees. The manual should contain the following information:the goals and objectives of the K9 unit
the unit’s organization
the functions of the K9 unit
handler responsibilities
selection criteria
operational procedures
canine bite report forms
annual training evaluation

, If you become aware that some handlers are using dogs inappropriately, then you need to take corrective action immediately. For example, if officers are using dogs to pick up people who commit non-violent misdemeanors and who pose no threat to the officers, then you should retrain those officers.


If you fail to take corrective action, a court could find you guilty of “deliberate indifference,” which will make you legally liable for any injuries the dogs cause., You should commit to maintaining necessary documentation. Be sure to document the training that you give, and document any deficiencies that become known as well as corrective action that you have taken.In particular, hold onto complete records of all training activities, including course schedules, lesson plans, and curricula.Record-keeping is vital. In fact, some courts will be more likely to find the K9 unit was negligent if it doesn’t keep appropriate records. Your state’s training guide may contain information about record retention. You should follow your state’s rules.

