 Transfer the cubed chicken to a medium bowl and add salt and pepper, to taste. Add the oil to a large, heavy-bottomed saucepan and heat it over medium heat. When the surface of the oil is shimmering, add the chicken. Cook the chicken for about six minutes, turning regularly to brown all sides.Once cooked, remove the chicken from the saucepan and transfer it to a plate or bowl. Leave the saucepan on the heat.
You can use any protein you like in this recipe instead of chicken, and turkey and steak strips would both make good substitutions.;
, Add the diced sweet potato and the chopped onion to the hot saucepan. Add more salt and pepper, to taste, if desired. Cook the vegetables for about eight minutes, stirring regularly.The onions and sweet potato are ready when they become soft and golden brown.
You can also use carrots, potatoes, or other root vegetables in place of the sweet potato.
 When the sweet potato and onion are cooked, add the rice, water, and cooked chicken back into the saucepan. Put on the lid and let the casserole mixture cook for about 25 minutes, or until the rice is soft. Stir regularly throughout the cooking time.

Instead of plain water, you can also use creamed soup as the liquid in this recipe. Replace some or all of the water with up to three cans of soup, such as cream of mushroom, celery, or chicken., Once the rice and all the other ingredients are cooked, pour the casserole mixture into a baking dish, casserole dish, or other oven-safe cookware. Transfer the casserole to the refrigerator and let it cool, uncovered, for about an hour.

To accommodate this casserole, you’ll need a 3-quart (2.8-L) baking dish.
If you're going to freeze the casserole, use a dish that’s also freezer-safe.
 Cover the cooled casserole with an airtight lid, or wrap it tightly with plastic wrap. If you plan to eat the casserole within three to four days, store it in the refrigerator. For longer storage, up to four months, store the casserole in the freezer., When you're ready to eat a frozen casserole, remove it from the freezer and transfer it to the refrigerator the night before you want to bake it. When thawed, sprinkle the grated cheese and panko over the top of the casserole.

Bake the casserole in a preheated 375 F (191 C) oven for 30 to 40 minutes, until the casserole is bubbling and the top is melted and golden brown.