 There is a lot of sewing gear available to you and it can become overwhelming if you don't settle on a method for collecting. Some approaches to collecting include:


Choose an era. Collect sewing items made for a set period, such as Victorian times, war years, a particular decade such as the 20s or 60s, etc. The advantage of this is that the items can be narrowed down and you can have a lot of fun hunting them down, learning about which items belong to the specific era, etc., and you can focus your budget. A disadvantage to this approach is that you will have to leave items when they don't match your collection and it might become too narrow if the era you have picked is either full of rare and expensive items, or the items become rapidly repetitive.
Choose a theme or category. The theme or category approach can work brilliantly in collecting vintage sewing accessories because it is broader than an era and lets you roam widely for items that fit within your theme. Examples of themes might include a focus on thimbles/chatelaines/needle cases/tape measures, etc., (see list below for a whole range of ideas), or it could be slightly broader, such as bone or pearl sewing trinkets, or sewing machine items, etc.
Choose a country or region. Collect sewing items made or designed from your country during the decades. After the 60s, many items are made overseas, so the "designed in" aspect might become more important for your collection.
Commemorative items. Some sewing items were produced for commemorative purposes. This category might be ideal to base your collection on, provided it is in an area of sewing items that were used for commemorative items, such as thimbles.
Alternatively, just collect everything you come across and can afford. Beware though, as this can result in indiscriminate collecting and you will end up with pieces of very little value crowding out the more valuable pieces. It depends on your display space and memory!;
, The spectrum of sewing tools and accessories is broad, and there are no hard and fast rules as to what constitutes an ideal vintage sewing collection. In reality, it's a collector's right to include items that might seem peripheral but in some small way boost your collecting enjoyment. It's also the collector's right to define the collection's extent, with the key rationale being to keep it enjoyable! At its most basic, items that usually are included in a vintage sewing accessories collection include:


Chatelaines
Needle books, needle cases, needles, needles in packets
Old yarn and thread, especially still on spools, or in original packaging
Needle cases
Sewing baskets and contents (a delightful rummaging opportunity)

Sewing machine accessories, sometimes also sewing machines depending on age and beauty
Sewing kits

Thimbles and thimble boxes
Tape measures, especially novelty tape measures, rulers, and gauges

Mending and darning, darners, clamps
Sewing box paraphernalia, e.g., fasteners, hooks and eyes, etc.; the older and more interesting, the better
Scissors used for sewing, including pinking shears; scissors cases and sets
Old beads used for clothing, glass ones are especially prized
Buttons (a collectible in their own right)
Pin boxes

Pincushions and pins
Tatting shuttles, knitting needles, crochet hooks, rug hooks, etc. - bone, ivory, tortoiseshell, Bakelite, plastic, etc.

Embroidery frames
Netting needles, lacework accessories
Instructional booklets and patterns - for some people, these form a very important part of a vintage sewing accessories collection, including knitting, crochet, tatting, embroidery, and sewing patterns
Antique linens - these are sometimes included in vintage sewing collections as the end products of the hard work using the sewing tools.
 There are a number on the market, just do an online search in a favourite book store. These will help you with more in-depth knowledge about each of the sewing tools and accessories of interest to you. Importantly, these will provide photographs of accessories, some of which will be completely unfamiliar to you until you have had them explained first. Once you're in the know, you'll know what to look for!

, This is where the thrill of collecting comes into play. There are a number of places to find your goodies, depending on your budget. They include:


Antique stores and shops.
Antique fairs, shows, exhibitions.

Museum stores (be careful of reproductions unless you collect those too).
Online auction sites - get to know which sellers specialize in selling vintage sewing tools and accessories, as well as keeping an eye out for bargains generally. Try to look internationally, as different countries can sell different items of great interest to you.
Online stores that cater to vintage sewing tools and accessories.
Family members and friends can be a great source of vintage sewing collectables when they are cleaning out their sewing room or attic, or when a beloved person passes on.
Estate sales.
 This is especially important when you are starting out, as you won't have a good idea of the worth of the items to begin with. Always keep within a budget and aim to buy items at a price that will ensure you a small profit if you need to sell it on at a later date. Note that:


Rare, older, and good condition items will be more expensive. Resale value is always better for items in good to excellent condition, especially when accompanied by original packaging and elements.
Mass manufactured, commonplace, damaged items will be cheaper. Their resale value is dependent on luck and novice collectors.
 Collecting vintage sewing accessories for financial reasons would be a fickle choice; if you want to collect for profit, you are better off collecting old wine or fine art! Collect vintage sewing tools and accessories because you love them, and what they represent - the love, effort, and wisdom of those who have used these items through the ages. There is great pleasure in knowing and observing this aspect of your collection.

