 Keep your phone or laptop near your bed, and set up alerts for all types of new messages. Maybe you can't be with them in person, but you don't have to be out of the loop entirely., If you're going in for surgery, ask your doctor to give you a detailed idea of what to expect. If you're recovering from an injury, ask your nurse if there are any things you could do to speed up the process. If you're curious about medicine in general, this is a great time to find out about the field from professional health care workers.It is not uncommon for a long stay in the hospital to inspire a patient to become a nurse or doctor. Who knows, this annoying hospital stay might change your life.
 A few minutes a day can help reduce stress, lower heart rate and blood pressure, and even reduce pain. Your hospital may offer meditation sessions as a part of therapy. If not, it's simple to do on your own.Assume a comfortable position, either sitting or lying down, and focus your attention on something simple, like a candle or a plant. Look at the object, but try not to think about it in words.
Take deep, relaxed breaths in through your nose and out through your mouth.
Repeat (aloud or in your head) a word that you find soothing. You can use the traditional words “Ohm” or “Peace,” or any word you like that makes you happy.
Focus on your breathing, and try not to think about anything else. If you find your mind wandering, calmly release the thoughts and focus on how your breath moves through your body.
 You may be more prone to negative thinking when you are in the hospital, but challenging negative thoughts can help. When you notice a negative thought, the first thing you should do is acknowledge it. Then, you can begin to examine and rephrase the thought and turn it into something more realistic.


For example, you could ask yourself questions such as, “What is the worst case scenario? How might that affect me or my life? Why am I afraid of this happening?”
You can also try to turn the thought into something more productive or realistic by examining the evidence that you have to support the thought. For example, if you catch yourself thinking, “I am never going to be able to leave this hospital,” then take a moment to examine your evidence. Is that the most likely outcome to your situation? What evidence do you have to support this thought? Is there evidence to support another outcome? If so, what is it? What actions can you take to improve your chance of a positive outcome?, Hospitals can be scary. But keep in mind that a hospital is one of the safest places anyone can be. The doctors are highly trained and are prepared to deal with any problems that might arise. Still, if you are struggling to feel calm, try reassuring yourself with an affirmation, such as:”I am safe here.”
”I feel relaxed and peaceful.”
My life is filled with good things and that will continue.”

