 Do you have a good friend you have been out of touch with? This is a great time to reach out and have a nice long conversation to catch up on all the lost time.Call them at a time that you think is convenient to their schedule. Avoid times when they may be too busy to talk, like when they are at work or school, or having dinner.
Acknowledge that it has been a long time since you spoke to get rid of any awkwardness and to let them know you are being genuine and not just acting like no time has passed at all.
It is best mention how long it's been right at the top of the conversation by saying something like, “It’s been such a long time,” or “I bet you’re surprised to hear from me.”

, So much evolution has occurred with our communication devices that it is rare people actually sit down and write a letter to someone else. On the other hand, there is something more intimate, personal and timeless about handwriting a letter. Write a letter to a friend or loved one and put it in the mail when you feel up to it., Even though you may feel left out while you are sick, you can stay in the loop with your friends by scrolling through Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. Send Snapchats to your friends and it's almost like you are there with them.Write a post asking for suggestions of movies and television shows you should watch while you are sick.
Create an event as something you can look forward to once you get better and can spend time with your friends.
Ask your friends to reply to your post with their favorite memories of your time together or their memory of how you first met.
Start a discussion regarding something you are passionate about and ask for input.
Choose to post things which won’t be upsetting or cause you more stress.
Be aware of your privacy settings and be careful what you put online.
 When you can’t get out into the real world, you can still play with your friends in the virtual world. Choose from role playing games like Second Life or virtual reality in League of Legends. You can also keep it simple with classic board games like Scrabble using Words With Friends.


If your friends aren’t already players, you can invite them to join the game via email. You may want to get their permission or ask if they would like to play via text, then send them ways to connect online.

