 For most Achilles tendon pain, you can treat it with over-the-counter pain relievers.Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs) are used for short-term (acute) pain. These include ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and naproxen (Aleve). NSAIDs help reduce both the pain and swelling of an injured or sore tendon.Follow your physician’s directions carefully. Also make sure to follow the manufacturer’s recommended dosage.
Long-term use of NSAIDs can lead to bleeding and ulcers., If your Achilles tendon is causing you pain, your doctor may suggest wearing special footwear. You may try shoes with softer heels to help reduce pain when you walk. You might also try putting heel lifts into your shoes.If you have a lot of pain, your doctor may suggest that you wear a walking boot for awhile. This helps take some of the stress off the Achilles tendon so it can start to heal.
 For serious injuries, surgery may be the best option. With surgery, the success rates are very high, around 80 to 90% success. Generally, surgery is only suggested for those who have had an Achilles tendon injury that doesn’t heal after approximately six months.During Achilles tendon surgery, the surgeon may lengthen your calf muscles, remove damaged parts of the tendon, remove a bone spur, anchor the tendon to the bone, or perform a tendon transfer.
 For most serious Achilles tendon injuries, recovery can take from three to six months. While it may not be easy, try not to rush back into strenuous physical activity until there is no pain. That can cause more serious and more permanent injury. For minor Achilles tendon injuries, wait until there is no pain and go easy when you start physical activity again.


You can try other exercises that won’t hurt your Achilles tendon, such as swimming, while you recover.
Make sure you stretch your calf muscles and Achilles tendon before any activity that requires running, turning quickly, or jumping.
Make certain that your shoes fit you well and are appropriate for the physical activity that you are doing.

