 A variety of factors can contribute to the development of acne around the chin. Examine your own lifestyle to look for the culprit of your breakouts. If certain habits can be identified as the cause, they can altered or eliminated to lessen the severity of breakouts.


Are you a heavy make-up user? Greasy or heavily applied make-up can clog pores and have been known to cause breakouts. Applying less make-up or switching to a more natural brand or one that is labeled "oil-free" or "noncomedogenic," can lessen chin acne.When you work out, do you shower immediately afterwards? Delaying showering after a work out allows any oils, dirt, and make-up on your skin to mix with sweat. These debris settle in your pores, causing a break out. Always at least wash your face after a work-out and, if you shower, pay special attention to rinsing the sweat from your face. If possible, remove your make-up before you exercise.Are you a smoker? Some studies indicate a correlation between smoking and acne. As smoking increases the risk for a wide array of health problems in addition to acne, it might be best to ditch the nicotine altogether.What is your diet like? A diet that's high in empty carbs, processed sugar, and dairy products is correlated with increased risk for acne. Eating healthier can have a variety of positive benefits, including reducing your acne.;
, Your acne might not be a simple matter of your lifestyle. Acne can be caused by underlying medical problems. If you can't identify a habit of yours that could be causing your acne, see a doctor to check for medical problems.


Hormones are often to blame for excessive chin acne. A doctor or dermatologist can do blood work to detect any hormonal imbalances that may be to blame for your acne and prescribe medications such as antibiotics or medications that restore hormone balance.In women, excessive facial acne is sometimes the result of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome. This increases testosterone in the ovaries, causing acne. A gynecologist can help diagnose POS and offer treatment options to lessen the severity of symptoms., Oftentimes, the clothing we wear can affect our skin. Go through your wardrobe and look for any offending items.


If you have any known skin allergens, you may be unknowingly coming into contact with them in the fabrics of scarves, hats, and other items that have contact with your face. Read the ingredients list on any fabrics you use and look out for potential allergens.
Try switching laundry detergents. Oftentimes, the chemicals in some detergents are hard on skin and cause contact dermatitis, which is noted by red, acne-like bumps on the skin. If you're experiencing dermatitis, you might be mistaking it for an acne outbreak. Opt for a more eco-friendly brand of detergent and see if it helps.If you're a cyclist, bike helmets can contribute to the problem if chin strips are strapped on tight. While you shouldn't lessen the pressure, as you should put your own safety first, washing your chin after taking off your helmet could help with breakouts.