 Make sure you have the correct network name and password. Popular streaming devices include:Apple TV
Google Chromecast
Roku
Amazon Fire TV

, This can be determined by taking a note of which input your streaming device is plugged into. Is it plugged into an HDMI port? Which number? USB?

, At this point your screen should no longer be blank, but should now be displaying a "home screen." The type of home screen depends on the make and model of streaming device.


Some streaming devices, such as Google Chromecast, require you to download an application in order to initially setup and pair the streaming device to your smart device(phone tablet or PC).Depending on the make and model of streaming device, you will also have a range of applications that have been pre-loaded on the device itself (e.g., youtube, vimeo, Facebook)., The general settings of your streaming device may not be set to allow network sharing from another device.


Please refer to your specific device's instructional manual regarding 'network sharing.'

, Once there, use the display settings to determine how you want content to be displayed.


When "mirroring" is enabled, your HDTV will display everything that can be seen on the screen of the personal device.
 Content can be provided by a third-party application (such as the one provided by your cable or satellite provider; or an individual cable network application), or found on-line using your web browser.
 This icon can typically be found in the top corner of your browser or media window. When accessed, you will be asked on which screen--personal device or HDTV--you would like the view the content.
 If you would like to stream content stored directly on your hard-drive to your HDTV, you can do so using your media player.Most up-to-date media players are capable of streaming content from your computer to your HDTV with no additional software or application needed.
Refer to your media player's specific instructions on how to turn-on "media streaming" features.