 You may find yourself saying yes to every suggestion that your friends make. If you run into a situation where you don’t want to be or your friend asks something of you that you aren’t willing to give, don’t say yes just to be nice. Say no in a positive, calm manner. Being assertive doesn’t mean you aren’t being nice, it just means that you are giving your valid, respectful opinion in the situation.For example, if you friend wants to go see a movie that you really don’t want to see, calmly tell them, “No, I don’t want to see this movie.” You can even suggest a different option or another activity in its place. This way, you would be able to spend time together but do something that everyone wants to do.
 When you are being assertive with your partner, make sure to be direct. Don’t talk around your feelings or side step what you are actually feeling. Part of being assertive is being direct and explicit in your feelings and wishes.


Avoid being overly harsh, accusatory, or vague about what you want.
For example, instead of saying “Wouldn’t you rather go somewhere more fun?”, tell your friend “I would like to go to this pub that has trivia.”, You and your friends may have a difference of opinion about a particular subject. This doesn’t mean you can no longer be friends or that either of your opinions are invalid. It just means that you differ about some things. This is common in friendships, or any relationship, because there is no one person exactly like you.


These differences are what make your friendship interesting and fun. Just don’t let them get in the way of your friendship.
Approach the situation with the idea that it is okay to agree to disagree, but that expressing your opinion is very valid. The same is true for your friend’s opinion, as long as you both express these opinions in a calm, positive, and assertive manner.For example, if you find yourself in a particular situation where you and your friend do not agree, tell your friend, "I respect your opinion, although it differs from mine. Let's just agree to disagree and continue with our day."

, In order to be honest in your friendships, you need to know exactly what it is you want and expect from others. This means you need to assess what you need in a friendship, what you expect your friends to do, and how you want to act in these friendships.


Try making a list of the qualities you see in the perfect friend. Then think about each one and how much those things would mean to you as part of your friendship. This will help you understand your expectations of your friendships and know how to ask for these things from your friends.
The more you understand about what you expect from a friend, the more you can communicate this to them in a calm, positive manner.
This will help your friendship improve once you and your friends are on the same page.