 Have a thorough eye exam with an ophthalmologist that specializes in laser vision surgery. The eye doctor will assess your eyes, making sure that you do not have any diseases of the eye or eye conditions that could impact the surgery.Before picking an eye doctor, do some research, either online or among people you know, on ophthalmologists that do laser surgery in your area. You want a doctor that is well respected and known for reliable work.
Don't pick the cheapest ophthalmologist just to save a few dollars, however, make sure that you are not paying an excessive amount to get a thorough and professional surgery.;
, You will need to discuss the ophthalmologist's findings to find out if you have any eye conditions that will prevent you from having your vision corrected with surgery. Conditions that could impact your ability to have laser vision surgery include thin corneas, glaucoma, herpes of the eye, large corneas, or inflammation of the eyelids. If your doctor says that you can't have the surgery, it means that they do not feel confident that they can complete the surgery successfully. For example, if you have thin corneas, the doctor may say they cannot do the surgery because they need the cornea to be thick enough to withstand the laser reshaping done in laser eye surgery. In this case, if your cornea is too thin and the doctor tries to reshape it, it could result in blindness.
Having one or more of these conditions doesn't automatically mean that you can't have the procedure, but it may mean that one type of procedure may be better than another.
If your vision prescription has changed in the last year, you shouldn't get the procedure done. This means that no one under 18 should get this surgery, as younger people's vision is likely to continue changing.
Tell your doctor if you have had any eye diseases or procedures in the past. This could impact their assessment.
 In order to get laser surgery you will need to be in good general health. This includes having no eye problems or eye injuries that you are currently recovering from.You should also avoid getting laser eye surgery if you’re pregnant or nursing.
If you are taking medications that could impact your healing, such as retinoic acid and steroids, then you should wait to have the surgery.
 Even if the surgery can be performed on your eyes, that doesn't mean that now is the right time for it. For example, you may have commitments or job requirements that could be negatively impacted by side effects from surgery. Think about your life and lifestyle and how this surgery could impact them.In general, the recovery time for laser eye surgery is very quick. You should be able to see clearly almost immediately, as long as things go as expected. However, if there are any complications, it could impact your ability to see clearly, which means that could impact your ability to work for a few days.
 In order to assess whether you should get surgery, you need to be aware of the risks associated with the procedure. While laser vision surgery does not require anesthesia, and thus the risks are lower than some other surgeries, there are some risks.Possible side effects and risks include double vision, blurriness, glare, astigmatism, dry eyes, over correction, and under correction.
Above all, any surgery to the eye does have the risk of causing blindness.
 Laser vision surgery is usually not covered by insurance, so you will have to pay for the procedure out of pocket. While the cost varies, it can cost between $1,000 to $3,000 per eye.Many eye surgery centers have payment plans available, so discuss payment options with your surgery center.
 After you have your eye exam, your doctor should tell you about your options for surgery. They will tell you what type of surgery will work best for you given the state of your eyes.


If your doctor gives you several options for surgical procedures, then you will need to do some research and decide between them.
 LASIK surgery is the most common laser vision surgery. During LASIK, a laser is used to resurface the outside of the cornea, removing any imperfections in the surface.In order to get LASIK you need a thick cornea. If your cornea is too thin, you should not have the procedure.
LASIK is an outpatient procedure that requires very little recovery time.
 LASEK surgery is similar to LASIK, except that it can be done on patients that have corneas that are too thin for LASIK because it does not require the same flap to be opened on the eye's surface. If your doctor suggests it, that probably means that your corneas are too thin for LASIK.Because LASEK destroys less cornea tissue than LASIK, it also is less likely to cause dry eyes afterward.
 PRK is another procedure that uses lasers to reshape the cornea. It was developed before LASIK and has been largely replaced by that process. However, PRK is still sometimes used for specific eye structures.Unlike with LASIK and LASEK, while recovering from PRK you will need to wear an eye patch over your eye., Vision Implantable Collamer Lens (ICL) and Verisyse Phakic Intraocular Lens (P-IOL) are two types of laser surgery that can be used to correct your vision if you have cataracts in addition to vision problems.The procedure begins with an opening being made in the cornea and then a lens being placed between the cornea and the iris.


Only those with cataracts or risk factors for cataracts are usually given this type of surgery.
 Your doctor will give you specific directions about what to do before and after surgery. Follow these directions closely so that your experience is as easy as possible and so that the surgery goes well.Your doctor is likely to tell you to keep contacts out of your eyes for a week to three weeks before surgery, depending on the type of lens' you wear. They will also want you to make sure that you arrange a ride home after surgery, that you take all of your normal medications before surgery, and that you arrive on time with no makeup or perfume on.
After surgery you will want to avoid rubbing or touching your eyes for a week, use eye drops as directed, and avoid using makeup or lotion near your eyes for several days., While the results of laser eye surgery may be almost immediate, it is not unusual to have moments of blurriness for a few days after the surgery. However, even if you have moments of blurriness, your vision should be dramatically improved by the surgery.If you are having pain that is not controlled by the pain medication that you were prescribed after surgery, then call your doctor. This level of pain is not normal and needs to be addressed.
 You should schedule and go to a follow-up appointment after laser eye surgery. At this appointment, your doctor will look at your eyes and make sure that the surgery went as planned. They will also assure that the healing has gone well.

You should go to a follow-up visit within 24 to 48 hours of surgery.