 Because leaking milk is often caused by overly full breasts, nursing your baby prevents leakage by reducing the pressure caused by the milk.Additionally, milk leakage often stops after the baby has gotten used to breastfeeding, which requires frequent opportunities for your baby to nurse.Nurse your baby before your breasts get full to avoid leakage.It takes time for your body to get used to how much milk your baby needs, so frequent feedings will help your body make that adjustment.
 If you are unable to nurse your baby when you sense your breasts becoming full, use your hands to manually express your milk. You will avoid leakage by lowering your supply. While it may feel uncomfortable at first, manually expressing your milk is easy and convenient. If you have a sterile bottle or container handy, you can save the milk for your baby.Remember to properly store your expressed milk until you are ready to use it.
 Many women choose to use a breast pump, especially after they return to work. If you own a breast pump, plan to use it before your breasts get full enough to leak. With consistent use, you can prevent leakage by keeping your milk supply in check., If the leaking occurs during feeding, then put a towel, burping cloth, or breast pad on or under the leaking breast to catch the excess milk., If you are worried about leaking at work, try to keep your mind off of your baby at home because thinking about your baby can cause leakage.While it may seem impossible, planning time into your day to check on your baby and look at photos can help.


Check in on your baby around the time that you pump.
Remember that looking at photos of your baby and sometimes other babies can lead to leakage.
 Warm rooms can cause breast leakage, so try to avoid spending time in areas that feel warm to you.If you can control the thermostat, set it to a temperature that feels comfortable or even cool.


Be honest with your friends, coworkers, and family about why you want to keep the room cool. You could say, “The baby has made my body temporarily sensitive to warmth, so is it alright if we turn down the AC?”
If you are uncomfortable sharing the truth at work, try speaking with just your boss or a coworker that you trust.

