 Zinc is a very important important mineral for bodybuilders - it strengthens the immune system and stimulates testosterone production. It may also help your body produce protein and heal wounds. Low zinc levels have also been linked with poor appetite, as zinc is needed to produce HCl which regulates digestion in the stomach. Therefore, by increasing your zinc intake you can also increase your appetite.It is recommended that beginner bodybuilders start out with 15 milligrams a day (for men) and 9 milligrams a day (for women), though this can be increased overtime.It is possible to increase your zinc intake by taking a supplement, however toxicity is a concern so it's best to get as much of your daily zinc intake from food as possible.If you do decide to take oral zinc supplements, be sure to talk to your doctor first.
Some foods which contain high levels of zinc include: oysters, chicken, beef shank, pork chops, wheat bran, cashew nuts and pumpkin seeds., When trying to consume more food at each sitting, it may help to try eating your food a little faster. Research has shown that it can take up to 20 minutes from the time you start eating for your brain to start sending out signals that it's full.By eating faster, you can trick your body into consuming more food than usual. Try eating bigger bites and avoid putting your fork down in between, just make sure you chew everything thoroughly.


Be warned that you may feel extremely full once your brain does register that you've eaten enough. However, over time your body will adjust to this feeling and your appetite should increase, especially if you are also increasing the intensity of your work-outs.
 Certain forms of B vitamins are said to help bodybuilders increase their appetite - namely, B12 and Folic acid. You can take these vitamins in tablet form or more directly, through injections which your doctor can prescribe., If you're having trouble eating the large quantities of food necessary to build muscle, you can consider drinking protein shakes. Protein shakes are essentially a type of supplement which provide high levels of protein in an easily drinkable form. They are helpful when consuming large quantities of protein-rich foods leaves you feeling bloated and overly-full.


Your body can digest, at most, 30 grams of protein per meal. Do not drink protein shakes that contain more than 30 grams in each serving.