 If you know you’ll be making your cheese tomorrow, simply place your raw cashews in a bowl, cover them with warm water, and let them soak overnight. If you’re making it today, just place them in a small pot, cover them with water, and then turn the burner on and let them boil for 15 minutes. Either way, dump the cashews and water into a strainer in the sink to drain them once you’re ready.Soaking or boiling the cashews softens them, which results in a creamier texture when blended.
 Transfer your drained cashews into a blender. Add the aquafaba. Blend at high speed. You want it as smooth as can be, so give it an extra minute or two just to be sure. Then pour the mixture through a sieve over a mixing bowl. Remove any chunks of cashew that may still be in the blender. Then transfer the mixture from the bowl back into the blender.Low-end blenders and food processors are more likely to leave chunks.
 To start, add all ingredients to the mix except for the apple cider vinegar and, for the moment, the coconut oil. This means your tapioca starch, kappa carrageenan, lactic acid, nutritional yeast, tomato paste, onion powder, paprika, turmeric, and salt. Pulse until they combine evenly. Next, pour in the coconut oil and pulse again until the mixture thickens a bit.The turmeric is mostly for coloring, so if you don’t have any on hand, don’t sweat it.
 Transfer your mixture to a medium saucepan on the stovetop. Turn the burner to medium-low. The starch will cause the mixture to turn lumpy, so stir constantly to keep it smooth. Measure the temperature with a food thermometer. Once it reaches 170 degrees F (77 degrees Celsius), stir in the apple cider vinegar and remove the mixture from heat.


The oil may separate from other ingredients during the heating process. If this happens at any point, remove from heat and stir it up to recombine it. If that doesn’t work, use an immersion blender.
 Transfer the mixture into a cheese mold. Place the mold in the refrigerator. Let it sit for a few hours, testing occasionally for firmness. Once it feels as firm as real cheddar cheese, slice, grate, or shred it as desired.