 Most people realize they have a low sperm count after they have difficulty conceiving. Get checked by a doctor if you don’t conceive after trying for over one year or if you have other symptoms. This could indicate an underlying problem:Low sex drive
Erectile dysfunction
Ejaculation problems
Pain or swelling in your testicles
Prior surgery to your groin, testicles, penis, or scrotum
Trauma to your sexual organs
Having had cancer treatments. The treatments may lower your sperm count.
Undescended testicles
Cystic fibrosis, which may obstruct the flow of sperm
Hormonal abnormalities
Celiac disease. You may be able to increase your fertility by eliminating gluten from your diet., By counting your sperm under a microscope, the doctor can determine if you have a low sperm count. Your doctor will probably want to examine at least two samples. You can provide a good sample by:Masturbating into a receptacle provided by the doctor
Providing the entire ejaculate
Abstaining from sex for one to 11 days before providing the sample
Not using lubricants

, Depending upon what the doctor suspects the problem is, he or she may do the following additional investigations:A visual exam of your genitals.
Ask questions about your sex life, sexual development, illnesses, injuries, surgeries, and genetic disorders in your family.
An ultrasound of your scrotum to make sure there are no structural problems.
Test your hormones to make sure they are sufficient for sperm production.
Test your urine for sperm to make sure you do not have retrograde ejaculation. When this occurs, your sperm go into your bladder.
Genetic tests to see if you have genetic disorder
A biopsy of your testicles. During this test the doctor will remove sperm with a needle to examine whether you are producing enough sperm. This can help determine if you have a blockage.
Anti-sperm antibody tests to determine whether your immune system is attacking your sperm.
Examine how well your sperm survives after ejaculation, attaches to the egg, and penetrates the egg.
A transrectal ultrasound to check for prostate problems and blockages in the ejaculatory ducts and seminal vesicles.
 Depending upon what the cause of your low sperm count is, your options may include:Antibiotics to get rid of an infection. In a many cases if an infection is caught quickly, no permanent damage will result.
Counseling or medication for erectile problems.
Medications to adjust your hormone levels.
Surgery to reverse a vasectomy, unblock a vas deferens, correct a swelling in the veins which drain the testicles, or take sperm out of the testicles or epididymis directly.
Assisted reproductive technology treatments. This may involve putting the sperm directly into the partner’s reproductive tract, doing in vitro fertilization, or injecting sperm directly into an egg. Which option your doctor recommends will likely vary on whether the sperm have the mobility to fertilize the sperm once placed the the reproductive tract.
Using a sperm donor or adopting. This would likely be a last resort if you are unable to have a biological child of your own.

