 The most common treatment for SAD is light therapy. Your doctor may recommend you try light therapy as your primary treatment for SAD, or to use it in conjunction with other therapies. There are many different kinds of light boxes available. When selecting yours, you may wish to keep the following in mind:


Look at light intensity. The lower the lux measurement of the light box, the longer you will need to sit near the box to gain antidepressant benefits. For example, a 2500-lux box may require as much as two hours a day of treatment, while a 10,000-lux box may only require that you sit near it for 20-30 minutes. The 10,000-lux light box is currently the clinical standard.Consider your budget. Lower lux light boxes will likely be less expensive, but they will also require greater time commitment to treat SAD.
The FDA does not regulate light boxes. Be aware of claims companies make about treatment of SAD.You can buy light boxes online, or get them at some drug stores. Keep in mind that most insurance plans do not cover their purchase. You may be able to get the cost reimbursed through your flexible spending account, however, if your doctor writes you a prescription for one., In order to reap the benefits of light therapy, position your light box between 16 and 24 inches from your face. For a 10,000 lux box, you will likely use it for 20-30 minutes once a day, but confirm with your doctor and read the manufacturer’s instructions to determine the amount of light exposure you need.Do not stare directly at the light box. Doing so may cause eye damage. Use it while you are reading or catching up on work.
Keep your eyes open. You get almost no benefits by just exposing your skin to the light. If the light is too bright for your eyes, talk to your doctor about other treatment options.Use it in the morning. Studies have shown light box treatment to be more effective if done in the morning. Plus, nighttime usage can stimulate your brain to make you feel more awake, making falling asleep difficult., Find ways to make your environment more sunlit. Open your curtains, sit by a window, or even paint your walls a lighter color to help boost your mood.You may wish to trim a tree or bush on your property that is reducing sunlight into your home.
Consider removing window awnings during the winter to get more light in your home.
Bringing plants into your home can also create an uplifting environment. Some people with SAD dedicate a room in their home as a greenhouse. This can create a natural space that lifts your mood., Get outside as much as possible and get natural light exposure. Any exercise you get will also be beneficial and mood-boosting.


You could try taking a walk at lunchtime when the sun is at its highest point, to maximize your light exposure., If it is feasible, take a vacation to a sunnier destination during the winter. You may even consider temporarily relocating to a sunnier place during the winter, if you find that your SAD is severe.When looking for a vacation spot to deal with SAD, the amount of sunshine is what matters more than the temperature. But since most people enjoy being out in the warm sunshine, you may wish to look for a vacation spot closer to the equator, where temperatures are warmer and day length does not vary much.
You could even consider switching seasons by heading to the other side of the equator. Winter in the northern hemisphere is summer in the southern hemisphere, and vice versa. You will enjoy warmer temperatures and longer days.

