 Your hair? Your attitude? Sometimes it's really hard to determine what you need to work on. Ask yourself. Still don't know? Ask for a second opinion, and a third and possibly a fourth. The more the better!;
, Fashion is all about having fun with your looks and expressing yourself. You don't have to wear designer clothes to be fashionable. Try to create a diverse wardrobe, consisting of clothes that are your style, not someone else's. Be a fashion creator, not a fashion follower.
 Add some colourful necklaces, funky bracelets, earrings, etc. Also give yourself some cool hairdos. You don't have to dye your whole head pink! Just put your hair in French braids with some cool hair ties! Still keep in the rules though! Being in trouble is not cool.
 Mix things up! Mix vintage with trendy items; designer items with less expensive items, girly items with boyish items; and anything else you can come up with! Don't wear one brand head-to-toe. Be fashion forward, but don't be a trend-chaser!

, That way, you'll get used to the new clothes. Remember, it's all about your style, not Teen Vogue's. Try thrift and vintage. You'll look completely unique.
 That really boost your confidence! However, don't feel pressured to wear thongs just because your friends are. Same goes with bras. If you're not ready for one, don't go out and buy a C cup bra just because your friends are chesty. This will make you seem desperate.
 It doesn't have to match everything. It can be completely random. It'll be your signature. It doesn't have to be designer. You can find great purses at cheap prices at Marshalls and T.J Maxx.
 They don't have to match. Chunky bracelets and necklaces are great with plain t-shirts, and it's always nice to have a necklace/bracelet that goes with anything. Claire's and H&M are great places for weird, funky things.
 They should be comfortable, and, once again, they don't have to exactly match every outfit. Wear those polka dot flats with that striped top. People will admire your confidence. And if not, who cares?

, The same haircut won't necessarily look good on a straight-haired girl and a curly-haired girl. You don't need to dye your hair, but if you want, it's totally fine to do it on your own as long as you follow directions completely. Getting help is also beneficial, especially during your first haircut.
 Layers, side bangs, blond highlights, whatever. Make sure that style is right for your hair!

, Don't wear ponytail everyday! Messy buns, side swept bangs, French braids and the low ponytail are all hot hairstyles. Or you can just wear your hair down!

, Eat a healthy diet, drink lots of water, and work out in order to be healthy. You don't have to be skinny to get friends, and you don't have to gain weight if you're unnaturally skinny, either, unless your doctor tells you it's unhealthy.
 A coat of mascara, a swipe of lip gloss, and some natural makeup is probably all you need. Don't pile it on unless you want to look like a circus clown! However, a bit of eyeshadow or eyeliner is good. If it's your style do it, just use your own discretion. And make sure to put it on after gym during passing period (about 5 minutes) and hurry to get back to class

, Learn to do a handstand, become a better artist- whatever you feel like doing.
 People can sense insecurity and it's a major turn off. You should also be outgoing! People like to be around outgoing people. However, you don't have to be wild and crazy! Also, be nice to others. If you're always mean to people, they won't want to be around you. However, if you're really nice all the time, some people will take this to their advantage. Don't let those kind of people use you.

