 Medicated eye drops are the most common way of treating glaucoma.These require a prescription so the eye doctor can regularly check eye pressure as well as any complications that may occur. Over-the-counter eye drops are not recommended in combination with prescription eye drops. Prescription eye drops can lower eye pressure by slowly improving fluid drainage in your eyes. These are usually taken every day, of course with the guidance of an ophthalmologist.


If this sounds like a convenient solution for you, talk to your doctor. She will be able to set you up with the kind that is right for you.
 This type of eye drop is used to reduce the fluid in the eyes. Examples of this drug include timolol (Betimol) betaxolol (Betoptic), and metipranolol (OptiPranolol). These are usually given one drop, once or twice daily.


The side effects of this eye drop may include breathing problems, hair loss, fatigue, depression, memory loss, a drop in blood pressure, and impotence., This eye drop has replaced beta-blockers as the most common eye drop used because it does have fewer side effects. This drop, usually given one per day, increases fluid flow in the eye and reduces eye pressure.


Its possible side effects include a reddening and stinging feeling in the eyes, a little swell in the outer part of the eye and the iris of the eye becoming dark. The color of the eyelids may also change., These are also called miotics because they narrow the size of the pupils. On the other hand, they help with glaucoma by increasing fluid flow in the eye. Common examples are pilocarpine and carbachol.


Possible side effects are having smaller pupils (less intake of light), blurred vision, an aching brow, and an increased risk of retinal detachment.
These eye drops are infrequently used anymore as a treatment for glaucoma because it usually requires one drop, three to four times a day. Rather it is now commonly used to keep pupils smaller prior to laser iridotomy — in other words, conditions unrelated to glaucoma., These eye drops reduce fluid production in the eyes.Drug examples are Trusopt and Azopt, with one drop taken two to three times a day. These drugs can also be use as pills in eliminating body fluid, including in the eyes.


Possible side effects may include nausea, eye irritation, dry mouth, frequent urination, tingling in the fingers/toes, and a strange taste in the mouth., These eye drops both reduce fluid flow in the eye and at the same time increase the fluid drainage in the eye. Usually one drop is needed per day. Drug examples are Alphagan, Propine and Iopidine. These are not commonly used, as 12% of users may have an allergic reaction.


Possible side effects may include irregular heartbeat, high blood pressure, fatigue, red, itchy or swollen eyes, and dry mouth.
 Surgical intervention for glaucoma is done if eye drops or drugs don’t work, or if the person cannot tolerate the drugs' side effects. The main reason for surgery is to improve the fluid flow in the eye to lower eye pressure. Sometimes, your initial surgery does not lower eye pressure enough, requiring you to have a second surgery or to still continue using eye drops. The different kinds of eye surgery are as follows:



Drainage implants. Implants are usually done for children and for those suffering from advanced glaucoma and secondary glaucoma.

Laser surgery. Trabeculoplasty is a laser surgery that uses a high-energy laser beam to open blocked drainage canals and let the fluid run easily in the eyes.

Laser iridotomy. These are for people with very narrow drainage angles. A small hole is created on the top part or side of the iris for improved fluid flow.

Filtering Surgery. In this procedure, a surgeon creates an opening in the sclera (the white part of the eye) and removes a small piece of tissue in the base of the cornea where fluid goes out, allowing the fluid to flow freely out of the eye.

