 Your cat may exhibit odd behavior for the next 10 to 24 hours due to the anesthesia given during the operation. Your cat may act nauseous, be irritable, sleepy, or may even shiver. Try to keep small children and other pets away from your cat at this point because the cat may be unpredictable due to the medication and pain from surgery.;
, Make sure that your cat is comfortable and in a quiet room in the house. Even better if it is his/her favorite room of the house. You can place the cat in a small box, or carrier with a blanket or towels for padding. Or, use a nice comfy cat bed. Your cat needs his/her rest in order to heal, so try to keep other pets and children away from him/her.
 Try to do so later in the evening because the cat will most likely still be nauseous. It may take up to 24 hours for the cat to get his/her appetite back. But don't worry, as he/she will get there.
 Regular cat litter can get into the wounds and cause infection.
 Only give the cat medication you specifically got from the vet, in dosages advised by the vet. Other medications can be toxic to the cat.
 The bandages must be taken off the day after surgery. Give one dose of the pain medication provided by your vet about 20 minutes prior to taking off the bandages. This way it will be less painful and less stressful for your cat.


To remove the bandages, loosen the tape at the top of the bandage and all the way around. Then gently pull the entire bandage down as if you were trying to take off a sock. The entire bandage should slide right off.
If you are having trouble getting the bandage off, your vet can do this for you free of charge.
 Keep your cat's paws dry. You may notice blue or green on the toes near the surgery site, this is just the glue used by the vet after surgery to keep the wounds closed. Most cats are healed in 2 to 6 weeks but if your cat is still limping after 5 to 6 days, take him/her to be checked by your vet because this can indicate infection. Also, if your cat is older or bigger, they may take longer to heal as well.

