 Wait to start them on regular feed until they are one day old.;
, of terramycin. Terramycin is an antibiotic that is used to treat bacterial infections., These mixes should contain 20 percent protein, which is higher than the amount you will feed to older chickens. Feed them starter feed from day one to eight weeks old., If they have been vaccinated, choose unmedicated starter feed.
 (14 kg) of starter feed to feed 10 chicks for six weeks., The protein level should be around 16 percent protein. Birds that will be used for meat can have up to 20 percent protein in their grower feed.
 Treats should be very small, since they will replace part of the nutritious grower feed that day. Chickens can eat just about anything such as toast, cereal, biscuits, corn, noodles and even meat!

, Grit helps the chickens digest vegetable and fruit treats. Purchased feed is already mixed for adequate digestion without grit and free-range chickens don't need grit as they find plenty of things in the ground that helps them digest their food.
 The calcium content can hurt the kidneys and reduce the chicken’s life span.
 Cover any leftover food to protect it from pests at night. If you don't cover the food there is a chance that you will attract bugs, mice, rats and other creatures seeking for food.
 You can also use all-purpose feed; however, layer feed can have up to 2 percent more protein and more calcium content to promote better eggshells. You will need 18 to 24 lbs. (8 to 11 kg) of feed per week for 10 chickens.You can purchase layer feed in pellet, mash or crumble forms, the choice is up to you. If the eggs turn soft provide the hens with more calcium. Keep in mind that it is common for a hens first egg to be a bit unusual such as double yolks and soft shells.
 Crushed oyster shells or crushed eggshells can increase the calcium. Never mix the calcium into the layer feed.
 The healthiest treats are mealworms, pumpkin and pumpkin seeds. Provide a bowl of grit (unless free-range) to help them digest it.
 They eat more when it is cold out. Scratch is made of cracked corn, oats, wheat and other grains. It should be given in limited quantity and taken away almost entirely in the summer.
 These are toxic to chickens., Lawns with weeds and tender, young plants can increase nutrition. However, lawns sprayed with pesticides or featuring only one type of grass can take the place of more nutritious food sources.


The benefits of having your chickens graze around your lawn is that they don't need to be provided grit and most of their diet is made up from the things they find inside the grass and ground., This is different than layer starter. It has a protein content of 20 to 24 percent.


You will need 30 to 50 lbs. (14 to 23 kg) of broiler starter for 10 chicks.
 The protein content is 16 to 20 percent. You will need 16 to 20 lbs. (7 to 9 kg) of feed for 10 birds.
 Some birds that are bred for meat are given feed day and night, with light placed in their coops to encourage them to eat more. You may choose to do this near the end of their lives.

