 Although it seems counter-intuitive to put a sick dog through surgery, in the vast majority of cases this is the best option. Your veterinarian will stabilize your dog first, as described in Method 1. Once stable, surgery to remove both the ovaries and infected womb will give your dog her best chance at survival.Surgery is necessary to remove the source of the infection—the womb. This is the safest and most reliable means of removing the reservoir of the bacteria, toxins, and pus.
 Before getting surgery, the vet will assess your dog’s circulatory system by looking at her gums. He or she will also listen to your dog’s heart. This will confirm that your dog is ready for surgery.
 Laparotomy is when the abdomen is opened up to gain access to the womb. Your dog will be given a short-acting intravenous anesthetic agent to make her sleepy enough to banish her swallow reflex. This will allow the veterinarian to safely insert a tracheal tube down into your dog’s windpipe.
 With your dog lying on her back, the nurse will clip all the hair from your dog’s belly so that her skin can be sterilized. Once clipping is complete, your dog will be transferred to the sterile environment of the theater.


The nurse will use a surgical scrub to sterilize the skin of the abdomen while the vet readies him or herself.
 Using sterile surgical drapes to mask off everything but the incision, the veterinarian will make an incision that runs from your dog’s tummy button to the brim of her pelvis.The vet will then proceed with the surgery, removing the infected womb and sealing off the wound.
 Your dog will most likely be hospitalized for at least 24 hours after surgery. This will allow for further pain relief to keep her comfortable as the anesthetic wears off.


It also allows for continued intravenous therapy which can be of benefit to keep flushing toxins out of your dog’s system.
 Once your dog is eating and drinking without vomiting, and happy to amble out to the toilet, she will be allowed to go home with a course of new antibiotics and pain relief medications.


As with the previous course of antibiotics, make sure to give your dog her pills every day until the course is done. If you stop giving her the medication when she seems to be acting better, you run the high risk of allowing the infection to return.
 The sutures will be removed approximately 10 to 14 days after the operation, at which point your dog should be good as new.

