 Second-hand sellers have more of a responsibility for investigating whether the goods they sell were stolen. First, you should identify if you qualify as a second-hand seller:pawn shop
thrift stores
flea market

, When someone comes to your business to sell goods, then you cannot just accept the goods without asking any questions. Instead, you should ask basic questions to feel out whether the person is the real owner. If the goods are stolen, then the police will want to see that you performed a reasonable inquiry.Ask how old the item is. If they don’t know, then they may have stolen the goods.
Ask where they got the item. If they can’t, or if they stammer and stumble, then the goods might be stolen.
Ask how much they originally paid for the item. If they give you a price that seems too low or too high, then you should be on guard. The goods may be stolen.
 Your state law may require that you take down important information about the seller. It is probably a good idea to do so even if your state law doesn’t require you to. For example, you should take down the following:seller’s name
seller’s address
physical description of the item

, Your state law might also require that you get a signed warranty from the seller.The warranty should state that the seller is the rightful owner of the property.


You should create a template and use the form over and over. The seller can write in his or her name and sign at the bottom.
Your state might publish a form you can use.You can check with the agency that licensed your business to see if they have a form.
 Dealing in stolen goods is a fairly common crime in many parts of the country. Accordingly, some states have rigorous laws you must abide by if you are a second-hand seller.


For example, in Florida, pawn shops must get a fingerprint of anyone who wants to pawn goods. You then enter information into a state database.If you are running a pawn shop or flea market as a business, then you should have a business attorney who can advise you on this important area of law.

