 If you are new to yoga, be sure to talk to your doctor before you begin a yoga practice to learn if there are any poses you should avoid.


Be especially careful with camel pose if you have any problems with your back, neck, or knees, if you are pregnant, if your blood pressure is abnormally high or low, if you suffer from insomnia or headaches, or if you have recently had surgery.;
, Be sure to wear comfortable clothing that will not inhibit your movement. You should also make sure that you have plenty of room to lay your yoga mat out and to stretch. If you are practicing on your own, find a quiet place that is as free from distractions as possible.


In addition to a yoga mat, you may want to have two yoga blocks available for this pose.
 Before attempting camel pose, be sure to stretch your back with some gentler poses.If you are attending a class, your instructor will not have you do camel pose until you are sufficiently warmed up. If you are practicing on your own, try some poses like cat cow pose and cobra pose to warm up your spine.
 Especially if you are new to yoga, you may not be able to do the full extension of this pose. Start out doing as much as you are comfortable with, and work up to the full pose slowly. You should never feel pain during yoga, so be sure to listen to your body and lessen the intensity of your pose if you begin to feel strained.
 To come into camel pose, kneel on your mat and place both hands on your hips. Your knees should be the same distance apart from each other as your hips, and your legs should be parallel. Tuck your chin in slightly, and then try to lengthen your tailbone towards the floor.Depending on the modification you choose, the tops of your feet can be flat on the floor or your toes can be tucked under.
 If you have never done this pose before, start with a less intense modification. Begin by gently tilting your pelvis forward. You can then begin arching your upper back and drawing your shoulder blades towards each other to open your chest. Leave your hands on your hips or move them to your sacrum (just above your tailbone) for some extra support.If you feel comfortable here, feel free to explore some of the other options. It is also perfectly fine to stay in this modified pose. If you feel any compression in your back, reduce the intensity of the back bend.
 The next step is to reach back with both arms to touch your heels with your hands. Keeping your toes tucked under is a great modification that can help make this pose a little easier to achieve.You should aim to grab your heels with your palms so that your fingers are pointing towards the floor. If you can't quite reach your heels, but you want to get a deeper stretch than you would by keeping your hands on your hips, place yoga blocks next to your feet and reach for those instead.
At this point, you can release your head back and gaze at the ceiling or the wall behind you, but only if this feels good for your neck.
 The only difference between the full extension of the pose and the modification in which you keep your toes tucked is that the tops of your feet will be flat on the floor. Reach back with both arms, grab your heels, and release your head, just as you would for the modification.
 If the full extension of camel pose is easy for you, you can intensify the stretch a bit. Remember to work within your limits and not push yourself too hard.


Instead of reaching straight back for your heels, cross your arms behind you and grab for opposite heels.Challenge your balance by reaching one arm up while in camel pose, and then switching arms.If you can reach your hands further than your heels, try bringing your palms flat on the floor next to your feet.
 If it feels comfortable, you may stay in the position for a little longer. If you are beginning to feel strained, come out of the position right away.
 Remember to take just as much care coming out of the pose as you did getting into it. Coming out of camel pose too abruptly may increase your risk of injury.
 Tuck your chin and place your hands on your hips before beginning to come out of the pose.
 Push your hips towards the floor and roll your spine back to its upright position gently, starting with your lowest vertebra and ending with your neck.