 Make it big and curly. Dye it brown or brunette (unless you already have brown or brunette), but if you're not comfortable with curly hair, make it straight. Fran had straight hair for most of the 4th season.;
, If it looks natural, put on a little more. It helps to watch the show so that you can see her make-up techniques. Start with the lipstick, Fran ALWAYS has gorgeous red lipstick. For blush, go maroon. It makes her pale skin stand out. For eye-shadow, use brown and black colours to make your eyes pop and NEVER forget mascara! Use Maybelline for best effects.
 Fran is famous for for her clothes and is never boring. If you think you aren't comfortable wearing short skirts, Fran also had some sort of a dress suit. It looks like a spy suit in black with a short dress sewn on to it.
 Laugh a lot. Date guys and if you're really into someone, go steady. A trademark Fran thing to say on dates is "Wow, this place is Fah-bulous! Much better than Uncle (insert uncles name here) Drop'N Go. you know we should go there some time! *laughs*

, Fran's mother is always ranting on about her needing a man. Call your parents Ma and Daddy, and if they're being annoying, say "Ma, would you stop it? You're being such a yenta!" About marriage, though, think impossible. Dream of your fantasy wedding and that it will happen someday.
 If you're 29 or over, say you're 29! Be VERY offended when people think (or know) you're over 30 when people laugh when you say you are 29 you say *ha ha what's so funny?*

, Make your own clothes. If you've worked in a bridal shop, you'll be like her a lot! Make sure you have something to stand out of the crowd for (e.g. At a dinner party, everyone was wearing tight black dresses but Fran had a backless dress).
 To be nasal, speak like a fire evacuation alarm. If you say "Dohhling", you'll sound more like her mother, and that's not good. Instead, say "Daaalin". You'll be spared from looking like a poser.
 If you don't know how to when your alone pinch your nose and talk try to talk like that without pinching your nose. There you have her voice!

