 Free accounts can be leveled up to Level 20 (out of a possible 100 levels), and can continue to play after hitting the cap (without accruing additional XP). Free accounts are also limited to 10 Gold. Free accounts also have limits on in-game communication, and cannot join Guilds.If you have a subscription that's lapsed, your account will turn into a Starter account with all the same restrictions except that your character will have the ability to join the same Guild as any of your other characters. You won't have access to any of your characters above Level 20, but you can create new characters.
Starter accounts are a great way to play for as long as you want to decide if World of Warcraft is for you.;
, You can access it at https://us.battle.net/account/creation/wow/signup/ if you live in the US. Otherwise, visit battle.net and find the account creation page for your country.


If you already have a Battle.net account, you can log in and download World of Warcraft immediately.
 Make sure to use a valid email address so that you can confirm your account. You don't need a credit card to sign up for the free version. Click the "Play it Free" button after filling out the form.
 If you accidentally closed your browser or need to download the file again, you can get it from us.battle.net/account/download/index.xml.
 The World of Warcraft installer file is very small, and should finish downloading in just a few moments. Once it's finished downloading, open it to install Battle.net.


Battle.net is the launcher program for World of Warcraft and other Blizzard games.
 You should have received a verification email at the address that you entered when creating the account. Follow the link in the email to verify your Battle.net account.
 World of Warcraft will prompt you to begin installation. Click "Start Install" to begin downloading it.
 World of Warcraft is a big game (28 GB), so downloading will take a while on even the fastest connections.


You'll also want to ensure that you have enough disk space to install the game. Click here for tips on freeing up space.
 Once World of Warcraft has finished downloading, you can launch it from Battle.net and start playing. You'll need to choose a server and create a character before you can start your adventure.


New players should avoid RP (Role-Playing) and PVP (Player Vs. Player) servers until they get a handle of the game's mechanics and flow.

Click here for some tips on starting your journey and getting the most out of the game.

