 You could go to your local ring craft class, especially if they have a special time for junior handlers. If there is none in the area then you can practice at home.
 If your dog is a small breed, (all toy breeds, small terrier, dachshunds, small spaniels e.g. cocker) then you will need to practice stacking your dog on a table, starting with a lower one so the dog gets used to it. If you have a larger dog (e.g. Doberman, Labradors, retrievers) then you need to stack the dog on the floor. How you stack the dog depends on what type it is. Generally speaking the front legs are level and straight down from the shoulders, the back hocks should be perpendicular to the floor. Look at a picture of your breed standing and try to make sure your dog stands like that.
 Many good show dogs get into a show stand themselves, but it's fine if you tweak their legs a bit!

, These are the straight up-and-down (pretty self explanatory) the triangle, the T, the L and the figure eight. The first two are the most commonly asked especially at companion shows. A good book which contains the patterns and every thing you need to know is "Junior Handling the White Way" by Marina White.
 Therefore, if the judge moves to where you are standing behind the judge then you must move around to the front. This is important when executing all patterns. You must be careful with turns. This becomes easier with practice. Go in the garden with your dog and place a flower pot somewhere to practice the turns and ask family and friends to move around you while you stand your dog

, This shows you can communicate with it. However, do not shout or be silly. Not only will you look stupid but you will disturb the other dogs in the ring.
 Jeans, trainers, or T-shirts do not look professional. Wear colors which contrast with the color of the dog's coat. An example is wearing cream trousers to show a Doberman(black and tan). A jacket of the same color presents nice, simple, elongated, eye appeal. Girls should tie their hair back.
;
, The dog's side faces forward and its head positioned next to your right hand. Now is when the dog should be stacked. The judge will maybe ask everyone to move their dog around in a circle. Make sure to always leave enough room between the dog in front and you-three feet is a good goal. Move your dog at the right pace-you will need to trot a large dog so wait for the dog in front to go round a bit before you start.
 If you are new to the sport do not go first but watch what the exhibitors in front of you do. When the dog in front of you starts moving, it is time for you to set your dog up for the judge. The judge will look over your dog and ask you to do a pattern. When you return to him stand your dog again, say "Thank you" to the judge, and go to the back of the line

,, You will then be given a rosette. If you do not win, don't lose heart, but say thank you to the judge and congratulate the winner. Always remember there will be another show and winning one isn't really a big deal in the general scheme of things.
