 Do this before you put it on your dog. There are many different kinds of electronic remote training collars available and you need to know how to operate the collar before trying it on your dog.;
, Make sure both function before you put them on your dog. Also make sure that the system is turned off and set to the lowest setting before attaching it to a dog. This will assure that you don't shock the dog on accident.
 Some collars have small prongs that need to touch the skin of the dog, but you don't want them to cause discomfort. Make sure that the collar is tight enough that it won't fall off and that the prongs touch the dog's neck, but don't make it so tight that it is uncomfortable for the dog or restricts its breathing.
 Instead, let your dog get used to it. This way, the dog will associate the collar with good times and fun, instead of punishment.


The goal behind using an electronic collar is to make the dog think that the negative behavior you are trying to stop is causing the shock, not the collar. If you put the collar on the dog and immediately start shocking it, the dog may quickly figure out that the problem is with the collar., Start at the lowest level of stimulation and observe your dog when you activate it. The dog's ear might twitch or it may move its head as if trying to get away from the collar.


If your dog doesn't respond at the lowest stimulation, slowly turn the transmitter to the next level and try again.
 When you train your dog with an electronic collar, begin with commands the dog is familiar with. Say the command, such as sit or stay, and wait for your dog to respond. If your dog is not paying attention, press the button on your transmitter and repeat the command.


Set the transmitter to the lowest level of stimulation your dog reacts to. When you use an electronic collar, you want to train your dog, not hurt him.
Praise your dog as soon as it responds. Reward it with a pat, by saying "good dog," or with a special treat. When you train dogs, you want to reinforce their good behavior with a reward.
 You may use an electronic collar to manage annoying or aggressive behavior. For instance, if your dog digs holes in the backyard whenever you let him outside, be ready to use an electronic collar to train him when you let him out. When the dog begins to dig, or engage in whatever behavior you want to control, activate the transmitter. Do not hold the button down for more than 3 seconds and do not punch it repeatedly. The object is to train your dog, not injure him.


Don't let your dog see you. You don't want your dog to know you are causing the unpleasant sensation around its neck when it starts digging. Rather, you want your dog to associate the sensation with the bad behavior.

