 Evaluate what you believe makes you happy. You may have been taught that working hard, making lots of money, and living in a big house are what bring joy to your life. But ask yourself if the stress and anxiety you feel by maintaining that life actually make you happy. Even if they do, there are so many other aspects of life where you can find contentment.


Look at other areas in your life to find happiness, like your family, friends, pets, and spirituality. By focusing on them and allowing yourself to feel the contentment they may bring, you may learn that you actually do deserve to be happy and finally allow yourself to feel that way., Think about everything you are thankful for when you are feeling happy. Take the time to stop and look around and notice the things in your life that are going right—they don’t have to be huge.A beautiful sunrise, a neighbor who brings up your trash cans, or even a friend who sends a funny text are all things you can be grateful for. Acknowledging them may help you understand that you are worthy of being happy.
 Practice an act of kindness that will bring happiness to someone else when you are feeling joyful. Doing so will likely bring you a sense of happiness that you don’t have to feel guilty about since you were helping someone else.


In turn, your act of kindness may inspire that person to do the same for someone else, which may create a chain of paying it forward. This may finally help you realize that feeling good isn’t a bad thing, and that it can actually help others., Spend time serving others so that they can experience the same feelings of joy as you. Think about what your hobbies and interests are, and then spend time doing them with those who are less fortunate than you. Volunteering may help you make a connection with others and bring joy to their lives, which may ultimately make you feel less guilty about experiencing it yourself.Sign up for an after-school program that lets you tutor kids. Volunteer to work with the animals on a local farm. Just do things that you like that also allow you to share your time and talents for the good of others.

