 Probably the only way to get someone else’s phone records legally is to request them as part of a lawsuit. You must have a lawsuit already going on, and you can’t file a lawsuit simply because you’re curious about what’s in someone’s phone records. Instead, phone records are usually requested as part of the following:


Divorce proceedings. You might claim that your spouse has been unfaithful, which could impact whether you get alimony. You can request phone records.
Criminal trials. For example, the prosecutor might try to connect a defendant in a bank robbery to the driver of the getaway car. They can help establish a relationship using phone records.
Business lawsuits. In any lawsuit, it might matter whether two people talked. For example, in a fraud lawsuit, you might want to prove someone spoke to you on a certain date.
 In most lawsuits, there is a phase called “discovery.” The purpose is to let each side request documents and information from the other side. As part of discovery, you can request production of the other person’s phone records.


Ask for specific records. For example, identify the months or date range. If you make an unreasonable request—“all phone records in your life”—then the judge won’t allow the request. You should always have a reason why these records are important to the case.
If you don’t know how to make a request for production, then you should work with an attorney. You can find an attorney by contacting your local or state bar association and asking for a referral., If the other person won’t hand over their phone records, then you can subpoena them directly from the phone company. A subpoena is a legal command to turn over documents. To request documents, you will need a subpoena duces tecum. Because it can be complicated to request and serve properly, you might want to consult with a lawyer.


You should find out the name of the person in charge of the phone company’s records department. Call up and ask. You will need to serve the subpoena on this person.
There should be a request form you can fill out. Check with the court clerk for the courthouse. You can also search online, since some legal service organizations publish forms.The process for getting the subpoena authorized will vary by state and even court. Often, you’ll need to file the subpoena request with the court clerk and wait for the judge to sign off on it.
You also must serve the subpoena properly, depending on the law. Acceptable service might be personal hand-delivery, first class mail, certified mail, or another method.

