 Longhaired cats, especially those of the Persian variety, often deal with excessively long hair that needs to be trimmed regularly to avoid certain irritations and other problems. Even the hair around their eyes needs to be trimmed in some cats because contact with hair can irritate the eyes and even scratch the corneas. Over time, this can cause a lot of pain for the cat and even lead to other serious health problems, including permanent loss of vision.If your cat’s hair looks like it has any contact with the surface of its eyes whatsoever, you need to consider trimming this hair.;
, Regular trimming scissors can be quite dangerous to use around the sensitive area of your cat’s face, especially around the eyes. If your cat moves or jerks while you are trying to cut its hair, you could seriously injure the animal. Use blunt-nosed scissors to ensure that you won’t hurt your cat during the process.You should be able to find blunt-nosed scissors at any regular pet store.
 Use the blunt-nosed scissors to cut the hair in a line that is parallel to the cat’s eyelid. Cut the hair in as a straight a line as possible, following the line of the eyelid. Be careful not the cut the hair too close, as you might risk cutting the cat’s skin in the process.This method is especially important to adhere to in breeds like Persians who have skin that folds near the eyes.
 In order to keep your cat’s coat nice and manageable, you should try to brush your cat’s coat at least once every week. Use a fine-bristled brush intended for use on cats and run it along the length of your cat’s body.Be sure to introduce your cat to the brush slowly, as it might be afraid of it at first. Show the cat the brush and let the cat get used to it as an object. Then let the cat rub up against it and start brushing the cat.
 If you have a longhaired cat with fur that often gets in its face, you should try to brush it back away from the cat’s face. The more you do it, this action will help the hair create cowlicks and settle in a suitable position over time.

Use your hand to brush the hair out of your cat’s eyes. You can also use a grooming brush to gently brush the fur out of your cat’s face.
If may help to dampen the hair a bit before you start grooming it away from the face.
 If you have trouble grooming your cat on your own, consider taking your cat to a groomer who is a trained professional and can do the job for you. They will definitely be able to get the delicate hair around your cat’s eyes.You can find recommendations for reputable groomers in your area online, from your local veterinarian, or from your other pet-owning friends.
 Face your cat in a well-lit area and look directly into the cat’s eyes. The eyes should be bright and clear – not foggy or cloudy. The parts around the iris (the colored part) should be white and both pupils should be the same size. Make sure there is no hair hanging down into the cat’s eyes.If you notice anything unusual, or if the cat’s eyes seem foggy or cloudy, schedule an appointment with your veterinarian.
 If you see mucus building up in your cat’s eyes, wipe it away immediately. This mucus buildup can lead to infections cause by gathering bacteria. Use a damp warm wash cloth to gently remove any mucus that is collecting around your cat’s eyes.If your cat is prone to eye infections, you should use a sterile eyewash or eye wipes to remove the mucus and clean the area each time you wipe.
 If you are worried about your cat’s vision or the health of your cat’s eyes, you should consider making an appointment with your local veterinarian. Your vet will be able to inspect your kitty’s eyes and make sure nothing is wrong.The vet will also be able to provide you with advice related to the care and maintenance of the hair around your cat’s eyes.

