 Pour one cup of water into your pressure cooker, or whatever is the minimum quantity required for your cooker to maintain pressure. Then place a steaming basket or other cooking rack into the bottom of the cooker.


You may only need a trivet and not a steaming basket or other cooking rack to support the bowl or pot you will place inside the cooker.
 Locate a heat-proof bowl or pot that will fit inside your pressure cooker. Put your desired amount of rice into the bowl, and the correct amount of water for the quantity and type of rice (one cup of white rice, for instance, needs 1.5 cups of water).Choose a stainless steel bowl for ideal cooking, as it will conduct heat better than glass or ceramics.
Substitute all or part of the water with a liquid for flavoring if you wish, such as chicken broth, vegetable broth, or prepared bouillion.
Add a teaspoon of butter, olive oil, or an oil of your choice to the rice for flavor if you like.
 Lower the bowl with your rice and liquid into the pressure cooker so it sits on your steaming basket or trivet. Don’t cover your bowl with anything. Then close and lock the lid of your cooker.


Check the instruction manual for your pressure cooker to ensure that you are closing and locking the lid properly.
 Set the burner on your stove to high heat until your pressure cooker indicates high pressure, then lower the heat to maintain this pressure for three minutes. Check your specific instruction manual for how to properly read the pressure on your cooker.


If you are using an electric pressure cooker, set it to high pressure for three minutes. The cooker will take a few minutes to pressure up before the three minutes of cooking time., When the three minutes cooking time is up, take the pressure cooker off the burner for a 10-minute natural pressure release, meaning the pressure built up inside releases naturally when taken off of heat. The rice will continue to cook while the pressure is slowly released.


For an electric cooker, turn it off when the timer beeps and set it to a natural pressure release for 10 minutes.Lower the heat right away after your cooker reaches high pressure, otherwise your rice can become quickly overcooked., After 10 minutes of natural release, do a quick release on your pressure cooker to open the lid. Tilt the cooker away from you when opening the lid to avoid the hot steam.Carefully remove your bowl or pot and fluff the rice with a fork before serving.

