 USB ports are rectangular with a solid piece of plastic on the upper half of the slot and an empty space on the bottom. The port should have a graphic of three branching arrows pointing upward (or downward, depending on your PC) next to it.


If you're using a desktop, your USB ports are most likely integrated into the CPU, while laptop USB ports are usually on the left or right edges of the casing.;
, Make sure the solid piece on the inside of the memory stick's port is on the bottom when you plug it in.
 This may take a few minutes if this is your first time installing this memory stick on your PC.


If the memory stick doesn't automatically open, double-click "My Computer" and find your memory stick's name under the "Devices and drives" section. Double-click its name to open the memory stick window.
 If your files are all in the same place, simply click and drag your cursor across your files until you've highlighted all of them.


To search for a file on your PC, open the Start menu and type the file's name into the search bar at the bottom of the menu. If you're using Cortana, the field should say "Ask me anything".



If you don't want to save your files on your computer, just click-and-drag your selected files over to the memory stick window and drop them there.
Some memory sticks will duplicate your files by default, leaving the original copies of the files on your computer.
 This will select the memory stick as the destination for your files.
 This will add them to your memory stick.
 Depending on the size of your files, adding them to the memory stick can take anywhere from a couple of seconds to hours.
 This toolbar is in the same area as the clock. The icon resembles the outline of a memory stick with a check mark next to it, and it should produce the phrase "Safely Remove Hardware and Eject Media" when you hover over it with your cursor.


You may have to click the upward-facing arrow in the far left side of this toolbar in order to see the flash drive icon.
 Ejecting your memory stick before physically removing it from your computer is important, because failing to do so can corrupt files both on your computer and on the memory stick.


You can also right-click the memory stick's name in the "My Computer" directory and select "Eject ".
 Do this gently, or you might damage your memory stick. You have successfully added files to your memory stick!

