 You want your baby to be smiling in Easter photos. Find ways to make your baby smile. Think about what normally makes your baby smile. Do they smile when you sing or make funny faces? If so, do this from behind the camera. Then, quickly take a photograph while your baby is smiling.It helps to have one person make the baby smile while another takes pictures. Enlist the help of someone else if possible.
 Babies, especially very young babies, may nod off during photo shots. Even if this is not the pose you imagined, be open to taking a few sleeping photographs. You do not want to wake a baby just to get a picture. A baby who's, say, sleeping in an Easter basket can be a cute Easter photograph.Make sure to turn the flash off and be very quiet while photographing a sleeping baby.
 Does a local mall or community center do photo shoots with someone dressed in an Easter Bunny costume? If so, a photo of your baby with the Easter Bunny can be a cute picture. See if you can find the time to stop by and get a photo with the Easter Bunny.Keep in mind, some babies may be fearful of strangers and dislike getting photographs with someone dressed like the Easter Bunny. If your baby is shy by nature, you may want to stick to taking pictures at home.
 If you have an Easter basket, put in the photographs with your baby. You can try aligning a very large basket with blankets and placing your baby inside. This can make for a very cute Easter picture.Try putting toys your baby likes in the Easter basket. Take candid photos of your baby rifling through the basket and playing with toys.
 Get some plastic eggs from a grocery store or department store. Have your baby hold and play with the eggs while you take pictures. If eggs are shiny or colorful, your baby will be eager to touch and play with them.Examine eggs carefully before giving them to your baby. You do not want your baby playing with eggs if they're breakable or have small parts.
 You don't have to stick to only photographs of your baby. Get other family members in the photos. Have someone take a photo of you and your baby. Incorporate your partner, any other children, and any family members that are over. A family Easter photograph can also be a treasured tradition., Pick up some fake grass at a supermarket or department store. Spread it out on the ground and have your baby lie down in it. Take a few photos of your baby lounging in fake grass.Make sure any grass you get is non-toxic. If your baby tries to eat the grass, quickly remove them and try a different type of photo.
Press down on the grass to make sure it's comfortable before having your baby lie in it.
 Outdoor photos work great with a spring theme. Take your baby outside and explore some scenes. You can try a photo on a picnic blanket, a photo on a swing set, or taking some pictures at a local park. Shooting on a bright, sunny day will lead to many photo opportunities.

