 Some habits are bad for your physical health, while others may be bad for your mental or emotional health. However, many habits are good, and having habits helps you navigate the world everyday.As you move through your daily routine, try to identify which habits are bad, damaging, or otherwise hindering your ability to succeed. This can help you identify and isolate the habits that need changing.Try making a list of everything you do each day. Start with the first thing you do when you wake up, and work your way through a typical day until you reach the last thing you do before bed.
Include things you do that you may not consciously think of as a habit. Even isolated activities can quickly become part of a routine or habit.;
, Often times a bad habit becomes so routine, it's easy to forget the conscious reasons that habit was acquired in the first place. But once you've identified the negative habits in your daily routine, ask yourself what you get out of that habit. For example, if you find yourself engaging in frequent shopping trips or mindless snacking, those activities might be a way of coping with stress or sadness. If you spend too much time watching television or browsing the internet, perhaps you're trying to avoid interacting with other people in your family.Every action has a motivation, whether it's conscious or not.Before you can change bad habits, you'll need to figure out why you engage in that habit. Be honest with yourself, and ask if maintaining that habit is allowing you to avoid something unpleasant or if it has evolved as an unproductive way of coping with something.For instance, you may bite your nails when you experience anxiety; this bad habit may actually be your coping mechanism for that feeling.
 In order to break your bad habit, you'll need to need to address the underlying cause. This may be difficult, but it's the only way to end the cycle of avoidance and undesirable behavior. If you find yourself struggling with facing your problems, consider seeking the help of a qualified therapist.In order to replace negative behavior, you must come up with a positive substitute. Instead of mindlessly eating to avoid dealing with feelings of sadness, acknowledge the way you're feeling and try talking to someone about it.Search online for a qualified therapist near you, or ask your primary care doctor for a referral to a therapist who can help you deal with difficult emotions or situations in your life.
 The best way to break bad habits is by having a support network. Whether it's a partner, a spouse, a close relative/friend, or a group of people in a support group, having people who know what you're going through and can offer support is important. If you can find a support partner who's also trying to kick his own bad habit, it may make it even easier for both of you to support one another., Breaking any bad habit takes time, and you may slip up from time to time. It's important to remember that these setbacks are normal, and that major life changes do not happen overnight. Think of breaking a bad habit the same way you'd think about trying to quit smoking or drinking. It's not easy, and it takes a lot of patience and work. Forgive yourself if you slip up, and use those instances to help strengthen your resolve to change.