 It's important to remain as calm and levelheaded as you can, so you can continue listening to your child. You need to appear calm and supportive, no matter how panicked or sick you feel inside. This will help your child stay calm.


Don't let loose feelings of anger, judgment, or disbelief. This may scare the child and make them afraid to discuss it with you.;
, Make eye contact, ignore your phone, and give them your undivided attention. Your child needs to know that you are listening, and that you are taking them seriously. Make it clear that you believe them, even if you don't understand everything they say or aren't sure it adds up.


Let them take their time. Don't push for them to talk, and say that they don't need to tell you every detail right now if they don't feel comfortable with it. They've already experienced a loss of control, so you can help by allowing them to control the pace of the narrative.
It is extremely unlikely that a child would lie about this. If they did, your serious tone of voice and readiness to call the police would make them stop and admit to lying.
 Do not use your own words. These are verbatim disclosure notes, which can be used for legal proceedings. It may be faster for you to type, so make sure to explain to your child what you are doing, and that you are still listening.


"What you're saying is very important to me. I'd like to write it down. I'm going to pull out my laptop now so I can type your words, okay?"

, Your child may feel confused and uncertain, and you can assure them that they did the absolute best thing by coming to you.


"I'm so glad you told me this. This was really brave of you to do. Now that I know, I can help keep you safe, and we can get help from the police to make sure (s)he never hurts you or anyone again. Thank you for telling me."

, You can get a restraining order, and then take further legal action after that.


Don't threaten to hurt the abuser; this will scare the child.
 Children may feel guilty and confused about abuse. If they voice guilt, make it clear that abuse is abuse, and nobody could ask for that. Make it absolutely clear that abuse is the fault of the abuser, and it doesn't matter how your child looked or what they did. Abusers are capable of resisting any perverse temptation, and doing otherwise is a crime.


Teen girls especially may cite what they were wearing, or that they looked older than their age. Society may tell them it is their fault, but you can help make it clear that this is wrong. Consider introducing them to feminism to help them process these feelings and understand that it isn't okay for people to prey upon teen girls.
 They can help you protect your child and keep the abuser from hurting anyone else. Explain to your child what is going on, so they don't feel quite so lost and confused.


Explain that they might need to re-tell the story to other people (e.g. police), so those people can protect them. Assure them that you will be there the whole time.
 Schedule an appointment for your child ASAP. The counselor can help your child work through what happened and lead a happy life.
 Your love and compassion will help them feel safe and wanted. Spend some extra time with them, and be patient as they try to cope. They're going through a rough time, and they may revert to traditionally "younger" behavior for a while (bedwetting, stop making own breakfast). Make it clear that you are not mad at them, and you are there for them no matter what.

