 The major difficulty in this level is that the spaces you have the most control over — the ones at the top and bottom — aren't the ones that you have jelly in them. Since the middle section isn't connected to the rest of the board, use the top and bottom of the board to your advantage by making vertical striped candies whenever you get the chance.


Keep in mind that vertical striped candies are made by making horizontal rows of four. Making vertical rows of four will give you horizontal striped candies, which aren't very useful on this board because they can't hit the middle section.Note that there are nine spaces in the center section, each containing two-layer jelly. That's 18 squares of jelly total that you need to clear — since you only have 25 turns to work with, if you were to only use vertical striped candy, you'd need to use one on all but seven turns (on the correct spaces, no less!) This isn't realistic — it's much easier to win if you also work on getting some super combos.;
, Combinations of wrapped and striped candies are your most useful assets on this stage. These combos clear three rows and three columns in a large "cross" pattern, which means that they can hit three jelly spaces in the middle at a time. Unfortunately, it can take several moves to set up a wrapped/striped combo, so don't waste moves going for these if you're running short on time.


One of the best possible moves you can make on this level is to trigger a wrapped/striped combo on the right side of the board near the beginning of the game. If you align it correctly, you can clear the chocolate and the locked square in a single turn. Not bad!
Keep in mind that wrapped/striped combos fire on the square that you swap to, not the first square you touch.
 The chocolate that starts at the right side of the middle section is your number one enemy in this level. If you don't deal with it as soon as it starts spreading, it can quickly devour the whole middle section, making it very difficult to beat the level. For this reason, it's best to clear the chocolate with a few vertical striped candies or a wrapped/striped combo as soon as you can.


Try to clear the chocolate before you even break the locked block. While it's possible to clear the chocolate once it's started to spread, this is almost always more difficult and time-consuming.
Keep in mind that you don't necessarily have to hit the chocolate itself: clearing a candy (but not a locked space, etc.) next to a chocolate square will clear the chocolate.
 While it's good to look for vertical striped candies and wrapped/striped combos on the top and bottom of the board, don't forget that you'll sometimes get combos in the middle section of the board as well. In fact, in terms of moving you towards your goal, getting a single horizontal three-in-a-row in the middle is just as valuable as a wrapped/striped combo (and uses less moves to execute!) Thus, you'll always want to give the middle a quick glance at the start of your turn to see if there are any good moves before moving on to the outer sections.


In fact, if you can form two three-in-a-rows in a single turn (somewhat rare but perfectly possible), you can clear six jelly spaces at once. That's twice as many as you'd clear with a wrapped/striped combo in a fraction of the number of moves you'd use, so don't pass these opportunities up!

, Color bombs — formed by getting five candies of the same color in a row — can be useful in certain situations, but aren't essential, so think before making them. If you see that you can form a color bomb in one turn and use it to clear a color that appears in the middle row often on the next turn, it's probably worth it.


On the other hand, if it would take many turns to make a color bomb and use it effectively, it may be a better use of your time to search for alternative moves.
 If you don't have any productive moves to make on your turn at all, it's almost always better for you to clear candy at the bottom of the board than it is to clear candy at the top. This is because when you clear candy at the bottom, there are more candies above it that shift, increasing the chance that a cascade will occur. This in turn increases the chance that you'll get a special candy (and, even if you don't, you'll still get more points from the cascade effect.)

