 If you fold these items, you can wrinkle or crease the clothing. Additionally, if it’s out of sight, you may forget you own it and you won’t wear it as often. Instead, hang your shirts and blouses in your closet on sturdy plastic or felt hangers.Pajama tops, old tee shirts, and other “around the house” tops can be folded and stored near lingerie.
 Any lightweight and sturdy dresses you own can be hung up and organized by color, length, or style. This will keep your dresses wrinkle-free and easy to find. However, heavy dresses should be neatly folded and stored to avoid stretching out the shoulders.For example:


Maxi dresses usually have thin, easily stretched straps. These dresses should be folded.
Long dresses made of cotton-spandex blends can easily lose their shape if they’re hung up.
 If you hang heavy sweaters up in your closet, the weight of the sweater will stretch out the shoulders. Instead, neatly fold your sweaters and store them in your wardrobe.For example:


Stack the sweaters on the shelf above your clothing rack for easy access.
Keep folded sweaters in plastic storage bins so that you can easily find them.
Fill spare drawer space with folded sweaters. Store the stack of sweaters on its side so that each sweater is visible when you open the drawer.
 Jeans are made of sturdy material that doesn’t easily wrinkle. If you have a lot of wardrobe space, consider hanging the jeans up so that you can easily see each pair. Alternatively, store folded jeans in a drawer or clear bin to save wardrobe space.If you store folded jeans in a drawer, lay the stack of jeans on its side so you can easily see each pair.
Hang jeans by folding them in half and draping them over the flat part of a hanger.
Clip hangers can also be used to hang jeans by the waistband.
 Nice trousers, work pants, flowing skirts, and pressed shirts should be hung up to avoid wrinkling them. To do so, use a clip hanger attached to the thick part of the waist band.


If you don’t have room in your wardrobe to hang these items, consider installing or hanging another closet bar further down the wardrobe.
Any casual shorts or pants can be folded and stored with your jeans.
 If your wardrobe has a lot of empty wall space, consider purchasing small adhesive wall hooks. Use these hooks to attractively store jewelry, scarves, hats, purses, and belts. If you don’t have wall space, store these accessories in drawers. Use drawer dividers to separate each item.Avoid storing multiple necklaces on the same hook. If you do, they may become tangled.
Roll up scarves before placing them in a section of a divider.
 Shoes should be stored in clear containers, in shoe boxes, or on shoe racks. Resist the urge to store all of your shoes in one box or bucket. If you do, the shoes will become misshapen and scuffed.If you store your shoes in shoe boxes, tape a picture of the shoe on the front for quick identification.
Metal shoe racks can be placed on the floor of your wardrobe.
Cloth shoe racks can be hung on your wardrobe door or on the clothing rack.
 Any lingerie, socks, or bras can be stored in a drawer. Items can be separated in the same drawer using dividers.Bras can be stacked inside one another and laid in a line for easy storage, while underwear and socks can be rolled up.


Make sure to circulate your bras so that you’re not wearing the same two or three all the time.

