 Taking care of your teeth can go a long way towards having a healthier appearance. Poor dental hygiene can lead to plaque, gum disease, tooth decay, and bad breath.Brush your teeth twice each day.To brush your teeth, squeeze out a pea-sized drop of toothpaste onto your toothbrush and scrub the inside, outside, and underside of each tooth's surface. It should take you about two minutes to thoroughly brush your teeth.Use dental floss. Flossing helps remove food debris stuck between your teeth and can also reduce gum disease and halitosis.To floss, take a strand of dental floss about 12 to 18 inches (30 to 45 centimeters) in length, wrap the ends around each index finger, and gently work the floss up and down as well as side-to-side between each tooth. Unroll a little floss from one finger while tightening the wrap on the other to ensure that you are not simply spreading plaque and debris from one tooth to the next.Use mouthwash, especially a mouthwash that contains fluoride. This will help kill germs, get rid of bad breath, and prevent tooth decay.To rinse, measure out about a half-cap to a cap full of mouthwash from the bottle, swish it around in your mouth, and spit it out without swallowing any., A shower or bath is ideal, but a sponge bath (wiping down with a wet sponge or washcloth) is a good alternative if they are not available.For best results, use a soap or body wash that you like. Try to balance fragrance with moisturizing capabilities so that your skin does not become irritated by the soap.
Daily bathing is a social norm, and not necessary for health or hygiene. In fact, some dermatologists say that daily washing strips your skin of natural oils and beneficial bacteria. Most adults can stay clean and healthy by washing every other day instead., It's important to wash your hair with shampoo or soap at least once each week, though many people prefer to wash their hair on a daily basis.Having clean hair is an important part of personal hygiene maintenance, and it will help you look healthier and feel more confident.


Thoroughly wet your hair.Squirt a glob of shampoo into the palm of your hand. A quantity about the size of a quarter should be sufficient, though if your hair is very long you may need more shampoo.If you tend to have dry, frizzy hair, try using a moisturizing shampoo. Look for haircare products that contain natural oils like olive oil, or other moisturizing agents like glycerin and shea butter. Avoid products containing mineral oil and petroleum, as these may further dry out your hair.Rub the shampoo into your hair and gently massage your scalp. Don't scrub your scalp too hard, though, as this may cause pain and irritation.Rinse all the shampoo out of your hair. Make sure there is no more shampoo remaining in your hair, as this may cause irritation.Let your hair air dry, or use a towel to gently dry off your head. Try to avoid using a hair dryer whenever possible, as it can dry out or irritate your hair and scalp., Clothes can carry dirt, germs, and unpleasant body odors. Re-wearing clothes multiple times can cause you to appear dirty or unhealthy. For best results, wash your clothes with laundry detergent any time they become soiled or have been worn more than once.Using a dryer or hanging your clothes directly in the sun can help kill germs that may have lingered through the washing machine. If you are using an unclean water source to wash your clothes, you also run the risk of carrying microscopic parasites in your clothing, even after washing. Use heat or direct sunlight, rather than simply air-drying your clothing indoors, to prevent the spread of germs and parasites.