 Acetone is a chemical that reacts with the gel nail to loosen its adhesive and free it from your natural nail. Acetone is a common ingredient in nail polish remover, but in order to remove gels, you need a concentrated amount of pure acetone.









Cover the bowl of acetone with plastic wrap or foil. Use a rubber band to hold the cover in place.
Place the acetone in a larger bowl of warm water, so the acetone warms up. Let it sit for 3 to 5 minutes. Then remove the acetone from the outer bowl to prevent overheating. Be careful with this process, because acetone is flammable. Keep the acetone away from any direct heat sources, and warm only gently and with care.;
, Acetone can dry out and damage your skin, so its important to protect it with a layer of jelly. If you don't have plain petroleum jelly, use a lotion or balm that lists it as an ingredient.









Dip a cotton swab in the petroleum jelly and use it to apply the petroleum jelly around the edges of your nails. Cover the skin on your fingers down just below your top knuckles.
Don't get too much jelly on your nails, since the acetone needs to be able to dissolve the gel.
 Dip a cotton ball in acetone to completely saturate it, then hold it against your nail and wrap it in a strip of aluminum foil to fix it in place. Repeat with your remaining nails. Let your nails soak in acetone for 30 minutes.









If acetone doesn't irritate your skin, you can dip your nails straight into the bowl instead of using cotton balls and aluminum foil. Make sure not to soak them like this for more than 30 minutes.
 Remove the foil and cotton ball from one nail first. The gel should come right off when you swipe it with the cotton ball. If it does, repeat the process with your remaining nails.









You may have to help the gel come off by peeling it back a bit.
If the gel on your test nail is still firmly in place, replace the acetone-soaked cotton ball, wrap it up in foil, and let your nails sit for another 10 minutes before trying again, continuing until the adhesive is softened and the nails can be removed. If this method doesn't work within one hour, the adhesive is probably resistant to acetone and another method should be employed.
 Rinse off the acetone and then shape your natural nails with a nail file. Buff them with a nail buffer to remove rough edges. Moisturize your nails and hands with lotion or cosmetic oil.









File only in one direction, so you don't damage your nails. Avoid using a sawing motion.
The acetone may have dried out your nails. Treat them gently for the next few days. You might want to wait a week or so before applying another set of gels.

