 Cocktails are generally not complete without a garnish, so have the appropriate garnish ready before making the cocktail. Common garnishes for shaken cocktails include maraschino cherries as well as citrus wedges, wheels, twists and spirals. For more detail on how to make garnishes, read How to Garnish a Cocktail.;
, Shakers are generally filled about half full with ice, although different amounts can be used depending on the shaker design. Leave space so that the ice can be vigorously shaken with the ingredients in the shaker. When using a small cup as a cap that fits inside a larger cup, fill the large cup about half full with ice. Boston shakers can be completely filled with ice, as the glass cup that is filled with ice is capped with a larger cup that fits over the glass cup. Cobbler shakers don't use a separate cup as a cap, and have built-in strainers. Boston shakers and other similar shakers are used with separate strainers. It is common to use two metal cups as a shaker. When a Cobbler shaker or a large metal cup and a small cup for a cap are used, it is possible to hold and shake the shaker with one hand. Metal shaker cups are oftentimes weighted when a heavy glass cup is not used to make shaking more effective.
 The ingredients can be free poured into the shaker or measured with jiggers. Add ingredients for one or more cocktails, depending on the capacity of the shaker and the number of cocktails to be made. For Boston shakers, add the ice and ingredients to the glass cup.
 Once the ingredients have been added, cover the shaker tightly with the cap. Make sure a watertight seal is formed, but don't press the shaker in or on too tightly because it may be very difficult to remove.
 Keep the cap held tightly over or in the shaker. Hold the shaker vertically or somewhat tilted and shake it up and down. Hold the shaker securely in a manner that feels relatively comfortable. Some additional movements, such as side to side motions, can be used while shaking the shaker up and down to create some added flair. Use both hands for most shakers, with one hand on the bottom of the shaker and the other on the top. The ingredients need to be chilled thoroughly and totally mixed. When the cocktail is adequately mixed and chilled, condensation should form on the outside of the cocktail shaker, and the shaker will be cold to the touch.


When using a Boston shaker, the shaker should be inverted when shaking so that the glass cup is on the top. This will prevent the glass cup from hitting and breaking on an object, and will prevent the ingredients from leaking out of the shaker. The cooling process that occurs during shaking will also cause Boston shakers to form a solid seal between the glass and metal cups (metal contracts on the glass as it cools).
 Carefully remove the top shaker cup or cap and fit the strainer in the bottom cup. This will be relatively easy for shakers that are made entirely of metal, but can be difficult when using Boston shakers. Boston shakers are "cracked" open. For all shakers, place the metal cup down on the table before removing the top cup or cap. For Boston shakers, firmly hold the bottom metal cup with one hand and the top glass cup with your other hand. Try to move the glass cup back and forth just a little bit to get it to break free from the metal cup while pulling upwards on the glass cup. Don't try to force the glass cup to the side too much, as this may cause it to jam further into the metal cup. For Cobbler shakers with built-in strainers, merely remove the top cap. Never bang the shaker on an object to open it, but it is fine to tap it open with your hand.
 Simply fit the strainer in the metal cup for Boston shakers and shakers that consist of two metal cups. Cobbler shakers have built-in strainers.
 Hold your fingers over the strainer while pouring to keep the strainer in the shaker cup. Depending on the cocktail recipe, the drink will be strained into an empty glass or a glass that has been filled with ice. Glasses can be chilled in a freezer or with ice before straining.
 Many shaken cocktails will have a luscious froth.

