 Look for the game app on your device. Its name is Spider-Man with the classic Spider-Man on the logo. Tap on it to launch it.
 On the main page, tap the red “Events” button on the upper left corner. This will bring you to the Events screen. If events are available, they will all be listed here, together with the event time, remaining time, and grand prize.


Events are time-limited endless runner games, similar to Unlimited Mode but with different objectives and rewards.
 Tap the event you’d like to play. The Event page will come out, where the objectives are stated and the progress and rank rewards are shared.


The rules of the event can be read at the bottom of the page.
 Tap the “Let’s Do This!” button at the bottom right corner of the screen. On the right side of the next screen are four boxes. Tap on the unlocked ones. You should have at least one.


Choose from the available Spider-Man characters you have. Select one that can help you reach the milestones faster.

For example, use a Spider-Man that can give you more Vials if the milestones are tracked against the number of Vials you collect.


If you have more slots for more Spider-Man characters, fully equip them to bring up your score multipliers

, Tap the “Start” button. Play the game and keep in mind that milestone targets.
 When your game ends, you will be shown a summary of your game. The number of Vials, ISO-8, and Combos you’ve collected will be displayed. The total score is displayed at the bottom. Tap anywhere on the screen to continue.
 Back at the Event page, your current progress will be displayed on top of the overall Event milestones. Once you’ve reached a milestone, a corresponding award will be given.


Awards vary from Vials and ISO-8 to different portals.
 Progress through the different milestones until you get the most rewards. Continue playing.
 If you successfully reached a milestone that has a portal as a reward, you will be notified from the app. Portal rewards can be a Standard or a Premium portal and, on rare occasions, an Event portal. On rarer occasions, the last milestone rewards with a totally new and very rare Spider-Man not found under any portal.


Go to the Recruit page and tap the red “Claim” button to bring in your new Spider-Man.
 A portal will open and a Spider-Man will come in. The Spider-Man’s costume name and stars will be displayed, with its level and abilities.


To know more about this Spider-Man, tap the question mark icon beside the character. This new Spider-Man will be added to your team roster.

