 If you were the victim of the crime, then you might want to write a letter opposing parole. You can certainly do so. Nevertheless, you should give some thought to actually going to the parole hearing and testifying in person.


Live testimony can be much more dramatic—and effective. Letters can be “distancing”; that is, they obscure the human costs of the crime. Your heartfelt testimony in person will bring home how damaging the offender’s crime has been.
Not everyone can deliver a live statement. However, in certain situations, the victim of the crime can often deliver a victim impact statement in person. You should check with the parole board to see who can testify in person, if this is an option that interests you.
 If you choose to write a letter, then you should identify who you are and your relationship to the victim. For example, “My name is Kathy Johnson, the mother of April Johnson, who was killed by her ex-boyfriend, Jeffrey Smith, on November 15, 1999. Jeffrey Smith is coming up for parole this April, and I am writing this letter to explain why I oppose his petition for parole.”

, If you are the victim of the crime, then you can explain what happened. If you are a family member of the victim, then you can offer your own summary of the crime based on what you heard at trial.


Be as graphic as you need to be. You want the parole board to be outraged by the crime.
 You should make sure that the parole board has a strong image of the victim in their mind as they are considering whether to grant an offender parole. If the inmate killed the victim, then only you can speak for him or her. Describe the victim so that the parole board has a sense of the life that the victim snuffed out.


Be detailed. You want to make the victim seem like a living, breathing person. Explain his or her hobbies, hopes for the future, and achievements.
 You should also explain to the parole board the toll the crime has taken on you physically and emotionally.


For example, a rape victim might write, “I wish I could say that the pain I felt ended when he finished raping me. But I have suffered emotionally and physically for a long time since then. I have been in counseling for several years and have difficulty maintaining a healthy body weight, problems directly attributable to the sexual assault.”

, You should also bring to the parole board’s attention any facts that show the offender has not really rehabilitated himself. Cast doubt on the offender’s claim that he has turned his life around.


You might write: “Though I am sure that Jeffrey is claiming to be a changed man, I seriously doubt that he has learned anything at all. Only last year, he gave an interview to the local paper where he tried to minimize his role in the crime. He also couldn’t even say my daughter’s name.”
You also may have received threatening letters or phone calls from the inmate. If so, the parole board needs to know this information as well.
 You should close the letter with a powerful request that the inmate be denied parole. Talk about the fear his or her release would create.


“For months after my daughter’s death, I was unable to sleep. The fact that Jeffrey was locked up provided little comfort. If he is released out of prison, then I am sure that all of the old nightmares will return. I can only hope that you will deny him parole so that another mother will not have to suffer what I have gone through over the past several years.”

