 Start with an introduction to your work. Discuss the significance of the problem you will address in your thesis and what it will contribute to the field. In your introduction, also state your research objectives and the questions you plan to address.


For example, your introduction might start like: “Turgenev and Tolstoy wrote about memorable children, women, and peasants. While there are many studies about portrayals of women and peasants in their novels, there is much less scholarship about how children are depicted. This thesis will address children in these authors’ works.”

, Write out the information you learned during your initial review. First, summarize the important information you found in your sources. Next, present an analysis of that information and how it impacts the work you intend to do in your thesis. Discuss any works you will use in your research.For example, you could say something like: “Eikhenbaum and Berlin’s standard studies of Tolstoy will provide background information to this study. Neither of these works addresses any children who appear in Tolstoy’s novels.”

, Discuss your theoretical approach and the methodologies you will use to conduct your research. This can be one or two sections of the proposal. Talk about any initial data you have collected and your early ideas about the implications of your findings.


Address any possible concerns the committee might have with your methods and explain why you chose those methods.
This is where you should include information about working with human subjects or other data collection that might require additional permissions.
Information and discussion about initial data can be a separate section.
 Your proposal should clearly spell out the timeline you outlined. Indicate how much time you will need for each stage of the proposal. A good timeline can help demonstrate the feasibility of your research to your committee.Provide dates wherever possible.
 The abstract for your proposal will be a coherent summary of the entire proposal. A good abstract can be read as a stand-alone document. Structure the abstract based on your research questions, and address information about each question in that section of the abstract.Write your abstract last when you can best summarize your thesis.