 Separate an egg yolk from the white, and put it into a small bowl. Add the cold water and the vanilla extract. Mix briskly with a fork or mini whisk until the yolks break and turn smooth, then set aside.;
, You can use all-purpose flour, but cake flour will give you even better results.Stir them briskly together using a fork or whisk until they are evenly combined.
 Cut the butter into ¼-inch (0.64 centimeter) thick slices first, then combine it with the flour mixture. You can do this using a pastry blender, two crisscrossing knives, or in a food processor. The crumbs should be no larger than small peas.


For best results, use cold butter straight from the fridge., Combine the two using a fork or rubber spatula. Do not overwork the dough, or the butter will become too soft.
 Once the dough has come together, transfer it to a lightly floured surface and gently pat it into a 6-inch (15.24 centimeters) wide disk. Wrap it up with some plastic wrap, and put it into the fridge for at least 30 to 60 minutes or overnight. The dough must be cold before you roll it out.
 Dust the dough with flour as needed to prevent sticking., Gently pat the dough against the bottom and the sides of the pan. Trim off any excess, overhanging dough until it is ¾ inch (1.91 centimeters) above the rim.This will prevent any shrinking.


Try to use a fluted tart tin with a removable bottom. If you absolutely cannot find one, you can use a regular tart tin; you just won't be able to take the tart out of the tin at all.
 The pierced holes will prevent the dough from fluffing up during baking. Again, the dough must be properly chilled before you bake it; it would have softened up considerably during all that rolling.


Alternatively, you can line the crust with tin foil or parchment paper just before baking, and fill it with pie weights, uncooked rice, or dried, uncooked beans.
 Preheat the oven to 350°F (177°C), and make sure that the baking rack is in the bottom third of the oven. Once the oven is hot enough, place the crust inside and bake it for 25 minutes, or until it turns golden brown.
 Once the crust is completely baked, take it out of the oven and place it onto a wire rack to cool off. Do not remove the crust from the tin.
 You can do this using an electric stand mixer, a handheld mixer, or even a food processor. You can also do it by hand, but it will take longer.
 Slowly beat in the confectioner's sugar, a little bit at a time. Beat the mixture well after each addition of sugar.
 Keep the crust inside the tin. Use a rubber spatula to spread the cream over the top of the crust.
 Cut the stems off of the strawberries first, then cut them into ¼ inch (0.64 centimeters) thick slices, from top to bottom. Arrange the strawberries on top of the cream in a tight spiral. Start the outside of the tart first, then work your way inward in a tight spiral. Overlap each new row by a little, like scales., Put the jelly into a small saucepan. Cook it over medium-low heat until it turns liquid, about 3 minutes., It might also be a good idea to let the glaze set at room temperature first (about20 minutes) before refrigerating it.
 Gently loosen the sides of the tart tin first. Once the sides come off, carefully transfer the tart to a plate using a spatula.If your tart tin does not have a removable bottom, serve it straight from the tin. If you try to remove it, the crust may break. Simply cut three slices, and serve the center one first.
 Whisk the ingredients together until everything is smooth and evenly combined. Do not add the rest of the milk just yet., Stir the milk while you pour it in, and be careful not to pour it in all at once. If you pour it in too fast, you will cook the eggs.
 Stir the mixture constantly to prevent a skin from forming on top. The cream is ready when it turns thick, like pudding., Place a strainer over a large bowl. Pour the cooked mixture through it and discard any cooked egg bits. Whisk in the heavy cream until everything is combined. There should be no streaks or swirls.
 Be sure to press the plastic wrap right against the cream. This will prevent a skin from forming on top., Once the cream is chilled, take it out of the fridge and remove the plastic wrap. Beat it vigorously with a whisk, then spread it over the pastry crust using a rubber spatula. Do not remove the crust from the tin just yet.
 Chop the stems off of the strawberries, then cut them into ¼-inch (0.64 centimeters) thick slices from top to bottom. Arrange the strawberries on top of the cream in a tight spiral, starting from the outer edge and working your way inward. Overlap each new row of strawberries like scales., This will allow the pastry cream to finish setting and turn solid., Loosen the sides of the tart tin first, then let them fall to the table. Gently transfer the tart to a plate using a spatula.If your tart tin does not have a removable bottom, serve it in the tin. Cut three slices first, then serve the middle one first.

