 Even if you are not yet living on the streets, you may be eligible for higher priority as a homeless person, or for emergency housing while you wait for council housing to become available. Use this process if you are staying temporarily with friends and family, in a shelter or women's refuge, living somewhere illegally, or living in a houseboat or mobile home with no permanent place to keep it. You may also apply if you are threatened with violence in your home, threatened with eviction with 28 days, or if your current living situation is unsanitary, overcrowded, or causing you to lack the money for necessities such as food and clothing.
 Find your local council's homelessness office using Shelter's directory or Direct.gov. Contact the office and ask it to consider your homeless application. When you are invited to an interview, bring as many documents as you can to help the council make its decision. Eviction notices, tenant agreements, birth certificates, passports, and court possession notices may all speed up the process, making you eligible sooner for a higher priority spot on the waiting list for housing, and for additional assistance.


If you are pregnant, bring supporting evidence and details of your child benefits. You may be eligible for additional assistance as a homeless pregnant woman.
Additional suggested documents are listed here, although none are required for the council to review your case.
 If the council reviews your application and determines you are homeless (by the government definition), you are a legal resident eligible for assistance, and you have "priority need," it will provide you with temporary housing in a hostel, a bed and breakfast, or other accommodation.You may also apply for emergency housing directly from the council. While there may be a cost associated with this housing, you may apply for housing benefits to reduce it.


"Priority need" can be determined by many things, including children living with you, pregnancy, homelessness due to disaster, or "vulnerability" due to age, illness, or past history.The council may store possessions such as furniture for you to keep them safe, until you have the space to keep them again.
Councils are often reluctant to make special arrangements for pet animals, so try to make arrangements with your friends and family in advance.
 If the council determines you are not homeless by choice, and that you have a local connection to the area, it will search for long-term housing for you. This includes council housing and low-cost housing association housing, as well as the possibility of an agreement with a private landlord.Note that you are unlikely to be offered council housing or housing association housing if you show "anti-social behavior" or are in serious rent arrears (having failed to pay a large amount of rent). The council will still attempt to find you private housing to rent.

