 For example, you can write down many different kinds of accents on slips of paper before you start playing the game. Then you can put those slips in a hat. Every time a person has to answer a question, have them draw a strip from the hat and answer the question in the accent written on the paper.


Some accents you might use include: British, southern, French, German, Russian, valley girl, pirate, and more.
You could also write one-time rules on slips of paper, like "Do not use the words "the" or "a" while answering your question."
You can include challenges on your slips of paper, too. For example, one challenge might ask you to keep at least one hand on the table for the rest of the game. Failing the challenge might result in consequences, like having your turn skipped., There are many different ways you can award points while playing this game. If you've decided to use slips of paper with accents/rules, you could have everyone playing vote thumbs up/thumbs down after answering the question. In this case, a thumbs up would mean that person did a good accent or followed the rule, while a thumbs down would mean they didn't do a good job. If there are more thumbs ups than thumbs down, you can give the person who answered a point.


At the end of the game you can count up points to see who has the most. You never know - you may have a friend who is excellent at impersonating voices! The person with the most points could get a special prize, like a candy, a special seat while you watch a movie later, or something else!
Even a small reward can get your friends more interested in the Awkward Question Game. People tend to try their hardest and get more involved to achieve a goal., Even good people sometimes get carried away when playing games. Sometimes this can lead to someone's feelings getting hurt. To prevent questions from getting out of hand, you can write up the questions you will use for the game on slips of paper before you play. These can then be drawn out of a hat, paper bag, or laid face down and mixed up on the table where each can be selected. Picking a slip of paper would be the same as being asked a question.


To make your friends feel included, you might all come up with the questions together. This way no one is surprised by the questions, but no one knows which question they'll be asked.
You can include a few "Wildcard" slips with your questions. When a person draws a wildcard, she can ask anyone any appropriate question she wants.

