 Dentures can warp and break easily, so treat them gently and take care not to drop them: they can get damaged if dropped from even a few inches. Don’t ever bend or squeeze them because it will be hard to repair them and there is the risk of not fitting properly afterwards.


Take care not to leave your dentures in the reach of children or pets. It won’t matter how carefully you’ve handled your dentures if your toddler or puppy manages to grab them.;
, It is important to remove your dentures after eating and rinse them thoroughly.Whenever you rinse your dentures, do so over a bowl filled with water or a thick towel or cloth. This will help to protect your dentures if you accidentally drop them., There is a proper technique for removing dentures, which many people overlook. Remove them by using both thumbs or index fingers to feel the borders of the dentures, then pulling gently on the acrylic areas (the parts that are colored pink). For upper dentures, pull gently downward; for lower dentures, pull gently upward. Do not bend or squeeze the dentures when removing them, especially if they are flexible.


If your dentures are large (or if you have a small mouth), try stretching your cheeks and rotating the dentures, removing one side first and then the other.
Never pull or exert too much force on the metal parts of your dentures. Doing so will cause distortion or breakage.
You can search for video tutorials on Youtube, or ask your dentist to show you how to remove them correctly.
 As with removing your dentures, there is a specific technique for inserting them correctly. Using the edge of the dentures, stretch one side of your cheek outward, allowing enough room on the other side to insert the denture. Insert the opposite end, then insert the side stretching the cheek. Check placement, then press toward the tissue surface from both sides simultaneously.


Always use both hands when inserting your dentures. This technique is a precautionary one: if you accidentally let go with one hand, your other hand will be available to catch the dentures.
Always press on the left and right side at the same time while looking in the mirror to check the position. Never use too much force or you may hurt your teeth or gums. Using this technique may help to prevent fractures, the denture being dislodged, and pain.
 When you first get dentures, you may need to wear them during the day and night for a while. Ask your dentist whether or not to remove your dentures at night. If you do need to remove your dentures when you go to bed, soak them in a container filled with lukewarm (or room temperature) water. You can also dissolve a denture cleaning tablet in the water to make a denture cleansing solution.Never use hot water, as it can warp the dentures. Avoid wrapping your dentures in tissue or other paper, as they may get thrown away by mistake.

