 Maybe he's cute, hunky, sweet or smart. Or is it because he hangs around the two of you a lot and you feel a connection? Or maybe, just maybe, there is a little competitiveness between you and your friend for his attentions? Whatever the reason, it is really important to think about your feelings objectively. Are these feelings so strong that it is worth rocking a friendship over? Or is this just a fleeting impression that a bit of distraction doing something else of focusing elsewhere will help you to overcome?;
, Your friendship came first, and friendship is complex. It comes with layers of having spent time together, sharing secrets, having each other's back. Are you going to let a guy come between all of that now? There are certainly plenty of other possible love matches out there in the world; why this particular one right now?

, Tell her how you're feeling but don't just blurt out "I'm in love with X. I saw him first." Approach the matter with great tact and a whole lot of love.


For example, let your friend know that you need to talk to her about something that is difficult for you. Ask for her understanding and a willingness to hear you out.
 This alerts her immediately to the fact that you are willing to put the friendship before all else. You had better be genuine about this intent too or she will see through you.
 Don't give her any guilt tripping, such as suggesting that you'll die if you can't have him. Instead, tell her the exact factual things about him that attracted you to him. If he has given any indication of liking you back, again, give brief factual details of this impression but don't turn it into something it isn't. A mere wink might just have been his wish to join in the fun and get along with you while a hug and a whisper of "I really like you" is definitely something more substantial to pass along.


Tell her that you don't want to like him - sometimes your best mate will say" just stop liking him". This may seem hard but agree to the statement so it won't cause conflict between you.
 Re-emphasize that the friendship comes first and that you simply wanted to place your feelings out in the open and talk freely about where both of you think things should go next. Even if your BFF reacts angrily or wants to start a fight, do not allow this to escalate; do not respond aggressively.
 Really listen to what she has to say; fight any tendency to argue with her or to suggest that her feelings aren't as real as yours. Both of you will need to be respectful of the feelings while trying to reach a realistic compromise on what is best for both of you from this point on.
 You have several possibilities from here: 1. She says "go for it" to you and bows out gracefully; 2. You say "go for it" to her and bow out gracefully; 3. You both agree the guy isn't worth the friendship and agree to keep him as a friend but neither of you pursue him romantically. 4. You argue, fall out and the friendship ends in a flurry of competitiveness over him. It is to be hoped that number 4 isn't the outcome, so acknowledge it's a possibility and do your best to steer clear of it. With these four possibilities in mind, discuss between the two of you how to move forward from here.
, Don't rush into the relationship because that's kind of snappish. She might be testing you to see if you accept the offer to see how much you like him. Never take the first offer.
 Let your friend have him and let their story unfold as it is intended. None of you know the end story but meddling with it won't do you any good, and you'll lose a friend.
 Do not tell your BFF that you have or had feelings for this guy. Let it rest and be prepared to move on. Keep calm and act normally around the two of them together and him alone.
 Consider whether you really want to break someone's heart. Consider how comfortable you'd feel with a guy who would readily start seeing you in place of your best friend.

