 Before bringing your new puppy home, hide items in the house that your puppy and senior dog could fight over. These objects could include food bowls, toys, dog blankets and beds, or bones. Make sure that you have two of everything to prevent such quarrels down the line., Bring your puppy home when your senior dog is out (e.g. for a walk, playing in the yard). This will minimize stress, which could be overwhelming for your senior dog. Allow your puppy to roam the house freely to get used to its new home during this time., Dogs rely heavily on their sense of smell, which is the best way for them to get to know each other and feel comfortable with one another. Keep your dogs separated but close so that they can get used to each other’s scent in their home environment without the risk of them fighting or posturing. Try keeping them in adjoining rooms, separated by a baby gate, or place your dogs in their crates, close enough to smell one another.To have your puppy and senior dog get used to each other’s scents without interacting, place “scent articles” like their blankets or toys in the other’s crate or bed.
 During the first couple of weeks, feed your dogs separately. Once you start feeding them together, monitor their meal time very carefully to watch for any signs of aggression. Place their food bowls a foot or two away so that neither dog tries to eat the other’s food or gets in the way of their eating., During the first week that your new puppy is home, bring it out for walks with your senior dog once or twice a day. Walking encourages bonding, so limit their overall interaction to this activity for this initial period.After about a month of supervised play and meals, correction and reward training, and structured walks, your senior dog should feel comfortable and know that the new puppy is not a threat. At this point you should be able to remove separators (e.g. a baby gate) and let the dogs co-habitate., If your dogs are not getting along in a peaceful way after a month of supervised interactions, look for a trainer to help with the problem. Visit the Association of Professional Dog Trainers website at https://apdt.com/trainer-search/ to find a trainer near you. Be sure to ask your prospective trainer several key questions before hiring them, such as:"What is your educational background?"
"How many years of experience do you have?"
"Do you have experience handling relationship-based issues between dogs?"
"What training methods do you use?"

