 Perhaps you would like to use the same type of flowers from the bouquet or centerpieces to decorate your cake. Dress up a white, tiered cake by adding a cascade of fresh blooms before the reception begins. These earthy elements help showcase the natural simplicity of your romantic and rustic theme.


Wildflowers work especially well with a rustic theme.
If your wedding is being held outside in a wooded area, consider adding sprigs of greenery that are native to that area along the base of each tier.
 Adding sugar-coated berries and other fruit can add a beautiful, easy, and edible sparkle to your cake. Fruit brings an added flavor and texture to the cake, all without using extra icing or fondant designs and flourishes. Using delicious, in-season fruit can help you step away from traditional floral designs while using natural sweetness of the fruit to enhance the taste.Sugar-coated grapes could be a beautiful addition for a celebration held at a vineyard.
 Think about when your wedding will take place and take some decorating cues from that season. Emphasize the time of year by using particular motifs, decorations, or colors on your cake.


Pinecones, pine needles, and sprigs of holly are festive accents for a holiday-season celebration.
For an autumnal wedding, you can use bold colors such as orange or red to decorate your cake. Add brightly colored fondant leaves to your cake, or tie a rich orange velvet ribbon along the base. These colors, textures, and autumnal themes will make your rustic wedding cake stand out.
 Not all wedding cakes need a topper, but they can offer a nice touch and focal point, particularly for a rustic design. If you decide to add a topper, consider adding some antique flair or a homemade topper to increase the cake’s personal, one-of-a-kind feeling.


A heirloom piece—like a figurine or piece of costume jewelry—may add a unique, vintage touch to a rustic cake.Use Scrabble pieces to create a unique topper for your cake. This do-it-yourself, homemade element can enhance your rustic cake theme. Spell your name and your partner’s name or add a “Just Married” sign to the top of your cake. Use twine, a drill with a tiny bit, and sticks to create a scalloped garland.