 Treats are a powerful training tool that can reward your dog for appropriate behavior. It will train them to associate certain acts with positive emotions.If you give your dog a treat after they successfully complete a command, they will be more obedient when you state this command in the future and more likely to listen to you in aggressive situations.


Do not use treats to distract or lure your dog away from a target or when they are in an aggressive mood as this can reward them for that behavior. Use treats only when they are calm.
 If your dog did something right, tell them. Use a happy, gentle tone as you praise their behavior. Be sure to pet them as you do so. The dog will pick up on the signal and understand that this is the appropriate way to act.Shouting or yelling at the dog can increase aggression. If the dog is an aggressive state, yelling at the dog may worsen the situation., In some cases, aggressive behavior cannot be completely controlled. If you know that your dog is aggressive towards strangers or if your dog has a tendency to lunge at small children or animals, you can prevent a bad situation by removing the dog from these circumstances.


Confine the dog in a separate room while guests are over.
Keep the dog on a leash when going outside of your home.
Make sure that children and other animals do not have access to their food bowl or toys., A behaviorist is a special type of trainer that helps teach both the dog and the owner appropriate socializing techniques. This can prevent aggression in the dog and help the owner communicate effectively with the dog. Each behaviorist can tailor the program towards the specific dog and owner. Seek a behaviorist who excels in positive training techniques, as these have been proven to be the most effective.You can ask your vet for a recommendation for a behaviorist. Your vet may also be able to recommend hormone therapy or other ways to manage your dog’s aggression.Aggression is one of the most common reasons that people seek out dog behaviorists.