 Since crabs are often sexually transmitted, it is best to avoid any sexual activity unless you are totally lice free. Any close contact such as sleeping with someone or staying too close to a person infested with crabs will increase your chances of getting them again.


Although using a latex or polyurethane condom protects against most STIs, condom use does not adequately protect against crabs., As with all STIs, the greater the number of your sexual partners, the greater your chances of getting – and spreading – crabs.It's possible, in the early stages, to not know you have crabs. Therefore, limiting your sexual activity is best., For their health, tell them that you are treating yourself for lice and they should get treatment as well. Talking to a girlfriend or boyfriend about your pubic lice may be embarrassing, but it avoids creating a larger problem – and they'll probably figure it out eventually regardless.


Don’t partake in any sexual contact with the person until they are treated, too. Both parties should be treated before engaging in any sexual activity again., Combs, towels, pillows, and blankets should not be shared with any other person if either of you is or was infested with crabs. It is always better to use your own personal things rather than borrowing to avoid any possible issues with others.Anything that has come into close contact with your hair and skin may be infested, from hairbrushes and combs to towels, sheets, and pillows. If there's any risk at all, just avoid it by sterilizing the item and keeping it to yourself.
 While you’re sleeping, lice are free to move anywhere and can settle in any part of the bed. Before and after your treatment, bed linens and pillow cases should be replaced and washed thoroughly to avoid any possible recurrences.Feel free to wash surfaces, like in your bathroom, too. Washing surfaces with warm water and disinfectant solutions will help immobilize and kill the organisms.
Washing clothes above the 30 °C (86 °F) mark on your washing machine along with detergent and conditioner will help keep your clothes free from infestation.

