 Most wounds heal with little to no trouble. However, a wound is more likely to get infected if it has not been properly cleaned and treated. Cuts on the feet, the hands, and other areas that commonly come into contact with bacteria are also especially susceptible. Bite and scratch wounds inflicted by an animal or a human are also more likely to become infected.Keep a special eye on bites, puncture wounds, and crush injuries. Be careful when handling wounds from an unsanitary source: a crusty knife, a rusty nail, or a dirty tool.
If you've been bitten, talk with your doctor about your risk of getting rabies or tetanus. You might need antibiotics, or vaccines or other treatments against tetanus or rabies.If you are healthy and your immune system is strong, most wounds will heal with little risk of infection. Your body's defenses have evolved to keep infections from taking root.
 If your immune system is compromised by conditions like diabetes, HIV, or malnutrition, you are at a much higher risk of getting infected. Bacteria, viruses, and fungi that normally would not cause problems for the body’s immune system can infiltrate and multiply to distressing levels. This is especially true in severe 2nd- and 3rd-degree burn wounds, where the skin—your first line of physical defense—has been greatly compromised.
 You may have a fever, and you may feel dizzy. Your heart might be beating faster than usual. The wound will be warm, red, swollen, and painful. You may notice a foul odor, as of something rotting or decaying.All of these symptoms can manifest as mild or as very severe – but if you are experiencing several of them, you need to seek medical treatment.


Do not drive if you're feeling dizzy and feverish. If possible, have a friend or family member drive you to the hospital. You may need to get some strong antibiotics to stabilize your system.
When in doubt, get checked out. In the case of infection, it is not enough to merely self-diagnose using the Internet. A legitimate medical diagnosis is the best way to know for sure.
 If you believe that your wound is getting infected, visit a medical clinic or make an urgent appointment to see your doctor. This is especially important if you have any other medical conditions, or if you meet any of the risk factors for infection.
 Antibiotics may help fight or prevent a bacterial infection, and they can be the most powerful way to knock out a roaring inflammation. NSAIDs will help your body recover from swelling, pain, and fever. You may be able to buy NSAIDs without a prescription, but most effective antibiotics will need a doctor's order.


Avoid NSAIDs if you're using blood-thinning medication. Be aware that these drugs can cause stomach ulcers and kidney malfunction in some people. Ask your doctor!

