 Instead of serving the milkshake plain, why not dress it up with some tasty toppings? Here are some ideas:Sprinkle some shaved chocolate or coconut on top.
Swirl on some chocolate sauce or honey.
For something simple, add a sliced strawberry onto the rim.
For a sundae, swirl some whipped cream on top, and drizzle on some chocolate sauce. Top it off with a maraschino cherry and a dash of colorful sprinkles.
For a wintery treat, pop in a peppermint stick. Garnish with a swirl of strawberry sauce to match the stick. You can also use chocolate sauce and a mint leaf instead.
 Vanilla ice cream doesn't just come plain; sometimes, it has other goodies mixed into it, such as cookies-n-cream or chocolate-swirl. You can also mix and match different ice cream flavors. For example, you could use 3 scoops of vanilla ice cream and 1 scoop of peppermint ice cream for a subtle mint flavor., Other ideas include peanut butter, mint or almond extract, and even a tablespoon of jelly or jam for a fruity kick. Try Nutella, marshmallow fluff, and chocolate milk. If it tastes good in a dessert, chances are good it will taste good in a milkshake.

Avoid citrus, like orange juice. It can cause the milk to curdle if it gets too warm.
 Add the cookies halfway through mixing to prevent the cookies from turning to dust.Smash hard candies in a plastic bag with a rolling pin, and add them towards the beginning of the mixing to help them blend better.

For the popular cookies-n-cream milkshake, use Oreo cookies—or a similar chocolate sandwich cookie.
For a wintery milkshake, use crushed peppermint candies. You can often find them pre-crushed in small jars during the holidays in arts and crafts shops and grocery stores.
 Simply add it in with the rest of the ingredients and blend it until smooth for a deliciously sweet variation on a classic vanilla milkshake. Garnish with sprinkles., Strawberries and/or bananas are the most popular choices, but you can experiment with other types of fruit as well, including: blackberries, blueberries, raspberries, and pomegranate seeds.

For a smoother milkshake, add the fruit towards the beginning, and keep blending until it is completely mixed in.
For a chunkier smoothie, add the fruit towards the end. This works best with berries, and breaks the fruit up enough to release flavor but not enough to lose texture.
 Cut open a vanilla bean lengthwise and scrape out the seeds. Add the seeds and the empty pod to ½ cup (120 milliliters) of milk, and cook it for 4 to 5 minutes over low heat. Strain out the vanilla seeds/pod and let the milk cool before using it.