 If your toddler is not feeling better after a few days or his condition worsens, seek medical attention. Your child’s pediatrician can diagnose the cause of sinusitis and prescribe medication if needed.


The pediatrician may perform an examination to see if your child has sinusitis, such as looking in the nasal cavity for polyps, shining a light through a sinus to look for signs of inflammation, or performing a nasal culture.She will also check your child's ears, throat and lungs.
 Your child may suffer from acute or chronic sinusitis, depending on the severity and duration of his infection. The doctor can help make the distinction and treat it accordingly.Chronic sinusitis tends to last 12 or more weeks or causes recurring infections four to six times in one year.
Acute sinusitis typically lasts only a few weeks and the symptoms tend to be more severe within that short span of time., Your toddler may require antibiotics in order to treat her sinusitis. Antibiotics are can be used to treat bacterial sinus infections but are not effective on viral infections.The pediatrician is likely to prescribe antibiotics after your child has been ill for longer than 10 days, as this is a sign of a bacterial infection versus a viral infection.If your child is prescribed a course of antibiotics, the medication should be taken as directed by your child’s doctor and no doses should be skipped even when your child begins to feel better., If your child has symptoms suggestive of allergies or known allergic triggers, then allergy testing or treatment may be in order. Children with allergies are more likely to have problems with sinus infections.
 In extreme causes of recurrent or chronic sinusitis, the best course of action may be surgery. Your pediatrician can advise you about whether this is right for your toddler.


Surgery is considered as the best option when your child has multiple episodes of sinusitis that cannot be relieved with medication therapy.A surgery generally consists of removing some of the tissue near the sinuses in order to allow mucus to move more freely.