 Some times, expecting too much in life can end bad. We all have this outlook on what we think life should be; we plan on life being perfect, we plan out our whole life, ETC. Then something happens, which messes up everything, and our plan we set out for our lives is no longer even possible. When that happens, you get hurt.


If you start out not expecting to much from life, and take it as it is, you are most likely going to be able to accept what life throws at you.;
, If you keep denying that you are facing a difficult time, that will stand in the way of being successful. Tell your self what you are dealing with, and even write it down.


For example, "My parents just got a divorce, and I am feeling broken." It doesn't have to be detailed, but you need to acknowledge your problem, and confront it.
 Just because you have everything, or want everything, doesn't mean you will be happy, or successful.


Make the best out of what you have.
 You have to fight for success in life, it doesn't come free.


Even when the depression is settling in, or you think everyone hates you, you have to push through, and take a stand. Tell everyone that you will not give in.
 This can be hard, especially when you are faced with a hard obstacle to climb over.


Be confident.
You have to self motivate; You don't want to be your biggest enemy by tearing your self down with negative thoughts.
If you think that you have no chance in being successful, and that is your mind set, chances are, your going to fail at being successful. Keep telling your self that you can succeed! Success isn't going to happen overnight, so be patient.
 Some times we get so wrapped up with objects, people, and our feelings, we start to let those things become the center of our lives. Everything comes to an end, so don't get to attached, and be ready to accept when they fail us.
 If you can't accept your self, neither can other people. Accept who you are, and that being who you are, is ok.
 Get those grades up! Practice those skills!

, Set little goals each day. No matter what they are. If your house is a mess, then set a small goal each day to spend 15 minuets a day cleaning.


Setting, and keeping, these little goals will help you keep bigger goals later on in life.



Accountability definition: the fact or condition of being accountable; responsibility.
Accountability partner definition: An accountability partner is a person who coaches another person in terms of helping the other person keep a commitment.
Find some one who can help you succeed. Some one who cares about you, respects you, some one who won't give up on you, and is willing to push you to the next level, so you can be the best that you are.
 Write down what you are good at, and what you aren't so good at. Be honest, and don't lie to your self. Don't hate on your self, and put everything under what you aren't so good at. You are good at something, you just have to find it.


Do this with your accountability partner so they can help you, and give you their perspective.
 Councilors can help you push past your challenges, and help you be successful.


Don't be embarrassed about going to counseling. It really can help.

