 Maybe you're in town for a family reunion and you just aren't feeling it, so you've found yourself at a diner drinking coffee next to a cute girl. Maybe you're on a trip across the country by bus before you settle down, just to see what's out there. Picking up a girl while you're traveling is fine, as long as you remember to keep it light, be straightforward, and live in the moment. Approaching it like a normal pick up will only frustrate both of you.
 If you feel as though you have to lie or omit information to pick up a girl, you're wrong. It won't do either of you any good to pretend. Besides, some women find the idea of a date with someone who's “just passing through” intriguing or exciting, because there are likely to be no strings attached. You won't know until you make it clear that you're in that situation.


Traveling also makes for an interesting topic of conversation, so you probably won't have to try very hard to find things to talk about. Just mention that you're just visiting for a few days, and ask a question about the local area. Most girls will be happy to answer with their opinion on it, and just like that the conversation will be rolling along.
 You don't have time to be shy or demure. You want a date, a night out with someone you've just met and are unlikely to see again. The girl won't know you feel that way if you just try to “warm up” to her all night. Instead of getting her number, suggest that she come on a date with you now, before you're gone. Ask her for ideas on where to go, and offer to pay the tab (as usual). The key to picking up a girl for a short-term fling is to show her what you want (a fun night out together) and go for it right away.
 If you have someone waiting for you at home, don't pursue anyone else while you're away. It's cowardly and unfair, and it will weigh heavily on your conscience long after the fact. Imagine how you would feel if you knew that your girlfriend had a hot weekend with some random townie from five states away at her last family reunion, while you were sitting alone and missing her company the whole time. No momentary impulse or minor crush is worth jeopardizing the relationship you already have.


If you believe you're ready to end that relationship, do the right thing and end it first. Don't sneak around behind your girlfriend's back like some kind of spineless weasel. Once you're officially single, you'll have plenty of chances to fool around with other girls.

