 It might be possible for you to feel better about regret if you consider how the situation might have been worse. You can do this by looking at the hardships that other people have suffered and noticing how some people have been worse off than you.For example, you might feel regret about not pursuing a college degree, but perhaps you know someone who got his degree and then could not find work in that field. That person might have suffered even more than you because he was landed with high student loan payments and could not find a job with high enough wages to be able to pay the loans off.
 Regret has a negative impact on our emotions, but we can also gain lots of positive things through these experiences. Consider what positive aspects came you’re your experience.For example, perhaps you regret your marriage and wish you had married someone else. But you can look at what you gained from the marriage, such as kids, more self-knowledge, stability, etc.
Identifying the positive aspects of some situations can be difficult. You may need to look at things that happened after the experience to find the positive. For example, you may regret driving drunk and losing your license, but perhaps the experience led you to seek help for a drinking problem and you gained new friends and a better outlook on life as a result.
 Practicing gratitude is a great way to increase your feelings of happiness and satisfaction with your life. Practicing gratitude can also help to relieve stress and other negative emotions.Practicing gratitude on a daily basis may also help you to stop dwelling on your feelings of regret and look at positive aspects of your life instead.


To practice gratitude, try making a list of five things that you are grateful for. The following day, add five more things to the list. Keep doing this every day.
You can start your list with basics such as, your health, your family, a place to live, food on the table, etc. As your list goes on, you might try to add less obvious things, such as a good cup of coffee, the sound of birds singing outside your window, or an unexpected phone call from a friend.
 If you are preoccupied by regret then you are probably focused on the past and what could have been. Meditation can help you to calm your mind and focus only on the present instead of the past. Try incorporating meditation into your daily routine to quiet your mind when it begins to ruminate on the things you regret.You don’t need to meditation for hours. Even five minutes of meditation every day can make a difference in your outlook on life.

