 Enroll in an education program to receive a degree from an accredited college or university. Consider majoring in education and specializing in the age group you want to teach. Otherwise, look at a major related to the subject you wish to teach.Spend at least 30 semester hours learning necessary educational content for Florida grade school teachers. Examples include learning the methods and content for teaching writing, science and math to elementary school students.Meet regularly with an academic or career adviser to help you pick courses appropriate to your career goal and make sure you are on track to graduate.;
, If you are pursuing an international degree, make sure your non-U.S. degree is the equivalent of a bachelor's degree from a U.S. university. Know that international degrees will be tailored to the educational systems for the country of origin, so there may be a learning curve upon arriving in Florida.Get a report from a credential evaluation agency approved by Florida's Bureau of Educator Certification or an accredited 4-year U.S. college or university to determine if your international degree is eligible.
Have your current transcripts ready for review, as well as an educational plan including any future courses you plan to take and any research you intend to do in childhood education while still in school.
Once you obtain your international degree, have a copy of your non-U.S. college or university's diploma verified to be true by a notary public or a certification officer in one of Florida's school district offices. Each page of your diploma should say, "I HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THIS IS A TRUE AND CORRECT COPY OF THE ORIGINAL DOCUMENT" and be signed and sealed by a notary or signed by the certification officer., The programs are suitable for new teachers, recent college graduates or those changing careers who need professional teaching preparation and experience.Alternative certification programs must be initially and continually approved by the state. These programs use student performance in the course and during the first year of teaching as factors in their approval processes.
All community colleges and four state universities in Florida have Educator Preparation Institutes (EPI) that give these programs.
 Start by taking the subject area examination for elementary education. If you want to teach a specific subject to grade school students, such as art or a foreign language, you may also take a different Subject Area Examination for that subject.The minimum passing score for a FTCE exam is 200.
Passing the exam qualifies you for a Temporary Certificate for that subject. This certificate allows you teach full time for up to three years while working to pass the exam.