 Find a toilet cleaner that fits your needs and pour the recommended amount into the bowl. This specific measurement can be found on the container. Leave it alone for a minute or two so that it can do its job and remove germs from your toilet.If you find that the ingredients in a cleaner are unsafe for you, you can make a natural cleaner using white vinegar, baking soda, lemon juice, or essential oils.;
, Take the toilet brush, and start brushing the bowl thoroughly. Clean under the rim of the toilet seat, down in the main hole of the toilet, and around the edges of the bowl. Concentrate on scrubbing clean any stained areas., Pull or push the flush, and as the water flows into the bowl, rotate the brush in the water to clean it. Then, place the wet brush somewhere to dry., Be sure that the brush dries before storing it. Return the toilet brush to its container, and store it either in the bathroom, in a storage closet, or in another handy place. Keep it inaccessible to any pets or babies, as they may try to touch it., This weekly upkeep will keep it clean and well maintained. If you notice that it is dirty, feel free to clean it more frequently., Keep the outside of the toilet clean by wiping it down with disinfectant wipes. Start at the top to prevent dripping on surfaces you have just cleaned. Wipe the outside lid of the toilet, and remember to wipe the seat of the toilet as well., Be sure to wash your hands with soup and water to prevent the spread of germs. This should be done after each cleaning., Add two cups (16 ounces) of bleach to the water. Follow the instructions on the back of the bottle. For a more eco-friendly method, you can add washing soda crystals to the water instead of bleach., Let the brush soak in the bleach for at least one hour. It could take up to four hours, so allow it extra time if needed.If you notice that the brush isn’t clean after one hour, you could add more bleach or more crystals. Do not mix in more than an additional half cup (four ounces) of either.
 Once clean, remove the brush from the bucket and rinse it under hot water. Replace your toilet brush in its holder. Your brush should be cleaned at least once each month.