 Before you can become a naturalized citizen, you need to become a legal permanent resident. This is called getting your “green card.” You can get a green card in the following ways:Green card through your family. A family member in the U.S. can sponsor you. If your family member is a U.S. citizen, then they can sponsor their spouse, unmarried children under 21, and parents. They can also sponsor siblings, married children, and unmarried children over 21.Green card through your job. If you have an offer of permanent employment, you are eligible to petition to get a green card. Others with exceptional ability can petition themselves and don’t need an employer sponsor.Green card as a refugee or asylee. Refugees and asylees in the U.S. for one year may petition for a green card.;
, You need to be in the U.S. for a certain amount of time before you apply for naturalization. Check that you satisfy the following:You must have been lawfully admitted into the U.S.
You must demonstrate continuous residence in the U.S. for at least five years immediately before you file for naturalization. For example, if you want to apply in January 2018, you must have been a resident since January 2013.
You must have been physically present in the U.S. for at least 30 months during those five years.
You must prove you have lived for at least three months in the state or USCIS district where you apply.
 You must also meet certain personal requirements, such as the following:You must be at least 18 years old when you file your application to become naturalized.
You should be able to speak, write, and read in English. You will have to pass an exam.
You must be a person of good moral character. Essentially, this means you are an upstanding member of society who works, pays their taxes, and doesn’t break the law., Download Form N-400, Application for Naturalization, and either type the requested information or print neatly in black ink. Be sure to download and read the instructions ahead of time.You will have to submit supporting documents along with your application. Read the instructions to find out what to supply. For example, you must supply a copy of your permanent resident card.
As of June 2017, the filing fee is $640. You also need to pay a biometric service fee of $85. Make your check or money order payable to “U.S. Department of Homeland Security.” Don’t use other initials.
To find out where to file, call 1-800-375-5283.
 Most applicants will need to give their fingerprints, photograph, and signature. USCIS will notify you if you do. They will send a notice with the date, time, and location of your appointment.Your fingerprints will be sent to the FBI for a background check.
Make sure to pick up your study booklet to prepare for your English and civics tests.
 You’ll attend an interview, where a USCIS officer will question you about your background and application. You will also take your English and civics test at the interview. You should prepare for the tests carefully.


Think about attending an English or citizenship preparation class. To find your nearest class, visit this website: https://my.uscis.gov/findaclass.
You can also take practice civics tests, which are available online., You will receive notice in the mail telling you the date and time for your interview. At the interview, you will take the English and citizenship tests. If you speak English well enough in the interview, you might not need to take the English test.Gather required documents ahead of time. A checklist should be sent to you (Form 477)., The final step is to swear the Oath of Allegiance. You’ll receive Form 455, which will tell you where and when to take the oath. You must answer the questions on the back of this form and review them with an officer when you attend your naturalization ceremony.


At the end of the ceremony, you will receive your certificate of naturalization.