 The color of the petals will be the color of the jam. Some rose varieties are tastier than others. Fragrant red and pink old-fashioned double roses (rugosas, floribundas, Old English, damask, and so on) are often used for jam."Rose a parfum de l'Haye", "Caprice de Meilland", and "Baron Girod de l'Ain" keep their aroma and flavor well during the cooking process.Wash them and then cut off the white bottom of each petal. Before eating them or using them in cooking, they should be washed well to avoid any chemicals that they might have been sprayed with. Ideally, you should use roses that haven't been sprayed at all and that were grown specifically for this purpose. Always check for insects and discard any petals that are brown.
Soak the petals in water for three days. This is optional.
Place the rose petals into a bowl and sprinkle the sugar over them to make sure that each petal is coated. Bruise them well with your fingers and cover the bowl with plastic film. Allow it to remain overnight in a cool spot that is not too dry and not too humid (e.g. the refrigerator).
Get a saucepan and pour in the remaining sugar, water and lemon juice. Dissolve contents over a low heat. Including the pips (seeds) of the lemon is supposed to contribute pectin, which will help thicken the jam,although some recipes do not specify their need, so the choice is yours.
Stir the rose petals into the mixture and allow to simmer 20 minutes. Bring to a boil and continue to boil for 5 minutes until the mixture thickens. If you have a jelly thermometer, cook and stir until the jam reaches 221°F or 105°C (don't let the bulb touch the bottom of the pan) or until a spoonful dropped onto a cold plate jells and holds its shape.Then, if you included the pips/seeds, remove them with a spoon, or you can leave them in if a person is careful not to eat them when they eat the jam.;
, If it will not be used shortly, use proper canning procedures to make sure the jam keeps in the jar. Store it in a cool placeand indulge.
