 Kids love to play games. Making your yoga session into a game may help entice your child to participate in a yoga session with you.There are a variety of games that you can do with yoga like:


Using yoga cards. Yoga cards are similar to a deck of playing cards. Instead of numbers and suits there are different yoga poses. You can purchase these or make your own. Let your child pull the next card or line up a set of cards to use in your yoga routine.
Play a counting game. With yoga, you're supposed to hold poses for a certain amount of time. Have your child practice counting skills by counting backwards or counting by multiples.
Play "yogi says". Just like the game Simon Says, play "yogi says" with your child. Either you or your child can call out the pose and be the "yogi."
Use stickers. Teach your child the difference between the left and right sides of their body. You can get them stickers to put on their feet or hands or also let them use washable markers to draw on their feet and hands.;
, Yoga can be difficult for anyone - child or adult. With children, it's important to stay positive during your yoga routine. This can help encourage your child as they learn some of the more difficult yoga poses.Whenever your child does a pose correctly, learns a more difficult pose or even completes a yoga session with you, compliment them on their achievements.
Also be encouraging and motivating when your child cannot complete a pose or doesn't enjoy a particular yoga session. This will help teach them that even though they weren't successful, it's great they tried something new.
It's also important to talk positively about yoga and exercise in general. This can help teach your child by example that regular yoga practice is an important part of a healthy lifestyle.
 If you've ever practiced yoga before, you're probably well aware that some poses are extremely difficult. If you want your child to be involved in yoga, you'll need to start out with simple and easy poses.You want your child to feel like they can do yoga successfully. You don't want to discourage them by choosing poses they may not be able to do physically.
Also have your child watch you perform different yoga poses. Having them be able to see you get into and out of poses can be helpful as they learn.
When you start a yoga practice with your child, also keep the time limit short and only do a few poses. It might be overwhelming to do 20 or 30 poses. Go for 10 poses or so to start with.
 If your child begins to show some interest in yoga, consider getting them some yoga gear. This might be a fun part for them as they get to have their own mat or block to use.


Although kids don't necessarily need their own materials, you can use this to encourage them to practice more regularly.
For example, if they do yoga with you every Saturday morning, they can pick out their own yoga mat. Of they might want a yoga outfit that is similar to yours.
Make sure your child has comfortable and loose fitting clothing when they practice yoga. If they're wearing something restrictive it might prevent them from being able to get in and out of a pose.
Although kids are smaller, they don't need a special sized mat or block to perform yoga. Traditional sized items will work well.
 Children's yoga has become much more popular. There are yoga classes designed specifically for kids and also many DVD's that are for children.


Consider researching local yoga studios for kids yoga classes. These are usually a little bit cheaper than a traditional yoga class. In addition, there's usually multiple kids per class and your child may enjoy meeting and making new friends.
If you want to do yoga with your kids, look for "mommy and me" classes or parent/child classes that focuses on poses done together.
If you cannot find a local yoga studio offering these specialized classes, there are DVD's that you can purchase (or even online videos) that you can use instead.
 Boat pose is a great pose for kids. It's fairly easy and can be done with a partner as well. To pass the time while you're holding this pose, sing "Row, Row, Row Your Boat" with your child.To do boat pose have your child mimic your moves:


Start by sitting with your legs straight out in front of you. Lean your torso back slightly so your abdominal muscles are engaged.
Slowly lift up your legs so they're about a foot off the ground. Extend your arms straight in front of you so your hands are pointed towards your knees.
If this is too difficult for you or your child, you can bend your knees. Your shins should be parallel to the floor.
Make this a partner pose, by having your child perform this move facing you. Rest the bottoms of your feet together as you hold this pose.
 This is a fun and simple pose for kids to try.Have them mimic you completing this pose.


Start by being on your hands and knees on your mat. Press into your palms and push your tail bone up into the air so you're in a upside down "v" shape.
As you push your hips into the air try to push your heels down to the floor. They do not need to touch the floor in order to do this pose correctly. Hold this pose for a few moments.
If your child is little enough, they can do their downward dog underneath of you after you've gotten into this pose.
 Sun bathing rock is a less common pose, but a great one to do with your child. It's easy and simple to follow and allows both of you to do this pose together.To start this pose, the adult or parent should get into child's pose on the mat. Sit on bent knees and lean your torso over your knees. Extend your arms out in front of you.
Have your child drape their body over your back. They should be facing upwards towards the ceiling.
Your child should stretch their arms open wide out to the side of their body. Have them relax their legs. Encourage your child to relax and open up the front of their body. Hold this pose for a few moments.
 This is a great pose for kids as the idea of being a warrior might be fun for them. In addition, its fairly simple and easy to follow.Start this pose by standing up straight on your mat. Lunge your right foot forward and bend your knee so your thigh is almost parallel to the floor. Keep your right foot facing forward.
Your left leg should be extended backward behind your body. Keep this leg straight. However, turn your left foot out about 45 degrees away from your leg.
While keeping your torso straight, lift your right arm straight out in front of you. Lift your left arm straight out behind you. Hold this pose for a few moments.
After holding this pose on the right side, complete this same pose on the left side as well.
 Tree pose is a fairly simple pose and is great for kids. Many children like the idea of pretending to be a tree and being challenged to balance on one leg.Start this pose by standing up straight on your mat with feet hip width apart. Slowly pull up your right foot and place it either on the inside of your left thigh or your left calf. It's slightly easier to hold this pose if your foot rests on your calf.
As you balance, bring your hands into a prayer position. Your hands should rest right in front of your heart. Hold this pose for a few moments.
After you've completed this pose on the right side, switch and hold this pose on the left side as well.
 Some of the concepts that are a part of yoga may be too advanced or difficult for children (like meditating for 15-20 minutes at a time). However, they can still use some key items if you relate them to their lives.


Bringing focus to poses and to meditations or intentions is a key practice of yoga. Although that concept may be a little much for some children, they understand the concept of needing to focus.
Teach them to focus during their poses. Whether it's focusing on their balance or strength to hold a pose, this is a great skill for children to learn.
Tell them that learning to focus can help them pay attention in school, do well with their homework or improve in a sport.
 Like adults, children are encouraged when they can see the benefit of doing physical activity. Show them how yoga can strengthen their body overtime.Have your child (possibly with your help) write down some poses that are little difficult to do or ones they cannot do. After a few yoga sessions, show them how they've improved by being able to do those difficult poses.
Relate their improved fitness to their lives. Talk about how they may be able to do better with gym tests like the "sit and reach" or pull-up challenges. They may even see improvements in favorite activities like biking or climbing as well.
 One well known and sometimes difficult concept of yoga is deep breathing and patience. This is a hard skill for adults, but also difficult for children. Show them how regular practice can help improve their patience.As you practice yoga with your child, talk about the patience it takes to learn different poses. Or the patience it takes to slowly become stronger and get better at certain poses.
Teach them how to breathe deeply during their your yoga routines. Also show them how they can use deep breathing to calm down, to focus or to help them be more patient.
You may tell them to do deep breathing before taking a test or when they're getting up in front of the class for a presentation.

