 An ordinary business plan involves planning for growth and development. A continuity plan provides important information for coping with disasters. The Federal Emergency Management Agency provides several useful resources for creating a continuity plan.For example, what if a tornado, flood, fire, or earthquake occurs? A continuity plan can make the difference between recovering and going out of business.
FEMA provides templates, worksheets, and other helpful resources for developing your plan.
 This section provides an overview of your continuity plan. It should include the scope, objectives, and assumptions of the business continuity plan., In this section, your task is to describe the "chain of command" for your business.This section should describe who handles which tasks, and the lines of authority and management. This way, if someone is unable to perform their duties, you know who is next in line.This section should also include contact information for the each individual employee or manager. This way, you have all this information in one place, Consider how disruptions of various severities and lengths will impact your business financially. This information will help you plan for you might respond in a variety of situations.


FEMA provides a helpful worksheet for detailing this information. You should be include it in your continuity plan., In the next section, provide detailed information about how your business could respond to disasters or disruptions.These strategies will vary from business to the next. Spend some time thinking about what your business would need to do to survive the types of disruptions in your impact analysis.
Detail necessary materials or equipment your business would need to function and recoverThis will allow you or others to prioritize, should it be necessary to replace or recover these items.
The FEMA website provides links to several documents to help you consider the impact of various disasters. They also offer some suggestions that can help you manage them., Describe procedures to keep the business functioning if the computer system fails.


For example, describe how to process credit card payments, pay bills, or pay employees without your computer system.
 Next, describe what steps you'll take to prepare employees for putting your plan into place. Detail any training, exercises, drills, or tests you will use to prepare the staff., The next section should describe maintenance and improvement strategies for the plan.It should state how often and under what circumstances to update the plan.It should also describe how to deal with any problems with the plan, should some part of it fail., This section of the plan details how your business will detect and report any possible disasters. It also describes the criteria for when the strategies you've laid out should occur.This section should also include information on how to assess damage., The last section of your plan should include any other important emergency planning materials.For example, if you have a program to assist your employees in an emergency, include documents about this.You can also include emergency response plans or escape routes for the immediate aftermath of an emergency.

