 If you want your applied Plasti Dip to go on evenly, last longer, and peel away more easily when it’s time to remove it, you must make sure the surface is properly prepared. Taking your time now will provide immediate and lasting benefits.Wash and rinse the surface thoroughly; make sure any soap residue is gone.
Use microfiber cloths to prevent lint accumulation on the surface.
Dry the surface, and also allow it to air dry. Make sure it is absolutely, completely dry before applying Plasti Dip.
 You can dip, brush, or spray on Plasti Dip, although spraying is utilized for most automotive applications. Follow the provided instructions for spray coverage, distance, technique, and safety.Make sure you are in a well-ventilated area, and wear protective eyewear and breathing protection. You may also want to wear gloves and cover exposed skin.
Especially if your car is brand new or has had after-market painting or repairs done to it, you may want to test a small area first. Plasti Dip adheres to (and peels away from) most automotive surfaces with ease, but it is better to be safe than sorry.
 When it comes to applying Plasti Dip coats, the more the better. Four to five thin, even coats should be considered your minimum for the best appearance and protection. However, adding six or more coats will enhance these qualities and make it even easier to remove the product later on., Plasti Dip dries to the touch fairly quickly, and a basic cure will usually occur within four to eight hours. After this point, it is safe to touch the surface and use the vehicle. However, the full curing process will take a few weeks, so it is best to wait perhaps a month before using aggressive cleaning methods., Properly applied Plasti Dip will often last for at least three years. When it does wear out or you simply are ready for a change, just peel it off of the surface with your hands. If you applied enough layers of Plasti Dip earlier, it should peel off in large pieces. If, however, not enough layers were applied, meaning the Plasti Dip is peeling off in tiny pieces, try the following:Add additional coats of Plasti Dip, let it cure, then peel the thicker coating away with greater ease.
Use a branded Dip Dissolver to re-liquify the Plasti Dip, then rinse and wipe it away.Try various automotive and other cleaning products (Goo Gone, WD-40, etc.), as recommended by various sources. This is a bit of a trial-and-error process in regards to effectiveness.Your best bet is to apply the Plasti Dip properly so that it peels away easily.

