 Nerds often have social anxiety. They might have read somewhere that they should ask questions to keep the conversation going, but are so worried about what to say next that they don’t listen to your answer.Give the nerd time to open up to you. They’ll be better at listening once they feel more at ease.;
, Nerds often have a few very intense passions. Common nerd passions include computers, video games, and sci-fi. Nerds love talking about their passions, so be an avid listener if you want to capture a nerd’s interest.Listen for as long as you can. If you become too bored, gently steer the conversation in a different direction.
It’s alright if you don’t share some of the nerd’s interests. Keep an open mind. If you still find yourself drawn to a nerd after listening to them ramble about Star Trek for 20 minutes, it’s worth getting to know them better.
 Nerds understand “weird” passions or obsessions--they have some very intense ones of their own. To get a nerd’s attention, open up about your nerdy passions. Talk about your weird collection of porcelain cats, or your penchant for experimenting with puff pastry.Don’t worry if your quirky interests aren’t stereotypically nerdy--share them anyway. It’s the passion behind them that counts. Nerds can respect passion and dedication.
 Because nerds often have a difficult time with social cues, subtle hints are often lost on them. Be obvious in showing that you’re interested. Consider telling your nerd explicity that you want to date them.Say something like, “Hey, I really like you. We should spend more time together.”
Make sure you are sexually direct as well. Nerds often have a difficult time reading body language.
 Small talk describes the shallow and predictable conversations we have with people we don’t know very well. Nerds hate small talk. If you’re trying to spark a nerd’s interest, steer clear of small talk and jump to the deeper stuff.Small talk conversation topics include the weather, your surroundings, or traffic. Avoid these.
Instead, talk about one of your passions, the inspiring novel you just read, or your weird hobby.
 Let your quirks show through. Nerds love the challenge of deciphering a puzzle. By revealing your unique personality, you’ll keep a nerd engaged.Don’t try to change yourself to fit the nerd mold. If you are a nerd, that’s great! Otherwise, just be true to yourself. If you are truly compatible, this will be enough.
 While you don’t need to become proficient in Klingon, you should make an attempt to understand your partner’s obsessions. Follow some of the movies, books, and games that your partner loves. Who knows--maybe they’ll become your obsessions, too.A relationship is a two-way street. You should show some interest in your partner’s passions, and demand that your partner do the same for you.
Don’t worry if you don’t understand some of your partner’s passions. While some shared interests are important, you don’t need to share all of them.
 Your partner’s nerdy obsessions and social awkwardness make them who they are. You shouldn’t try to change them, and moreover, you won’t be able to. If you can’t accept them, then you probably shouldn’t be together.Don’t tease your partner for their mysterious obsessions. They’ve likely had to put up with such teasing their entire life, and more of it will only cause them to withdraw., Nerds often thrive on routine. They are very sensitive to change, whether it be at work, on the road, or at home. Simply moving an item in your partner’s room might upset them.You partner may have a designated space in the home where they like to work or pursue their hobbies undisturbed. They value the predictability and security of this space, so be certain not to violate any boundaries. Ask before cleaning their space or moving any of their things.
 If you are the type of person that craves spontaneity, dating a routine-oriented nerd might seem challenging. However, you can still do spontaneous things with your partner, like traveling, by combining more spontaneous activities with more structured activities.

For example, if you want to go on vacation with your partner, have a balance of very structured, highly scheduled days, and days that are more laid back.
 This might sound counterintuitive. Shouldn't the nerd be explaining to you? The truth is, you'll probably know more about many subjects than your partner. Nerds tend to specialize in one area of knowledge, which means you'll probably know more than they do about "normal" things (cars, pro football, non-science-fiction movies).Don't belittle your partner for not knowing much about mainstream topics. Instead, try patiently explaining.
 Respect is the cornerstone of any healthy relationship, and a relationship with a nerd is no different. Respect is often even more important to nerds, because they didn’t get much respect from their peers growing up.You shouldn’t only respect your partner for their technical skill. Respect them as a person.
You can show respect by listening to your partner's needs and desires, telling your partner you respect them for who they are, supporting your partner’s choices, and showing gratitude and appreciation for your partner in front of others., You don’t need to share all of your interests. It’s perfectly fine if you can’t wrap your mind around the beauty of coding or cosplay. That being said, every healthy relationship requires some shared interests. Find these, and explore them together.Try watching TV shows and movies that nerds and non-nerds alike can enjoy, like Game of Thrones or Star Wars.
Teach your partner about one of your own more obscure interests. They may come to find that they enjoy it, too!

, Nerds tend to be highly interested in topics that are relevant to their current passions and ignore those that are not. For example, you may find your partner has difficulty listening to your recap of your day. Let them know that this bothers you, and that you’d like their full attention.Tell them, “I really want to share my experiences with you, and it would mean a lot to me if you would listen.”
Remember, your partner is not trying to be rude! They just need a little wake-up call sometimes.
 Your partner’s friends are important to them. You should take an interest in them, despite the fact that they’ll probably be pretty nerdy, too. That’s not to say you need to spend every night LARPing together. Rather, make sure you hang out with them sometimes, ask them questions, and are generally friendly.You may not like all of your partner’s friends, but you should accept them. Try to understand and appreciate what they bring to your partner’s life., You partner should challenge you, and you should do the same for your partner. This is key for personal growth.Nerds love logic, so engage in some reasoned debates with your nerd. You’ll probably end up learning a lot, and grow closer to your partner at the same time.Pick a subject that you are interested in, and do a little research. Your passion will show through, making for a more engaging discussion.
 Conflict is inevitable in any relationship, nerd relationships included. However, because nerds are focused on facts, they don’t respond well to overly-emotional or illogical arguments. Focusing on logical arguments will help you address conflicts with your partner., Nerds often understand logic and facts better than they understand emotion. It may take a while for your partner to be able to open up to you, so be patient. It’s not that your partner doesn’t have emotions--they just have a harder time expressing them.