 Add 2.5 cups (590 ml) water to a medium-sized cooking pot with a lid on the stovetop.


In order for the rice to cook properly, make sure you the lid has a tight seal so heat and steam aren't released.Always make sure your pot isn't too small because rice will triple in volume once cooked., As with pasta, salt is used to bring out the natural flavor in rice so it won't taste bland. It's not used to make it taste salty., Pour 2 cups (470 ml) rinsed and pre-soaked brown basmati rice to the pot and use a spoon to mix the rice with the water.This is the only time you'll stir the rice until it's done. Stirring it while it's cooking activates the starch and makes it either sticky or creamy., Turn the burner to high. Once the water comes to a boil, reduce the heat to low, cover and simmer for 15-40 minutes until all the water is absorbed.The time difference is largely based upon how long you soaked the rice.
If you soaked it for 30 minutes, your cook time will be closer to 40 minutes. If you soaked it overnight, your cook time will be closer to 15 minutes.
It's very important to turn down the heat and to simmer once the water boils. Rice that's cooked too fast on a high heat will be hard because the water will evaporate. The kernels will also break., Quickly remove the lid and use a fork to scoop out some of the rice. Immediately replace the lid. If the rice is tender and the water has fully absorbed, it's ready. If not, continue cooking another 2-4 minutes.


You may need to add more water if it's not tender but the water has fully absorbed. Start slowly by adding just a 1⁄4 cup (59 ml) of water.
 When done, take the pot from the burner and remove the lid. Place a folded kitchen towel over the pot, and promptly replace the lid.The towel will help to steam the rice, making it fluffier. It also absorbs extra moisture that would otherwise fall back onto the rice., Don’t lift the lid while you let the rice rest or you'll lose the steam necessary to fully cook it., Use a fork to fluff the rice while it's in the pot. Then let the rice sit uncovered for just a few minutes so it doesn't have a wet texture.Using a fork helps the remaining steam to escape and the grains to separate.
 Use a large spoon or a nonstick rice paddle spoon to scoop out the rice. Serve it now alone or as part of another dish.

