 Your Armitron watch has two clock settings: a 12-hour clock and a 24-hour clock (military time). You may choose to set your watch to either format.


Press the “Set” button one time. The Seconds will flash.
Press the “Mode” button six times. The 24-Hour Format option will flash.
Press the “ADJ” button to select either the 12-hour or the 24-hour format.
Press the “Set” button once to return to the Time Telling Mode., You will use the Crown to set the analog time piece.]


Pull out the Crown to stop the clock.
Rotate the Crown clockwise or counterclockwise until the hands have reached the correct time.
Push in the Crown to start the clock., In addition to an analog clock, your Armitron watch also has digital timepiece and calendar. You will use the buttons on the side of the watch face to set this timepiece.


In Time Telling Mode, press the “Set” button one time. The Seconds will flash.
To zero out the seconds, press “ADJ.”. Zeroing out the seconds on your watch will automatically add one minute to the time.
Press “Mode.” The Hours will flash.
To advance the Hours to the correct time, press the “ADJ” button. You may rapidly advance the Hours by pressing and holding “ADJ.” If your watch is set to the 12-hour-clock format, “PM” will appear on your watch face to indicate p.m. There is no indicator for a.m.
Press “Mode.” The Minutes will flash.
To set the Minutes, press “ADJ” until you have reached the correct time.
To set the Month, press “Mode” followed by “ADJ.” Continue to press “ADJ” until the Month is correct.
To set the Date, press “Mode” followed by “ADJ.” Continue to press “ADJ” until the Date is correct.
To set the Day of the Week, press “Mode” followed by “ADJ.” Continue to press “ADJ” until the Weekday is correct.
Press “Set” to complete the process and return to the Time Telling Mode., If you frequently travel in between two time zones, you may wish to use the Second Time Zone feature on your Armitron watch.


While in the Time Telling Mode, press “Mode” three times. This will bring you to the Second Time Zone Mode.
Press the “Set” button. This will cause the Hours to flash.
Press the “ADJ” button to advance the Hours until you reach the correct time.
Press “Mode.” The Minutes will flash.
To set the Minutes, press “ADJ.” Continue to press “ADJ” until the correct time is reached.
Press “Set” to end the process.
Press “Mode” to return to the Time Telling Mode., This model of watch allows you to set two alarms. To set Alarm 1, press the “Mode” button 4 times; to set Alarm 2, press “Mode” 5 times. After selecting an alarm to set, follow these steps:


Push the “Set” button and wait for the Hours to flash. Press “ADJ” to change the hour.
Push the “Mode” button and wait for the Minutes to flash. Press “ADJ” to change the minutes.
Press “Mode.” The Second Time Zone Alarm will flash. To select either Normal Time Zone or Second Time Zone, press “ADJ.”
Push “Set” to complete the process.
Press “Mode” to return to Time Telling Mode.