 Common and Uncommon Spider-men only have 3 and 4 stars in their ranks, respectively. This means they can only reach up to Level 50. Rare or Epic Spider-men can have 5 and 6 stars in their ranks, respectively. This means they can reach up to Level 90. The higher the levels of your Spider-men, the higher the score multipliers when using them.
 Once you have the Spider-men in your team roster, you have to increase their ranks by increasing their stars. The more stars they have, the higher maximum level they can reach.

Refer to this article for more details on how to rank up your Spider-men.
 In order for the Spider-men to increase their experience, or XP, you have to level them up. The higher the levels of your Spider-men, the higher the score multipliers will be.

Get your Spider-men up to their maximum levels. Common Spider-men can reach Level 30, Uncommon Spider-men can reach Level 50, Rare Spider-men can reach Level 70, and Epic Spider-men can reach Level 90. You can level up your characters by doing the following:

Play the Unlimited Mode. The Unlimited Mode is the classic endless runner game, where the main objective is to run as far as you can and get the highest score possible. The higher score you get, the more XP points you earn. Once a Spider-man’s progress bar for its current level has reached its maximum, the Spider-man will be levelled up.
Play the Events. Events are time-limited endless runner games, similar to Unlimited Mode but with different objectives and rewards. The higher score you get, the more XP points you earn. Once a Spider-man’s progress bar for its current level has reached its maximum, the Spider-man will be levelled up.
Play the Missions. Each mission has a defined objective, and the game ends when the objective has been reached or you’ve lost. XP points are awarded for completing every mission. Once a Spider-man’s progress bar for its current level has reached its maximum, the Spider-man will be levelled up.
Go on Ops. The Spidey Ops contain at least four different ops with varying objectives, times, and rewards. This is a good way to use your Spider-men to earn some Vials and increase XP points while you’re out or not using them. If the ops was successful, each of the Spider-men you sent on the ops will be awarded with an increase XP points. Once a Spider-man’s progress bar for its current level has reached its maximum, the Spider-man will be levelled up.
Level up using other Spider-men. Levelling up a Spider-man means using your other Spider-men as XP points and merging them to add to this Spider-man’s current XP points or level. The Spider-men used to level up will be removed from your team roster. The XP points will increase the Spider-man’s current level and if it reaches the maximum, it will be levelled up.
 You start the game with just one slot. The first slot is where you put the Spider-Man you’re going to use for a run. You cannot use the other three slots until they’re unlocked.

You can find the slots on the right side of every pre-game screen. Tap on the slots or boxes to identify which of your Spider-men you will use.
 Complete Issue 1 under “Missions,” and defeat all Goblins. After you do, the second slot will be unlocked for you to use. When that happens, use the two slots for all games you will play.

These will increase your score multipliers, computed by combining the score bonuses of both Spider-men you’ve put in the slots.
 Complete Issue 2 under “Missions,” and defeat all Vultures. After you do, the third slot will be unlocked for you to use. When that happens, use the three slots for all games you will play.

These will increase your score multipliers, computed by combining the score bonuses of the three Spider-men you’ve put in the slots.
 Complete Issue 3 under “Missions,” and defeat all Electros. After you do, the fourth slot will be unlocked for you to use. When that happens, use the four slots for all games you will play.

These will increase your score multipliers, computed by combining the score bonuses of the four Spider-men you’ve put in the slots.
 The score bonus tagged to each Spider-men is determined by the level they’re in. A newly imported Common Spider-Man has a score bonus of x1, a Spider-Man at Level 10 has a score bonus of x3, and a Rare Spider-Man at its maximum level of 70 has a score bonus of x9.

The more slots you use and the higher score bonuses of the Spider-men used, the greater score multipliers you will have for the games.
 Each of the Spider-men has different abilities. Abilities range from additional combos to score bonuses. Rare and Epic Spider-men unlock a second ability when they’re ranked up to 5 stars.

Refer to Part 1 of this article for more details on the different abilities available.
 Although all games involve getting the high scores, there will be goals, missions, or events that will ask for another objective. Objectives vary, but all of them have a Spider-Man ability that can be of use.

The trick here is to know which ability can give you the most score for the specific goal, mission, or event. Refer to Part 2 of this article for more details on the different game objectives.
 The first slot is for the Spider-Man you will use for the game. The remaining three slots are all for score multipliers. Use all of them.

Get your Spider-men with the highest levels and score bonuses into the game. Playing with a score bonus of x1 versus a score bonus of x36 makes a lot of difference.
 The first section of the Shop is “Consumables.” Consumables are game helpers that will give you some bonuses when used. There are three consumables you can buy to help you increase your scores.


Sensory Overload—This provides a +25% score multiplier. When used, it will increase your score multiplier by 25%!

Formula Fanatic—This multiplies the vials you collect after defeating an enemy by 3. When used, you will get three times more vials from attacks. Vials also add to your scores.

Crushing Combos—This multiplies your combos by 2 for 3 minutes and your combo counter lasts 3 seconds more. When used, you will get more (and higher scores) from your combos.
 The second section of the Shop is “Power-ups.” Power-ups themselves cannot be bought. They appear randomly in the games. When collected, they provide certain powers that last for a few seconds. What you can buy from the Shop are additional time for using these power-ups when collected. For example, instead of lasting for just 10 seconds, you can extend a certain power-up by 5 more seconds. There are four power-ups you can buy:


Web Hammer—When collected, your Spider-Man clobbers your enemies and all other mechanical obstacles with ease. You just have to pass them to hit them. No need to swipe up or down to do an attack. All enemies and obstacles hit will increase your scores and add to your combos.

Web Magnet—When collected, your Spider-Man brings all vials in sight directly to it. No need to pass them to collect them. Vials also add to your scores.

Stats Multiplier—When collected, your Spider-Man gets to double all vials collected and all combos earned. Needless to say, the vials and the combos both add to your scores.

Web Shield—When collected, your Spider-Man gets protected from a damage. It’s like a free life within the game. This won’t necessarily increase your scores, but having a shield definitely reduces the risks when playing the game, allowing you to go further even if you get hit.
 The third section of the Shop is “Unlockables.” Unlockables are permanent bonuses or abilities for all the Spider-men characters in your roster. Unlockables won’t necessarily increase your scores during a game, but having them can help you increase your vials faster and improve your experience or XP faster, which indirectly will help increase your Spider-men’s levels faster, getting you higher score bonuses., A good preparation means a higher chance of getting high scores. Even before going on a game, prepare your Spider-men team for the run. All needed preparations to enable you are detailed in Parts 1 to 4., As you run, collect the vials on your path. Vials are the basic currency in the game, which you can use to bring in standard Spider-men for levelling up. They also add to your scores., It may be easier to avoid enemies, but don’t. Enemies are easy to defeat. You just have to attack them at the right moment. Attacks add to your scores, and enemies give out vials when hit too.

Hitting enemies also add to your combo counter.
 Near misses may be risky, but they can be rewarding. Near misses are earned when you avoid obstacles on the last moment. One downside of going for these is actually hitting the obstacles instead, which ends your game.

Near misses add to your combo counter.
 Rings appear all throughout the game. Pass through them to add to your combo counter., As you earn your combos, your combo counter increases. The higher the combo counter, the higher the score bonus being given. Try to maintain your combo counter by attacking enemies, going for near misses, and passing through rings.

The combo counter goes away and resets when there’s no combo earned for a few seconds. You should continuously increase your combo counter if you don’t want it to reset back to 0.
 Power-ups are randomly placed in the game. Get them when you can and use the accordingly. These will significantly help you get higher scores., If you’re lost and uncertain which path to take, follow the path of the vials. More often than not, vials lead to a safe path. They normally won’t appear on the same spot of obstacles., When you reach a boss, there’s really no way to avoid it. Fight your way and defeat the boss. Each hit counts as an attack combo. Once you’ve defeated a boss, a bonus score will also be added.

Defeat a boss with a high combo counter to get greater multipliers for your score bonus.
 As they say, practice makes perfect. Play often to get the hang of it. Most maps in the game repeat, so you will get quite familiar with where things are as you continue playing.