 Introverts can easily become overwhelmed and stressed by group activities, such as meetings and group work.Therefore, it is important for you to recognize this need in yourself and take plenty of time for yourself.

If you are in a situation where you feel pressured to contribute in a group setting, then ask for space. Try saying something like, "There are a lot of great ideas in this meeting. I'm going to think them over on my own for a bit and give my input at the end of the day."
Plan on having some alone time before and after you have a group activity to allow yourself to decompress.;
, If you are surrounded by people, it will be necessary for you to speak up in order to manage stress and overwhelm. Some introverts may be able to relate to your unique needs. However, not everyone—introverts and extroverts included—will understand how you function at your best. That’s why you have to tell them.If a parent, coworker, or friend is overwhelming you or making your stress worse, say “I really need to be alone right now so I can think” or “I’d appreciate it if you gave me some time to collect my thoughts.”

, For example, at work you might go outside, to a bathroom, or into an empty office. When you start feeling stressed out, get some distance from your usual environment and the people in it that may be contributing to your stress.


If you are at work or school, go in an empty office or class room, plug in your headphone and do some deep breathing exercises.
If you are at home, you sanctuary may be in your bed or snuggled up on the couch with your dog. Retreat to this place for a short while and recharge.
 In the age of technology, everyone is connected around the clock. If this nonstop connection of emails, app notifications, and social media friend requests is contributing to your stress, take a break from it for a few hours or a few days. There are a host of benefits that come with unplugging from technology.


These benefits include getting better sleep, feeling more present in the moment, reducing pain symptoms, increasing productivity, and improving memory retention and mood.If you've never unplugged before, simply choose a full day or a few hours to do it. Let's say you start on Saturday at 8pm and unplug until Sunday at 8pm. Let friends and family know what you are doing in advance so that they don't worry when you don't answer calls or texts.
 Get away with just your thoughts by escaping into the natural world. Being outdoors can provide much-needed healing and quiet from the over-stimulation you may receive in the modern world. Go for a hike. Sit out near the lake. Take your dog walking around the neighborhood for some fresh air.


Research shows that your mood is significantly benefited by spending time in nature. Studies have shown that people who are depressed, stressed, or anxious transform into states of calm and balance after regularly being in natural environments.So, maximize from these benefits by scheduling in a weekly nature break to fend off stress before it gets out of control.
 Are you suffering from chronic stress and could really use an extended period to rest and rejuvenate? Get some R&R by traveling on your own. If you enjoy going to new places and experiencing new environments, you will likely feel replenished by getting away from it all and going on a solo adventure.


Book a flight to a faraway destination that you’ve always wanted to go to but didn’t because friends or family weren’t interested. Or, gas up your vehicle and go on a road trip to see various major landmarks.
Just be sure to use safe practices when traveling alone, such as not venturing too far away from your hotel at night, not exposing your cash, and listening to your gut when someone makes you uncomfortable.Millions of people travel the world alone each year—so can you!

, Deep breathing is an easy-to-do relaxation technique that counteracts the body's stress response. By controlling your breaths, you naturally offset feelings of stress or anxiety and feel more calm. Try the 4-7-8 approach to deep breathing.To practice this approach, sit down comfortably in a quiet room. Place one hand on your abdomen and the other on your chest. Inhale deeply through your nose, noticing the hand on your abdomen rising. The hand on your chest should remain relatively still. Hold the breath for 7 counts and then exhale for 8 counts. The hand on your abdomen should slowly deflate with your belly. Repeat the entire process several times for best results.
 It offers a wide range of mental health benefits, including helping you understand your thoughts and feelings better as well as giving you an outlet to identify problems and brainstorm solutions. Some introverts may not be as likely to go to friends or family for advice, so a journal acts as a personal confidant and sounding board.


Grab a notebook and pen and start by venting your frustrations on the page. After you have unloaded most of your worries, go back and read over what you wrote. Do you see any patterns of repeating issues or sources of concern? If so, take a minute to write out a few ways you can address these issues moving forward.
 A fun and interesting way to relieve stress is by turning on some of your favorite music. Music does wonders for the emotions and the physical condition. Studies show that choosing music that you find relaxing is an easy and highly accessible way to manage stress.Research tells us that certain types of music are especially helpful with relaxation. Go for Celtic, Native American, Indian stringed-instruments, drums, flutes, and sounds of nature like rain or thunder mixed with light jazz or classical music. However, don’t feel limited by these options; you can select any sort of tunes that feel soothing to you.
 Meditation offers long-term protection against stress and relieves acute stress, too. There are a variety of ways to practice this technique. You can repeat a mantra or chant, you can sit in complete silence, or you can radiate positive feelings out towards someone in particular or the universe as a whole.To practice basic meditation, choose a place to go where you can sit quietly without distractions for 10-20 minutes. Sit in on the floor on a cushion with your legs crossed. Rest your hands on your thighs. Take several deep, cleansing breaths, in through your nose and out through your mouth.
Now, close your eyes or rest them on a point in the room about 10 feet ahead of you. Focus on your breathing as you inhale and exhale gently. Try to clear your mind of any competing thoughts. When your mind wanders, avoid judging or criticizing yourself and merely re-focus your attention on your breath.
 Adequate rest is incredibly vital to mental health and well-being. However, it can be easier said than done when you are dealing with stress. Being stressed out can make it hard to sleep, and not sleeping can worsen the effects of stress.Aim for 7 to 9 hours of shut-eye each night. Increase your chances of getting quality sleep by:Going to bed and waking at the same time each day and night
Avoiding naps longer than 20 to 30 minutes
Shutting off electronic devices a few hours before bed
Avoiding caffeine in the hours before bed
Making the bedroom environment comfortable by lowering the temperature and dimming the lights

, If you find yourself caving to others’ demands on a regular basis, you may need to learn the art of boundary-setting. Boundaries are consequential to leading a healthy life with reduced stress, and they also are the foundation of healthy relationships.Think about what you want and whether your life circumstances are aligning with that. Listen to your thoughts regarding your relationships or work demands. Do you feel like you have too much responsibility? Do you find that others don't respect your need for personal space? Now, notice your feelings. Do you feel frustrated? Angry? Ignored? Use this information to guide on the types of boundaries you need to set.
Identify your limits. Recognize the actions and behaviors of those around you that make you uncomfortable or overwhelmed.
Communicate and enforce your limits. Let those around you know when they are violating your personal space or crossing a boundary. For example, if you asked your parents to give you advanced notice before visiting, point this out when they show up unannounced. Say, "Mom? Dad? I like when you all come over to visit, but it would help me out if you could call first just so I have time to prepare. Can you do that for me?"

, If you must take part in an activity or event that drains you, follow steps to prepare yourself mentally and physically. When you do this, you decrease the odds of you having a stress meltdown, and build better coping mechanisms for difficult situations.For instance, if you are invited to a social gathering, ask if an understanding friend can join you there to keep you calm. Do deep breathing exercises in the days leading up to the event. Visit the location beforehand to feel comfortable with the environment.
 Introverts may feel stressed out when they have to constantly switch back and forth between dissimilar tasks. You may lose focus and require a great deal of time to return to full productivity. To minimize this issue, batch together similar tasks so that you don’t have to adjust to new demands.For example, if the dishes need washing, the mail needs sorting, the bills need paying, and the carpet needs vacuuming, put the paperwork tasks together and the cleaning tasks together. This allows you to boost productivity and increase your focus on the tasks at hand.

