 Get to know people in the music industry, whether they work at a venue, in marketing and advertising, or in band promotion. Hint that you’d love to get to see a show sometime, or outright ask if they have access to freebies and are willing to sell them or give them away.


Get well known among your friends and co-workers as the person who will take extra tickets off their hands at the last minute. If you send them a thank-you note or email afterwards and say how much you enjoyed the concert, they will likely think of you the next time they have spare tickets.
 Check far in advance of a show for when tickets go on presale and may have a reduced price. Join a band’s fan club or mailing list to hear right away when tickets are on sale. Check music festival sites for very discounted “early bird” tickets. Look into credit card companies that offer discounts and advance tickets to cardholders before they go on sale to the public.
 Get on Craigslist or another site where individuals can post items for sale. Look a day or two in advance of the show or on the day-of to find sellers who can’t make it and try to sell their tickets at the last minute. Avoid scams by always meeting with a local seller in person and never giving out any of your bank information., Check out ticket resellers or brokers to see what they’re offering tickets day-of. Many times the broker will be willing to sell at a loss to recoup some of their investment if the show didn't sell out.


Always find a broker that accepts credit card payment, and choose this option to pay for tickets. If the tickets turn out to be fake, you have proof of your payment to get reimbursed. Also make sure they have an 800 number to be reached by., Head to the venue about an hour before the concert starts, and look for anyone openly calling out, holding a sign, or obviously holding tickets to their chest to advertise that they have extra tickets. Feel free to haggle a little with them to get a cheaper price. Sometimes a desperate or just kind concert-goer will simply give an extra ticket away right before the show.


Before you arrive at the venue, put the amount of cash you’d like to pay for a ticket into your pocket, with a little extra cash in another pocket in case you need to sweeten the deal. Make sure you have small bills so you can make exact change.
When a seller tells you their price, tell them you’re on a budget. You can even say, "Oh, I can only pay (x-amount); you should sell your tickets to somebody who can pay what they're worth." They might end up offering the tickets to you for your price, or you can use your extra money for an offer that’s close.
If you’re not finding tickets at your budget right away, sellers are apt to come back to you when the lights flash and they realize the show's going to start without them. This time they might accept your budgeted price.

