 If you are having fun talking with someone, then it might be a good idea to exchange contact information. This will allow you to text or call the person so that you can meet up again sometime.


Try saying something like, “I have to go, but I have had so much fun chatting with you. Would you like to exchange cell numbers so we can get together again sometime?”

, People tend to open up only with their close friends. Amp up your familiarity with another by being the first to broach personal conversational topics. Open, honest communication is an indication of affection, admiration, trust, and respect. In fact, when you speak with someone about how you really feel you’re indicating that you value their advice and companionship.Do so naturally, by asking questions like “How do you feel about that?” or offering your personal thoughts on something that comes up.
 Be willing to talk about things that are meaningful to you. This includes your “feelings” as well as your opinions, including your perspectives on controversial issues. Don’t clam up because others may not agree.You may wind up finding that another feels similarly and can supplement your perspective. Alternatively, you may wind up in a spirited but mutually beneficial debate. How else will we begin to change one another’s’ minds aside from speaking with them about what we may see differently?

, It’s great to have a reason to reach back out to someone you’ve just met. Photos are some of the best ways to do this. They help break down a barrier between you by offering a chance to pause and record a moment together, even if only on the street or in passing. Further, taking the photo on your phone offers the perfect excuse to ask for someone’s information.Say something along the lines of, “Hey, where can I send this photo?” Either do so immediately so they have your information too, or wait a few days and send it along with a message such as, “Great to meet you the other day! Hope to run into you again soon.”

, Aside from a particular reason, such as taking a photo or watching a video together, leave your phone out of sight. There’s nothing quite as antisocial as working your thumbs nonstop and staring at your phone while having a conversation with someone. Too much phone action sends a message that you’re not that interested, and can readily prevent a budding friendship from blossoming.