 Under Title VII, sexual harassment tends to fall into two categories: quid pro quo, and hostile environment. Quid pro quo is when you are expected to tolerate sexual harassment in return for a promotion, and assignment, or just to keep your job. This often comes from a boss, but it can come from other employees as long as they have some degree of power or are supported by someone in power.Hostile work environment harassment does not explicitly or implicitly effect your job security, but that nonetheless affects your work performance and creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment.
Legally, an incident need only happen once to be considered quid pro quo harassment. However, hostile environment harassment must occur repeatedly unless the behavior in question is exceptionally blatant (such as sexual assault or unwanted touching).
Both forms of harassment can happen to one individual or to several, and can come from one individual or several. It can come from co-workers or supervisors, men or women, and it can be verbal, physical, or both.
Both forms of harassment are illegal.
 Take notes and keep record of any sexual harassment that occurs. Write down the time and place of each incident, what each person said or did, and who witnessed the interaction. Save evidence of harassment: if you receive inappropriate emails or notes, save them.Review your workplace sexual harassment policy. Follow it, unless your workplace does not have one.
 If you feel safe talking directly with the person or people harassing you, do so face to face. Explain that their attention or behavior is bothering you. Name it, and describe it. Finally, ask them to stop.You might say "I am not comfortable with your behavior since you asked me out. I said no, and I tried to be nice about it because we are coworkers, but the fact that you have continued to hint that you would like to see me outside of work makes me feel pressured. I want you to stop."
Or say "I need you to understand that the jokes about my clothes and my sexual orientation have got to stop. I hate them. I don't want anyone speculating on my personal life, and I don't want you to use me as a prop in your jokes. Do you understand?"
If you do not feel safe talking to your harasser, go directly to your supervisor or HR department.
 If you confront your harasser, tell your supervisor about the behavior and the fact that you have addressed it. If you do not, go directly to your supervisor or your company's human resources department. Tell them you do not feel safe confronting your harasser, and tell them why not.Make sure to tell your supervisor as soon as you have talked to your harasser, in case your harasser takes steps to retaliate against you.
 If you think you have a Title VII claim, file a discrimination complaint with the EEOC within 180 days of the harassment. You do not need an attorney to file the complaint.Once you have filed your complaint, the EEOC will notify your employer and begin an investigation.They will either attempt to settle the complaint with a mediator, dismiss the case, or file a lawsuit in federal court.
If they are unable to file a charge or reach a settlement, they will give you a right-to-sue letter. You can request a right-to-sue letter if you wish to sue before the EEOC investigation is concluded.
You are legally protected from retaliation for filing a discrimination charge, testifying, or otherwise participating in an investigation, proceeding, or litigation under Title VII.Check your state protections as well. Some states offer even stronger protections than Title VII.

