 Read your by-laws or articles of incorporation to find the procedures for dissolving the corporation. Typically, you will need the Board of Directors or shareholders to vote in order to authorize the dissolution.


If your governing documents are silent about the dissolution process, then you will need to read your state’s statute.You can find it either at a law library or by searching online. Type “your state” and “corporate dissolution” into your favorite web browser.
Also remember to record the vote. You need to formally record the vote in your meeting minutes or in your record books.;
, You should contact your state’s Secretary of State or Corporations Division to find the proper dissolution form. You must fill out and file this form with your state. Often, these are available for download. The form might go by different names:Certificate of cancellation
Certificate of dissolution
Articles of dissolution

, You should send a cover letter along with the completed form to the state. Address the letter to the Secretary of State or Corporation’s Division, whichever agency is responsible for dissolving the corporation. In the cover letter, you should include the following:your corporation’s name
the date the dissolution vote was held
the date you will stop doing business, except to the extent necessary to liquidate the corporation
that you intend to completely liquidate and pay all of your corporate debts
that you will distribute any remaining cash or securities to the stockholders
the names of corporate officers and directors

, Each state’s form will ask for slightly different information. However, you must generally provide the following information:your corporate name
the date dissolution was authorized
how dissolution was authorized
any shares issued since the date of incorporation as well as any cancelled shares

, Keep a copy for your records. Send the form certified mail, return receipt requested so that you will know when it has been received.The form should contain the address. If not, address it to the state agency in charge of dissolving the corporation, which is the agency you contacted to get the form.


You may have to pay a fee. The amount of the fee should be stated on the website or on the form.
 If you are a corporation (as opposed to an LLC), then you must notify the IRS of the dissolution. You must fill out and file Form 966, Corporate Dissolution or Liquidation.


The IRS form is available at https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/f966.pdf.
Make sure to keep a copy for your own records. You should hold onto all paperwork related to the dissolution for at least seven years., You might also need to have your state’s taxing authority approve the dissolution before it becomes effective. This requirement will depend on your state.The approval is typically called a tax clearance, consent to dissolution, or verification of good standing.
You should contact your state’s Secretary of State to find out how to request this clearance. Often, you must make a request in writing or over the phone.
You must be current on your taxes in order to receive this approval. If you are not current, then you should meet with your accountant and figure out how to catch up. In states which require this clearance, your corporation will not be dissolved until you have filed and paid your taxes.
 Your corporation might have had multiple permits or licenses which you acquired in order to legally run the business. You should cancel them, following the appropriate procedures.


For additional information, see Cancel Your Business License.
 You should tell your corporation’s creditors that you are dissolving and the date the dissolution becomes effective.In this way, the creditor is on notice that it should not extend more credit to the corporation. Also, creditors are on notice that they must contact you about any debts you owe before you dissolve.


You can send a letter to all creditors. In the letter, make sure to mention the deadline creditors have for claiming that you owe them money.
For example, you can state, “Please be advised that the corporation will be dissolved on . Any claims against the corporation’s assets must be made in writing and include the amount of the claim, its basis, and the origination date. The deadline to submit the claims is . Any claim not received by the corporation prior to the deadline will not be recognized.”

, You need to contact everyone who owes the corporation money and tell them to pay before the dissolution. Send them a letter, which should include a deadline and a person to contact if they have questions.


For example, your letter can state, “Debtors are requested to pay all outstanding balances no later than 30 days from the date of receiving this notice. Payment should be made to .”, You need to make sure that all entities that have done business with you also receive notice that you are dissolving. You should call or send them a letter.


If you have received payment for goods which you have not yet delivered, then you should either deliver the goods or refund the payment.
You might also want to publish a notice in the newspaper. In your ad, you can state why you are going out of business and thank your customers for their business., Before dissolving, you should go through your contracts and see what remains to be performed. You can then either fulfill your obligations or contact the other party and negotiate a termination.Long-term contracts may have a cancellation fee. This is a sum of money you can pay to immediately cancel the contract.
 Your debtors should be making payment on their debts. Make sure to properly keep track of which debts have been paid and which debts you need to follow up on.


You may need to threaten to sue in order to nudge a debtor to pay. You should talk to your attorney.
 If the corporation leased property, then you will need to cancel the lease. Take out your copy of the lease agreement and check how much advance notice you must give. This information should usually be contained in the lease agreement.


With a commercial lease, you typically must give 30 days’ notice if you have a month-to-month tenancy.If you had a long-term lease with a landlord, then you will probably be responsible for rent payments on the remainder of the lease. You might want to talk with your lawyer about how to get out of a long-term lease. Often, a landlord has a legal obligation to look for a new tenant.You can help the landlord find a new tenant by advertising or by speaking to competitors who might want to move into your commercial space.
 When you dissolve, you need to sell the corporation’s property. You then will use the cash generated to pay off the corporation’s debts. As a first step, you should make a list of all corporate property:business equipment, such as phones, computers, and other machines
office furniture, supplies, and art
vehicles
real estate
any security deposit made to a landlord
prepaid insurance premiums (if you can get them refunded)
intangible property, such as company lists or intellectual property

, If you secured a corporate loan with a piece of real estate or other property, you cannot sell the collateral without the creditor’s permission.If you can pay off the debt, then you can sell the collateral. However, if you can’t afford to pay off the debt, you will need to speak to the creditor. The creditor should decide whether it wants the property or if it is okay for you to sell it and then give the creditor the sale proceeds., You can sell the property to whoever you want. However, you might want to first approach competitors in the field. They may be interested in your intangible property, such as customer lists or trademarks.You can also sell tangible property on eBay or by advertising in the newspaper.
Be realistic about the value you will receive. It is unlikely that you will receive more than 80% of the value for the property you sell. Nevertheless, you should maximize the value as best you can.
 There are businesses which will sell your business for you. You can search for a “business broker” on the Internet or in your Yellow Pages., Once the corporation has been liquidated, you must pay off all corporate debts. Your accountant should help you pay and record payment of all debts.


You can liquidate some of the corporate property to free up cash, which you can then use to pay off a debt which is secured by corporate property. After you pay the debt, you can then sell the collateral.
Prioritize your debts. First, you can pay debts secured by collateral. Then, you should pay debts in the following order:any wages and benefits you owe employees
debts you are personally liable for
unsecured debts, such as money owed to credit card companies and suppliers



, If the corporation has employees, then you need to properly notify them that the company is being dissolved. Any employee who has a contract guaranteeing employment for a set amount of time will need to be bought out. All employees, regardless of a contract, must be paid for time worked.


You should pay employees their last paycheck on their last day.You might need a financial employee in the corporation to help with all of this. You can offer this person a small bonus to work for the corporation until the winding up has been completed.
 If money remains after you have paid all of the corporation’s debts, then you must distribute this remainder to the shareholders. Generally, remaining assets are divided in proportion to the number of shares held by each shareholder.For example, $100,000 may be left after all debts have been paid. There may be 100 shares in the company. For each share, the shareholder would receive $1,000.
 Your corporation probably used a lawyer at various times in its existence. For example, you perhaps consulted with a lawyer to review employment contracts or to represent you when you when the corporation was sued. You should contact your lawyer with any questions that have about dissolution or winding up the business.


You might want to meet with your lawyer if you have difficulty getting out of a lease, or if you need to negotiate with a creditor who has some corporate property as collateral for a loan.
You also might be worried about unknown creditors showing up and making a claim on the corporation’s assets. You should meet with a lawyer if you have this concern., You should would closely with an accountant during the dissolution process. The accountant will help make sure that you are properly tracking in-coming debt repayments and accounts-receivables.


Your accountant can also help you file all necessary taxes. Remember, although the corporation is dissolving, it still must pay the necessary payroll and employment taxes on employee salaries and file a final tax form with your state., If you have any questions about the dissolution process, then you should call the relevant state department. This will typically be the Secretary of State or Department of Corporations.

