 Social connection is important for happiness and stress reduction.Depending on where you are from, being an atheist can mean losing ones friends or even family. It is important to replace lost social connections with new ones. Join a like-minded community who you can socialize with from time to time.


This could be a humanist group, an atheist group, or some other group that is entirely associated with beliefs and values.
 Studies show that when you give to others, your happiness increases.And, you don't need to believe in any gods to decide to be good and generous.


You can choose to either give your time or your money; what matters most is that you are providing a benefit to someone else that makes them happy. In doing so, you will be happier, too.
 Studies show that there is a bi-directional relationship between the facial muscles and feelings of emotion. In other words, if you make yourself smile, you might just feel a little happier, regardless of your religious beliefs or lack thereof.Try setting a reminder on your phone to remind yourself to smile more often. For example, you could set a reminder for every two or three hours throughout the day to remind yourself to smile more. You could have it say something simple like, "Are you smiling right now?"

, People are very unlikely to change their minds about their beliefs.Unless the conversation is very important to you, it may be best to let it go.


It's not because it's about religion per se, but people's beliefs about most things that evoke emotions (e.g., their political beliefs) are difficult to change.
 Get outside and go for a run or go to the gym and do some resistance training. Try to get moderate exercise for 30 minutes at least three times a week. Studies show that working out your body can improve your mood.To get a more intense workout, try listening to some upbeat music and keeping up with the rhythm.
 Spend time on your friends and loved ones. Surrounding yourself with a supportive community will help you feel energized and happy.

