 In the month or so leading up to summer, plan what you are going to do. Use a notebook or even a sheet of paper to write down what you want to do.
 They might things that make it easy to get together and do fun things with each other.
 Start doing fun stuff. Select from the many options offered in the following sections.
 Go to concerts. See movies. Go to independent film festivals.
 Go shopping in the mall, the thrift store, the bargain outlets.
 Read magazines for fun and books to keep your mind occupied. If you live in the city, read books at the bookstore; it's a chance to meet people too.
 Practice some cooking and baking skills. Learn something difficult and hold a dinner party.
 Try writing, poetry, painting, drawing, or play monopoly.
 Be open to new ideas.
 Or, make one about just one of things you did this summer, like going on an awesome trip to Washington, DC or going to visit your cousins in California.
 Visit the beach. Find a swimming pool if no beach is nearby. Choose a sunny day.



Take a vacation anywhere you want and meet new interesting people.
Go on many mini trips.
Try a road trip, cycle trip, or a cross country road trip and see the states or provinces. Or even other countries.
 Go to to a theme park or a water park. Visit a circus.
, The Botanical Gardens, a museum, a zoo, an aquarium, are all ideal places to visit.


Check out fairs and carnivals; it's that perfect time of year! See if any fairs or carnivals are open near you.
 Try apple picking, berry picking, milking a cow.
, Find where nature thrives in your part of the world, no matter how urban it may be.
,, Throw a pool party, a sleepover or have a BBQ.
 If you want you can take a summer job like camp counseling.
 Here are some ideas:


Open a lemonade stand. But be creative with the flavors. You could do strawberry, raspberry, pomegranate, kiwi, mango, and more!
Walk dogs. They're so cute, now matter how old they are! It's a good way to earn some pocket money. You can even get a friend to do it with you!
Start your own babysitting company. If you love children, then this is perfect for you! There are many articles on WikiHow to show you how to start your own business.
 Make sure you make the best of your summer, and you're not just staying inside all day. So if having a pool party is lame, think of other fun stuff to do with your friends!

