 Even if you are a generous owner and purchase an aquarium that provides space and freedom, a turtle will still need additional room to exercise and play. Remember that turtles are extremely active and, in the wild, cover lots of ground despite their unwieldy bodies. If you plan to let your turtle out of the aquarium to walk around the house, make sure everybody is aware and that you provide some barriers to control the location of their exercise. This avoids any fatal accidents.
 While in the aquarium, you can place small fish or cuttlebones on top of the water and let your turtle “hunt” these items. The effort your turtle makes to swim and hunt these objects is a great source of exercise. Live insects make tasty and hard to catch as well. Consider feeding your turtle mayflies, caddisflies, beetle larvae, crickets, grasshoppers, mealworms, and waxworms.
Earthworms, blackworms, snails, clams, small frogs, and tadpoles are acceptable mollusks, worms, and amphibians to feed your pet turtle.
Other natural fish that your turtle would enjoy chasing and eating are young goldfish, red minnows, guppies, and mosquito fish.
 Some turtles also enjoy playing. Although it is completely okay to pet and play with your turtle keep in mind that turtles are generally a kind of pet that is better to look at than to constantly handle. They will get stressed out. After all, they are not a dog.


Consider providing your turtle with an empty shell that they can slide across the floor with or place a small toy raft in their water that they can push along for fun.
Train your turtle to eat from your hand. This takes some trust and familiarity but once some connection has been established between you and your turtle, try putting a piece of fruit on your hand. If your turtle enjoys this, then try placing the piece of fruit on your wrist so that you turtle has to crawl up your hand to get it.
Try building an obstacle course. Design obstacles out of your turtle’s natural habitat – stones, sticks, plants, and water pits. Place a treat at the end to provide motivation.
Another fun game for your turtle is to “find-the-treat.” Hide crickets, worms, or other live insects around your turtle’s habitat for it to find. This will give your turtle a challenge with a treat as a reward.
Remember that these tricks could take time for your turtle to learn, so be patient. Also, the more difficult the game or the exercise the more stress it will place on your turtle. In other words, it is not a good idea to play these games or exercises on a daily basis.

