 You'll be able to make your false eyelashes more quickly and without interruption if you have the materials you need on hand.;
, A previously used strip of lashes can work well as your width guide. If you don't have one you can hold a length of thread up to your eye. Look in the mirror and lay the thread across your natural lash line from corner to corner.After moving the thread away from your eye, trim your thread to the length of your lash line so you can use it to create your seam.
 This will be the base of your lashes, or the "seam." If you have false lashes on hand, you can use these to determine the width of your seam, but if not, use the string that you've trimmed to the length of you lash line.


You will need to wait about two minutes for the eyelash adhesive to dry until it is tacky., Cut a section off your brush at the base and spread its bristles until you have achieved your target fullness.Press these into your glue, and use a spatula or popsicle stick to apply firm pressure. Switch between using your finger and spatula, removing any glue residue from your spatula as it forms.


As your bristles stick to the adhesive, you may notice that your false eyelashes aren't as thick as you intended. Add bristles to your seam until you've achieved your desired thickness.
 Once you have the lashes appropriately thick, carefully spread a thin layer of glue over the top of the bristles to seal your seam. Allow the glue to dry completely, which usually takes about five minutes.
 Once the eyelash adhesive is completely dry, carefully peel the strip of glue from your plastic surface. Carefully cut away excess glue to form a slim seam. Now you can shape the ends of the lashes in your favorite style.


You can cover any visible glue with eyeshadow. It's best to use a color that matches the color of your false eyelashes.
 Using tweezers to protect your hand from the heat of your curling iron, press your lashes against the hotplate until you achieve the right amount of curl. Now you can use hairspray to help hold the shape and then brush each with an eyelash comb.


You may need to repeat this process to achieve the best curl for your lashes.
 If you want to add extra spice to the lashes, you can add a personal touch. Think about adding sequins, glitter, or other craft materials to give your eyelashes extra wow-factor.

