 Always have a book in your hand, and read it during every spare moment: between classes, while you're on line for food, as you eat, on the bus, etc. Read some of the English classics and, if you're feeling ambitious, read poetry (especially Shakespeare).;
, Compare their views, and decide where you stand.
 When people, whether it's a teacher or a peer, ask you about a book that you're reading, explain whether you like the book or not, and why.
 Instead of saying "Yeah, it's awesome," say something like "I like the way the author creates characters that seem to be polar opposites of each other..."

, What statement is the author making about society? Was he or she describing society at the time the book was written? If so, does the description still apply, and to what extent?

, If you're reading and you come across a piece of text that strikes you in some way, or that really epitomizes the message of the book, mark the text with a temporary stick-on tab. Colored ones like the ‘Post-it’ tape flags that are easily removed. Don’t draw or underline directly in the book. A teacher who sees the colored tabs sticking out of an assigned book will know you are really working on the text. You can also copy the text onto an index card or in a notebook, along with any reactions, insights, or questions you may have.
 Don't dominate the discussion; try to get other students to participate. Share your opinion when you feel it adds to the discussion - don't raise your hand just to mention tiny little facts. The best way to participate is to (1) share your opinion, (2) explain why you feel this way, and (3) pose a related question.
 Read them out loud to yourself to make sure that the text flows smoothly and evenly. Copy-edit your work - poor spelling and grammar are inexcusable for top English students.
 Sure, if your essay is long it can take time but at least you know that it's correct!

, then don't be afraid to ask WHY they've been marking it stricter than they mark the others'. Or just appreciate it, since it shows that they see you as a cut above the others and are expecting a higher standard from you.
 For instance, if you have to write a paper about nature, go right ahead and write about how you don't like it, or make the essay on the top ten things in nature that annoy you.
 Read it to your friends, family or even your dog. Don't rush: Take a good pause after each period (called a 'full stop' in the UK). Mark any parts you find difficult to read out loud, and when finished, go back and simplify that text. Often the easy way to simplify your writing is to break it up into shorter sentences.
 Get them to give you an honest appraisal. The teacher may not have time to do more than scrawl a letter grade on your work, but your classmate can talk with you in depth about your writing and the points you are making.

