 This recipe makes enough for two plates. Use a vegetable peeler to remove all of the skin from the baby potatoes. After they are peeled, chop them all into halves. These halves are a great size for aloo chat. Place the halves into a large pot, and cover them with about an inch of water.Turn your stovetop to high heat and bring the water to a boil. Boil your potatoes for 6 to 8 minutes, or until they are soft.
Be careful not to overcook the potatoes, or they will fall apart.;
, First, pour two tablespoons (29.57 mL) of the oil into a mixing bowl. Then, add the chili powder, coriander-cumin seeds powder, turmeric powder, dry mango powder, besan, salt, and two tablespoons of the chopped coriander. Mix this together thoroughly., Mix the potatoes and spice mixture together until the potatoes are fully coated. Let them sit, or marinate, for five to ten minutes., Pour the remaining tablespoon (14.79 mL) of oil into the pan, and turn the stove to medium. Allow the oil to heat.This won’t take too long, because it is a small amount of oil. Once it becomes runny and coats the pan, it is heated.
 Stir them in the pan so that they mix with the hot oil. Cook the potatoes on medium heat. Make sure to stir constantly while they cook., As the potatoes cook, the seasonings (or the masala) will stick much better to the outside. After three to four minutes, they will be done. Turn off the heat.After three to four minutes

, This recipe makes enough for two people, so split everything equally down the middle. Aloo chat can be served on a plate or in shallow bowls., Dahi, the Indian word for whisked curds, is essentially a thick, plain yogurt sauce. You can purchase dahi at specialty grocery stores, or you can make your own. It’s best to use fresh curds for your aloo chat. Using a spoon, drizzle the curds over the potatoes.To learn how to make your own dahi, follow the instructions here.
 Drizzle the garlic chutney, green chutney, and sweet chutney over your potatoes, just like you did with the whisked curds, or dahi.It will end up looking like an abstract painting, and that’s what you want. You can add the chutneys in the ratio provided, or you can decide your own ratio based on which chutneys you like most.
 Dust the potatoes and sauces the cumin seeds powder, chili powder, and masala chana dal. You can find these ingredients at a grocery store. The masala chana dal is also called split bengal gram, which are lentils.
 Put sev on top of your dish for a delicious crunch. Sev is a crispy, chickpea noodle.Finally, sprinkle with the rest of your finely chopped coriander. Serve your aloo chat while it’s warm!