 Once you have made your drive, quickly but nonchalantly make your way up to your ball while your opponent is still teeing off. Once their ball comes to a rest, get in position to line up your next shot as soon as possible, before your opponent reaches you, while you are still out of view. Nudge your ball into a more favorable position.


When you first get your equipment, claim the green ball (if there is one) as your own. Assuming that the turf is green as well, a green ball will blend in much more than other colors, making it more difficult for your opponent to note its exact position once it comes to rest.
Use your hand to move the ball. Pretend to have dropped something if needed, or act like you are wiping something off the turf, which is permitted. Nudging the ball with your putter may cause it to roll more than you meant.;
, Improve its position a tad more favorably than what’s really allowed. Only improve it a tad, though. Don’t overreach and risk discovery.


If your ball has come to rest against a rail or obstacle, use the length of your putter’s head to reposition your ball the allowed six inches from the rail.However, unless your opponent is hovering over your shoulder, watching your every move, set your putter’s head down a centimeter or two away from the rail/obstacle. Then set your ball a centimeter or two away from the end of your putter’s head.
If your opponent’s ball knocks yours out of position, you are allowed to set your ball back where it was.Take a gamble and assume their attention was focused more on where their own ball was headed rather than where yours was originally. Place your ball a smidge closer to a more favorable position.
 When you putt, follow through with your putter as you would with a hockey stick. Guide the ball’s direction. Add more force to your ball’s momentum to cover more distance if needed.Legally, your ball should only be propelled forward by the tap of your putter, so you will have to be subtle about this if your opponent (or anyone else) is paying close attention. To do it effectively without calling attention to it, practice this on your own first.
 Technically your score is supposed to be kept by someone other than yourself,but if your opponent doesn’t know that, go with the honors system and mark your own scores. Then promptly abuse their trust in you. Shave a point off here and there.Be sensible about which holes you fudge. Other players will most likely remember those holes where you maxed out the number of permitted strokes. They would also most likely remember any holes-in-one you supposedly scored. Only shave off a point or two from your less memorable, midrange scores.
 "Forget" to mark your scores for a couple of holes. Give your opponent time to forget exactly how many strokes you took two holes ago before marking your points for that hole. When you add up your score at the end of the game, "forget" to include a hole or two in your total to shave off a few more points.

