 Don't plan out your life with someone on the first date. Enjoy the time in the present and find ways to have fun. After being in a long-term committed relationship, you may want to act like a married person, but now is the time to explore new things and new people.


Laugh, smile, and be happy. When you're dating, it's about being free to have fun. If you're not feeling that, you don't have to be there. Surround yourself with the people and things that make you feel at ease.
Avoid misleading people who may have greater expectations, or conversely, having greater expectations about someone who you only met once or twice.
 Keep the conversation fun with topics that interest both of you. You don't have the focus only on being with people that are the exact same as you, but there should be something that you have in common. Consider these topics as a way to keep it fun:Movies, TV, or other media you're into
Restaurants, cooking and good food
Music, art and books
Fitness, outdoors, and sports
Goals, dreams, and hopes for yourself and your community
Weekend plans or other fun activities

, If you've been married for a long time, you may have anxiety about sex or be eager to find a new love interest. Either way, it's important to make safe sex a priority. You don't know someone's history of sexually transmitted diseases just by looking at them. Be safe and take precautions. Talk with your healthcare provider about contraception, even if you are past menopause.


Male latex condoms are the safest method to reduce your risk of getting some STDs.Depending on your age or background, consider other types of contraceptives such as birth control pills or an IUD.
Talk openly with any future partner about safe sex and ask them to get tested before things get physical. Consider asking other single friends your age about what they do to remain safe and have fun.
 Allow yourself time to be independent when you date. When dating someone new, it's about have a strong connection first with the person you're dating before having them become "part of the family." Future partners may need time to get to know you well before they meet the other important people in your life.Don't hide the fact that you were been married before or if have children. Just make sure that your previous marriage and your children are not the focus of your time when dating someone new, particularly on the first few dates.

