 Parents can sometimes have a hard time accepting that their child is actually depressed, rather than just sad sometimes. If your child is diagnosed with bipolar depression, it is important that you try to accept his condition so that you can do everything within your power to help him.


Tell your child that you know that he is experiencing something very difficult and that you are there for him.
 Bipolar depression can make your child feel isolated, worthless and hopeless. One way to be there for your child is to listen to him when he feels like talking about what he is going through. Make your child feel important. Always encourage your child to talk to you, even when he is not feeling depressed, so that he knows that he can come to talk to you when he is feeling sad.


Ask your child questions like “How was your day?” or “How are you feeling today?” so that he knows that you are interested and willing to listen whenever he is ready to talk.
 Like listening to your child, spending time with your child is a way to show him that he is not alone, even if his depression makes him feel like he is. Depression can cause your child to lose interest in things that he loves. Try to keep him interested in those things by offering to do them with him. Again, make your child feel important and show him that you want to spend time with him.


For example, if you child loved baseball but has recently lost interest in it because of his depression, get out two gloves and offer to throw the ball with him.
 Children with bipolar disorder can go from extremely happy to incredibly depressed in a matter of minutes. You must try to be prepared for this as best you can. Keep in mind that your child might become very sensitive when he enters a depressed state, so monitor what you say to him. Things that you might say to him as jokes when he is happy might upset him when he is depressed.


Keep in mind that there may be times when your child expresses his love for you and talks to you about what is going on, while other times he may be very reserved and acts like he hates you. Try not to take his mood swings personally.
 There may be times when your child yells at you or suddenly gets very angry and storms off. Try not to get visibly upset by his actions. Instead, when your child has calmed down, talk to your child about how he made you feel without blaming him for his actions.


Try to remember that he cannot control his mood swings and that it his condition that makes him act this way, rather than his nature.
 Sometimes it is best to lead by example. When you take the time to share your thoughts, feelings, and problems with your child, he will learn by your example and may begin to share his thoughts and feelings with you.


Try to talk to your child openly and honestly about his condition. Try not to make him feel guilty, but discuss the condition and what you both can do to make his life—and yours—easier.

