 Seriously think about how effective your study habits are. Write down a list of things you struggle with when studying for exams. Make changes in your study habits to address these concerns. For example, if you find it hard to concentrate while studying, try studying in a completely quiet place. Or if you find that you need light background noise, consider playing soft music while you study.


Do as much as you can to improve your study habits before you begin studying. This way, valuable time will be spent actually studying.
 Cramming, studying for an extended period of time right before the exam, is one of the worst ways to study for a test. You may remember the information for a short period of time, but if you're studying for multiple tests, you're just likely to scramble or forget critical information. Instead, study for short periods of time (about 45 minutes) and study frequently in the weeks leading up to the exam.Short and frequent study sessions helps you recall and relearn information so you're more likely to remember it in the long term.
 If you've prepared for your exams ahead of time, you should be ready to take them. But if you wait until the last minute to study for your exams, you won't actually learn the material you need to know and you'll increase your anxiety. Try to relax on the day of the test(s) so you can recall the information you need.To make you feel at ease before the exam, ensure that you eat a healthy meal and get plenty of sleep the night before. This will help you pay attention to the exam and not just how you're feeling.
 You may find it easier to study several smaller themes for a single exam rather than all of the exam material at once. Breaking the material up into chunks can keep you interested and focused while you're studying. You're also less likely to feel overwhelmed and stop studying.For example, if you're studying for a foreign language exam, you could do separate study sessions for speaking practice, written practice, and reading practice.
 Studies have shown that using the same study spot won't help you remember the material over the long term. Instead, challenge yourself to recall and retain information by studying in different places. While you don't need to study each subject in a different spot, you should change your study spot every day. This can help you recall course material on test day.Similarly, if you always need complete silence to study or think about the course, try having a study group that meets in a noisier place. For example, join a study group that meets in the student commons or cafeteria. This may challenge you to focus and recall information.

