 In order to be able to do any type of photography, you need to be patient and very creative. Without patience you can't achieve that perfect shot and without the creativity, you will never be able to make that perfect shot. Gender, religion and cultures have little or no effect on the outcomes of photography.

Photograph your nature.



 

;
, Before we move on, it is very important for anyone to understand the basic idea and concept of photography. Photography is not just a subject, it is an art which has no boundaries. The camera is a device with which you capture the beauty of nature which includes all what we see. Photography lies in us, not the camera. Photographs capture moments and it is the photographer who gives worth to the image.
 Reading a guide or book on photography will improve your understanding on photography and help you immensely at your work. Reading a book for guidance is required by EVERYONE, and it's benefits can only be seen after doing. This is a very helpful and practical way to make photography more beneficial and allow more utilization of creativity.
 It is better to decide your field of photography beforehand. Examples of fields of photography are landscape which deals with natural vistas and wildlife which deals with photographs of animals in their natural habitats. May be you interested and talent for photography people.
 The first step in beginning photography is to choose the camera as it is the most vital tool in photography, after the photographer him/herself. Digital "point and shoot" cameras are the best for beginning photography because they have simpler controls than an SLR. Their maintenance and cost is cheaper than an SLR as well. Simple digital cameras also allow the photographer to unleash the creativity in him or her. But cameras differ in more ways and keeping their specifications in mind is important. The common difference between models are the sensors: CCD(Charged Coupled Device] and CMOS. While the CCD is cheaper and easier to make and repair, it is slower and consumes more electricity. Also, it has limitations to ISO. On the other hand, CMOS is more expensive and complicated but consumes lesser energy and is faster and more compatible for ISO. Another factor, the type of camera is in the models. While point and shoot come in various sizes and functions, the ratio of quality and functions is maintained by the price. They have fixed lenses and limitations including inability to click through glass, loss of depth, telefocation, advanced functions etc. A higher level comes with more depth,durability and functions. Then come the DSLR, which are a level below SLR and a bit cheaper, yet they are designed and capable to let a professional photographer to use it as an excellent backup. SLR are at the top and provide everything except toughness, which is a bargain good enough.

Cannons and Nikons are useful and perfect for beginners.
 The camera should be worth what you spend. It should also be equipped for the type of photography you wish to do. Normal cameras are ideal for landscapes while there are special cameras for extreme climate and weather conditions in which normal digital cameras would be ineffective.
 Before you head out into the world of photography, you need to do a few things. The first thing would be to note and decide when and where you will do photography. This is important because it is not recommended to spend your time with the camera while you have a meeting to attend, unless you have taken up photography as a profession, rather than a hobby. During these periods, when you plan to do only photography, try not to do anything else and use all your and energy only for photography.
 Read the manual and then explore each and every function before using. Also try to see the work done by other photographers and mark out your preferences.
 Practice makes a man perfect. Photography is best when done in a peaceful state of mind and always improves with practice.
 and analyse the photos. Think of good points and points for improvement. This will help you to analyse your own photos and know what makes a good one.
 Open account in instagram, twitter, facebook. about me or even you can start your own tutorials on Youtube.
,,