 Sugars create food for bacteria, causing plaque, which then causes tooth decay. Processed starches work in the same way as sugars. Avoid all processed and pre-packaged foods, including snacks, cakes, breads, chips, cookies, and crackers. These foods contain a lot of added sugar. Always look at the label, even if you think something is healthy. If sugar, cane syrup, high fructose corn syrup, or another artificial sweetener is listed in the top five ingredients, do not eat or drink it.


Sugar is a major component in sodas and other sweetened drinks as well, so avoid those when you can. Plus, the extra, artificial ingredients in sodas break down tooth enamel.If you need a sweet fix, try honey, which is antibacterial, and the natural, calorie free sweetener stevia, which is an herb 200 times sweeter than sugar., Citrus fruits have a high acid content, which leads to tooth decay. Because of this factor, you should moderate the amount of citrus fruits you eat, especially lemons, which have an extremely high acid content. If you do eat them, rinse your mouth out with water to help decrease the amount of acid that is left to sit on your teeth.


Although fruit has natural sugars in it, the sugar is fructose, which is not as popular with bacteria. This means you can enjoy apples, pears, peaches, or any other non-citrus fruit without harming your teeth. , One way to help prevent tooth decay is with saliva production. To help increase your saliva production, chew every bite completely because chewing stimulates the production of saliva.


Sour foods also tend to increase saliva production, but sour foods are also acidic, so avoid them if you can. , One way to remineralize your teeth is to put more minerals back into your body. To help with that, pick a daily multivitamin that has minerals in it, especially calcium and magnesium.


Most people need at least 1,000 mg of calcium. Men older than 71 and women older than 51 should get 1,200 mg every day, so look for this amount if you fall within those age ranges.
Also make sure the supplement has 300 to 400 mg of magnesium., Adults and children should get about 600 IU of vitamin D every day. Adults over 70 years should get 800 IU every day. Vitamin D and calcium work together to strengthen bones and teeth, so you can buy a supplement that includes both. There are multiple ways to get more vitamin D naturally, however, which include:


Spending about 10 to 15 minutes every third day in the afternoon sun without sunscreen on your arms, legs, and back
Eating foods high in vitamin D, such as fish, soy milk, coconut milk, cow’s milk, eggs, and yogurt