 Reflect on your past, and try to narrow down exactly what is holding you back. Common detractors can take several forms:Sensual (obsession with or shame about sexual matters or material things, for instance)
Aversion (pain from the past causes you to avoid a person or opportunity, for example)
Ill will (wishing harm or trouble upon others)
Restlessness/agitation
Lack of motivation or energy
Doubt;
, When you are having trouble letting go of the past, a conscious or subconscious belief might be the cause. Challenging and changing those beliefs can help you move on.


For instance, you may have told yourself all your life that you want to reach a certain income level in order to be happy. However, your pursuits might have been holding you back from things you genuinely enjoy, such as hobbies or spending time with your family. Challenge your belief, resolve to spend more time on other areas of life, and reassess how you feel.
It can be difficult to change deep beliefs, especially when they are informed by powerful influences like culture, family, and religion. Give yourself time to work through your beliefs, and talk to a friend or counselor if you need help.
 Instead of fearing the unknown, however, accept change as part of life and who you are. Focus on thinking of change as a positive force:


For instance, if you lose your job, stay positive by thinking of it as an opportunity to find gather new skills and experiences in a different position or career.
 The strong emotional responses that pain, regret, and other past stressors cause can leave lingering effects in the mind. A calm, balanced mind is an absolute necessity when letting go of the past. Meditation and/or prayer can help put your mind in a more stable and centered place.


Mindfulness meditation helps one focus on the here and now.Typically, it involves focusing on your breathing as you attempt to clear your mind of distracting thoughts.
If have or are open to personal faith or a religious belief, prayer can be very beneficial. If you follow a certain practice, you can follow set prayers. Alternatively, you can pray using your own words, silently or out loud.
 Try writing about the things that bother you, have hurt you, or that you think are holding you back. The experience of expressing yourself can be cathartic. Since you are writing only for yourself, you also don’t have to fear what others will think or say, which can build confidence.

