 Oprah is a media mogul and owns several different media outlets but her largest is the Own network. There are a number of television shows that are on this network and you can apply to be part of the cast. Visit Oprah.com and scroll down to the Contact Us button. Click it and a new screen appears with Be A Part of An Own Show. Follow the prompt and submit your application.If you have an interesting story to tell and it fits the mandate of Own TV, you have a great chance at making it to television and contacting Oprah as she will be the voice of creative content in all shows produced for her network.
 Oprah’s magazine is always looking for feedback and articles. If you have an interesting story or want to share your personal thoughts, go to Oprah.com and click on Contact Us at the bottom of the screen. A new screen pops up with What’s your opinion about O, the Oprah Magazine? Click on Share your personal thoughts and stories. Follow the prompts.Like her other media outlets, Oprah is looking for compelling or thought-provoking content. If your story stands out, you have a good chance of contacting Oprah herself.
 Oprah is famous for an event called The Life You want Weekend. Go to Oprah.com and click on Contact Us at the bottom of the screen. A new screen appears with Oprah’s The Life You Want Weekend. Click on contact us @oprahweekend.com and submit your questions or request to purchase tickets. If you are at an event where Oprah is at, you may attempt to contact her to share your story.If the event does not take place near you, you may have to wait for something closer.
 Follow Oprah’s social media profiles and keep updated on Oprah.com to find out about speaking engagements and appearances. While her studio is in Chicago, she is constantly travelling the world for events and interviews.


Find an event that’s both suitable for your schedule and purpose. If you want to contact Oprah about her magazine, go to an event associated with it. If you want to talk to her about philanthropy, go to a charity event.

