 Your knee is a joint which includes 4 bones held together by ligaments. Tendons connect your bones and muscles, cartilage cushions your knee joint and several sacs of fluid surround the joint to support the tendons.;
, Prepare your muscles, joints and body for your yoga practice by taking deep breaths and stretching your arms, hips, legs, knees and back.


Follow the warm-up instructions at the beginning of your yoga class.
 By seeing it in your mind, you can get an idea of how you will have to position your body.
 If something feels unnatural or hurts, stop doing it.


Do not force your legs into any poses. Most knee injuries occur when you try to push your legs into positions that they are not ready for.
 The Padmasana pose, also called Lotus, is one of the most dangerous poses for your knees.


Rotate your thigh outward at your hips to safely practice the Lotus pose without causing pain to your knee. Stop lifting your foot when your thigh stops rotating. This is your limit.
Use something to support your foot if you cannot get it all the way onto your opposite thigh. This will prevent you from hurting your knee. Do not force the knee downward.
 For example, the Virasana, or Hero Pose, can be modified to protect your knees.


Use folded blankets to elevate your pelvis while doing the Hero Pose. This will put less strain on your knees.
Place your heels right under your hips rather than outside of your hips. This will put less stress on your knees.
 If the person leading your class knows your knees have been giving you pain, he or she can offer modified poses.
 Move slowly and purposefully from one pose to the next, and remember to breathe.
 Keeping your weight down will prevent you from injuring your knee during yoga and other physical activity.


Eat well, exercise often and talk to your doctor or a nutritionist if you are having trouble losing weight or keeping it off.
 Yoga is a great low-impact way to exercise. Your knees will be safer if you protect them during other forms of exercise and in your daily life.

