 ITINs are reserved for those individuals who are required to file taxes in the U.S., but do not qualify for an SSN.These individuals include:A nonresident alien required to file a tax return in the United States.
A U.S. resident alien required to file a U.S. tax return.
A dependent or spouse of a U.S. citizen/resident alien or nonresident alien visa holder.
If you have submitted an application for an SSN, but have not yet received it, do not apply for an ITIN. Only apply for an ITIN if the Social Security Administration tells you that it cannot issue you an SSN.If you are eligible for an SSN, apply for and use this number. An ITIN—issued to those ineligible for an SSN—neither authorizes work in the U.S. nor provides eligibility for social-security benefits.You will also not be eligible to receive the Earned Income Credit if you use an ITIN to file taxes.
 Print out Form W-7 from the IRS website and complete the form. Be sure to read the full instructions before filling out the form, as they provide detailed information on exactly how to complete the form.


You will need to submit, along with Form W-7, the following: a valid federal income-tax return, original documents proving your identity (or copies certified from the issuing agency), and documents establishing your foreign status.In Spanish (en español): the form and instructions.
 You may need additional forms or documents to prove your identity and foreign status. If you have any questions, here's how to reach someone who can help:If you are in the U.S., call the IRS at its toll-free number: 1-800-829-1040.
If you are outside of the U.S., make an international call to 267-941-1000. (This is not free.)
The IRS offers in-person document review services at certain locations throughout the country.You can visit one of these Taxpayer Assistance Centers for help with filling out the required forms, either by walk-in or appointment.

Visit this website to find an Acceptance Agent to help you out in person or over the phone. These are available even in some countries outside of the United States.
 Once you have filled out Form W-7 and gathered any required documents, mail them to the address below. If you are filing a tax return, attach the completed tax return as well, with "Applied For" written where your TIN would normally go. You should receive your ITIN within seven weeks.Internal Revenue Service
Austin Service Center
ITIN Operation
P.O. Box 149342
Austin, TX 78714-9342

