 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the cookies, set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (175 degrees Celsius) and allow it fully preheat. Next, line a cookie sheet with parchment paper to keep the cookies from sticking.You can substitute a silicone baking mat for the parchment paper if you prefer.
 Add 1 cup (227 g) of softened butter and 1 cup (200 g) of sugar to the bowl of a stand mixer. Cream the two together on medium until the mixture is fully blended., When the butter and sugar mixture is blended, add 2 eggs and 4 teaspoon (20 ml) of vanilla to the bowl. Mix them in on medium until the mixture is light and fluffy.You can use egg substitute in place of the eggs if you prefer.
 Add 3 ⅔ cups (458 g) of flour and 2 teaspoons (8 g) of baking powder to a separate large bowl. Whisk the two together until they are fully blended., After you’ve combined the flour and baking powder, gradually add the dry ingredients to the butter mixture. Mix the dry ingredients in on low until they are just combined and a soft dough forms.Be careful not to overmix the dough or you may wind up with tough cookies.
 Once the dough has come together, turn it out on a floured surface. Use your hands to knead the dough for 2 to 3 minutes until it is completely smooth., When you’ve finished kneading the dough, begin breaking off small pieces that are approximately 1 rounded tablespoon (40 g) in size. Next, use clean hands to roll them into long cords.The dough cords should be approximately 6-inches (15-cm) long.
 After you’ve rolled the dough into cords, fold the cords in half. Twist the ends of the dough together to create a braided effect and place the cookies on the prepared cookie sheet.You can make other shapes with the dough if you prefer. Figure 8’s, simple twists, and circles are all traditional options.
 Once you’ve shaped all the cookies, add 1 egg and 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of milk to a small bowl. Use a whisk to mix them together to form a light egg wash.You can substitute water for the milk if you prefer.
 Focus on the tops of the cookies so they’ll get good color and shine as they bake.If you don’t have a pastry brush, fold a piece of parchment paper into a strip and use it to brush the egg wash over the cookies.
 When you’ve coated all of the cookies with the egg wash, place them in the oven. Allow them to bake for about 10 minutes, or until they are golden brown., Once the cookies are finished baking, remove them from the oven. Transfer them to a wire cooling rack and let them cool for 20 to 30 minutes before serving.Store any leftover cookies in an airtight container at room temperature. They should stay fresh for up to 3 weeks.

