 For breeds with longer hair, choose a brush with longer bristles in more widely spaced rows. For shorter coats, choose a brush with shorter bristles that are closer together. For softer hair, use a soft-bristled brush. For very coarse hair, choose a brush with very stiff bristles., Wire-pin brushes are made with or without rubber tips on the wire bristles. Try this type of brush if your dog has an especially wooly or curly coat, or if he has medium to long hair of any type., A slicker brush has very fine wire bristles and is very good at removing mats, burrs, and tangles. A wood-handled comb is also used for this purpose - try to find one with a set of wide teeth and a set of finer teeth., If your dog has very thick fur with an insulating undercoat, such as an Akita, this rake will help groom this thick hair. An undercoat rake is very versatile and can also be used on other dogs, or even long-haired cats., Similar to the curry combs used to groom horses, these are great for short haired breeds such as Dobermans and Beagles., Shedding blades are designed to remove loose, dead hair. Used improperly, they will remove chunks of healthy hair and may even slice your dog's skin., Choose brushes that complement your dog's particular coat type. Dog brushes are designed to perform specific functions on certain types of hair. Using the wrong type of brush for your dog's coat may irritate the skin.Smooth coat (Bull Terrier, Dachsund, Chihuahua) – Use a bristle brush once every one to two weeks, and brush against the grain to loosen and remove dead hair.
Double coat (Rottweiler, Chow, Husky and Collie) – For long or short double coats, brush weekly throughout the year and more frequently during shedding seasons. Use a slicker brush to groom the undercoat, then go over the outer coat with the same brush. Use a wide-tooth comb to groom the longer layers and remove tangles.
Wire coat, or Broken Coat (Airedales, Irish Wolfhound) Use a stripping comb lightly over your dog's back, gently pulling out the hairs to thin the overgrown, wiry coat – wire coats are not attached to the skin like other hair types, so this does not hurt your dog when done gently. Then brush the coat in layers from the skin outward with a slicker brush.Curly coat (Poodle, Bichon Frise) - Use a slicker brush against the grain to fluff it up, then bathe and blow dry while brushing with the slicker brush with the grain.
Long coat (Shih Tzu, Lhasa Apso, Yorkshire Terrier, Maltese) – Use a slicker brush on the coat in the direction of the hair, then go over the entire coat with a soft bristle brush.
Flocking coat or Cording coat (Bergamasco Shepherd, Komondor or Hungarian sheepdog) – These dog's coats are made of hair, not fur, which gradually clumps together to form natural “dreadlocks.” Although they have long hair, breeds with flocking coats are considered to be non-shedding. They also do not need to be brushed.Hairless coat (Mexican Hairless, Inca Orchid, Chinese Crested) – Hairless breeds don't need to be brushed at all, but they do need to be bathed on a regular basis.

