 When you find out that there is a gunman on the loose at your school, try your hardest to remain calm. While your first instinct may be to cry, shout or run, this will only draw the shooter's attention to you and your peers, increasing the chances of being shot or taken hostage.


Remain calm and escort everyone to safety, or follow the teacher's instructions if you are a pupil. If you're calm, the people around you will automatically believe that you have a good idea of what to do and that following you is their best bet. This means you can maximize the amount of people in your party and save many more lives.;
, Call the emergency services from your mobile (UK number: 999: USA number: 911) and ask for the police.


The school office may have already done this; however in a crisis it can be difficult to know if it has been done, or what the situation is in that part of the school. If multiple calls are logged about the problem, it's better than none at all. Ideally, try to remember the name of the officer you spoke to, or a case file number if they give you one.
Switch your phone to silent mode as soon as this is done and encourage others to do so. Well-meaning parents will almost instantly phone their child in a crisis, and the ringtone can draw unwanted attention from the shooter to your whereabouts.
 If you're in a classroom at the time the shooting starts, be sure to take everyone with you, including as many teachers as you can. Chances are, at least one teacher at your school is trained in first aid and can help somebody that is injured better than you can.


Make sure that the teachers are calm too; your peers will only get scared if they see that even your teachers are frightened.
If you're not in a classroom, look around you to see who is there. If you see a child that is on their own, make sure you take them with you. That being said, if nobody is around you, don't go looking for people. Follow the next few steps alone.
 Now that you've gathered as many people that you possible can, get as far away from the attacker as possible. This will minimize your chances of getting injured or even noticed by the gunman. In all three of the following scenarios, you want to be running towards a room big enough to fit everybody in there. If you can help it, choose one with tables, chairs and cupboards to hide in.


If the gunner has not yet noticed you and is preoccupied doing something else, run in the opposite direction as fast as you can, but try to be quiet so that the attacker doesn't hear you.
If they have spotted you already, forget all stealth and run for your life.
If they have their weapon up, ready to shoot, and you are right in their line of fire, run in a zig-zag motion and always keep moving.
 Don't bust in there and lock the door. Even though it could save your own life, many others will die. Remember, they're somebody's child too, even the teachers. Let everybody else enter the room before you, constantly checking if the gunman is nearby. If you do spot the gunman, force the remaining students and teachers into the room and lock the door.


Once everybody is inside, lock the door and check to make sure that nobody is hurt or in a panic.
 If the gunman will attack from anywhere, it won't be the door. This is because by the time he kicks the door down, you can escape out of the window. Instead, the gunner will probably climb in through the window or pull children out through the window.


Shut the windows tight, make sure they're locked, pull the blinds shut, and start barricading them. If there is wood in the classroom, try to use a sheet of hardwood to cover up the windows. This will absorb any bullets better than a wood like plywood.
If possible, hide under a desk or in a suitable large cupboard if the shooter starts shooting at the windows. Just like in an earthquake scenario, the desk will offer some degree of protection from flying and broken glass. If you remain silent, the chances are higher they will not see you and assume the class is empty. Your hiding space should ideally be large enough so you can exit quickly if needed.
 Like the windows, start to cover up the door.


If there is a glass panel in the door, make sure that is covered up.
Block out any gaps in the door that can fit the barrel (the part where the bullets come out from) of the shooter's weapon.
If there is a heavy teacher's desk in the room, work together to push it in front of the door. This will avoid it being kicked down. After you've done that, pile everything you can find on top of the desk. Be it more desks, chairs or even speakers and computers. Money means nothing in a situation like this.
, Now that you're completely safe in your room, attend to any students or teachers that may have been injured while getting to this point. Even if it's just a paper cut, hold some tissue over it for them until they stop bleeding. Obviously, attend to more seriously injured people before attending to them. If there is a first aid kit nearby, feel free to use it. If one of the teachers is qualified in first aid, though, leave all of the bandaging limbs and dressing wounds to them.


If somebody has been shot, know how to attend to a bullet wound, or make sure a teacher knows how to.
 While somebody else is attending to the injured people in your party, another person, or you, can call for help.


If somebody in your group is injured, call an ambulance too; calling an ambulance is never a bad idea. There could be somebody else out there that needs help. Keep quiet when talking on the phone; you don't want the gunner to hear that you've called the police on them.
It can be useful for the police to get an update on the situation, as that way they have insider knowledge about the situation and how they may best handle the situation. However, use your discretion about when and where you do this.
 Although the windows and doors are boarded up, there is still a chance that a stray bullet can pierce the barricades. Stay out of the line of the windows and the doors.


If there are windows all around your room, lay yourself flat underneath them so you can't be seen. Advise others to do the same. If they don't want to lay down, at least advise them to sit down. Walking around or standing up is a very bad idea, as it gives the attacker a sign that there are people in the room.
Wait quietly; try to keep the crying to a minimum. When the corridor is silent, it will be heard very easily. However, cuddling somebody that is very scared and reassuring them is not a bad idea either. Wait like this until you get the all clear.
 After a while, you may get a call on your mobile phone to tell you that the attacker has been arrested or killed and it's safe to come out.


Make sure that this isn't the attacker luring you out by asking questions like "can I speak to ". Even if you make up a name, the attacker will be stuck and won't know what to say. Another question you can ask is "am I the only child that you're waiting for?". Obviously, there are about 30 of you in the room so you won't be the only child that they're still waiting for. If the reply is "yes", remain calm and tell the gunner that you're on your way, but do not leave the room. If the reply seems legitimate, keep your party calm and escort them to the assembly point.
Always get yourself and your students checked by first aid teams so they may assess the most high-need cases in the school. Attend counseling if it is available. Generally, the mind's own survival mode can kick in during a crisis and reduce panic, but this same panic may eventuate after the event, especially if lives were lost.

