 Prosthetic limbs will need to be properly fitted in order to ensure their functionality and comfort. Your prosthesis will likely need daily adjustments to achieve a proper fit. Whenever you are wearing your prosthesis, make sure it fits properly to help your limb stay comfortable and to avoid damaging your prosthesis.Your prosthetist will advise you on how to properly fit your unique prosthesis.
Most adjustments will be made by adding more layers of padding, compressing your limb or other simple adjustments. Do not make any adjustments to the prosthesis itself unless your prosthetist has shown you how to do so.
 Even though you may have properly attached your prosthesis in the morning, it is likely that the fit will change over the course of your day. Your prosthesis may shift or your limb may have slightly changed shape, resulting in an uncomfortable fit. Be ready to make small adjustments during the day to help keep you comfortable and maintain your prosthesis.Humidity can cause your limb to swell and alter the fit of your prosthesis. Place a bandage on the stump to decrease swelling when you're not wearing the prosthesis.Cold temperatures can cause your limb to shrink, requiring you to readjust your prosthesis.
 Because you never know when you'll need to make an adjustment to your prosthesis or limb, it's a good idea to carry extra supplies with you during your day. These supplies will help you refit your prosthesis whenever you may need to. Take a look at some of these items to learn more about what your prosthesis kit might look like: Stump or pull socks
Bandages
Antibiotic ointment
Antihistamine ointment
Antiperspirant
Tool kit

, It is very important that you keep your prosthesis dry during the day. Keeping your prosthesis dry will help protect the prosthesis from additional wear and will also help keep your limb safe from infections or rashes. Always keep your prosthesis as dry as possible whenever you are wearing it.If your prosthesis becomes wet, take it off and dry it completely before wearing it again.
Moisture can build up inside your prosthesis in hot temperatures. You'll want to clean and dry your prosthesis if you notice any perspiration collecting.

