 A warm saltwater gargle can help moisturize a scratchy throat. Mix ¼ to ½ tsp of kosher or pickling salt in an eight ounce glass of warm, distilled, or boiled water.








Gargle with the water for one minute, then spit out. Repeat every few hours as necessary.
Do not ask young children to gargle. They may accidentally swallow the liquid.
 Vitamin C will not “cure” a cold, but it can help your body heal faster.Most adults should consume between 65–90 mg a day, and no more than 2,000 mg per day.








Citrus fruits, red and green peppers, kiwifruit, spinach, and other raw fruits and vegetables are good sources of vitamin C.Do not over-consume vitamin C. In addition to the small possibility of overdose, your body cannot store excess vitamin C. It will expel what your body doesn’t use in your urine.
 Staying hydrated can help soothe a sore throat. Drink plenty of water, juice, or clear broth. If you have been vomiting, you may need to drink a sports drink containing electrolytes to restore your electrolyte balance.









Warm lemon water with honey can help loosen congestion.Mix the juice of ½ a lemon with one cup warm water. Stir in honey to your liking.
Warm apple juice may soothe a sore throat. Pour one cup of apple juice into a microwave-safe mug and microwave for one minute.Women should drink at least nine cups (2.2 liters) of fluids per day when they’re well. Men should drink at least 13 cups (3 liters) of fluids per day when they’re well. When you’re sick, you should plan to drink even more.Avoid alcohol and caffeinated beverages. Alcohol can make inflammation worse. Both alcohol and caffeine dehydrate you.
 Your body needs rest in order to heal faster, so go ahead and call in sick. (Your coworkers probably don’t want to catch your cold, either.) Pushing yourself too hard can weaken your immune system, meaning it takes longer to recover from your cold.









Try to take plenty of naps during the day, since having a cold can make you feel run-down and you need to keep up your strength.
If you have trouble breathing while sleeping, elevate your head on a pillow to help you breathe more easily.
 Several studies suggest that practicing relaxation techniques can help reduce the duration of colds and flu.Some good stress reduction techniques include breathing exercises, yoga, and tai chi.









For deep breathing, place one hand on your chest and the other on your lower belly. Take a slow, deep breath through your nostrils for a count of four. You should feel your belly expand against your hand. Hold your breath for a count of four, then slowly exhale for a count of four.Yoga is a mind-body therapy that improves fitness, lowers blood pressure, promotes relaxation and self-confidence, and reduces stress and anxiety. It uses physical postures, breathing exercises, and meditation to improve overall well-being. Hatha yoga is most common form of yoga in the United States. It emphasizes physical postures or exercises, known as asanas, with the goal of balancing the opposites in one's life. During the exercises, flexing is followed by extension, a rounded back is followed by an arched back, and physical exercises are followed by meditationsTai chi is a gentle exercise program that is a part of Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM). It is composed of slow, deliberate movements, meditation, and deep breathing, which enhance physical health and emotional well being. Many practitioners recommend practicing tai chi for about 15–20 minutes twice daily at home, since regular practice is essential for mastering the forms and achieving lasting results. Before beginning a tai chi program, you should check with your doctor and discuss your health needs with the tai chi instructor., Aromatherapy can help you relax. Put a few drops of essential oil in your humidifier or steam bath, or make herbal teas.









Lemon balm is a member of the mint family and is often used to improve relaxation and reduce anxiety. You can make a simple lemon balm tea by steeping two to four grams of dried lemon balm, or four to five fresh lemon balm leaves, in hot water for 10–15 minutes.Lavender can help calm and soothe you. It can also help relieve fatigue. Use the essential oil in rubs or your humidifier.You can also find lavender teas at many health food stores.
Chamomile is very popular as a calming herb. It can also help treat chest colds.Make a chamomile tea by pouring one cup of boiling water over two to four grams of dried chamomile or a chamomile tea bag. Adding chamomile oil to a steam inhalation bath can help relieve a cough., In many cases, the doctor will tell you to treat a common cold with the remedies in this article. However, if you have severe symptoms of a cold or flu, or have been previously diagnosed with a respiratory disease, you should seek medical attention immediately. If you have any of the following symptoms, see a doctor:








High fever (above 102 °F or 38.9 °C)
Ear or nasal infection
Green, brown, or bloody nasal discharge
Cough with green phlegm
A cough that does not go away
Skin rashes
Breathlessness

