 A fitted sheet has an elastic running around the edge that helps keep it flat upon the mattress. Make sure that the sheet matches the size of the mattress, whether it's a full, twin, queen, or king-sized mattress, so that it will fit snugly in place. Here's how to put on the fitted sheet:


First, pull the sheet over the top two corners of the bed.
Next, pull and smooth down the other two corners, pulling the sheet over one bottom corner, and then the other.
Continue to smooth down the sheet, and tuck it into the bottom of the mattress, just above the box spring. It should fit neatly if it's the right size.
Sometimes, it can be tricky to put on a fitted sheet alone. Get the help of a friend or family member so each of you can tackle two corners at the same time.
 The top sheet is not fitted but should ideally match the color of the fitted sheet. Spread the sheet evenly across the bed, with the finished side facing down. Let the extra length of the sheet fall evenly over the sides of the bed.


The top edge should hit the top of the mattress, and the bottom edge should hang over the end of the bed.
 Tuck the bottom of the top sheet into the mattress until it fits snugly between the mattress and the box spring.
 Pick up the bottom edge at one bottom corner and hold it out. Tuck in what is left hanging down at the corner, then let the edge fall and tuck it in as well. This will create a vertical fold known as a hospital corner. Repeat this process for the other bottom corner.


Tug firmly on the sheet to create a snug and smooth surface.
 Keep tucking them in until the top sheet smoothly fits under the mattress.
 Align its long sides with the long side of the mattress. The top end of the blanket should be about 8 to 10 inches (20.3 to 25.4 cm) from the top of the bed. It should also hang evenly over the sides of the bed.
 Tuck the bottom corners of the blanket into the mattress, just as you did with the bottom corners of the top sheet. Make sure not to crumple the edges.
 Tuck it into both sides until you've created a smooth surface.
 Fold about a foot of the top sheet over the blanket. Now the good side of this sheet is showing. Smooth out the top sheet, and tuck in both sides into the the sides of the mattress.


Now you can decide whether you want to tuck in the top corners of the top sheet or just the bottom two. If you frequently use the bed, then just tucking in the two bottom corners will be best because tucking in all four corner will make it difficult to get into the bed. But if the bed is rarely used and is in the guest bedroom, then this may be a good choice.
 Make sure that both sides are draped evenly over the bed. You don't need to tuck in the bedspread.
 Put pillowcases on, then the pillow shams. Fluff the pillows and put them at the top of the bed. The pillows should match in size. If the bed is a king bed, you can even consider putting in three pillows so the space is filled.


The pillows should sit at the top of the bed.

