 You'll need a specialized glue made to bond with glass, or the glass will come apart again as soon as it is cleaned.


Silicone based adhesives are transparent and strong once dry, but can be toxic.Aquarium glues fall under this category.Ultraviolet (UV) curing acrylic resins are excellent for repairing clear glass fragments that fit snugly together. They require exposure to sunlight or a UV lamp to set.Opaque or colored glass may block some of the UV light, causing a weaker bond.
If you are repairing an object that will be exposed to water, make sure the glue is waterproof. Most silicone adhesives and some UV resins are waterproof.
If you are repairing an object that will come into contact with food or drink, check that the glue used is made for this purpose. Some adhesives are toxic even when dry.;
, After cleaning, wipe each piece dry thoroughly with a clean cloth. The pieces will bond best if they are clean, dry, and oil-free.









Wear latex gloves while preparing and gluing the surfaces. This will prevent oil from your hands from rubbing off on the glass, and protect you from toxic or messy adhesives.
Difficult stains can be scrubbed off using steel wool., You only need a small amount, but make sure the entire broken edge is covered. You only need to apply glue to one of the broken pieces.
 Ensure the broken surfaces are aligned and hold in place for at least one minute.
 This will take somewhere between a few minutes and 24 hours depending on the type and brand of glue. Even once it seems firm, avoid applying significant force for 24 hours.


UV curing adhesives require exposure to ultraviolet light. A few minutes in direct, bright sunlight or under a UV lamp should harden the glue. Allow more time for opaque glass or less intense sunlight.
Silicone based glues require several hours at least to set. They do not require sunlight and will set in most weather conditions (5%–95% humidity; 40º–100ºF=5º-40ºC).For large flat pieces of glass, fix them in place with a glass clamp or another clamp specialized for holding fragile objects. Avoid cracking the glass through over-tightening.
 Check in on the glass before it's done setting. Excess glue may have oozed out of the joint and begun to dry. Carefully shave away this excess glue with a razor blade and wipe the surrounding area clean.









Both UV and silicone glues will dry completely clear, so the fracture should be well concealed.

