 You should keep financial documents (like bank or credit card statements) in a secure location at home. You should also make sure that your purse or wallet is stored in a safe, secure place at work.Someone only needs to take a peek at your credit cards and driver’s license to steal your identity.


Also try to limit what you carry around with you. The more identifying information you carry, the more that can be stolen from you.;
, To protect yourself from identity theft, you should shred receipts, credit offers, physician statements, bank statements, and expired credit cards.Also destroy the labels on prescription bottles before throwing them out. People sometimes forget that identity thieves sometimes steal medical information to gain access to prescription drugs.
 You may find yourself constantly being asked to provide your Social Security Number and other personal identification, such as your driver’s license or date of birth. Ask the person requesting this information why they need it.Oftentimes it is not necessary for individuals to have your personal information. Ask why they need the information, how they will keep the information safe, and what recourse you have if the information is stolen.You should never share personal information with someone who calls you out of the blue claiming to be from a bank or other financial institution. These people could be impostors. If you are called, then call the company directly before sharing information.
 Many credit card companies send offers to “prequalified” or “pre-screened” individuals. You might worry that someone will get ahold of this offer and sign up for the credit card in your name. You have the option of opting out of all pre-screened offers, either for five years or permanently.To opt out, you can call 1-888-567-8688 or visit optoutprescreen.com to make your request.
 Try not to store too much financial information on your laptop. Furthermore, make sure the laptop is always secured.If you work on your laptop in a public space (such as a library or cafe), you can purchase a laptop lock. This lock secures your laptop to the table or desk, thus making it difficult for a thief to physically take your laptop.


If you use a company laptop, then lock it up every night in a filing cabinet or in your desk drawer. By doing so, you eliminate the ability of someone to walk out with your computer.
 If you are throwing out a used cell phone, computer, or laptop, you need to erase the personal information stored on the device. Accordingly, you should purchase a utility wipe program to overwrite the hard drive on computers and laptops.With a cell phone, check the operator’s manual to see how to permanently delete information. Remove the SIM card as well as phone books, list of calls made, voicemails, messaging information, organizer folders, photos, and web search history., If you work at a public computer, then you need to be careful about erasing your logins and passwords when you sign off.Some internet browsers will ask if you want to save your password when you log onto a website. Always decline to save. If you save the password, then someone using the computer behind you could gain easy access to your accounts.
You should also think about changing your user name and password frequently, maybe once a month., The rise of Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Instagram now allows people to share many private details of their lives with others. Unfortunately, identity thieves can browse your profiles and learn personal information. They could then use this personal information to potentially answer the security questions on your accounts, thereby gaining access.Long-time users of social media are twice as likely to become victims of identity theft as others.The dangers of sharing too much personal information online are very real.
If you have social media accounts, you should at a minimum make them private so that strangers cannot access them. Indeed, it is best to use the highest level privacy setting., Encryption is a technology that scrambles your personal information before sending it over the internet. To check if encryption has been activated, check for the “lock” icon on your web browser’s status bar.Think twice before sending personal information when using public Wi-Fi in a coffee shop, library, or other public place. You should do so only if the website is encrypted or the Wi-Fi is secured., If your financial information is stolen, then credit card companies typically offer greater protections than a debit card.Use a dedicated credit card for online purchases and monitor your credit statements.
 “Phishing” is a technique scammers use to gain access to your computer and your accounts. Often scammers embed a link into a spam email. When you click on it, they can install malware onto your computer and gain personal information.Scammers also use pop-ups that look like those from a legitimate business or bank. Always take a moment to verify that you are at the right website before clicking links.
For more information, see Report Phishing.
 You should install anti-virus and anti-spyware software on your computers, as well as installing a firewall. You will want these programs to update often and install any security patch that is necessary to protect your files.You will have to pay for internet security software. The prices can range from $29.99 for basic security software to several hundred dollars for more advanced systems.
 Each year, you are entitled to one free credit report from each of the three national credit reporting agencies. You can request the report in one of three ways:Call 1-877-322-8228.
Visit annualcreditreport.com and request the free reports.
Send a letter to Annual Credit Report Request Service, P.O. Box 105281, Atlanta, GA 30348-5281. You can download and complete the Federal Trade Commission’s Annual Credit Report Request Form, available at http://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/pdf-0093-annual-report-request-form.pdf.
 Once you get your credit reports, check to see that you can confirm all credit accounts on the report. If you see an account that you didn’t open, then you should contact the creditor.
 You should look over your credit card and debit card statements to make sure you can account for each purchase listed. If you see a purchase listed that you did not make, then you should dispute it with the credit card company.


For more information on how to dispute a purchase, see Dispute a Credit Card Charge.
 You can get credit monitoring from an independent company or from your credit card or banking provider. The services vary. Some banks will send daily credit checks. These checks can alert customers to suspicious activity.Other monitoring services will perform periodical checks of your credit report and put freezes on your account.Credit monitoring services are helpful for individuals pressed for time who cannot do monitoring on their own.
These services cost a fee—usually at least $150 a year.You should consider how at risk you are for identity theft before signing up for one.
 Fraud alerts allow creditors access to your credit history provided they verify your identity. However, whenever a request is made, the business must call you to verify whether you are the one requesting the creation of an account.Each credit reporting agency will put a fraud alert in place for free. If you have had your wallet or purse stolen, then you should get fraud alerts in place.
A fraud alert can be in place for 90 days or can be extended for seven years. Active military personnel can get fraud alerts in place for one year.
To place the fraud alert, contact each credit reporting agency at the following number:Equifax: 1-888-766-0008
Experian: 1-888-397-3742
TransUnion: 1-800-680-7289



, If you are particularly worried about identity theft, then you can ask to have a credit freeze put on your credit report. A credit freeze provides more protection than a fraud alert. With the freeze, third parties cannot gain access to your report. Because most lenders want to see your credit history before opening a credit card or extending a loan, the credit freeze will prevent a thief from opening an account in your name.


To request a freeze, you will need to provide each credit reporting agency with your name, address, date of birth, Social Security Number, and other personal information. You should expect to pay a fee of around $5-10.The numbers to call for each credit reporting agency are:

Equifax: 1-800-349-9960
Experian: 1-888-397-3742
TransUnion: 1-888-909-8872


After requesting the freeze, each credit reporting agency will send you a confirmation letter and a personal identification number (PIN) or password. You will need the PIN or password in order to lift the freeze. Keep it in a secured location.
 This website contains resources to assist you in reporting and recovering from identity theft. Even better, the resources are free.
 Many companies have identity fraud departments. Speak to this department or, if there is not an identity fraud department, then speak to a manager. Explain that you did not make the purchases and that someone stole your identity.Request that any account be closed.
If you have an account with the business, then change your logins, passwords, and PINs.
 If you do not already have a fraud alert or a credit freeze on your accounts, then you should request that one or the other be put in place. Call the credit reporting agencies to request., Go through the credit report to see if any charges have been made or if new accounts have been opened in your name. You will want to know the full extent of the fraud so that you can respond appropriately.
 You should report your theft to the FTC. You can do so by visiting the FTC Complaint Assistant and selecting “Identity Theft” under “Select a Category.” You can then choose your sub-category: Identity Theft, Attempted Identity Theft, Data Breach, or Lost Wallet or Purse.Answer the Complaint Assistant’s questions. If you need to chat with a tech specialist, you can click on the icon in the upper-right corner. Someone is available Monday through Friday, 9:00 am to 8:00 pm Eastern Standard Time.
Once you answer the questions, you should be given an Identity Theft Affidavit. Save this and print it off.
You can also complain to the FTC by phone. Call 1-877-438-4338 to make your report.
 You should go to your local police department and request to make a report of identity theft. When you finish, you should get a copy of your police report. Take the following to the police department:any proof of the identity theft, such as bills, statements, IRS notices, etc.
a valid photo identification issued by the government
a copy of your FTC Identity Theft Affidavit
proof of your address
the FTC’s Memo to Law Enforcement available for download at http://www.consumer.ftc.gov/sites/default/files/articles/pdf/pdf-0088-ftc-memo-law-enforcement.pdf.

