 Liking other people's posts gives off the impression that you're sociable and ready to interact with other users online.


On Tumblr, you can like a page by clicking on the heart icon that appears on the bottom right-hand corner of the main dashboard.
The more posts you like, the more likely (pun intended) you are to receive likes in return!;
, If you are new to Tumblr, you will need to get some content on your blog quickly. Reblogging is a great way to achieve this. Reblogging is when you repost content from another person's blog on to your own page. Reblogging someone else's content helps that user's blog to get more exposure, while also drawing some extra attention to your own. The hope is that they will return the favor by reblogging one of your posts!


To reblog a post, all you need to do is go to the blog post you want to reblog and click the "reblog" button at the top of the post. You can add a caption to the post in the "Caption" section if you like. Hit "Reblog Post." Et voilà! You've reblogged your first post!
If you have multiple Tumblr pages, it is also possible to reblog posts between your own blogs. Simply click "Reblog" on any of your own posts and follow the same steps as above.
 Tumblr is a social networking site like Facebook or Twitter, you're there to interact and share with people. To do this you need to follow other bloggers and chances are you will be followed back.


To find blogs to follow, click on the "Find Blogs" button on the right-hand side of the screen. From there you can click on topics you're interested in. You'll find everything from poetry to politics, celebrities to cat memes. You can also search for a particular topic or blogger using the search bar.
Once you find a blog you want to follow, simply hit "Follow" and their posts will show up on your homepage.
 Treat others as you would like to be treated. Simple as that. Sometimes you might get frustrated with someone who disagrees with you, but remember that it's always more productive to have a civil conversation than an insult-filled flame war.


Avoid sensitive topics. Discussing topics like politics and religion runs the risk of offending certain people. Everyone has the right to an opinion, but when it comes to certain topics sometimes it's best to keep that opinion to yourself, especially if you want to hold on to your followers.
Be polite. If you have a disagreement with one of your followers, remember to handle it it in a calm, respectful manner. Don't say anything on the internet that you wouldn't say to someone's face. Being rude won't win you any favors.
Respond to people. If someone likes one of your posts or leaves an encouraging or helpful comment on your page, remember to return the favor. Social networking is about reciprocation.
 On sites like Tumblr, it's unavoidable that you will come across people that you just don't agree with. You might come across a blog post that gets your blood boiling, but try your best to remain calm and refrain from picking a fight. Everyone has as much right to express their opinion as you do.


Avoid leaving disrespectful comments on other people's pages. You would not appreciate someone else doing it to you and it just invites trouble.
If somebody has an FAQ section on their page, make sure to read it before asking a question.
Read the "Community Guidelines" page on the Tumblr site for information on what is considered unacceptable behavior on Tumblr, including bigotry, posting sexually explicit content and harassment.
 Studying popular blogs will allow you to gain some insight into what makes a Tumblr blog popular. Liking or posting comments on a popular blog will also allow you to gain more exposure.


When analyzing blogs with an enviable number of followers, ask yourself what it is that makes that blog so appealing? Does it deal with a particular topic that appeals to a wide range of people? Does the blog owner frequently and consistently interact with their followers? Does the blog mix things up with different types of content, such as photographs, videos and music?
Once you've pinpointed what it is that makes a particular blog so appealing, you can start implementing similar techniques on your own blog!
When you comment on another blog, your Tumblr name will appear with the comment, so if you post something clever or insightful other reader's might just click through to your own blog. Having a catchy username will also help!

, It's important to keep your followers entertained so try to be as active as possible, by posting regular updates, reblogging other people's posts and varying your content. People like consistency and friendliness, so try to interact with as many people as possible while still maintaining good relationships.


If you're going to be away from your computer for awhile, you have the option to queue some things to be posted in your absence.
Keep in mind that posting the same material over and over or posting a hundred times a day is not a good thing. It's repetitive and you run the risk of clogging up other people's feeds. That's a recipe for losing followers.

