 Spider plants do pretty well just about anywhere in your home, as long as they get bright or at least moderate sunlight and average temperature and humidity.You can hang a spider plant beside a window or place one in a pot in your living room. They grow quickly, require little attention, and help purify the air in your home.They are non-toxic to both dogs and cats., Peppermint is a wonderful herb that you can plant indoors and keep in your kitchen without too much fuss. Whenever you need some fresh peppermint for a glass of soothing tea, you have the herb readily available.To grow peppermint indoors, you can make use of these tips:Peppermint is great for treating an upset stomach, reducing stress, treating nausea, headaches, and has been used for irritable bowel syndrome.
 Plant sage in a sunny room. Sage tolerates dry, indoor air well, but likes good sun. It requires little attention. It is a powerful plant with strong properties as a healing plant. It looks great on your kitchen window and is very low maintenance.It has anti-inflammatory and antibacterial properties, and can be used as a relaxant and to relieve indigestion., These spiky plants can be purchased in a variety of colors and sizes. You can find them in lime green, red, and other colors. They are very low maintenance, requiring little water, only moderate light, and have no special needs. They also help to keep your air clean and remove pollutants., The Chinese evergreen can be placed anywhere in your home, since it requires very little light, and requires very little watering. The only requirement is to keep your home at a relatively warm temperature (e.g., 55 Fahrenheit or 12 Celsius), so you will need to keep your home at a decent temperature in the winter months. A pretty plant that is very low maintenance in a warm home., These plants are great if you have little space in your house since they don’t even require a pot and soil. They just need to be dunked in water every ten days. The rest of the time you can put them on a shelf or desk and forget about them., This gorgeous plant has deep green, geometric leaves. It requires only indirect sunlight and a warm house. You can forget about it most of the time and it will shower you with gorgeous leaves and purify the air.