 This method is often preferred because you can use basic items found around your house. You will need:


Feminized cannabis seeds.
1 to 2 gallons of distilled (nonchlorinated) water.
A clean jar, preferably ceramic.
A warm, dark place to store seeds.
Tweezers (do not handle seeds with hands).
pH test kit.
Good potting soil.
Seed tray with 1x1 inch cells or plastic cups.
Compact fluorescent Lights.Grow light timer.
 Cannabis seeds require constant moisture and an ideal temperature of 70-90 degrees to germinate.Check water pH with test strips. Optimal pH is 6.2, with a range of 5.8 to 6.5., Fill a clean jug with tap water and let stand at room temperature for 24 hrs. to allow the chlorine evaporate out.Alternatively, you can purchase distilled water from a grocery store or plant nursery.
 Once the water has been distilled and is at or above room temperature (ideally 70 to 90 degrees Fahrenheit), the seeds can be dropped in the water. Store the jar with water and seeds in a warm, dark place such as a kitchen cupboard.


Replace the water every few days.
Place a ceramic plate over the jar of water to help retain heat.
 You will know your seed has germinated when the seed splits and produces a tiny taproot. At this point, remove the seeds from the water for transplanting in soil.


Your seeds should germinate on average in 2 to 5 days, though some varieties may take up to 2 weeks.
If a seed does not sink, it probably is not viable and will not germinate. Try planting it anyway and see if it eventually germinates and sprouts., Once you observe the seed split and rootlet appear. Fill the 1x1 inch cells on a standard plastic seed tray with good potting mix. Use tweezers to remove seeds from water and plant in seed tray, planting one seed per cell about 1/4 in (0.75 cm) down in good potting mix. Plant so the taproot is facing downwards.


The soil should be moist. Avoid over watering or allowing the soil to dry out.
Do not pack down soil - you want to keep the soil above the seed loose so it can push through to the surface.A sprout should appear within 2 days. At this stage, place under a fluorescent (T5, T8, or T12) grow light positioned 2 to 4 inches about the surface of the soil. Set timer to to a 24 hour vegetating light cycle. Switch to a 16 hour on/8 hour off light cycle once leaves appear.