 Your goal is to eat small portions of food to keep things manageable. This way you are ready if someone asks you a question. You can chew your food and swallow it in a short amount of time, which will avoid delays in the conversation.;
, If necessary, your napkin can hide the mishaps that may occur. If you get food on your mouth use your napkin to dab the corners and the front of your mouth. This tactic will help you feel proper and polished.
 Any food that has a lot of sauce or a need to be eaten with your hands will add challenge to your situation. Stick with foods that easily fit on your fork and into your mouth. For example, a pasta dish with small pasta shapes, and roasted vegetables. Also, a lean cut of meat and a baked potato. These foods can be cut down to manageable sizes with no mess.


Some messes are unavoidable. The important thing to remember if something gets messy is you can always call the server to help you clean it up. Most servers are well acquainted with food messes in restaurants.
 Many books have been written, classes have been taught, and consultants have been hired to help people develop manners.


Search for the method that fits you best and dive into the learning experience. Your goal will be to learn the proper way to handle yourself during a dining experience, which will increase your confidence. You will be proud to demonstrate your skills.
Table manners vary from culture to culture. Learn to embrace the differences. If you are in a multi-cultural environment, you might see different behaviors. This doesn’t mean they are bad.When traveling to a foreign country learn proper table manners to avoid confusion. For example, in some cultures burping is an acceptable behavior while eating, whereas in some cultures it is perceived as rude.
 If you learn proper table manners, you can be assured that your confidence while eating will improve. Mastering a skill takes time and practice.The good news is you eat multiple times a day so you will have many opportunities to practice.


Eat while sitting in front of a mirror or video yourself to evaluate your manners. Make changes as necessary and continue to do it until you are comfortable watching yourself. Once you know how you look to others, you will be less critical of yourself.
If you realize you take really big bites of food, or talk with your mouth full, simply readjust your actions, watch your improved behavior and you’ve solved the problem.
 When you become proficient at a skill and teach it to others, it solidifies your skills and confidence. Not everyone gets the chance to learn table manners, and subsequently might feel ashamed to eat in front of others. You can help them conquer the same struggle you have conquered.


Avoid offering help to someone who has not asked you for help. Sometimes it is best to lead by example. It can be a sensitive subject to discuss.
When appropriate, engage a child in a playful game that allows you to teach him table manners.

