 Skiing is a popular winter sport and is a fun activity for both children and adults. A skier glides down snow slopes using two long, thin boards to maintain balance and control. Your feet are strapped onto each ski board. Skiers use these boards to control their balance, speed, and direction.Skiing can be learned fairly quickly, so it's a recommended sport if you're anxious to hit the slopes. Other winter sports can take a bit longer to learn.
There are many large and famous ski slopes, but there are also many smaller and local ski slopes. Go online to find the ski slopes closest to you.Try cross-country skiing if you typically enjoy activities like hiking. Instead of only skiing down slopes, cross country skiing is a great way to travel across long distances covered in snow.
You'll need skis, ski boots, and poles (optional). Try renting equipment if you're new to the sport to make sure you like it.
 Snowboarding is similar to skiing, but uses one wide board to glide over snow instead of the two thinner boards used in skiing. Snowboarding is a winter sport that involves descending a snow covered slope on a board attached to your feet. Snowboarding is often compared to warmer weather sports, such as skateboarding and surfing.For most people, snowboarding is harder to learn than skiing. If you want to take up this sport, approach it with patience and set aside a lot of time for practice.
Snowboarding and skiing are done on the same slopes, so look online to find the slopes closest to you., Although this sport does not specifically involve snow, it is definitely a winter sport. Where there is snow, there is usually ice. Ice skating is an extremely popular winter sport in which people skate over ice using steel-bladed skates. Although many people ice skate for fun, skating is also a highly competitive sport. There are many indoor and outdoor ice skating rinks all over the world, so go online to find the closest ice skating rink to you. Most of these rinks also offer lessons.


Ice skating skills are an important part of ice hockey – another fun wintertime sport to consider.