 Put 2 cups (240 g) plus 2 tablespoons (15 g) of freshly ground quinoa flour into a large pot. Turn the heat to medium-low and toast the quinoa flour for 10 to 15 minutes. Stir the flour once every couple of minutes so the flour browns evenly. Remove the quinoa flour and let it cool.Toasting the flour will remove the slightly bitter taste from the quinoa.
 Pour 3/4 cup (180 ml) of warm water into a large mixing bowl. The water should be about 110 to 115°F (40 to 45°C). Stir in 2 1/4 teaspoons (7 g) of yeast and 2 teaspoons (14 g) of honey. Let the mixture rest for 5 minutes.The yeast should become to foam once it's activated. If it doesn't foam, check the expiration date on the package to ensure that your yeast is still good.
 Stir the cooled, toasted quinoa flour into the yeast mixture along with the remaining dough ingredients. You'll need:1 tablespoon (7 g) flaxseed meal
3/4 teaspoon sea salt
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1/2 teaspoon dried oregano
1/2 teaspoon dried thyme

, Sprinkle a work surface with additional quinoa flour. Scoop the quinoa dough onto it and use your hands to knead the dough for 5 minutes. It should become smooth.You can also knead the dough in a stand mixer using a dough hook.
 Pour 1 tablespoon (13 g) of olive oil into a large bowl and spread it around with a pastry brush so the bowl is coated. Place the ball of quinoa dough into the bowl. Roll the dough a little to coat it in the oil. Cover the bowl with a kitchen towel or plastic wrap. Let the dough rest for 30 minutes to 1 hour., Turn the oven on to 375 degrees F (190 C). Sprinkle a little quinoa flour on your work surface and turn the quinoa dough onto it. Use a rolling pin or your hands to roll out the crust to the size you need. Spread a little olive oil on your baking sheet and set the crust on it.You can form the crust into a circle or rectangle.
 Top the pizza with your choice of ingredients. Place the pizza in the preheated oven and bake it for 15 to 20 minutes. You may need more or less time depending on how thick your crust is and how many toppings you used.The crust should turn golden brown and the cheese will melt once the pizza is done.

