 When you get a full night’s sleep, you’re less likely to overeat the next day. Aim to get seven or eight hours of sleep each night. You'll be more in control of your dietary choices the next day, and less likely to indulge in the foods you crave., Are you a stress eater? Many people are, and it's one of the main culprits when it comes to giving in to a craving. If your food cravings are tangled up with your emotions, you might be using eating as a way to relieve stress. You’re training your body to “need” food to get through tough times. Instead of reaching for a tub of ice cream when you’re feeling sad, find healthier forms of stress relief.


Perform a brief bout of exercise, like a quick jog or even a set of jumping jacks and push-ups. Think about how much better you’ll feel after exercising than you would after overeating. Meditate when you're stressed. Focus on the source of the problem, rather than trying to fix it by giving in to your craving.
 If there's a certain place that reminds you of the item you're craving, avoid it for awhile. You may not experience cravings as often if you stay in environments that don't carry past baggage. Avoid the places and situations that make you want to cave in to your cravings.


If you have a food craving, this might mean spending less time in the kitchen, removing any tempting foods from your house, avoiding the junk food aisles at the grocery store, and not driving past your favorite ice cream place on the way home from work every day.
To quell cigarette cravings, avoid going outside to the location where you used to take your smoking breaks.
If you have alcohol cravings, stay away from the bars and restaurants where you like to indulge in a few drinks., If your cravings are so extreme that you feel they are affecting your mental and physical well-being, there are organizations that can help. Seeking outside help can be especially useful if you're trying to quit eating, smoking or drinking a particular substance for good.


If you're worried you might have an addiction it's important to get help. If you've tried a variety of methods for coping with your cravings and they have failed to have any effect, you may be dealing with an addiction and not just a garden-variety sense of craving. Seek counseling, or find a local 12-step group that focuses upon the object of your addiction.

