 When changing your routine to include morning workouts, you will need to decide on a type of exercise that you enjoy and will motivate you to wake up earlier than you are used to. You will be more likely to wake up at an earlier time to squeeze in a workout if you are looking forward to what you are about to do.


Think about what you enjoy doing or what you have enjoyed in the past. For example, if you used to be a swimmer and you enjoyed it, try getting into swimming again. If you enjoy running for long distances, get out there for a run before you get ready for work.
If you are unsure of what exercise you enjoy doing, sign up for a free trial at a local gym and try out the equipment and classes offered there.
It is common for workout studios to offer a trial class or two to find out if you would enjoy the classes offered. Take advantage of this and try out some studios in your area to find out what you might enjoy doing.;
, Sign up for a membership at a gym in your area. This will give you a place to go and exercise in an environment where other people are focusing on their workouts.


Research gyms in your area via the Internet or ask friends and family where they enjoy going.
Make a list of gyms that you are interested in and visit each one to take a tour.
If you are still having trouble deciding which gym you would like to join, make a list of pros and cons for each one. For example you could write “indoor track” or “low monthly price” in the pros column and “no fitness classes offered” or “membership cost exceeds my budget” in the cons column. Seeing the good and bad aspects of each gym on paper should help you come to a consensus about which gym to join.
 If you are not comfortable joining a gym, there are plenty of options for you to workout at home before work, including purchasing videos and equipment to use at home. This is even more convenient because you will eliminate the time to commute from your home to a gym or other workout location.


Browse workout videos online or at a store near you. There are plenty of options for you to purchase or use for free. YouTube is a great resource for free workout videos.There are also plenty of great workout videos available for purchasing or streaming online.Browse workout equipment in store or online. There are many popular items used for at-home workouts that are easily available to purchase at stores in your area online. Kettlebells, dumbbells, and resistance bands are just a few examples of your options for in-home workout equipment.
Purchase a workout machine for your use at home. If you can afford it and have the space, you can purchase a machine such as a treadmill to use in your home. There are also ellipticals and exercise bikes that are available to purchase for use in your home., Having a workout partner can motivate you to wake up earlier in the morning to workout, since you will have someone else relying on you to be there. A workout partner can both hold you accountable and make workouts more fun!


Ask your family, friends, or coworkers if they are looking for a workout partner. You may be surprised by who is looking for a someone to workout with!
Use Zogsports.com to find a league to join in your area. This could also be a great way to make new friends.Try FitLink.com to find workout partners in your area. You can search by zip code, activity, special interest, gender, and age to customize your search results.