 This will provide you with enough information about wolves to feel like you actually are one. Remember, you can never stop paying attention to them and catering to their needs.;
, This can give you in-depth knowledge on wolves.
 Do you have enough land for wolves (they want several square miles where they can exercise)? An adequate enclosure for them, to prevent climbing or digging out? An adequate source of food for them? It will be more or less challenging depending on these factors. So, find out what a wolf needs and how to provide it.
 Remember that you will need to protect livestock and wild game, and avoid possible complaints and lawsuits. As wolves are renowned hunters, aggressive, and may often howl at night, you should check with your neighbours if they're okay with any ruckus the wolf may create before it has been trained.
 They may not socialize well or consistently, and may become bored with a routine and stop doing any trained response. They are less likely to respond well to scolding or voice commands, but more likely to follow positive firmness, desired rewards and hand commands.
 You need to be especially careful with any children who might enter your property; they are more likely to be unaware of "stranger-danger" by wolves unfamiliarity with "visitors/intruders", possibly seeing them as prey (fresh food).
 Some countries require licenses and in others it is impossible to own one legally as an individual. Know your nation's and state's laws pertaining to wolves (such as laws on dangerous animals), and be a responsible citizen. Don't do anything without researching the law in your area, to avoid illegal activities.
 This may be obvious, but if you aren't ready for a wolf or can't emotionally and physically control one (being in charge of a strong, aggressive, "tamed-wild" animal), then don't get it. Wolves need a lot of attention, exercise and companionship. Can you provide that and withstand the constant demand on your time, as more than a once in a while interest (realizing it is not a novelty for a month or a year, but a job for around fifteen years)? Depending on answering "yes" or "no", then your answer should be clear whether you can handle a wolf or not.
 Ask them whether they're willing to keep a wolf at home. After all, you can't do all the care-taking work!

, Interacting with wolves first hand can give you invaluable experience on how to take care of them.

