 Election rules and dates for precinct official election are somewhat different for each of the 50 state.
 Your precinct has workers from your neighborhood who make themselves available in each neighborhood. Someone will or can represent the political party at each precinct primary (or caucus) in most areas.


Some precincts are not organized by one or the other of the parties. Such precincts (without many of your party) may yet yield your yeoman base of operation to get involved and may encourage more voters in your precinct to help county, state and national results for your party.
Sometimes the official and the poll workers are mostly friends (from an interested political group, club or religious group) or may be unacquainted individuals with the same cause and may support one another in any case.
Some officials and delegates may have been doing this for many years. Some get involved after retiring from the daily job.
 For example, for the winter and spring of each even year – and so be sure when the deadlines are exactly.
 State law governs how parties qualify to be recognized as parties, and that is often only the Democratic and Republican parties, as they meet the rules for signatures and the number or percent of votes that have been received by them for state party. The Democratic and Republican party are established and control all 50 states and all 3141 counties. One may pick either the Democratic or Republican party with regard to running for precinct offices.
 Ask them what precinct number you live in, and they will tell you. You can also find this out for yourself by getting the “Precinct Finder” for your county. This is a book that lists all streets AND what precinct each is in. Some streets are in one precinct for a certain range of addresses and another precinct for another range of addresses such as: Oak Avenue addresses 2000 to 4012 are in Precinct 101; Oak Avenue addresses 4013 to 5180 are in Precinct 102, and so forth.
 They will tell you where and how to get this information.


If you get a run around in any way, call your state Secretary of State, and ask them how to find the state laws that govern the precinct elections and the parties who have qualified to be recognized by your state in that period. Such questions are matter of state law. You can double check the rules regarding running from precinct executive by looking it up for yourself on the state website in many states in your state Legal Code.
 So if you are running in the Republican Party you may need the valid signatures of ten registered Republicans or of those who are registered as independent work in that precinct. For instance, you declare your party by voting on the party ballot that you choose at the even year primary.


Each party has a separate ballot and you legally may vote for only one party in the primary which is choosing the candidates for the fall general election. So if you have chosen to vote a Democratic ballot when you voted in the spring primary in 2008 -- then you are classified as a registered democrat until 2010, when you may change that.
 Your precinct has set boundaries as does your county and state. Your precinct may be parts of 10 or 15 streets around your house in your town or the roads in a rural area. The map may be an aerial view of your precinct.
 Where your precinct begins or ends is found on the walking list which will show you the addresses on each street or road.


The walking list tells you who are the registered voters in your precinct, whether they are registered as Republicans, Democrats, or Independents (or registered in another party qualified in your state, such as the Libertarian Party, Green Party, or Constitution Party, for instance).
,,);
When you must have turned in your valid petition to the Board of Elections (for example: is that no later than 30 or is that 45 days before the primary?),

(For instance, in your State if the Primary is on May 7th, the time to pick up your official precinct petition may begin 90 days earlier which is around February 7th, and the last day to turn it back in might be 30 days before the primary around April 7th. Turn it in a little earlier of course.)



, If you have met the required number of valid signatures – then your name will be on the official ballot for only that one election in your precinct, on your party ballot, for that specific primary held in your state.


If you are unopposed for Precinct (executive) in your precinct for your party, then if at least you vote for yourself, then you win. If others have collected the required number of signatures to run for precinct executive in your precinct in your party, then they will also be on the ballot running against you.
For more than one candidate -- the candidate who gets the most votes (plurality - not necessary to be the majority) at the primary wins, and earns the right to go to the "County Party Organizational Meeting" a few weeks or a month or so later (at a local community center, VFW Hall, convention center, or wherever it is to be held) – and vote on who will makeup the Party Chairman and Party Executive Committee for your party in your county for the next 2 years.This may also be called the "neighborhood precinct chair strategy" by which you may begin to take over at the grassroots in America: precinct-by-precinct, county-by-county, state-by-state, and then your nation... through the all important Ballot Box.


