 If your dog enjoys riding in the car, take them with you as you run your weekend errands. Some dogs enjoy going through the car wash, for instance, as they like to watch the sights and sounds of the brushes cleaning the car. Some home improvement stores allow leashed dogs inside, so you can take your furry friend along with you as you go pick up paint or yard supplies.


Seeing new places and experiencing new things is always exciting and stimulating for dogs; your dog will probably have fun no matter where you go, and they’ll fall asleep exhausted and happy when you arrive home.Never leave your dog alone in a car, especially on a hot day.
 Most cities have off-leash dog parks that are open to the public. If your dog loves interacting and playing with other dogs, they will have fun meeting new dog friends as you make new friends with other dog owners. Dog parks also offer plenty of opportunity for sensory stimulation, as there is plenty to see and smell.


To be well-protected at the park, make sure that your dog has a good immune system and has all of their vaccinations., After a long weekend indoors, make sure to give your dog some much-deserved time outside in nature. Take them on a long walk or hike a nearby trail. For your dog’s safety and comfort, try to choose a trail with a soft leaf-covered track, without any sharp rocks or steep drop-offs.


Give your dog their own backpack in which to carry water, food, and treats. Make sure that the pack fits snugly and doesn’t chafe their belly or sides., If you have a dog breed that enjoys the water, take your dog to a lake or pond and let them swim. Swimming is great exercise for dogs, and the experience of being in the water engages their senses.


For dogs, one minute of swimming is the equivalent of four minutes of running! The resistance of the water makes them work harder to swim than they have to work to run on land, and this improves their overall muscle tone., If your weekend plans include meeting up with friends for a meal or a drink, don’t leave your canine friend behind! Dog-friendly patios at restaurants are becoming more and more common, and many even offer your pup a bowl of water or a treat.
 Dogs (especially puppies) are very social creatures, and need plenty of time to interact with their own species. Make sure that you find a play companion for your pup who is around the same size and temperament as your dog, so that both dogs stay safe, and enjoy their time together.Introduce your dog to new buddies on neutral territory (while on a walk or at a park), so that the dogs don’t feel like they need to defend their home turf from stranger dogs.
 All you need to keep your dog entertained for hours at the park is a tennis ball or Frisbee. Throw the ball across a field, and tell them to “go fetch” it, or teach them to catch the Frisbee in their mouth.


Your dog may also enjoy a game of tug-of-war. It’s a fun and easy way to wear your dog out and burn off any excess energy., Just like humans, dogs get tired of being in a car for too long. If you take your dog along on a weekend getaway or a longer vacation, then you may need to find ways to keep him entertained.


Stop at rest stops for walks and bathroom breaks. Most rest areas along highways offer places to walk dogs, and some even have fenced-in areas to allow your canine friend a safe place to run around.
Bring along some new toys as well. Before you venture out on a trip with your dog, buy some new toys and mix them in with some old familiar favorites. A chew toy is a good option.

