 Increase the water temperature slowly over a 48 hour period in small increments of 2 degrees F or 1 degree C every hour. This will give your goldfish time to adjust to the rising temperature and prevent shocking him.The heat will prevent the ich from developing into many more parasites after it detaches from your fish. High temperatures will effectively neutralize the parasites and stop them from reproducing.Do not combine two ich treatments, only do one ich treatment at a time.
 You will need to compensate for raising the water temperature by providing more oxygen in the water for your fish. Do this by:Reducing the water level in the tank.
Aiming power heads at the surface of the tank water.
Placing extra air stones, or ornaments embedded with air stones, into the tank water.
 Some aquarium owners argue that raising the temperature of the water in increments is enough to detach and kill the ich. But a salt bath can help your fish develop his slime coat, which will prevent the ich from reattaching to him. The combination of salt and heat will attack any free-swimming ich in the tank until they are all killed off.Use aquarium salt that is made specifically for freshwater fish, not table salt. You can purchase aquarium salt online or at your local pet store.
Add one tablespoon or three teaspoons of aquarium salt for every five gallons (19 liters) of tank water. If you want to try using less aquarium salt, you can try one teaspoon per gallon of water instead.
If you have other fish or invertebrates in the tank with the infected goldfish, ensure they are not sensitive to salt before adding salt to the water. Some fish cannot handle large doses of salt.
 Keep the temperature steady at 86 degrees F (30 degrees C) for 10 days.At the beginning of the treatment, when the ich symptoms are very visible on your fish, change 25 percent of the water every two days. This will ensure the water is well oxygenated and help to get rid of any excess parasites. Add the appropriate dose of aquarium salt after each water change.Over 10 days, the signs of ich should decrease on your fish and the tank water will slowly be cleaned of the ich. Continue to maintain the high temperature and add the doses of aquarium salt three to five days after the last signs of ich are gone to ensure all the parasites have been killed.
 After 15 days of the natural treatment, your goldfish should be swimming normally and white spot free in the tank. It’s now time to bring the water temperature back down to its normal temperature in increments of 2 degrees F (1 degree C) every hour over 48 hours.Do one last 25 percent water change at the end of the natural treatment and then continue your normal weekly water changes.

