 Save an old can that you no longer need. Choose a size and shape that you find pleasing, though make sure it is large enough to support the size and weight of pencils or pens. Make sure the can doesn’t have any damage or rust to avoid hurting yourself when handling the can.


Soda cans are made of a lightweight metal, making them easier to modify.Vegetable or sauce cans are made from a heavier metal. These will be sturdier, but harder to modify.;
, Use soap and water to thoroughly wash out the can you will be using for your pencil holder. Remove all traces of grease, food, or sugar, and allow to air dry.


If you are using a soda can for your pencil holder, you will need to either open the can to clean it or fill the can with soap, water and rice, and give it a good shake.
Leaving food in or on the can will hinder customization efforts that you make later!

, Use a can opener on the top part of the can to remove the entire lid featuring the tab. Cut as close to the edge of the can as possible to avoid leaving sharp, jagged edges. Safely dispose of the soda can lid.


If your can opening has sharp edges, use sandpaper to dull the edges.
Modeling clay or other putty substances can also be used to cover the sharp edges to prevent injury. This clay can be purchased or made at home with a few simple ingredients., Rather than removing the lid, cut around the top portion of the can to easily create an opening. Use standard scissors, tin snips, or a box cutter to cut through the aluminum.


The top edges of the can will be sharp after cutting. Use modeling clay or putty to cover these edges to avoid injury.
The brim of the can may also be folded inward to cover the sharp edges. Use heavy work gloves to avoid injury when handling the sharp edges., Once there is a large enough opening, you may store your pencils, pens, and other writing utensils in the can. Take care for top heavy pens, as they can tip the can over.


Place some loose change or other small heavy objects in the can to help prevent the can from tipping over.
Gluing a small piece of wood or cardboard to the bottom of the can will also help stabilize the can and prevent toppling. Use a polyurethane glue for a strong hold.