 A bad therapist may be dishonest with you, manipulate you, or make promises that they do not deliver on. They may wave off concerns, blame you, or blame your loved one if things do not go as they say. Look for these issues:



Autism is lifelong.Your loved one cannot be "cured" of autism.

Autistic people are very diverse.A one-size-fits-all approach is unlikely to meet your loved one's individual needs.

Other good therapies do exist. If a therapy claims that it is the "chemotherapy of autism," or that all other therapies are bogus, your therapist is not being honest.

ABA teaches some tasks better than others. It can be useful to teach physical skills like getting dressed or tapping shoulders to get someone's attention. Since it is data-driven, it does not work as well for teaching speech or skills involving a mind-body disconnect (e.g. trying to point to the correct card).Autistic people have real emotions. If your loved one is acting scared or in pain, they probably are.

Autism and happiness aren't mutually exclusive. Your loved one can live a happy life and be autistic at the same time.
 Even if your loved one is nonverbal and appears unresponsive, they can pick up on the therapist's words or attitude. A highly negative attitude can hurt an autistic person's self-esteem, and may also suggest that the therapist is mistreating them.


Calling autism a tragedy, horrible burden, life-destroying monster, etc.
Calling your loved one "manipulative" or blaming them for any issues that arise.Urging you to punish the loved one more harshly, If the therapist is hurting your loved one (emotionally or physically), they may try to keep you from finding out.


The therapist may tell you that your presence would be a distraction, or that you would interfere. This is a serious red flag.If you are not allowed to see the sessions, but the therapist reports back, be aware that there is a possibility that they are distorting the truth or using sweet euphemisms for ugly things.
 As a parent, caregiver, or loved one, your instincts matter.You can usually tell when something is wrong for your loved one. A good therapist will listen to any doubts and take them seriously, while a bad one may act defensive, wave them off, or pull rank.


A bad therapist might tell you not to trust your judgment. This is an enormous red flag. They may be an expert, but that does not mean that your thoughts mean nothing.
If you voice lasting disagreement, a bad therapist may try to turn other people against you.
 If you're getting a niggling feeling that something isn't right, then that is an important feeling worth exploring. If it seems wrong, don't be afraid to walk away. There are other therapists, both in ABA and other therapies. Don't settle for anything less than your loved one's happiness.

