 Each strand should be a different color, and each should be about 2-2.5' long, or 24-30".You will also need tape and a clipboard, or in place of a clipboard you can use a sturdy, flat surface.


Choose complementing colors or contrasting colors to give your bracelet contrast. Customize the bracelet with your personal color choices, or choose a color you think your friend might like.
Ombre patterns change color from light to dark gradually.Your six string friendship bracelet, if you choose six different shades of the same color or shades between similar colors (like blue to green), can make an excellent ombre pattern.
 Collect your strands so they are in series, one strand following the next on your clipboard or flat surface. Tape your threads together in this order on your clipboard to keep them in place while you knot it in the friendship bracelet pattern.


It helps to label the strings by number, from 1-6. So moving left to right, the strings will be: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
If you have trouble remembering the numbers for your strings, write each number on a piece of tape and attach it to the end of the corresponding string.
 To tie a forward know, you should loop your string twice and then pull it tight to form a knot. You should tie a forward knot with string 1 through the rest of your strings, finishing at string 6.


When you have completed your first round of forward knots with string 1, the resulting order of your strings should be: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 1.
 Tie your forward knots with string 2 through the rest of your strings until you reach the final strand, which should now be string 1.


Be sure your forward knots are pulled tight, and when you have completed this round of forward knots, the order of your strings will be: 3, 4, 5, 6, 1, 2.
 In this fashion, you will see your friendship bracelet grow in length. Continue until the bracelet is a length that fits your or your friend's wrist.
 A standard not will be good enough to tie off loose ends for your new friendship bracelet. Now you can trim the ends, leaving enough left over so you can tie the bracelet around the wearer’s wrist.


You can dip the ends in nail polish to prevent them from fraying.You can use the excess thread to add a braid to your bracelet, giving it more character.

