 Run the cloth diapers through a cold wash, cold rinse cycle, using whichever sensitive cleanser you find safest and most effective. Opt for a cold-cold cycle instead of one that uses hot water, since hot water is more likely to set stains. Stains will be easier to solar bleach if they are not set deep in the fabric.


If the cloth diapers are clean and dry, you do not need to send them through a full wash cycle. Instead, just rinse them long enough to make sure that they are wet. Wet fabrics generally bleach faster and more effectively in the sun, even though dry diapers can also be solar bleached.





;
, The stains must be struck with direct sunlight for the sun's ultra violet rays to do their stuff. If the stains are facing down, the UV rays may get blocked by the rest of the fabric, and the bleaching process may not work. Similarly, if the fabric is crumpled or if some diapers overlap others, parts of the stain may get covered, causing the sun's rays to be less effective on those areas.
 These methods are especially helpful if the diapers have stains on both sides.


Set up a wooden or metal drying rack in your yard. Drape the diapers over the rack, with the stains facing upward. The diapers with the worst stains should be dried on the upper bars of the drying rack, since diapers on the lowest bars may be hidden under shadows.
Pin your diapers to a clothesline to ensure that all sides get equal exposure to the sun. Pin the diapers onto the line, starting at the edges of the line and working your way inward. This way, the middle of the clothesline is less likely to get weighed down by the heavy, damp diapers.
 Since the sun's UV rays are always present, you can technically solar bleach on any day, whether it is sunny, cloudy, or even rainy. Solar bleaching will take much longer on an overcast day, however, and the stains may not come out quite as effectively as they would on a sunny day. As a result, you may need to leave the diapers out longer or put them through an additional bleaching cycle on another day, making the fabric stiffer and prolonging its exposure to the UV light.
 Lemon juice reacts with the sun, creating an even more effective bleaching process. Mix 1/4 cup (60 milliliters) lemon juice with 2 cups (500 milliliters) water in a squirt bottle. Shake vigorously to combine, and spray the solution onto the worst stains as you lay the cloth diapers out in the sun.


Alternatively, add 1/2 cup (125 milliliters) lemon juice directly to the wash cycle when you wash your diapers in preparation for bleaching. Only do this if you plan on solar bleaching the diapers immediately after you take them out of the wash, however. If allowed to dry, the lemon juice will lose its potency.
 On a sunny day, 4 to 6 hours of strong sunlight should be enough for mild to moderate stains. On an overcast day, you may need to leave the cloth diapers out for as long as 12 hours before noticing much difference.
 If a few of the darkest stains did not fade enough for your liking, bring the diapers in and set them out for a few hours the following day. Heavy stains may need to be bleached two or three times in order for the fabric to become near white again. Do not allow these diapers to remain outside in uninterrupted sunlight, however, since prolonged exposure to UV rays can actually damage the fibers of the fabric, weakening the integrity of your cloth diapers.
 Cloth diapers that bleach and dry in the sun tend to feel stiffer than diapers that dry in a machine dryer. Tossing solar bleached diapers into the dryer will loosen the fabric up, making them more comfortable for your baby or toddler to wear.

