 When playing near or around the green, a decent short game will allow you to get near the pin for a simple one or two-putt. So, if you’re struggling to reach the green, or have poor control getting onto the dance floor for simple putts, then be sure to work on your short game.


When working on your short game, you’ll need a number of different shots in your locker. For example, the type of shot that you make will depend on where your ball is positioned, as well as the location of the pin.
So, if you’re near a raised green, you’ll need to play a very different shot than if the green was beneath you. In short, you need a few strings to your bow if you want to master the short game of golf.
Whether you’re a beginner or a regular out on the course, taking heed of the following tips will help you with your ball control and improve your overall scores too.;
, You will play a pitch shot when positioned from three to thirty yards off the green. A pitch shot typically rolls roughly the same distance on the green as it does travelling through the air. In light of this, you need to make some adjustments to your stance, posture and grip.


First of all, ensure that your grip is much weaker for pitch shots. This will prevent your hands from rolling over the grip, which will affect the control of the ball.
Rotate your hands anti-clockwise, so that you can see one knuckle on your left hand (for right-handed golfers).
Next, open up your stance and set your feet closer to the ball. Set the ball further back in your stance, the further back, the steeper the trajectory of the ball upon impact.
 A completely different shot to pitching, the chip shot is perfect for when closer to the green. The ball is chipped up in the air for only a short period of time. It then travels a greater distance as it runs along the green towards the pin. It’s a relatively easy shot, one that utilises very few moving body parts.


Ensure that the ball is positioned at least two inches behind your centre. Keep your wrists, hands and lower body quiet.
Think of the chip as an extension of the putt, rather than a shorter version of a golf swing. Use your shoulders to swing the club, keeping your arms straight.
 Whilst this is one of the most difficult short-game shots you can make, it’s certainly the most useful when you just miss the green. It will enable you to get up and down easily, without the ball rolling too much when on the green.


On the approach, open up your body completely, with your feet, waist and shoulders all in the direction of the target line.
Ensure you make a full swing, cocking your wrists as you do to create an ‘L’ shape between your arms and the wedge. As you swing and follow-through you want the club face to stay open, and then finish as normal with the club pointing towards the sky.
 Along with the lob shot, the bunker shot is equally difficult to master. However it’s vital to get right, because if you can’t get out of the bunker in a single (at most two) attempt, then you’ll be looking at chalking up quite a big score.


Use your sand wedge and stand firm with the bunker for added control.
Open up your body and always strike the ball with an open face. The key to successful bunker shots is the follow-through.
Use a full swing and aim to hit just under the ball, taking half an inch of sand.
Be sure to completely follow-through and hold your pose as you would with normal golf shots.

