 You can pick up flowers from around town or buy them from the Gardening Store at Main Street. It’s best if you got flowers of the same species for your flowers to flourish.


You can pick up flowers by walking to them then pressing the Y button.
Flower seeds cost around 80 Bells, and a random selection is available daily from the store.;
, On some clear ground, without any patterns or stone, press the X button, then tap on the flowers, and press “Plant.” This will drop the flower on the ground, fully bloomed. Then just keep placing the flowers in rows, with at least a space between the rows. This is so you can have new flowers sprouting between the spaces.


If you’re unsure if the ground is good to plant in, just dig up the area with a shovel. If the shovel makes a noise or if your character makes an “off-balanced” motion, you can’t plant on it.
It’s best if you sort them by color so that you can breed the same color variations, unless you’re trying to grow hybrid flowers, which normally require you to put two different-colored flowers of the same flower species beside each other. The exact combinations can be found on the Internet, but you can make many basic hybrids just by letting two flowers with different colors “mix” into a new color.
Many players find that diagonal rows are the most optimal for flower breeding and hybrids.
 Of course, you’ll need to water them daily. To do so, you need a Watering Can. You can buy one from the Gardening Store for 500 Bells, or you can get it for free from Isabelle after completing all her “Town Living” tips. In any case, make sure to water your plants regularly so they’ll breed faster. You can only water them once a day, but that’s all you need.


You can equip the watering can by pressing X, then dragging it to your character icon, or by pressing the left or right button on the D-pad. You can unequip it by pressing the Down button, and you can use it by pressing A.
Rainy days count as watering your plant, so don’t bother when it’s raining out since they all get watered at the same time.
 Now all that’s left to do is wait. It can take anywhere from a day to a week for a new flower to sprout, but it’s been noted that more flowers can result in more flowers and hybrids popping up. So go ahead and carry on as usual after planting your flowers and just remember to water them every day so that one day, you can spot quite a few new flowers popping up.

