 Use a ponytail holder or hair clips to pin your hair out of the way. This way you won’t get your hair wet while you wash your face. Keep your hair pinned back while you apply makeup.;
, Your pre-teen years are a perfect time to start a good skin care regimen. Wash your face with a gentle cleanser. Read bottles to find a cleanser that matches your skin type. If your skin is extra sensitive, look for cleansers that specifically mention being hypoallergenic or safe for sensitive skin.


Try Neutrogena Ultra Gentle Daily Cleanser, Clean and Clear Essentials Foaming Facial Cleanser Sensitive Skin, or Purpose Gentle Cleansing Wash.
If your skin is often oily, you need a light lotion that won’t clog pores. Try Olay Fresh Effects Long Live Moisture or Neutrogena Oil-Free Acne Moisturizer.
 Use a soft, clean washcloth to gently pat down your face. Be gentle so that you don’t inflame the skin. Give your face a few minutes to finish air-drying after patting.
 It’s important to always apply moisturizer after washing your face so that you can replenish moisture. Keeping your skin moisturized also helps protect it from outdoor elements.


Some moisturizers contain an SPF sunscreen, which is great if you're planning to be outdoors.
If you have acne, try Burt’s Bees Natural Acne Solutions or Philosophy’s Clear Days Ahead.
If you have combination skin (sometimes dry, sometimes oily) then try Neutrogena Oil-Free Moisture for Combination Skin or Bare Minerals Purely Nourishing Moisturizer for Combination Skin.
If your skin is very dry, you need a something a bit stronger. Try CapriClear Spray On Natural Moisturizer or Cetaphil DailyAdvance Lotion.
 If you decide to use foundation at all, use a tinted foundation that acts more like a moisturizer and protective cover before applying makeup. Use a sponge to dab a tiny bit of liquid foundation in areas that require more coverage. You may need coverage in the t-zone where breakouts often occur (forehead, nose, and chin).


A few good ones to try are Covergirl Clean Liquid Foundation, Neutrogena Healthy Skin Liquid Makeup, or Rimmel London Stay Matte Liquid Mousse Foundation. Look for a shade that matches your skin tone.
Test the color on your wrist to see if it matches your skin tone. If you are very pale with pink in your skin, look for an ivory foundation. If you have dark skin with yellow undertones, choose a classic tan foundation.If you’ve never worn makeup before, consider going to a store’s makeup counter. You can sample different colors directly on your skin and receive advice from a beauty expert.
Consider purchasing a concealer stick instead. These are great for covering small areas of skin that need coverage. Try NYC Incredible Waterproof Concealer or Covergirl’s Smoothers Concealer.
Leave freckles alone, as they add to your appearance and help you keep a natural look.
 This will help keep your foundation covered. You can also help with coverage for the problem areas that foundation doesn’t fully cover. Pressed powder also creates an extra layer to protect your skin from the elements. It also works well if you have a lot of red in your skin.


Keep it in your purse for touch-ups later.
 Sweep the eyeshadow on the lid of your eye. Be careful not to go higher than the crease of your lid. Look for an eyeshadow that complements your skin tone. If you want a more natural look, look for light pink or brown shades.
 If you are keeping a natural look, you may want to curl your lashes only, without using mascara. Start at the baseline. Get all the lashes into the curler. Hold down for three seconds, then release.Move up to the middle of the lash, repeat.
Move curler to the tip of the lash, repeat.
Look for an easy to use eyelash curler such as Trim’s Beauty Care Eyelash Curler, NYC New York Color Eyelash Curler, or Sephora’s Sparkle & Shine Lash Curler.
 Blush is meant to look natural and healthy when applied to the skin. Look for light pink or peach shades if you're fair-skinned. Medium skin tones should wear rosy pink or deep peaches. If you’re darker skinned, look for deep rose or plum shades.Use very little blush to avoid looking like a clown.
 Leave your lips bare, or use a very light gloss or lip color. You don't want to go overboard with your lips. Too much color can look too dramatic if you are trying to keep a natural look. A good product is tinted lip balm (pay attention to the shade), or clear lip gloss applied with your finger for a light shine.
 If you have a shiny metallic blue dress, you may want to play up your eyes with the same color. You may also want to try a different color but one that coordinates well with your dress color. Other eyeshadows have glitter or a metallic hue to make them extra dramatic.
 If you want your eyes to really stand out, use a little bit of eyeliner. Use brown eyeliner if using brown mascara and black eyeliner if using black mascara. You could even find fun and different colors such as purple or dark blue. Less is more – apply too much and you may have a mess on your hands.


Apply the liner on the lower lash line. Use a cotton swab to gently smudge.
Apply the liner to the upper lash line. Keep your eye closed while applying. Smudge with a cotton swab.
 If you decided to purchase mascara, apply it after you curl lashes, or instead of curling. Make sure the wand is well-covered. Position wand underneath the top lashes at the lash line. Pull wand straight up. Repeat 2-3 times.


Position wander underneath the bottom lashes and gently curl the wand inward. Repeat 2-3 times to make sure all lashes are covered.
If your lashes are naturally long and thick, mascara will enhance them.
Dip a cotton ball in makeup remover or use cotton swabs dipped in makeup remover to fix any mistakes.
 Apply blush to the apples of your cheeks and upward along the jawline. You may want to try a hot pink color or a color with a metallic shimmer for an extra dramatic look. Close your lips, smile, and apply blush to the round areas of the cheek.Use very little blush to avoid looking like a clown.
Use a small, dome-shaped brush with a flat head. This will help you concentrate the blush just to the apples of the cheeks.
Swirl the brush on the apples of your cheeks using a circular motion.
 Look for a color that coordinates well with your dress color and eye color. If you decide on lipstick, consider less eye makeup so your makeup isn’t too extreme for your age. Lip gloss also works fine on its own and many come in tinted shades as well as a variety of flavors.

