 Hard boiled eggs will work best for this, but you can use hallow or blown-out eggs as well. If you decide to use hallow or blown-out eggs, be sure to cover the holes with speckling or paper clay. White eggs will give you the best results, but brown eggs will also look nice.

The amount of dye in this method is enough for 12 eggs.
 You need the squares to be big enough to wrap around your egg. You should be able to get several squares from one pair of pantyhose.

You can use old pantyhose, but make sure that there are no holes or runs.
 Ferns, smooth leaves, parsley, and small flowers work especially well for this. Avoid anything too textured, however, as it won't give you a good silhouette., Place a pantyhose square over the flower side of the egg. Wrap it tightly around the back of the egg, then secure it with a piece of string. The pantyhose must be snug, or the silhouette won't turn out right.If you don't have any string, you can use a twist tie or small rubber band instead.
 Fill a medium-sized saucepan with 4 cups (1 liter) of water. Add your desired vegetable/spice into the saucepan. Bring the mixture to a boil over medium to medium-high heat, then reduce it to low. Let it simmer, covered, for 15 to 30 minutes. The dye is ready when it's just a little darker than you want it to be. Listed below are the color options:Red: 4 cups (600 grams) chopped or shredded beets. It will be more pinkish on white eggs.
Orange: Skins from 12 yellow onions on white eggs.
Yellow: use 8 tablespoons (72 grams) of ground turmeric on white eggs.
Green: use 4 cups (400 grams) purple cabbage on brown eggs
Blue: use 4 cups (400 grams) purple cabbage on white eggs
Red-brown: Skins from 12 red onions. It will be darker on brown eggs.
 Place a strainer over a deep glass or ceramic dish. Pour the dye into the dish through the strainer. Discard the onion skins, and let the mixture cool. Anything below 160°F (72°C) is fine. This will keep the eggs from continuing to cook.This is only necessary for hard boiled eggs. If you used hallow or blown-out eggs, you don't have to let the dye bath cool.
 You will need 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of vinegar for each cup (240 milliliters) of strained liquid. This will help the dye stick better to the eggs. Since each vegetable soaks up a different amount of water, it would be a good idea to measure your dye first., Place the eggs into the dye. Make sure that the eggs are submerged. If you need to, add a little more water to the dye bath. Let the eggs soak for 30 to 60 minutes. The longer you leave them there, the darker they will be.If you are using hallow eggs, you will need to place something over them to weigh them down. If they float, they won't dye evenly.
 Use a slotted spoon or a pair of tons to carefully lift the eggs out of the dye bath. Set them down on a towel, then cut the strings and carefully pull off the pantyhose. Peel the flower away and discard it., If you are more patient, you can simply set them out and let them air dry on their own. Once the eggs are dry, you can tuck them into your Easter basket or put them on display.