 Six crabs can live comfortably in a 3-5 gallon tank.Ensure the tank has a screen at the top to allow the passage of fresh air. If buying your tank secondhand, give it a good rinse and scrubbing with soap, and let it dry before placing your crabs in it.;
, Install substrate. Fiddler crabs do well in 4-5 centimeters of sand (though you could add up to 6-8 inches).Add slightly brackish water to the crabitat either in a small bowl pushed down deep into the substrate, or poured directly into one end of the crabitat so that the substrate slopes down into the water at that end.


Slightly brackish water should be made using special aquarium salt, rock salt, or another noniodized salt.Do not use regular table salt, as it contains iodine, which the crabs don’t like. Mix the brackish water to a salinity of about 30 parts per thousand. Follow the salt’s directions to obtain the desired concentration.
 Some owners prefer to divide the tank differently, favoring 2/3 land and 1/3 water., Use driftwood and a few rocks to create a natural look and feel. Add 1/4 teaspoon of salt to 1.5 liters of conditioned, dechlorinated water and fill a bowl halfway up with the mixture. Place the bowl with this brackish water in the substrate so that its rim is on the same level as the surface layer of substrate which the crabs walk on.Never use live plants; the crabs will damage them and they might act as vectors for various bugs and mites.
 Fiddler crabs like dried plankton or brine shrimp. Place some into the tank and close the lid. Fiddlers might also enjoy small bits of fruit or veggies if chopped finely.Other foods they enjoy include blanched zucchini, blanched peas, raw or boiled fish, algae wafers, sinking pellets, dried bloodworms, commercial crab food, and krill. Most of these are available at your local pet store.Feed fiddlers sparingly so as not to pollute their water.If you see food has been eaten, add more to the crabitat; if you see food uneaten in the tank after several hours have elapsed, wait before feeding again.
 Fiddler crabs prefer a temperature of 68 to 77 °F (20 to 25 °C).Don’t place your tank near open windows, doors, or air ducts which might disrupt the tank’s microclimate. Conversely, don’t place the tank in direct sunlight or too close to a radiator which might fry your crab right in its shell.
 Males fight to attract females, achieve social dominance, and establish boundaries. If you see crabs pushing or wrestling each other, don’t fret. While these conflicts might be aggressive, they are generally not serious.The only thing that will be hurt is the losing crab’s ego.


The only time for real worry is when a crab is being harassed right after it has molted. At this time, the crab will be fragile for several days. Remove the aggressor if you notice repeated violence against the freshly-molted crab.Crabs have amazing healing properties. Missing claws and legs will eventually regenerate after several successive moltings., Water should be changed partially (or entirely) one to two times each month. Make sure that the water you add maintains the salinity at the proper level. Crabs exposed to pure fresh water without salt will, over a long period, die. If the water is cold to the touch, consider adding a basking bulb (in a small tank) or a submersible heater (in a larger tank).