 To get a work permit you will need to be able to show a qualified professional proof that you are at least 14. Different states will accept different documents, but a birth certificate should always be the best document to present., It makes little sense to get a job if you are already having trouble at school. Furthermore, many states require that you have a record of good attendance and passing grades to get a work permit.There is no federal standard on this subject, but expect your state to require some level of good performance in school in order for you to obtain employment.
 There is no federal law requiring work certificates, which means that each state has its own unique procedure for requesting a work certificate. A school counselor is a good person to ask about the process, because she should at least be able to explain the process in your state and because you often go through your school to get the work certificate. The most likely places to get a work permit are a courthouse in your county, the state employment commission, or your school district.
You should ask about a work permit before applying for jobs. In some states you need to be offered a job before applying for a work permit.However, this isn't necessary true in all states. If you can get a work permit first, it will increase the likelihood that you will receive an employment offer. Either way, you should inquire about the process before starting your search.
Although it is rare, some states don’t offer proof of age. You might be required to talk to the federal Department of Labor.If your counselor is not able to help you, look online for the website of your state's Department of Labor. It should include the relevant information. Remember, that information from the federal Department of Labor and other states will not be relevant because every state has a different process.
 This step might be required to make the work permit a legal document. You should be informed as to whether this is necessary when you pick up the work permit.
 Your employer should take and keep the work permit or proof of age. This will be necessary for them to prove that you are of age. If they do not have this evidence, they could be fined for hiring underage employees., Once again, while there is no federal standard, some states require you to get a separate work permit for every new job you take. Even if this not legally mandated, it might be necessary for practical purposes. You have given your original work permit to your employer and might find it difficult to get the permit back.

