 You should not neglect your exercise routine just because you are pregnant. Keeping a regular exercise routine can help to make you tired enough to fall asleep as soon as your head touches the pillow. It is important, however, not to exercise immediately before you go to bed. The adrenaline rush that comes with exercise can have the opposite effect of keeping you awake instead of tiring you out.


Women often experience leg cramps during their pregnancy. Exercise can be helpful in working out those leg muscles and keeping them from waking you up during the night.
Always listen to your doctor if he or she tells you to avoid strenuous exercise. If you are worried about what exercises are appropriate for you, talk to your doctor to get some suggestions., Instead of doing stressful or strenuous activities in the afternoon and at night, try to do more calming activities. This doesn't mean you can't do anything, it just means that you should take the two to three hours before bedtime to do something fun and relaxing. Don't stress about work or the future. This will only make you anxious and make it harder for you to go to sleep at night. Instead, read, meditate, or watch your favorite show.


You can also try yoga a few hours before you go to bed. This can help relax you as well as be counted as your daily exercise. Make sure you find a good prenatal routine that works for you.Ask your partner to give you a massage to ease your shoulders, neck, back, or feet.This may help you relax and begin to feel sleepy.
In the half hour to hour before bed, steer clear of too much mental stimulation and light. The light from electronics can decrease the production of melatonin, a hormone your body produces to help you sleep. Try reading or listening to music instead of playing on your phone or computer or watching TV.
In the few minutes right before bed, just take a minute and relax with no stimulation at all. Stop reading, turn off the music, and just let your body finish unwinding for a good night's sleep., If you try to force yourself to go to bed at the same time each night, it will help your body develop a regular sleep pattern routine. By doing so, your body will become tired at the same time every night, thus making it easier to fall asleep and stay asleep.It is also okay to add a nap to your regular sleep routine, but only short ones. Napping for a short time during the day, around 30 minutes, can actually help you sleep better at night by making sure that you are not overly tired. Sometimes it can be hard to get to sleep when you are exhausted. Just make sure you don't sleep too long and substitute restful nighttime sleep for daytime napping., Don't use your bed for work, paying bills, or any other activity that could make you associate your bed with stress or discomfort. Instead, only do those activities in your bed that belong there, such as sleep and sex. This way, your body will be conditioned to do associate your bed with restful, good things instead of stress.


It shouldn't be a problem if you read before bed while in your bed. Just make sure it's pleasure reading and not anything for work or class that might stress you out.