 A medical second opinion does not mean that you will see another doctor regularly. Its main purpose is to get medical information or opinions about a health problem from a physician other than the regular doctor who has been providing care. The regular doctor may be your pediatrician, family physician, or a sub-specialist. Second opinions (consultations) may be obtained for several reasons:


To identify or confirm a diagnosis.
To help interpret a test result.
To provide additional viewpoints and information about risks, benefits, or expected outcomes.
To give recommendations regarding treatment choices .
To provide an opinion about the need, type, and timing of surgery.
To help parents make the decision to change care to another provider.;
, For health issues in infants and children, requests for a second opinion may come from several sources.


A second opinion may be recommended by your pediatrician or family physician, especially when there is an unusual or ill-defined medical problem that is outside your physician’s area of expertise.Your child's regular doctor may also ask for a second opinion if they believe that the input of a specialist will allow him or her to provide better management
A consultation may also be requested by your regular doctor when they are treating a condition that is not responding as expected, or when they disagree with opinions or recommendations from another doctor.
However, you — as the parents of family members of the child — may also request a second opinion, especially when the child is suffering from a serious condition that requires important or complex decisions.
You may also request a second opinion if you are concerned or confused about the diagnosis or treatment recommendations, if you want to be absolutely sure that all treatment options have been considered, or if you want to feel reassured that your child’s medical needs are being addressed in the best possible manner.
 Before you go ahead with arranging a second opinion, it's a good idea to take a step back and re-examine the situation to ensure that you have a valid option for requesting one. Some good reasons include:


Your doctor is uncertain about the cause or best treatment of a child’s problem, or your doctor thinks that your child may have a serious or chronic disease which would be better treated by a specialist. An example is a child with diabetes who has been treated by your family physician but is beginning to have more frequent problems with sugar control.
You are not sure whether your child’s condition is being treated in the best possible way and want reassurance from another expert. An example is the asthmatic child whose wheezing episodes are becoming more severe, despite following your current doctor's recommendations.
Your child’s condition has not had the expected response to a particular therapy, such as elimination of recurring serious kidney infections.
 Sometimes parents want to seek a second opinion on their child's condition just because their current doctor tells them something that they don't want to hear. Although this is understandable, it is not a good reason for seeking a second opinion and is often just a waste of time. Other poor reasons for getting a second opinion include:


“Shopping around” to find someone who agrees with your own opinion. Perhaps you are consulting with doctors until you find one that, like you, also opposes giving childhood immunizations
You are hoping to get “better news” about a recent serious diagnosis.
You are trying to delay the need to make an important treatment decision.

