 The bridge will help you open up your lungs as well as strengthening your abdominal muscles to enable you to breathe more fully and deeply.Start this pose by lying flat on your back with your knees bent so that your feet are flat on the floor. Lie your arms alongside your torso with your palms on the floor, and scoot your feet back so they are close to your fingertips. Your feet should be directly below your knees.
On an inhale, lift your hips toward the ceiling, bringing your chest up to meet your chin. Keep your thighs together – don't let your knees splay out. If you have difficulty with this, you may want to place a yoga block or rolled towel between your thighs that you can press. Keep your shoulders lowered so that your shoulder blades are resting flat alongside your spine.
Try to hold the position for 30 seconds to a minute, breathing deeply. Slowly lower on an exhale.
 The supportive fish pose may have a funny name, but it can provide natural asthma relief by helping to open your airways and strengthening your bronchial tube.For this pose you'll need two rolled-up towels or blankets, one thinner than the other. Lay on your back and place the thinner of the two props under your mid-back, the thicker one behind your neck so the bridge of your nose is aligned with your chin.
You can pull your legs into a cross-legged position or simply extend them straight out in front of you, relaxing your feet. Rest your arms on the floor at a 45-degree angle from your hips, palms pointed toward the ceiling.
Relax and hold this position for 5 to 10 breath cycles, breathing deeply.
 When you get in this yoga pose, you may feel as though you're not doing yoga at all – that you're just standing. However, this simple pose can improve your posture and open your chest to help you breathe more easily.Stand with your big toes touching, heels slightly apart. Straighten your spine and roll your shoulder blades down and back so they are resting flat alongside your spine.
Let your arms hang loosely at your sides, palms toward your body and fingers spread. Distribute your weight evenly through all four corners of your feet.
Hold this position for 5 to 10 breath cycles, breathing deeply in through your nose and out through your mouth.
 When you do a forward bend in yoga, don't think about forcing yourself to the floor or touching your toes. Rather, you want to fold gently from your hips, bending your knees as much as necessary.Stand with your feet about hip-width apart or wider if you need to. On an exhale, slowly fold your body forward from the hips as far as you comfortably can. You may be able to rest your palms flat on the floor, or you can rest them on your shins if that's as far as you can go.
Inhale and cross your forearms over your head, taking your elbows in your opposite hands. Close your eyes and simply let your body hang for 5 to 10 breath cycles. On an inhale, slowly rise back to stand.

