 There is no such thing as bad luck when a burning off gets out of control; it's just bad management.;
, Some will permit it only during the non-fire season, some will permit it during fire season with strict rules, and others may not permit it at all.


Obtain a burning-off permit from your local municipality or council if required.
Read all the suggestions, instructions, and requirements accompanying the permit.
 This includes the area outside of the intended area to be burned.
 This should be at least four metres wide.
 Use an official source, or better yet, call the local meteorological station to confirm local conditions.


Avoid starting burning off too early in the day; the day's conditions won't be certain at that early hour.
 The permit you obtain will specify the amount of people required for the are you're seeking to burn off. If you don't need to get a permit, make sure there are still enough people to control the fire.
 There should be a large amount of water available at all times, near the burning off. Use portable tanks with portable pumps and ensure that these follow the burning off, wherever you're headed.


Use tanks of the back of utility trucks (utes), four/all wheel drives, or fire fighting/farm trucks.
Use knapsack/backpack water holders as well.
 Before burning off, have a strict plan in place that accounts for every person's movement, the areas to be burned, and the responses should things get out of hand.


Strip burning enables you to control the direction and rate of burning to match the wind, fuel and strength of the team.
 There are some basics to bear in mind when burning off:


Light the fire on the leeward side (down wind) first. Burning into the wind slows the fire's ability and gives you greater control.
Burn downhill if possible. Uphill burning is dangerous, whatever the weather conditions.
Maintain a completely blackened fire edge of about 20 meters (65.6 ft) into the burned area.
 Increase in wind speed is cause for fast reaction. Put out the fire as quickly as possible.
 Smoldering coals and roots, stumps and other underground burning can reignite without warning for many days after burning off.

