 Beware of falling into common tropes such as "the Starbucks barista that accidentally spills coffee on Harry Styles and ends up going on tour with him". This could leave your readers begging for mercy.;
, Giving the main character some actual human qualities is an important part. Of course, the easiest thing to do would be to create a flawless character but making them perfect is making them boring and leaves no room for conflict and resolution. The messy bun is not the only hairstyle your character can have and she can wear clothes that aren't a baggy sweater with leggings. Try also to avoid spending multiple paragraphs that overdue descriptions as well because... yawn.


A good way to avoid these blunders is to read the ever-so-popular "Dumb Fanfiction Moments" online.
 Usually, the most popular story descriptions are quotes—from the book itself or from famous people—so if you decide upon using one, make sure it is compelling enough to hook your future readers into your book.
 Short and sweet is the safest but it can vary depending on your strength as a writer. If you are lost, use the inside covers (or backs) of actual novels as reference.
 Writing is something that you love to do, so showcase your best work when writing something that you're passionate about!

, This will keep them coming back for more, that is, as long as you update frequently., Use synonyms to improve simple words. Instead of black, try onyx or ebony. In place of good, try marvelous or superb. Or, instead of said, try reminded or breathed. The possibilities are endless; just be aware to not come across as ostentatious.
 Grammar is probably one of the most important parts of your story. A lot of people who read books online may refuse to read yours if the grammar is bad. It’s important, so be sure to get this aspect correct. If you're having issues yourself, consider getting an editor to ensure that your work flows properly and reads well.


Instead of writing "omg i think that justin likes me wat do u think”, replace it with "I think that Justin likes me! What do you think?" It's simple differences like that that can change your reader’s perspective as to the quality of the your work. It will also make you seem more mature and serious about your work.
Learn your homophones. There is a difference between "your" and "you're". Also between "their", "there" and "they're". A pet peeve of many a reader is the use of the wrong words. Additionally, there is also a space in "a lot". Using spell check will help you immensely.
 If your book is going to be published on Wattpad, you'll need an interesting cover. Everyone judges books by their covers, that's just human nature; if your story cover is generic, then not many people will want to read your story. Fortunately, you can edit amazing covers on free websites and apps, so there is no need to worry about that!


If you're on a computer, try Picmonkey. There you can create flawless covers that attract attention and most of the useful features are free.
An app that is accessible on your phone is Phonto. You can download your own fonts from online and create pretty covers with little to no effort.
 It honestly takes forever for your story to get famous. However, by using tags, you can help your story reach a larger audience. Also, aim to promote your story on other social media platforms, so as to increase their popularity. Soon, if you're patient enough and you’ve written a good tale, you will be a smash hit.

