 Autism is a developmental disability that generally leads to differences in communication and social skills. It is a neurological difference that can present difficulties, but also advantages., Autistic people, experiencing the differences and urges themselves, can offer the greatest insight into how autism works. They also present a more inclusive view than many parent-run organizations., This means that symptoms vary from person to person. No two autistic individuals will experience the exact same symptoms. One person might have severe sensory issues with strong social skills and executive function, while another may have little sensory issues while struggling with basic social interaction. Due to this variation in symptoms, it is hard to generalize this condition.


Keep this fact in mind when explaining autism to someone else. It is important to express that not all autistic people act the same way, just as not all neurotypical people act the same way.
When describing an autistic person, emphasize that particular individual's needs.
 Some autistic people find communicating with others to be very difficult. While these communication challenges will be discussed more thoroughly in Method 2, some common communication issues linked to autism include:


Unusual or flat tone of voice, creating odd rhythms and pitches
Repeating questions or phrases (echolalia)
Difficulty expressing needs and desires
Taking longer to process spoken words, not responding quickly to instructions, or becoming confused by too many words spoken too quickly

Literal interpretation of language (confused about sarcasm, irony, and figures of speech)

, When speaking with an autistic person, you may find yourself wondering if they are really paying attention to you, or even care that you’re there. Don't let this bother you. Keep in mind that:


It is not uncommon for autistic individuals to appear disinterested in their surroundings. They may simply not be aware of or interested in the people around them. This makes it difficult to connect with others.
An autistic person might listen differently. For example, eye contact may feel very uncomfortable and distracting to them, and they may need to fidget in order to focus. Thus, what looks like inattentiveness is actually them making modifications so they can listen better.
An autistic person may appear as though they don't hear someone speaking to them. This may be due to auditory processing slowness, or too many distractions in the room. Offer to move to a quieter place, and give pauses in the conversation to let the autistic person think.
Autistic children may find it challenging to play with others, because it involves difficult social rules and/or overwhelming sensory experiences. They may find it easier to disengage.
 They can create highly structured routines for their day. This is because autistic people can be easily startled by unknown stimuli, and the certainty of a schedule feels more comfortable. This is covered more in Method 4. Autistic people may...


Follow a strict routine.
Find unexpected changes very distressing (e.g. change in school environment).
Use a comfort object to help deal with stress.
Place things in order (e.g. lining toys up by color and size).

