 If someone dislikes you, they may gossip about you to mutual friends or try to hurt you in other ways. If it's a coworker, sit down with your boss and explain that you are having a disagreement with the person, so your boss will be on the lookout for attempts to sabotage your standing at the job. If it's a mutual friend, explain your position and try to get them to see your side of things. Avoid bad-mouthing the person!, If someone dislikes you, they may try to find out your secrets in order to hurt you. Be careful what you say to someone who dislikes you. Avoid gossiping about other people around them, because they might use that information against you. Protect yourself by keeping your cards close to your chest and not allowing them to use anything you say to hurt you. If it's a coworker, try to avoid messing up on the job around them, which may come back to bite you.If the person who dislikes you is a former friend, they may already know a lot that could hurt you. If you think they are going to share something that could make you look bad, you can always share the information first, if you would rather have control of how it comes out.
 Sometimes it's worth it to apologize to someone who dislikes you, especially if you've done something to offend them. Even if you think you didn't do anything wrong, it may be helpful to apologize in order to keep the situation from getting worse. You can do it for you, rather than for them, although you never know how it might affect their opinion of you in a positive way., If the person is causing you to doubt yourself, ask your friends what they think about the situation if they know the person. Getting a second opinion, especially from people you trust, can help to prevent you from taking the perspective of the other person and being really hard on yourself. Being disliked can make you wonder if they are right about you, so it's important to be aware of how it's affecting you. Don't let your mental health suffer from it., Sometimes all it takes to repair a friendship or working relationship is to show the person your good will. Going out of your way to do something for people has a lot of benefits. Kindness reduces stress and promotes longer, healthier living.Additionally, if you are kind to the person in spite of their dislike toward you, it may inspire them to change their mind about you.


Watch out for people who will manipulate your kindness, however. Some people feed off of using people who are not willing to protect themselves against aggressive or manipulative behavior. If they accept your kindness and then return it with selfishness or rudeness, it may be best to avoid them rather than try to win them over.