 Continuing with the theme of “make it bigger than what you're photographing,” a blank white “light box” for photographing people is quite large by necessity. At the very least, you'll need an entire room of your house; if you can find a space that's 20' by 20' by 10' high or larger, that's even better.


A clean and empty garage might do the trick.
 To start with, you can't expect paper to hold up with people walking all over it, so for the floor, you'll need white tile board instead. Buy enough to cover 10' by 10' or more of the floor. Next, buy a roll of 9' seamless paper, available at specialty stores, and some sturdy stands and A-clamps for holding it high and in place. Purchase three bright lights, all of the same type, on tall stands (at least 10' adjustable). Finally, purchase some white-backed bi-fold doors from a place like Home Depot.

You can also buy bi-fold doors and attach white tile board to one side.
This setup is for a professional-quality photograph. It isn't cheap or quick. If you just want ordinary photos of people, you can hang seamless paper with a couple bright lights and play with positioning until you get a decent-quality shot.
 Put your main light high and centered on where your seamless paper will be hanging. Put a screen over it to diffuse the light slightly. Set the other two lights on stands ahead and to either side of the main lamp, angled somewhat towards the center. Use a bi-fold door inside and ahead of each side lamp to prevent direct light from reaching the subject area from the side lamps. Fold them so their corners point inward and their white backs face the lamps. Leave 9' of space between them, through which the main light should be shining., Lay down two sections of white tile board on the ground, from the camera position to where the seamless paper will hang. Overlay them very slightly, with the camera-side layer above the seamless-side layer so that the lip won't show up in photographs. Set your seamless paper roll up on stands and pull it down and partway over the tile board, allowing it to bend naturally as it turns onto the floor towards the camera. Hold the paper in place with A-clamps at the top., There are many other considerations that go into getting a perfect shot from this setup, but from this point, the basics are taken care of. Set your subject ahead of and between the bi-fold doors, close to the seamless paper. Turn on all three lights and start shooting from between and behind the bi-fold doors.,