 With the creation of the Affordable Care Act, health insurance providers are required to include mental health services under their policies. Check your health insurance policy about the costs of mental health services and individual therapy sessions.Most current health insurance providers require a co-pay for each visit, whether it's a doctor's visit or a therapy visit. You may only need to pay a small co-pay for each session. Also check to see if services apply towards your deductible or not.
Check with your health insurance provider about if there is a cap on the number of therapy sessions that can be billed. You may have access to only 20 visits or less that are covered by your provider. Contact your health insurance provider for specific details.
 Whether you're insured or uninsured, ask about sliding scale fees via private pay. Most counselors are willing to negotiate their fees to a reduced rate if you are having difficulty with the costs.Even if the therapist you've contacted is unable to provide services at a rate you can afford, ask for a referral to another therapist or other counseling center that can accommodate your needs.
Talk with your therapist about a sliding scale fee if you have used up your therapy sessions that are covered through your health insurance or via another program like EAP.
 Across the United States, there are community health centers that address medical and mental health needs for those who are uninsured or underinsured. They may be able to offer free or low cost mental health services such as therapy.Search for local community health centers that are federally funded by searching the Health Resources and Services Administration Data Warehouse: https://findahealthcenter.hrsa.gov/

While not all community health centers offer mental health services directly, they may be able to connect you with low or no-cost services that fit your needs. For example, if you are depressed or anxious after experiencing domestic violence or sexual trauma, they may be able to connect you to counseling services via non-profits that can help with your condition.
You might also look through your local United Way for the nearest free community health clinics in your area. Most of these offer medical and mental health care, substance abuse help, and financial assistance. Depending on funding, some agencies can also help with costs like copays and prescriptions.
 If your income and family size combined is below the poverty line, you may be eligible for Medicaid which covers medical and behavioral health services. If you are over 65, you are likely eligible for Medicare which also covers medical and mental health services for people in the United States.In all states, you can qualify for Medicaid based on income, family status, household size, disability, and other factors combined. Only some states allow Medicaid access based on income and family size alone.
Find out if your state has expanded Medicaid access. This can help to determine if you can qualify based on income: https://www.healthcare.gov/medicaid-chip/medicaid-expansion-and-you/

Medicare does not work like Medicaid. It is a federally funded program only, so eligibility does not vary state by state. If you are over 65 and want to know about mental health services under Medicare, review what is covered on the Medicare website: https://www.medicare.gov/coverage/outpatient-mental-health-care.html


, For some people, medication can be sufficient to help them with their anxiety or depression symptoms. While a combination of therapy and medication is often best, consider talking with your health care provider about if your symptoms are manageable by medication.If you have severe depression or another form of severe mental illness, medication may be a key part of your recovery and well-being.
Make sure that you discuss the costs of your medication with your health care provider. There may be generic brand medications for very low cost, or prescription drug help through a pharmaceutical company. If you are without insurance and low income, find out if you may be eligible for medication assistance via Needy Meds: http://www.needymeds.org/

If you are having trouble with side effects, or want to discontinue your medications due to cost, talk first with your provider about other options that may not have been discussed. Avoid quitting a medication suddenly, as this may have detrimental effects.

