 Either grease or line the sides and base with parchment paper.
, Alternately, use the microwave if you have one (and a non-plastic microwave proof bowl). After melting, stir the chocolate into a smooth paste and leave to one side., Beat until the two ingredients cream together smoothly. Once smooth, pour in the melted chocolate and fold through.,, Take half of this mixture and add it to the butter mix. Mix in briefly, adding the buttermilk and vanilla. When mixed through, add the remaining dry ingredients and mix through quickly., Continue beating until stiff peaks form. Fold these egg whites through the cake mixture gradually until you cannot see the egg white showing anymore.,, At this stage, make the filling, syrup, and frosting. Remove from the oven and allow to cool on two cooling racks (leave in pans).,
Add 3 oz of butter and the salt, toasted coconut and pecan bits to a large bowl and leave to one side.
Mix together the cream, sugar, and egg yolks in a saucepan.
If you haven't already toasted the coconut, do so prior to making the filling.
Heat the saucepan and cook the cream mix. It is really important to stir continuously or the base will burn - be sure to drag the spoon across the bottom of the saucepan as you stir. The mixture is ready once it thickens and sticks to the mixing spoon.
Pour the heated mixture over the coconut and pecans in the large bowl. Stir until the butter melts and runs through the whole mixture evenly.
Put to one side to cool. As it cools, this mixture will thicken.

Heat sugar and water in a small saucepan.
Stir until the sugar melts and remove from the heat.
Pour in the rum and stir through.

Place the chocolate bits into a bowl.
Pour in the corn syrup and butter.
In a small saucepan, pour in the cream and heat to boiling.
Remove immediately and pour over the chocolate, corn syrup and butter mix.
Let it rest for one minute, then stir to smoothness.
Allow to cool.
 Take the completely cooled cake layers from the cooling racks. Undo the springform latch and release the layers from the pans., Using a serrated knife, cut each of the two layers in half again, horizontally., Place the base layer on the cake plate or stand and proceed as follows:
Brush this layer with the syrup.
Spread with 3/4 cup of filling (coconut and pecans) over this layer, evenly to edges.
Place the next layer on top. Brush with syrup and spread with the filling as before.
Add the next layer and repeat the syrup and filling. When you reach the top layer, repeat.
 Once all the layers have been added, frost the sides together with the frosting, making it smooth and even., Pipe small wisps of frosting at even intervals around the outer edge of the cake. Add maraschino cherries in between each "wisp". Sprinkle toasted coconut and pecan pieces across the entire cake top. If wished, add chocolate shavings, but only the merest hint; don't overdo this.
If you don't want to pipe icing on, that's fine; just follow the layout of a circle of pecans around the outer edge, and sprinkle the toasted coconut as before (see introduction image). Add a hint of chocolate shavings as well, if wished.
 You deserve a slice!, Keep in an airtight container (a cake dome as pictured works well) to prevent cross-contamination from odors.