 If your version of iTunes is out of date, you may run into connection problems. Updating iTunes is free, but requires a working network connection.Windows - Click Help → Check for Updates

OS X - Click iTunes → Check for Updates
;
, Use the USB cable that came with your iPod, iPad, or iPhone to connect it to a USB port on your computer. Plug it into a port directly on your computer; plugging into a USB hub will generally not provide enough power.


iTunes supports certain other MP3 players beyond iOS devices. You may not be able to sync all of your music with non-iOS devices.
 You may be prompted to set up your device if you are connecting it to iTunes for the first time. You will be given two options "Setup as New" or "Restore from Backup". Even if you've been using your device before connecting it to iTunes, select "Setup as New". While it may sound like it will delete everything, all it will ask is for you to name your device., Your device will appear in the left sidebar, under the "Devices" heading. If you can't see the sidebar, click View → Hide Sidebar.


If your device is not appearing in iTunes, you may need to put it into Recovery Mode.
 In order to add files to your device, you will need to have them in your iTunes library. You can add music, photos, movies, apps, podcasts, TV shows, and books. See this guide for detailed instructions on adding files to your library.


Anything you purchase from the iTunes store will automatically be added to your library.
 Select your device from the sidebar on the left. You will see a row of tabs across the top of the screen for the different types of media you can add to your device. Go through each tab and select the content that you want to add to your device.


You can select to add all the content for that type of media, or you can choose specific files that you want.
Your available space will be shown at the bottom of the screen. As you add files to be synced, the bar will fill up.
 Click the "Summary" tab, and then click Sync the bottom of the window. iTunes will begin copying the content you want synced to your device. Anything that was on the device that was not set to be synced will be deleted.


You can monitor the progress of the sync in the display at the top of the iTunes window.
 Once the sync is complete, right-click on your device in the left frame and select Eject. This will allow you to safely disconnect your device. If you don't select Eject before disconnecting, you run the risk of corrupting your data, though this risk is low.
 iTunes allows you to create a backup of your iOS device, which is great in case something goes wrong in the future. To backup your device. select it in the left frame, click the Summary tab, and find the Backups section. Select where you want the backup file to be stored (on your computer or on iCloud) and then click Back Up Now.


Backing up to iCloud will only backup up important settings. Backing up to your computer will perform a full backup.

