 One of the first things you'll need to consider when signing up for a snack box subscription is your overall budget. These fun subscriptions can get pricey over time.


Review multiple sites and their costs. Subscriptions can range between $12 a month to over $70.Also consider how frequently you're choosing to get your boxes shipped. If it's only $15 per box, but ships two times a month, you'll be shelling out $30 monthly for your subscription. Some companies will offer a cheaper price per box, if you sign-up for multiple months at a time.
Snack boxes are a great idea if you like the variety, enjoy getting a treat in the mail or find it convenient to have healthy snacks shipped right to your home. However, you may find it cheaper to buy similar snacks in bulk or make them yourself at home.;
, If you're interested in signing up for a possible snack box subscription service, you'll need to look up a variety of different sites, brands and even reviews of the products.


Since these subscriptions have been so popular, it's easy to find them online with a quick search. Look up "snack box subscription services" or "mail order snack boxes" online. This will come up with a large listing of different service brands.
You can take the time to review each brand that comes up for pricing, variation of snacks, etc.
However, there are many, many different snack box subscription services. It may be helpful to look for review articles. Many blogs and online newspapers offer reviews of multiple different snack box subscriptions telling readers about the pros and cons and which services would match well with certain likes or dislikes.
Narrow your choices down to two or three services and make the final decision based on what's best for your tastes, timing and budget.
 When you're looking at different snack box subscription services, you'll notice that there are many different types with different focuses. There are international boxes, sweet boxes or organic boxes. Choose the type of healthy snack box that fits you best.


You can choose organic and natural snacks if organic principles are important to you. Look for snack subscriptions that advertise organic or additive-free products. But remember that just because something is labeled organic doesn't necessarily mean it is healthy.
You can stick to 100% vegan or vegetarian based snack boxes. If you prefer to leave out the meat or animal products, choose a subscription box that only features plant-based treats.
There are also high protein or low-carb options to try. If you're trying to stick to a high-protein diet or looking to add a hit of protein to your active day, try choosing a snack box that offers high-protein or low-carb snacks.
If you have food allergies, see which companies are able to accommodate this. For instance, if you are allergic to soy, can you specify a soy-free box? \

, Choose companies that are transparent about the nutritional content of all of their snacks. Make sure the snacks will fit with your current diet and nutrition goals.

For example, if you have diabetes and must eat a snack each afternoon, brownie bites would not be helpful for your goal of blood sugar control. Or if you are trying to lose weight, a subscription that is sending you snacks with 500 calories a pop would not be helpful.
 Snack box subscriptions also vary in how much they allow you customize items or choose what types of snacks are included in your box.


Some snack boxes are 100% customizable. That means, you log-in regularly and choose exactly what types of treats are going to be in your box. This is great if you're hands on and enjoy rifling through a bunch of different options.
Other subscriptions are only semi-customizable. Either through a rating system or your profile preferences, the subscription will change up what's included in your box.
There are a few subscription services that are not customizable.These are great if you like a surprise every month!

, Snack box subscriptions can also be tailored by size. You can order a larger box or larger portions or servings of different snacks.


If you're trying to be healthy and stick to healthier foods, it might be wise to order a smaller box (it'll probably be cheaper as well). It may be less tempting than to have to go through a large box of treats throughout the month.
You can also choose single servings of your snacks or larger packages that contain multiple servings. If you're the type to eat a whole bag or box of an item, it might be "safer" to go with smaller, individually wrapped snacks.
 Like with any other type of subscription, it's also important to thoroughly read all the terms and conditions. This way, you'll know exactly what to expect.


Some snack box subscriptions offer you discounts when you sign-up for multiple months or several boxes worth of the subscription. Review whether you pay 100% up front or month-by-month.Read the fine print. Sometimes even when you sign up for a multi-month subscription, the company will continue to charge your credit card after that time is up.
Review how to cancel your subscription.
 Most snack box subscription services do require you to be involved somewhat regularly. Sign on to your account at least once a month to review your subscription.Check in regularly to select your snacks. Depending on how "customizable" your subscription is, you'll probably want to log-on and manually select your snacks or genres of snacks.
Also monitor your billing and payment of the subscription. Make sure you fully understand when and how you're being billed.
Be interactive with your subscription. "Like" and "dislike" snacks on your profile or log-in page, as many sites take your thoughts into consideration when sending or recommending different items to you., Getting a snack box in the mail can be fun and exciting; however, it's important to evaluate your snack box service after a few months of orders to make sure it's still right for you. Ask yourself:


Do I like the snacks that are sent to me? Are they good quality?
Is the price fair? Am I getting a good deal for the snacks that are sent or is there a possibility of finding a cheaper service or making these snacks at home?
Am I using the service fully? Am I actually eating the snacks or do they get left uneaten or given away to friends or co-workers?

, Although snack subscriptions are fun and tasty, you may eventually want to cancel this service. Make sure you understand how to cancel your subscription to avoid any unwanted fees.


Most snack subscription services will require you to manually cancel your account. You'll need to log-on to cancel, email or call the company to cancel your account.
Also to check to see how much advance notice they require. If you cancel the day before your next box ships, the company might send the box anyways and still charge your card.
If you only want to stop the subscription for a month or two, many offer the option to "skip" a month. You can keep your subscription but take a month or so off.

