 It usually begins earlier in life (often in childhood, although it may happen in adulthood too), and it often gets worse with time. However, shortness of breath alone is not enough to make the diagnosis of asthma as there are a number of other respiratory conditions which may all lead to shortness of breath.


Other respiratory conditions that may lead to shortness of breath include congestive heart failure, bronchiectasis, COPD, or an infection, among other things.;
, It is a very characteristic symptom of asthma that can help to differentiate it from other similar respiratory conditions. You may also experience coughing, and/or troubles sleeping due to coughing and wheezing.


Other possible causes of wheezing include congestive heart failure, COPD, heartburn, and vocal cord dysfunction, among other things.If you are evaluating a child for asthma, see if you can hear a whistling or a wheezing sound when the child exhales. Wheezing in a child may be related to asthma, or to an infection (these are the two most common causes).Note that, if the wheezing is due to asthma, it is most often reversible (as opposed to having a constant wheeze)., For instance, it may be triggered by exercise, by temperature (particularly the cold), or by environmental or occupational allergens, among other things. If you notice that your shortness of breath and wheezing gets worse with triggers, take note of what these are and tell your doctor. Also know that the association to triggers increases the likelihood that it is indeed asthma.


Asthma symptoms (such as cough attacks and/or wheezing) tend to also get worse when you have a respiratory infection, such as a cold or the flu. If this is a trigger that worsens your shortness of breath, tell your doctor as it may be asthma.
A correlation of shortness of breath to exercise is less likely to be correlated to asthma as it may also be due to a number of other heart or lung related problems, such as angina, heart failure, or a pulmonary embolism.
 Although there is no specific blood test that is diagnostic of asthma, blood tests can be used to rule out other lung conditions that may present similarly. For instance, if your white blood cell counts are normal you are likely NOT to have a respiratory tract infection. If your D-dimer (an evaluation for blood clots) is not high, you are unlikely to have a pulmonary embolism (blood clot in the lung) as the cause of your shortness of breath. , The slower (and less volume) you exhale, the more constricted your airways are likely to be.


You can also evaluate your peak flow. Peak flow is another lung function test that measures how forcefully you can breathe out. The force with which you can exhale is a general indicator of your overall lung function.
Following lung function tests, you will be given a bronchodilator medication. If your results improve following administration of the bronchodilator (a treatment for asthma), it is very likely that asthma is your diagnosis.
 Another way to rule out other lung conditions that may present similarly to asthma is to opt for lung imaging tests, such as a chest x-ray or a CT scan.Here's how these tests can be helpful:


A chest x-ray can rule out shortness of breath from congestive heart failure (which can lead to fluid build-up in the lungs). It can also rule out masses such as lung cancer, infections such as pneumonia, or traumatic causes of shortness of breath such as a pneumothorax.
A chest CT scan can rule out conditions such as interstitial lung disease, pulmonary fibrosis, and COPD, all of which have characteristic appearances on a CT scan and present with respiratory challenges. A chest CT can also rule out a pulmonary embolism (blood clot in the lung).
 An electrocardiogram (ECG) is another way to rule out heart-related causes of shortness of breath, as well as to assess for a possible pulmonary embolism (PE). Although an ECG is unhelpful in the specific diagnosis of asthma, it can be used to rule out a suspicion of other things.
 You will generally be given an inhaled corticosteroid such as Fluticasone (Flovent) to decrease inflammation in your airways and to minimize unnecessary immune responses, as well as an inhaled bronchodilator such as Salmeterol (Serevent) to help open your airways.


Inhaled corticosteroids (unlike oral corticosteroids) have minimal side effects and are safe for long-term daily use.
You can also opt for a combined inhaler (with both corticosteroid and bronchodilator medication in it), such as Advair.
Long-term control medications should be taken every day regardless of whether or not asthma symptoms are present. The purpose of these medications is to treat inflammation not asthma symptoms. If these medications are stopped airway inflammation may return., Flare-ups may be caused by environmental allergens, temperature (such as cold weather), and exercise, among other things.


If you know you are about to be exposed to a trigger for your asthma (such as before a workout if you have exercise-induced asthma), you will want to take your short-acting bronchodilator medication prior to being exposed to the trigger (for instance, prior to commencing your workout).
You may also use the short-term bronchodilator for unexpected asthma flare-ups to help get your symptoms under control.
If you are use your short-term inhaler to control symptoms four or more times a week, not including before exercise, consult your physician. This is a sign that your asthma is not well controlled., These expose your immune system to a small amount of the allergen over time, so that gradually you become less and less reactive to it.


Allergy shots are generally given once a week for the first few months.
They are then given once a month for a few years, until they become fully effective.
 Preventing contact with known triggers may reduce the frequency of flares and your need to take short-term medication. Once a trigger is identified, take steps to reduce your exposure. Some triggers may require more effort than others to avoid. In some situations, you may have to enlist the help of others to reduce exposure to such things as pet dander and second hand smoke.