 This will show the Games Marketplace, along with a few select Featured Games. Highlight "Browse Games" to peruse through the selection of games available to purchase and download.


Selecting "Browse Games" will open a new screen. Along the top, you can see the different categories of games. "Featured" are the newest releases, "Arcade" are smaller games for low prices, "On Demand" are full-length Xbox 360 games, and "Indie" are games made by independent developers.
Each category has further ways to browse, such as by genre or popularity. You can also browse all of the games A through Z.;
, Browse through the catalog until you find the game you want. Not all Xbox 360 titles are available for download. Titles that are not available will need to be purchased as a physical disc. When you've found a game you want, press the A button to select it.
 Downloaded games take up space on your Xbox 360's internal hard drive. The amount of space required for the game will be shown on the details page when you select it.


To check how much free space you have available, press the Guide button to open the main Xbox 360 menu. Navigate to the Settings menu and select System Settings. Click Storage and check the amount of free space available for the Hard Drive.
 Back in the marketplace, click the Purchase option for the game you want. You will be taken to the payment screen where you can set your payment method. Xbox will try to use any funds that are already on your account. if there isn't enough available, you will need to enter a credit card to make the purchase.


Click "Confirm Download" to complete the purchase after reviewing your payment information.
Many games have demos available that allow you to try it out before you buy. These demos may be as big as the actual game, so be aware before you start downloading.
 Once you make the purchase, your game will begin downloading to your Xbox 360's hard drive. Depending on the size of the game and the speed of your connection, this may take a while. You will be notified when the download is complete.You can turn off your 360 while the game is downloading and it will automatically resume when it is turned back on again.

