 Do you want to challenge your friend to a game of checkers? Don’t forget the checkerboard. Would you like to catch up on your reading? Bring a good book or – if you have electricity – an e-book reader. Whatever you want to have during your cabin getaway, write it on a list and pack it before you leave. Other things you might want to bring include:a guitar
a laptop
a badminton set
art supplies

, Make a list of anything you want to have during you cabin getaway. Do you want to have a wiener roast? Bring hot dogs, buns, and condiments. Does the cabin have clean running water? If not, you’ll need to bring a few gallons of bottled water.Find out from the rental agency or landlord if refrigeration is available at your cabin. If it is not, you should plan on bringing only foods that do not need refrigeration.
 Most people spend at least some of their time outdoors if they head out on a cabin getaway. Equip yourself for being outside by bringing folding chairs, backpacks and hiking gear, a flashlight, and bug spray. Don’t forget firestarter materials like matches and newspapers for kindling. Other handy tools like a Swiss army knife and a small hand-axe could also prove useful. And of course, you should always have a first-aid kit on hand.If the weather is hot, pack a small fan. If it’s cold, bring a portable heater.
 It’s best to bring a small set of plates and just wash them after each meal. If you’re renting a private vacation cabin directly from a landlord, it will probably be stocked with plates and some basic cooking ingredients. If you’re renting a cabin from a larger housing resort, however, the cabin will probably be totally bare of even the most basic cooking ingredients, plates, and cutlery.Bring plates that you don’t mind getting chipped and cracked. Whenever you travel with fragile plates, there’s a chance they could be ruined.
Some people like to use disposable plates and cutlery, but this creates needless waste.
 If you’re headed out for a cabin getaway in the dead of winter, you’ll need to pack quite differently than if your cabin getaway is scheduled for the summer. Think about what clothes you’ll be comfortable in during your cabin getaway and pack appropriately.Even during warmer months, it’s best to bring a few sweaters and pants for cooler nights or overcast days.

