 Meanwhile, grab a small, rimmed baking sheet and set it aside.You don't need to line the baking sheet with anything, but if you do choose to line it, use parchment paper. Cooking spray will negatively impact the toasting process, and aluminum foil could taint the flavor of the finished flour.;
, Load an electric seed grinder with just enough quinoa to fill the basin. If the appliance has a lid, lock the lid in place.


If you don't have an electric seed grinder, you could use a manual seed grinder, coffee grinder, or high-powered food processor.
Load the appliance up to two-thirds full with quinoa seeds. For smaller grinders, you may need to grind the quinoa in several batches to avoid over-filling the appliance. Over-filling the grinder will prevent it from processing the quinoa properly and may result in coarse flour.
 Pulse the grinder in short, on/off intervals. Continue for approximately 15 seconds, or until the appliance grinds the batch of seeds into an oven, fine powder.


When using a small grinder, carefully shake the appliance in between pulses to help shift and spread the seeds. When using a larger grinder or food processor, you may need to pause and stir the contents after several pulses to help redistribute the remaining seeds.
After grinding down the quinoa seeds, you've created quinoa flour that can technically be used as it is. Since raw quinoa flour has such a bitter taste, however, you should toast it before use to tone it down.
 Empty the contents of the grinder onto the baking sheet. Spread the flour out into an even layer.


Regardless of how much quinoa flour use plan to work with, the layer of flour should be no deeper than 1/4 inch (6 mm) on the baking sheet. Separate the flour onto separate baking sheets, if necessary., Place the pan of quinoa flour into your preheated oven. Heat treat the flour for at least two hours.


Toasting the quinoa flour for longer periods may further reduce the bitter flavor, but after two hours pass, you should check the flour every 15 minutes to verify that hasn't begun burning.
You do not need to turn or sift the flour as it toasts.
While the quinoa flour bakes, it will release a characteristic grassy scent. This scent should fade when the quinoa flour is ready to remove.
 Remove the finished quinoa flour from the oven. Set the baking sheet out at room temperature and allow the flour to completely cool.
 Place the finished quinoa flour into an airtight container or freezer-safe plastic bag. Store the flour in your refrigerator or freezer until you're ready to use it.


Quinoa can quickly become rancid, so if you don't plan on using it immediately, you need to store it in cool conditions. It should last in the refrigerator up to 6 months, but in your freezer, it should last for up to 1 year.

