 A franchisor is a business that licenses its business methods and trademarks for franchisees to use. As a franchisee, you can start up a new franchise in your town, or you can buy one that already exists (which is called a resale).There are advantages to a resale. For example, it probably already has a business location, so you won’t need to search for real estate. It may also have an established customer base and good reputation in the community.
However, an owner may be selling their franchise because it is losing money, so you’ll still need to carefully investigate the business if you decide to go forward.
 Your library should have a “franchise opportunities handbook” which you can check out and read. This handbook will describe the different franchises available and list basic information about each franchise.This is a great resource if you are hoping to start a new franchise.
 Many websites have listings of new franchise opportunities. These websites should also identify the initial startup fee you’ll need to pay. Consider the following websites:BizBuySell.com. Lists new franchise opportunities as well as existing franchises for resale.
BizQuest. Lists new franchise opportunities (but not existing franchise resales).
 Many franchisors attend expos around the country. By attending an expo, you can compare many franchises at once and ask questions. Find upcoming expos by checking online or by looking at franchise.com.Remember that franchisors are judging you just as much as you are vetting them. They want to hear you ask intelligent questions and explain your business background. Franchisors are selective about who they will sell a franchise to, so dress your best and come up with a list of questions ahead of time.
 A franchise broker is a business broker who specializes in franchises. They will talk with you about your interests and how much money you want to invest, and then they’ll find appropriate franchise opportunities. You can find a franchise broker online or in business magazines.A franchise broker is usually paid a commission from the franchisor. However, you should schedule a consultation and check.
The franchise broker can help you complete the application and gather necessary paperwork, so they are a good option if you are pressed for time.
 Check whether franchisees have had a negative experience with the franchisor. You also want to know the company’s public reputation. Research the following:The Better Business Bureau. Check with your local BBB and the BBB where the franchisor has its headquarters. Look at complaints about the franchisor’s services, products, or personnel.
Consumer protection agencies. Check whether any allegations of fraud have been made against the franchisor.
In the U.S., you can check with the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to find out whether any allegations of fraud have been made.
Current and former franchisees. The franchisor should give you a list of names, and you should call to find out whether franchisees have had a positive experience.
 Every franchisor should have a website you can visit to find out more about the costs of opening the franchise. You can provide basic information or complete an application about your business background and finances. If the franchisor is interested, they will follow up.


If an existing franchisee is available for resale, you can contact the current owner. However, they might not be able to sell to you unless they get approval from the franchisor.

