 To take a coleus cutting, choose a branch without a bloom or bud at the tip. Cut directly below a leaf node, so the cutting is 4–6 in. (10–15 cm) long.Cuttings are also available for purchase directly, and typically come with a small root ball already developed.


You may take cuttings 2–3 in. (5–7.5 cm) from smaller coleus species., Depending on the length of your cutting, one or two leaf nodes, or areas on the stem where leaves grow from, will be planted beneath the soil. Cut off the leaves growing from these lowest nodes, or they will rot when buried.
 Coleus usually roots quickly on its own, but rooting hormones from a gardening supply stores can be used to speed up their development. If you decide to go this route, follow the instructions on the label to prepare the hormone solution, then dip the cut end of the cutting into it briefly.
 Most coleus cuttings will grow in a glass of water. Change the water every other day, keep the plant in bright, indirect sunlight, and transplant the coleus to a pot once you notice root growth.The soil method below works just as well.
 Plant each cutting in its own, small, indoor pot. Use a rich, well-draining potting soil, and moisten it before planting. If the soil is not loose enough to push the cutting into directly, use a pencil to create a hole for it.Plant the coleus so the bare leaf nodes are under the soil.
 Because young cuttings have not yet grown roots, they are unable to make up for the water they lose from their leaves and stem. To counteract this, cover the entire pot and coleus cutting with a large plastic bag, to trap moisture in the air. Use sticks or toothpicks to prevent the plastic bag from touching the cutting directly.


Remove the bag once you notice new growth on the coleus, typically after 1–4 weeks.
 Keep your potted coleus in a room with temperatures at least 70ºF (21ºC) at all times. Expose it to plenty of indirect sunlight. Once the plant has developed roots and foliage, you can continue caring for it using the instructions below. You may keep it as an indoor plant, or transfer it to your garden if you live in a hot climate.


Cuttings purchased from a nursery are typically greenhouse-raised, and not used to full sun. Transfer them outside gradually, moving the pot from areas of heavy shade to sunnier areas.