 If you have decided that you are okay with him paying, then the first step is to thank him when he does. Appreciate the fact that you have a loving boyfriend who wants to treat you. Be specific and make sure you are thanking him for whatever experience he gave you.Try saying something like the following:


”Thank you for dinner. That was the most delicious lasagna I've ever had!”
”Tonight was great. Thank you. I'm so glad you were there; that movie was scary!”
”I can't believe I got to see my favorite band! I'm going to remember this forever. Thank you!”

, Even if you have talked about it and you have decided that you are okay with him paying for everything, make sure he knows he doesn't have to. Every once and awhile tell him he doesn't always have to pay. This way, as you go forward in your relationship he'll know it's okay if he has to cut back or stop at some point due to financial difficulties. He'll know that it is something he can talk to you about and not feel embarrassed.
 If he likes taking you out to treat you, find your own ways to treat him or make him feel special.If you are good at cooking or baking, make a meal or dessert for him on special occasions.If you are artistic, you can create something especially for him. You can also do an activity with him you don't normally do, like watching a sports match or game.Just spend a little extra time and effort making sure he feels valued, as well.


You should not feel obligated to do anything in return for your boyfriend taking you out. Whatever you do, make sure you are comfortable with it and that it comes from a place of wanting to do it, not feeling like you have to.
 As a way to keep up on the maintenance of your relationship make sure you talk about the money issue from time to time. If you notice that there are little arguments popping up about who pays for what, or if you notice he is getting stressed out about paying for things, it's probably time to talk.Open up the topic. ”Hey, is everything okay? You seem stressed.”
Change plans for the evening. “We don't have to go out tonight. How about we stay home and I'll whip something up?”
Remind him that you are in this together. “You know you can talk to me about anything. I know we just want each other to be happy.”

