 Trim and file your nails to a shape that you like. Push back the cuticles and wipe your nails clean with rubbing alcohol. It would be a good idea to apply some petroleum jelly, liquid latex, or white school glue to the skin around your nails. This will make cleaning up easier in the end.









If you choose to use liquid latex or white school glue, be sure to let them dry before moving on to the next step.;
, This will protect your nail against stains and help the polish last longer.








If you are using gel polish, cure it under a UV light for about 30 seconds., Black polish would work the best, but you can also use white polish instead.You could even try sparkly black polish for a galaxy effect instead.









If you are using gel polish, cure the polish under a UV light., This is very important as it will help protect your base color during later steps when you apply the acetone.








If you are using gel polish, you can skip this step. Make sure that your base color is fully cured, however.
 Use a color that contrasts with your base color. Black on white, or white or on black is the most popular choice. You can also choose a bright color, such as pale green. Plan on doing about 1 to 3 lines on your nail.Only do one nail fo now.









Don't be afraid to use more than one color on your nail for rainbow smoke!The lines don't all have to be the same length. They can be different lengths, intersect, or branch off.
If you are using gel polish, you can apply the lines to all of your nails at once. This is because gel polish does not dry unless you cure it., Choose a small, flat brush. Dip it in some acetone nail polish remover. Gently dab the lines that you drew. This will soften them, making them lighter on the edges and darker in the middle. Don't dab too hard, however, or the acetone will dissolve the top coat and base color.








If you are using gel polish, use 91% acetone instead., Consider making the smoke thicker and more condensed on your pointer finger, and thinner, wispier towards your pinky. Once again, unless you are working with gel polish, you will need to work one nail at a time.
 You can use either a glossy top coat or a matte one, the choice is up to you!









If you are using gel polish, cure your nails first. Apply the top coat, then cure the polish again.
 If you applied petroleum jelly, white school glue, or liquid latex, now is the time to wipe or peel it away. If you didn't, take a look at your nails. If you got polish on your skin, dip a small, angled brush in nail polish remover, and run it around the outside edges of your nails.








