 If you are on any medications or if you have a medical condition, then you should speak to your doctor before trying any over the counter medicines or nasal sprays. For example, if you have an enlarged prostate, glaucoma, heart disease, high blood pressure, or thyroid disease, check with your doctor or pharmacist before use because all decongestants, including sprays, can worsen these conditions. Your doctor can advise you on what medicines are and are not appropriate for you. Keep in mind that the potential side effects of decongestants include:Irritation to the lining of your nose, which may include nosebleeds
A skin rash
Headaches
Dry mouth
Restlessness or anxiety
Tremor (uncontrollable shaking and trembling)
Problems sleeping (insomnia)
Rapid and/or irregular heartbeat
Noticing your heart beating inside your chest (palpitations)
Increased blood pressure

, Over-the-counter decongestants (those not requiring a prescription) include phenylephrine and pseudoephedrine as main ingredients. They work by constricting the blood vessels in the nose. This reduces how much blood flows through the area so that swollen tissue inside the nose shrinks and air can pass through more easily.Phenylephrine comes as a tablet, a liquid (spray), or a dissolving strip to take by mouth. Also, it is an ingredient in many cold/flu medications. Follow directions on the bottle on its use.Pseudoephedrine comes as a regular tablet, a 12-hour extended-release (long-acting) tablet, a 24-hour extended-release tablet, and a solution (liquid) to be taken by mouth. Follow the directions on the package., Nasal sprays help to clear congestion by shrinking blood vessels in your nose and reducing swelling. Ask your doctor about a prescription nasal spray or buy an over-the-counter nasal spray.To use a nasal spray canister:Gently blow your nose to clear it of mucus before using the medication.
Shake the canister before using it.
Keep your head upright and breathe out slowly. (Tilting back your head can lead to increased absorption into your body and increase side effects.)
Use your finger on the free hand to close the nostril on the side not receiving the medication.
Place the tip of the canister in your nostril and press down as you begin to breathe in slowly through your nose. Repeat these steps for the other nostril.
Try not to sneeze or blow your nose just after using the spray.
 Do not use a nasal spray for more than three days. Using a nasal spray for more than three days can lead to rebound congestion, a condition in which the congestion returns.


If your congestion lasts more than three days, use a nasal spray for the first three days then switch to an oral decongestant. Do not use both at the same time as this can increase risk of side effects.