 Locate the lint screen on your dryer. It may be at the top, on the side, or at the bottom of the dryer door. Check the screen and clean it of lint every time before you place a load inside. Grab the handle of the screen and pull it out until it is fully extended. In most models, you will be able to remove it entirely for cleaning.Only apply gentle pressure when pulling out the screen. You should meet with little to no resistance. If you bend the screen too much, it may not fit back properly into the lint trap area.;
, Run your hands over the screen until you gather a small ball of lint. Then, rub this lint ball across the screen, as it will attract the leftover lint. Keep going until you can see through the screen without any blockages. Toss the gathered lint in the trash.Instead of your hand, rubbing a cleaning brush across the surface of the screen will gather the lint just as well. However, just make sure to discard the lint pulled from the screen, as it could present a fire hazard.Placing a vacuum brush attachment against the screen is another way to remove the lint.
 After you’ve pulled the screen out all the way, remove the extra lint and then run it under some water in the sink. If the screen is especially dusty, apply a bit of soap to the surface as well. Keep rinsing until the screen is clean and clear.It is not necessary to complete the step after each load, but it is a good idea to do a rinse every few weeks. This is especially the case if you use dryer sheets, as they can leave a residue on the screen’s surface.
 While the screen is out, peer into the lint trap. If you see any extra lint or debris, get out the extended vacuum attachment. Stick this attachment into the trap area, turn it on, and remove any materials present. Taking this extra step may prevent a clog from forming in the trap area., Before you place a fresh load into the dryer, make sure to fully clean the screen and trap. This will help to keep lint and debris from making its way further into the machine. It might be easy to ignore the practice for smaller loads, but continue with it regardless of load size.