 To understand relationship compatibility, you must first have an understanding of the signs of the zodiac and what they mean. The twelve signs are: Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius and Pisces. Each sign is derived from a configuration of astral bodies thought to dictate the characteristics of the people born during times when those bodies are prominent in the heavens., In addition to its constellation form, each sign is assigned an elemental significance, bearing one or more traits of the earth’s natural forces. The classifications are as follows: Fire (Aries, Leo, Sagittarius), Air (Aquarius, Gemini, Libra), Water (Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces), and Earth (Capricorn, Taurus, Virgo). A sign’s element comes from the role of its physical form in the natural order.Elemental classifications are a kind of rough grouping of attributes: Fire signs tend to be inquisitive, passionate, optimistic, while Water signs are loyal, sympathetic and driven; Earth signs are known for their rationale, practicality and stability, and Air signs are friendly, sociable and love making connections.
 As a general rule, zodiac signs that fall under the domain of Fire are believed to have the greatest compatibility with those of Air, while Water and Earth signs make the best pairings with their respective qualities. There are also other compatibilities that fall outside of the usual elemental matches; these mostly have to do with the complementary traits, preferences and emotional behaviors of the different signs.Examples of strong compatibility through the zodiac include Pisces and Capricorn, Sagittarius and Aquarius, and even Virgo and Virgo—people of a certain sign are often quite compatible with another of their kind.
Make a note of what types your sign is compatible with and be on the lookout for these types when dating.
 No two signs in the zodiac are truly incompatible—there are only varying levels of compatibility, the highest of which are expressed in the traditional elemental pairings. However, any two signs from differing elemental groups are less likely to possess the attributes necessary to foster a strong, long-lasting relationship.Incompatibility is most often caused by opposing traits causing disagreements and making communication difficult.
Sometimes, a particular characteristic of a sign might be too much for the sensibilities of another, even if they’re technically compatible. Much of astrological compatibility has to be put to the test in reality, with the symbolism of the signs acting as guidelines.

