 Life can quickly fall out of balance if you don’t have your priorities straight. Think about the activities and task that are most important (or have the greatest urgency) to you, and focus on them. This way you’re not bogged down trying to do everything.You can identify priorities by spending a little time each Sunday thinking about the demands of the week ahead. Jot down any important events or appointments, projects or tests, and chores/responsibilities.
Then, go through and create a practical schedule for each day that includes all your priorities. If you have gotten the most important things out of the way, you will feel more inclined to relax.
 It’s great to have big goals, but sometimes having high expectations can lead to frustration and dissatisfaction. Be realistic about what you’re taking on in terms of your academic course load, extracurricular activities, work responsibilities, and social engagements. Review your goals to make sure they are feasible. Then, take small action towards them daily.


For instance, you might want to become a better trumpet player. This goal is awesome, but it’s unclear. Saying, “I will practice for 30 minutes five days a week” offers a much more doable way to obtain the goal., Huge projects and assignments can wear away at your sanity. You may feel overwhelmed at the magnitude of work you must put in to complete the task. It helps to divide large projects into smaller pieces. Then, set deadlines for you to complete each individual part until the entire project is finished.For instance, if you have a five-page history paper, you might start by doing research. Then, outline your paper. Write a rough draft. Review your resources, edit and rewrite. Then, proofread again before submitting it.
 Be willing to admit when you’re in over your head. Life gets busy for everyone, so you won’t be judged for confessing to being overwhelmed. Talk to a friend, parent, teacher or counselor. These people may be able to offer advice or resources to help you cope.