 Cats often meow to beg for food. If you respond to the noise, the cat learns that this is effective. Feed the cat on a strict schedule instead of waiting for a vocal reminder.Most healthy adult cats do fine with one or two meals per day, but may be happier with more frequent, smaller meals.Kittens under six months old need at least three meals a day.This only applies to food, not water. Cats need access to clean drinking water at all times of day and night.;
, This takes patience, since your pet's first response will often be to meow even more. It's important to let this behavior play itself out without acknowledging it, not even in a negative way.Eventually, the cat will learn that meowing no longer works as a way to get your attention.


If it's approaching mealtime and the cat starts to meow, move to another room and shut the door. Come out when the cat stops meowing to fill the food bowl.
Some cats meow in the morning because they associate you getting up with their morning meal. Wait at least ten minutes after getting up to break this association., A feeder that dispenses food at regularly scheduled times may refocus a hungry cat's attention on the machine instead of on you. This also helps the cat learn the mealtime routine., If your cat's behavior doesn't improve after a week or two on a strict meal schedule, consider measuring out the daily requirement of dry food into a "food puzzle" instead. These devices let the cat access food at any time without bothering you. Unlike a constantly full cat bowl, however, the food puzzle keeps the cat stimulated and prevents overeating., If your cat still meows at the food bowl often, ask a veterinarian for advice. Fiber supplements are one option that can help your cat feel fuller, but try them only under veterinary supervision.Finding the right type of fiber may take trial and error, and too much of it can cause digestive issues.Other cats respond better to small, high-protein meals.A veterinarian can also examine your cat for possible medical issues that cause excessive hunger.

