 If you know you want to make a pencil holder, start stock piling tubes from paper towels, toilet paper, aluminum foil, etc. You’ll need at least a few. The sturdier, the better -- choose thicker tubes, if you have them., This pencil holder project won’t require any unusual tools or supplies. If you’re used to crafting, you’ll probably already have most of the necessities. If not, you can easily get them from any hobby or craft store. In addition to your tubes, you’ll need:Decorative supplies (paint, ribbon, paper, or whatever else you want to use)
Scissors
An X-acto knife
A flat sheet of thin cardboard (such as from a cereal box)
Mod Podge or glue

, If you are using longer tubes, you’ll need to cut them so that they’re not taller than your pencils. Stand a full-size pencil next to your tubes, and use scissors to cut the tube so that it’s at least an inch or two shorter than the pencil.Cut as many tubes as you think you’ll need to hold the number of pencils you have.
If you want some variation in your design, cut the tubes to slightly different lengths.
While you’re at it, you can also designate some tubes to hold other supplies, like pens, scissors, or a ruler. If you want to keep small items (like paperclips) in any of the tubes, however, make sure to cut the tube fairly short so you’ll be able to reach the items.
 Plain cardboard tubes will be functional, but not very pretty. Adding some decorative touches is easy and will make your pencil holder instantly more classy. For instance, you could:Paint the outside of the tubes
Brush them with Mod Podge then wrap them in paper, ribbon, yarn, etc.
Wrap the tubes in washi tape or decorative duct tape.
 Once you have your individual tubes decorated to your liking, stand them all up on their ends. Place them next to each other in various arrangements until you find one that looks good to you. Then apply a thin line of glue or Mod Podge just where each tube touches another. Hold the tubes together for a few seconds to set the glue, then add another line of glue to attach the next tube.For best results, arrange your tubes in some sort of cluster shape. This will keep the pencil holder sturdy.
 The paper tubes are open on both ends, and adding a base will keep them from accidentally falling out if you move or lift up your pencil holder. Luckily, this is quick and easy. Grab your sheet of thin cardboard. Apply glue or Mod Podge to the bottom of your tubes, then set the tube cluster on top of the cardboard.Let the glue dry.
Take an X-acto knife and trace around the edges of your tube cluster. This will remove the excess cardboard and give your pencil holder a clean look.

