 Select the Settings’ gear icon from your iPhone’s home screen to open its Settings menu. The Settings menu is where you’ll find different customizable options for your iPhone that you can personalize depending on how you use your device.;
, Scroll down the Settings menu and tap “General” from the list of entries to view all the general options of your iPhone, such as the date and time, keyboard, passcode lock, and more.


Scroll down the General settings screen and select “Restrictions” on the lower part of the menu to view your iPhone’s restriction options.
 Tap “Enable Restrictions” at the top of the Restriction menu screen, and a pop-up menu will appear prompting you to enter a 4-digit passcode. Enter your desired number combination using the on-screen keypad, and it will be automatically saved and enable your iPhone’s restriction feature.


The passcode you’ll use for the restriction settings differs from the one used to lock and unlock the iPhone home screen.
 Scroll down the Restriction menu, and on the lower part, you’ll find an entry labeled “In-App Purchases.” Tap the toggle switch beside the entry and switch it to green color to disable in-app purchases from your iPhone. This way, every time there’s an attempt to make an in-app purchase from whatever app installed on your iPhone, a pop-up menu will appear requiring the current user to enter the 4-digit passcode you’ve set earlier.
 Any changes you make on the Restrictions menu will be automatically saved. So once you’ve disabled the in-app purchase, press the Home button to exit the Restrictions menu screen and go back to your iPhone’s home screen. Once you’re back there, tap any app installed on your iPhone and try to make an in-app purchase.


The app will try to open the App Store app on your iPhone to proceed with the purchase, but a pop-up menu will appear requiring you to enter a 4-digit passcode. Unless you enter the correct passcode combination, your iPhone’s restriction settings will stop the app from continuing with the process.

