 Writing up a weekly meal plan may be one of the most useful things when improving your family's diet. This will help organize you, make grocery shopping easier and help you stay on track throughout the week.Spend some time on the weekends, or when you have free time, and write up a rough list of meals that you're going to prepare the next week. Make sure to include breakfast, lunches, dinners and any snacks.
Take a sheet of paper or notebook and write down each day of your week (Sunday through Saturday). Write in all of your meals, what day you're going to the grocery store and what day you plan on spending time doing some meal prep.
After this is done, write up the corresponding grocery list. This will help you stay on track, buy only what you need and cut down on unnecessary trips to the store throughout the week.;
, Another helpful way to get quick, nutritious meals on the table is to do meal prep prior to your week. Just a little time on the weekends can save you hours during the week.


An example of one day of planned meals may look like: Breakfast: fruit and yogurt parfaits with low-fat granola; Lunch: almond butter and sliced apple sandwiches on whole wheat bread; Snack: 1/3 cup trail mix; Dinner: grilled chicken and pepper fajitas with a tossed garden salad.
In addition to quick meals, studies have shown that children's food choices are healthier and more nutritious if they have parents that meal prep and cook more often at home.Sometimes, healthier, nutritious foods require a little more prep work to get on the table. Many processed foods can be eaten right out of the package or only require a quick microwave or time in the oven.
Meal prep ideas: cut and wash all fruits and vegetables. Place prepared items in sealed bags or containers until you're ready to cook them. You can also pre-cook proteins like fish, chicken or pork and leave items in sealed containers to reheat when you're ready to use them.
If you can, also save yourself time by purchasing ready-to-cook items. For example, you can purchase: bagged lettuce, pre-cut/pre-washed fruits and vegetables, quick cooking whole grains or simply grilled protein.
 This is an essential nutrient for both adults and children. Consuming a source of lean protein at each meal will help ensure each family member is getting their recommended amounts each day.


Include a wide variety of leaner protein choices like: poultry, eggs, pork, lean beef, low-fat dairy, legumes and tofu.
In general, one serving of protein is about 3-4 oz. This is about the size of a deck of cards or an adult sized palm.It's also recommended to include 1-2 servings of fish each week.Oven-fried fish or homemade baked fish sticks are a great way to get kids to eat seafood.
Women should get 46 grams of protein every day, and men should get 56. Women who are pregnant or lactating can intake more protein, too, up to 71 grams a day. Make sure that you're preparing meals that allow for enough protein in your family's diets., Although 100% whole grains may not always be your children's favorite, adding them in whenever you can will help increase the amount of fiber and other essential nutrients in your family's diet.Choose items like brown rice, 100% whole wheat pasta or bread. Minimize more refined grains like white rice, instant oatmeal, plain pasta or white bread.
If your family isn't a fan of whole grains, try mixing half whole grains with more refined grains - like 1/2 brown rice and 1/2 white rice. You can also try purchasing "white" whole wheat flour items that are less gritty and have a milder flavor.
Women should get about 25 grams of fiber every day, and men should get 38., At least half of your plate should consist of vegetables., but vegetables can be a tricky food group to get your family to eat. But there are a few tricks to sneak in extra vegetables in your meals without anyone knowing the wiser.


Hide dark greens like spinach into high protein and fruit smoothies.
Puree vegetables into sauces like tomato sauce or cheese sauce for mac and cheese.
Added cooked, very finely chopped vegetables into meatballs, meatloaf, or burgers.
Add shredded carrots or zucchini to muffins, bread or pancakes.
 Cooking with either your spouse or kids is a great way to get everyone involved in cooking and eating healthier meals.


You'll be able to spend some quality one-on-one time with your family members and strengthen your relationship. Also, kids who are exposed to cooking have more adventurous palates and are many times, open to trying more new foods.Choose 1-2 nights a week where you get the whole family involved in cooking. For example: you could make whole wheat pizza dough together and let everyone make their own individual pizza.
Cooking together can also spark an interest in other endeavors, such as chemistry and nutritional sciences.
 As you continue to be consistent with new healthy habits, your family will get used to these new changes.


With children specifically, it might take several tries before they will "like" certain foods. If they aren't a fan of an item one night, that's OK. Keep offering that particular food along with a variety of new ones consistently. Most foods will be accepted over time.Also, limit snacks about 1-2 hours before meal time. This will help make sure kids (and adults) are hungry for their meal. When they aren't feeling particularly hungry, they may not be as open to trying new foods., Eating a morning meal each day is important for your entire family's health. Eating breakfast has been linked with a variety of health benefits including healthy weight management, improved concentration and alertness and a more balanced mood.Getting your kids to eat breakfast regularly may also help them manage their weight and keep this healthy habit of eating a morning meal into adulthood.Breakfast doesn't have to be anything special. It could be a meal you sit down together to eat every morning, or something you grab and eat on the way to work and school.
Family friendly breakfasts include: 1 whole grain waffle with peanut butter and banana slices, or "egg in a hole" using 1 slice whole wheat bread, 1 egg and some shredded cheese or a fruit and yogurt parfait with low-fat granola.
 Packing lunch for both parents and kid's can help everyone improve their diet and eat healthier.


Packing lunches for adults can help save money and improve overall nutrition.
Many times options at schools are not as healthy as parents would like. Even if your child's school offers healthier options, it may be tempting for kids to choose their favorite more processed foods when they are in charge of making their own choices.To save time, pack lunches at night. That way, everyone's meals are ready to grab and go in the morning.
Examples of family friendly packed lunches include: whole wheat wrap with lean deli meat and cheese with a small piece of fruit and baby carrots or make your own bento box with nuts, cubed cheese, fruit and raw veggies.
 Numerous studies have shown that all members of the family benefit when they eat together as often as possible. Even with everyone's busy schedules, try to aim for at least 3-4 days a week where the family sits down and eats together.


Studies have shown that eating together helps improve children's vocabulary and reading skills, children will eat more fruits and vegetables, and will lower the risk of unhealthy behaviors in teens (like binge drinking or smoking).Make a rule for no cell phones or computers during family meals. In addition to sitting down together, make sure the time is not filled with electronic distractions. Have everyone turn off the TV, cellphone or computers during dinner.
 After dinner is a typical time to crave a little something sweet. Both parents and kid's can healthfully indulge in a sweet treat while still having a nutritious diet.


When you're preparing desserts or treats for your family, try to add in some extra nutrition. For example, using sweet fruit as the main component of dessert can keep the sweetness factor but with little added sugar.
Other nutritious sweet treats include: sliced apple with peanut butter and a drizzle of honey, grilled pineapple with a dollop of low-fat whipped cream or homemade chocolate dipped strawberries.
Limit junk food and unhealthy snacks. Although it's perfectly OK to the have the occasional higher fat, more processed treat, keep these to a minimum. The less options there are in the house, the less likely it is the kids or parents will reach for more processed foods.
 It's important to be good role models for children as they grow up - especially when it comes to healthy eating habits. If you instill good habits early on and are consistent, it's more likely your children will continue these habits as adults.Eat what they eat. If you want your kids to eat more fruits and vegetables, then you need to eat more fruits and vegetables. Show them that this is part of a healthy diet and should be included daily.
Don't skip meals. Skipping meals is an easy habit to get into. However, there are a variety of negative side effects of skipping meals (especially breakfast). Teach your family how important it is to eat regularly by making sure you do so yourself.
Be positive about trying new things. Whether it's trying a new food or new activity, be positive about the experience. Show your family that it's fun and healthy to try new things.
 Being physically active together is another example of when kids can learn good, healthy behaviors from their parents and family. Spend time several days a week being active together.


Adults typically need about 150 minutes of activity each week. Children need about 60 minutes of activity each day.The amount of activity may seem like a lot, but remember, your children are most likely getting activity in through recess and gym class at school. However, it's still important to do activities together as a family.
Try activities like: going for bike rides, taking the dog for a walk, going hiking on the weekends or playing sports together.
 Increased screen time has been linked to increased weight and obesity in children in the US.Limit screen time to a maximum of 1-2 hours daily.Make set rules in your household about when and where children can have screen time. For example: no computers or TV's in your child's bedroom or no screen time until homework is completed and they've been active for 30 minutes.
Engage children in other fun activities outside of screen time like: playing a board game, playing outside, engaging in family exercise or helping prepare dinner or packed lunches.
 Everyone in your family should have a fairly set bedtime - especially kids. It's important for everyone to get adequate rest each night.


In general, adults typically need anywhere from 7-9 hours of sleep each night. Younger children need at least 10 hours night and teenagers need about 9 hours each night.Make sure kids are in bed, ready for sleep at least 9-10 hours prior to when they need to wake up for school. Do not keep electronics or devices that light up or make sound in bedrooms to help everyone have a more restful nights sleep.

