  UTIs are painful, inconvenient, expensive to treat, and taking loads of antibiotics frequently isn't good for your body.  It may even make future infections resistant to antibiotics and make women more susceptible to yeast infections.  For both men and women, I recommend three things that will make a profound difference.


Practice good hygiene.  A big cause of UTIs is e. coli, which can come from your digestive system.  Sexual activity, from the constant movement, can push this type of bacteria into the urethra. Always make sure your privates are clean from the front to back.  Washing the genitals with water (or an intimate cleanser) and washing your behind with warm soap and water in the shower will help immensely. Baby wipes after using the bathroom can be used too.
Always, ALWAYS pee after sex.  Many people claim this interferes with 'cuddle' time, but you can cuddle after going to the bathroom.  This is the single most overlooked and ignored step that prevent UTIs more than anything.  Peeing after sex can flush out any bacteria that may have been pushed into your urethra. Explaining this to your partner can ease any frustration, and they should be able to understand.
Of course, make sure you are hydrated enough so that you can go to the bathroom frequently.  Drink lots of water!;
,  There are only two things you will need. Yes, only two. AGAIN: If you are on any medication, have strong taste aversion, or are pregnant, please DO NOT attempt this.


Dried Neem leaves (can be found in an Indian grocery or online) WARNING: Do NOT use Neem Oil, this is the oil from the same plant and is toxic when ingested, not powder, ONLY the dried leaves.
D-Mannose powder (can be found online or at Whole Foods in capsule form)

,  This will brew a strong, bitter tea that is naturally anti-bacterial and anti-fungal.  It is also known as an abortifacient, which is why it is not recommended for pregnant women.


Put a few ice cubes in the pot to cool down the tea, since you will want to start drinking it immediately.
  With the first glass, take your first dose of d-mannose powder.  You can't really overdose on d-mannose since it is a naturally derived from cranberries, so I recommend taking 3-4 capsules every hour or so.


The neem tea has a very bitter taste, and is highly unpleasant to drink because of its bad taste.  If you can, try to drink the rest of your tea in the pot throughout the day.  If needed, drink water in between if the taste is too strong.
  You should be urinating quite a lot due to the high fluid intake, and both should flush bacteria out of the bladder and urethra.
  If not, then I would highly recommend scheduling an appointment with your primary physician or OB/GYN as soon as possible. In serious cases, UTIs can lead to kidney infections, so it is imperative to treat the problem swiftly.  If all else fails, you can find your nearest Minute Clinic at a local drugstore and they should be able to prescribe you antibiotics.  Last resort: go to the hospital if none of these options are available.

