 For best posture and reach, make sure that when you are sitting your feet are flat on the floor. Also, be sure that you can comfortably reach the pedals without having to move in your seat while playing.;
, Instead of coming at an angle, position your right and left foot so that the big toe of each foot is in line with the far left and right pedals. Since you won’t be able to look at the pedals while you play piano, keeping your legs and feet straight will help you find the pedals blindly.
 Use the ball of your foot to cover only the rounded end of the pedal.Depress the pedals by pivoting your foot up and down, using only the front part of your foot. Release pedals with smooth movements because lifting a pedal abruptly and not gently will create jerky chord progressions and choppy notes.


Only use the front part of your foot to press down so that you don’t move your entire leg each time which slows down your playing.
Your right foot is only used to press down the damper pedal which is the one on the far right.
Your left foot plays both the soft pedal and sostenuto pedals which are the far left and middle pedal, respectively.
 Use only the ball of your foot to depress the pedals and keeping your heels planted. By isolating those smaller foot muscles, you’re using fine motor skills to operate the pedals more sensitively and skillfully.
 You can press a pedal down all the way, halfway, or a quarter of the way down. Each increment changes an aspect of the piano’s sound while you’re playing. Take the time to play around and listen to the changes in a note’s sound quality as you adjust the pedal.


Pressing any of the pedals lifts the dampers inside the piano. Lifting the dampers allows the strings that are attached to the piano keys to vibrate and make sounds.
Pushing a pedal part of the way down only partially lifts the dampers, so the pedal’s effects are diminished.
 On the far right of your pedal set is the damper which is the most commonly used one. This pedal lifts all dampers from the stings of the keys so that they can vibrate freely. Keep this pedal depressed to join notes together smoothly, make a group of chords crescendo, or to make a piece music resonate as it ends.Depending a musical notations, depress the damper pedal before, at the same time, or after you play a note. Each difference in timing produces unique sound effects.The dampers on all the strings are raised when the damper pedal is used, as well as the intended ones. The one set of strings’ vibrations causes sympathetic vibrations with all the other strings and also sustains the notes played until the pedal is released.
 Press the far left pedal when you play a note or chord whose quality of sound you want to soften. You can mute or incorporate an ethereal tone to your piano playing by interspersing this pedal throughout a piece.


The soft pedal manipulates the hammer that strikes the strings that are attached to any key that you play. Different keys have different amounts of strings and using the soft pedal shifts the hammer to strike fewer strings for a more muted sound.
You can still play loudly while pressing the soft pedal. Striking keys harder than normal will override the effect of the soft pedal.
Don’t use the soft pedal as an excuse not to learn to play softly. You should still be able to control your fingers to play keys quietly without a pedal., Press the sostenuto pedal at the same time as a note or chord that you want to accentuate and sustain. The sostenuto pedal will prolong the sound of that particular note while you play other notes that are unaffected by the pedal.For example, you can play a bass note and at the same time depress the sostenuto so that you can prolong the bass note while playing staccato soprano keys that are not sustained.
You can still use the damper pedal while using the sostenuto. This allows you to give multiple notes different dynamics all at the same time., Each pedal is notated by a different abbreviated word or symbol on a sheet of music. These notations are usually found running underneath of the staff for the treble or bass clef.To depress or engage the damper pedal, you will see either “ped.” in plain or flourished script.
Soft pedal markings on a sheet of music appear as “una corda” to tell you to use it and “tre corde” to stop.The sostenuto isn’t used very often but when a piece of music calls for it, there will be markings that read “sost. ped.”When the composer wants you to release a pedal, there will be a symbol that resembles an asterisk (*).
 Depending on when you play a note or chord and when you depress a pedal, you can create various sound effects. It takes practice to be able to play the piano with hands while also paying attention to where and when your feet are moving on the pedals. As you practice, go slowly so that your brain can become accustomed to multitasking.Preliminary pedaling is when you use a pedal before playing a note. This gives off a deep, rich sound because the dampers are taken off the keys and the strings are allowed to vibrate and create sound freely.
Use a pedal while simultaneously playing a note to accentuate its sound.
When you play notes while holding down the damper pedal, you accumulate volume, or cause a crescendo that grows louder as it is sustained.
Change or disengage and reengage the pedal often to help maintain tonal quality and integrity. Holding down a pedal can muddy up the sound.
 You may come across a piece of music that is void of pedal markings. As you practice the piece, pay attention to the overall tone and theme of the music. A fast-paced tune might not need a lot of damper pedal whereas a somber piece might benefit from the damper pedal as well as the soft pedal for a melancholy effect.