, These are sold separately from the console. You can find them new and used on sites like Gamestop.com, Amazon.com and eBay.com., The expansion bay is located at back and bottom of your PS2. The cover can be removed by simply popping it off, no tools are needed to remove it., The adapter should snap into place with relative ease., A small Phillips-head screwdriver is ideal for this., The memory card needs 137 kilobytes of free space to save all of your network settings and registration information.,,, The disc is typically included when you purchase the network adapter, but if you lose or break it, some games (such as SOCOM and NFL 2K3) have stand-alone operations that configure and save your network settings., A text prompt will appear telling you that you need at 137 kilobytes of free space on your memory card. Tap the "X" button to continue.

You can confirm how much space your card has by accessing the system's browser and selecting the memory card icon. In this menu, you can choose to delete game save files to make more free space available. To access the browser, make sure no disc is in the console and turn it on. This will bring up the main system menu, including the browser.
 The next screen brings up a prompt, allowing you to register some personal information with SCEA customer support via phone or online (through the system). Unless you have a dial-up connection, it is faster to register online.,, The next prompt will allow you to create, edit, and delete ISP settings. Choose "New" and give the setting a name. Make it something memorable in case you have to come back and edit it later. If you don't already have an ISP, the program provides links to different ISP services (such as America Online and Earthlink)., The "Automatic" setting is for ISPs that automatically assign new internet protocol (IP) addresses for different devices on the network. The "Manual" setting is for people who need to enter specific IP and domain name system (DNS) information.

If you need to manually enter your ISP settings and don't know the particular information that needs to be entered, consult your ISP documentation and your primary computer used to access the Internet.
 If your Internet connection is protected, a username and password are required to access it. Enter that information in this portion of the setup to sync it with your PS2 online access., Once setup is complete, you can remove the disc and start a game with network functionality. Go to the multiplayer section of the game to test and see if your network settings were configured correctly.