 Chocolate fondue is the most popular dessert option, but there are many different dessert options available, so you should experiment some to find some new favorites.


No matter what dessert fondue you choose, you should prepare the fondue itself on the stove in a small saucepan before transferring it to your fondue pot.
The fondue pot should already be warm before you add the fondue to it.
After you transfer the fondue to the pot, light your candle to keep it warm.
 Chocolate fondue is rich and creamy, so it's hard to go wrong with this classic choice.Boil 1/2 cup (125 ml) water in a small saucepan. Dump the water after it reaches a boil but do not dry the pan.
Pour 1 1/4 cup (300 ml) of heavy cream into the same saucepan and heat over medium for about 2 minutes, just long enough for it to heat up.
Add 1/2 lb (250 g) dark chocolate morsels and 3.5 oz (100 g) milk chocolate morsels to the hot cream and stir until melted and smooth.
Place 10 large marshmallows in the chocolate mixture and stir until melted.
 White chocolate fondue can be a real treat for guests that have an especially strong sweet tooth.Heat water in the bottom half of a double boiler using medium heat. Let it reach a slow simmer.
Add 11 oz (310 g) white chocolate morsels to the top portion of the double boiler and combine them with 1/4 cup (60 ml) milk. Stir until melted.
Transfer the fondue to your fondue pot.
 Caramel is another fondue favorite and makes a great choice for guests that may not enjoy chocolate.Combine 1 cup (250 ml) evaporated milk, 2 cups (500 ml) white sugar, 4 Tbsp (60 ml) butter, and 4 Tbsp (60 ml) corn syrup in a small saucepan. Heat over medium, stirring frequently, until it reaches a boil.
Allow the mixture to thicken at a boil for 5 minutes before transferring it to your warm fondue pot.
 Small pieces of fruit, cake, and bread are usually your best choices for dessert fondues. Prepare 1 to 2 pieces of fruit per person or 2 to 3 servings of cake and bread per person.


In particular, chocolate fondue goes great with strawberries, banana slices, grapes, cherries, pound cake, marshmallows, quartered oranges, pineapple, apple slices, kiwi slices, pear slices, bread, donuts, croissants, and melon, as well as various nuts.
White chocolate fondue goes good with salted pretzel rods, pineapple, crystallized ginger, and mango slices.
Caramel fondue works well with sliced peaches, strawberries, banana slices, grapes, cherries, pound cake, marshmallows, unsalted popcorn, pineapple, apple slices, kiwi slices, mango chunks, raspberries, pear slices, donuts, and croissants, as well as various nuts.

