 If at all possible, bring your pet indoors during extreme temperatures and cold weather storms. This could be a room in your home or even a garage. Cold temperatures can be harmful even to outdoor pets.If you bring your pet into your garage, make sure there is no antifreeze spills or other chemicals on the floor. This could cause death.
If your pet is in your garage, don’t start your car in a closed garage. This could lead to carbon monoxide poisoning.
 If you pet spends most of his time outdoors and bringing him indoors is not an option, provide a shelter for him. This may be a doghouse, an outbuilding, or shed. When you provide a doghouse for your dog, it needs to be dry inside, as well as protected from wind. The dog should be able to comfortably enter, sit, and lie down inside. Ideally, it should be small enough to trap heat to help keep the dog warm.Cover the floor with shavings or straw. Make sure the floor is raised a few inches off the ground. The ground can hold cold and make your pet even colder.If possible, cover the door with burlap or plastic. Arrange the doorway away from winds.
Don’t use space heaters or heat lamps. These are fire hazards and can possibly burn your pet., Paws are particularly susceptible to cold weather damage, as are noses and ears. If your pet is kept outdoors, keep a watch on the paws, nose, and ears. Check for cracked pads or bleeding paws. Make sure no ice is accumulating on the paws., Outdoor pets need more food during the winter. They burn more energy during the winter trying to stay warm. Consider adding an extra meal each day, or increasing the amount you feed your pet each day.Don’t use metal food bowls during the winter because an animal’s tongue may stick to the metal in cold temperatures.
 Pets require constant access to water, and outdoor pets are no exception. The problem for outdoor pets during cold weather is frozen water. If the temperature outdoors is below freezing, your pet’s water may freeze. Check throughout the day to make sure the water is not frozen.Keep the water unfrozen by changing it frequently. You can also buy pet-safe heated water bowls.Do not place water in metal bowls. Your pet’s tongue may stick to the metal.
 If you have a pet who stays outside, try to protect him from salt. This may mean keeping your outdoor dog in an area where you do not treat the ground with salt or other chemicals. This can protect the dog from getting it on his paws, which can cause irritation. It also protects from your dog licking his paws or licking the ground and ingesting harmful chemicals., Antifreeze is poisonous and can kill pets. If your pet stays outside, make sure to keep antifreeze carefully put away so the dog or cat can stay out of it. If you get antifreeze on your driveway, clean it as best you can so your pet (or other neighborhood pets) will not be tempted to lick it.Antifreeze has a sweet odor, so pets may be attracted to it., You should keep your pet on a leash during cold weather, especially during storms. Snow and ice can cause scents to easily get lost, so dogs might lose their way and be unable to find their way home or back to you if they get off the leash., Cats can crawl into warm car engines during cold weather for warmth and shelter. If a cat is under your hood when you start your car, this can either injure or kill the cat. To prevent this, bang on the hood, blow your horn, or check under your hood before starting your car during cold weather.