 Your body will have to work very hard to digest processed and high fat foods. As a result, you will sweat more. To reduce night time sweating, avoid highly processed and fat foods.For example, you should stay away from fried foods such as French fries and onion rings.
You should avoid sandwiches with a lot of mayonnaise.
Try to avoid hamburgers.
Skip fast food meals such as pizza or poutine.
 Spicy meals with a lot of hot peppers or other hot spices should be avoided. These foods will cause you to sweat more so they should be avoided and especially in the evening.For instance, you might want to avoid spicy tacos with Jalapeno peppers or other hot sauces.
You might want to avoid hot curries or other spicy Indian foods.
Try to avoid adding hot sauce or hot peppers to your eggs.
 If you eat too much salt, your body will sweat in order to get rid of the extra sodium in your body. A simple way of reducing sweat is to cut down on your salt consumption.Lower your consumption of potato chips, which are typically high in sodium.
Reduce your consumption of French fries, which typically contain a lot of sodium.
Reduce the amount of salt you put on your eggs in the morning.
 If you are a tea or coffee drinker, try not to drink too much of it. These drinks contain caffeine. Caffeine stimulates your nervous system, which will get your sweat glands working. If you are in the habit of enjoying a cup of coffee or tea with chocolate after dinner, you might want to skips this part of your evening routine.Cut down on caffeinated soft drinks.
Reduce your consumption of chocolate, which also contains caffeine.
Try to avoid energy drinks, which typically contain a lot of caffeine.
 Drinking a lot can lead to excess sweating. Try lowering your alcohol consumption to curb night time sweats.If you are diabetic, evening alcohol consumption can result in lower blood sugar. In turn, this can cause night time sweating., Smoking cigarettes stimulates the release of acetylcholine. This gets your sweat glands working overtime. Smoking also raises your blood pressure, heart rate, and body temperature, which also increases sweating. It can also cause cancer, which is another cause of night time sweats. If you have been thinking about quitting, now might be the time., If you have hypoglycemia, you might try eating a protein rich snack in the evening. A protein bar, Greek yogurt or other protein rich snack can help improve the stability of your blood sugar at night. In turn, this can reduce the likelihood of night sweats associated with hypoglycemia.Enjoy half a cup of low fat cottage cheese with three quarters of a cup of blueberries.