 Pray for the people who have never heard the name of Jesus. Pray for an end to injustices such as poverty, racism, genocide, human trafficking, corruption and abortion. Pray for peace and security throughout the world. Pray for leaders. Jesus teaches us how to pray in Luke 11. Be specific. Operation World is a great book which can help you in this. If you can't get the book, you be emailed daily prayer requests. Sign up at http://www.operationworld.org/prayer-movement-sign-up 'I urge, then, first of all, that requests, prayers, intercession and thanksgiving be made for everyone— 2 for kings and all those in authority, that we may live peaceful and quiet lives in all godliness and holiness.' (1 Timothy 2:1-2).;
, God's salvation is terrific news worth telling. 'I pray that you may be active in sharing your faith, so that you will have a full understanding of every good thing we have in Christ.' (Philemon 1:6).
 'Whatever you do, work at it with all your heart, as working for the Lord, not for men...' (Colossians 3:23).
 Recycle, plant trees, carpool, use public transport, buy energy efficient lightbulbs, connect to solar power if you can afford it, switch off unneeded lights, pick up litter....you complete the list! 'The LORD God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to work it and TAKE CARE of it.' (Genesis 2:15, emphasis added).
 Lobby your government to increase foreign aid and to put pressure on corrupt governments. Campaign for the rights of the unborn. Don't be silent if your government spends millions on sports while making excuses on why they can't give more aid to the starving and homeless. Sign petitions (always make sure you check the petition carefully first). Write to overseas governments requesting the release of prisoners of conscience. There are countless ways to get involved in these things. 'Speak up for those who cannot speak for themselves, for the rights of all who are destitute.' (Proverbs 31:8).
 Over 200 million Christians are persecuted today because of their faith- our brothers and sisters. They are beaten, abused, denied their basic rights, fired, evicted, kidnapped, imprisoned, tortured and even killed.You can pray for them and even write to some of them who are in prison by visiting www.prisoneralert.com In this way you can encourage them even though you can't physically visit them. 'Onesiphorus...often refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chains. On the contrary, when he was in Rome, he searched hard for me until he found me.' (2 Timothy 1:16-17).
 Sign up for Voice of the Martyr's free monthly newsletter at http://www.vom.com.au/get-involved/newsletter/ if you live in Australia. If you live somewhere else, google voice of the martyrs in your country and you should come across it. 'Remember those in prison as if you were their fellow prisoners, and those who are mistreated as if you yourselves were suffering.' (Hebrews 13:3).
 If you are reading this, you are among the richest in the world. People around the world desperately need help, and a small amount can make a big difference. 'He who is kind to the poor lends to the LORD, and he will reward him for what he has done.' (Proverbs 19:17).
 'Religion that God our Father accepts as pure and faultless is this: to look after orphans and widows in their distress....' (James 1:27).
 Go to www.gfa.org You can also sponsor an overseas theological student through Overseas Council Australia. '“Do not muzzle an ox while it is treading out the grain.” '. (1 Corinthians 9:9, cf Deuteronomy 25:4).
 Go to www.samaritanspurse.org 'And he took the children in his arms, put his hands on them and blessed them.' (Mark 10:16).
 The organisation will let you choose a gift to buy for a person in a developing country, and send you a card to give to a friend. The card informs your friend that you bought a present for someone else on their behalf. Gifts vary from chickens and camels to rickshaws and Bibles. Organisations that have such a gift catalogue include, but are not limited to, Samaritan's Purse, World Vision. TEAR Fund, Christian Blind Mission, Gospel for Asia, Compassion, and Baptist World Aid. You could also request such a gift from others instead of a normal present. '...love your neighbor as yourself...' (Leviticus 19:18).
 This ensures the workers get a fair price for their labour where they could otherwise have been cheated or forced to work as a slave. 'I will be quick to testify against....those who defraud laborers of their wages.' (Malachi 3:5).
 Don't forget to actually pray! 'On him we have set our hope that he will continue to deliver us, as you help us by your prayers. Then many will give thanks on our behalf for the gracious favor granted us in answer to the prayers of many.' (2 Corinthians 1:10-11).
 Go to www.globalmediaoutreach.com to find out more. 'He said to them, “Go into all the world and preach the good news to all creation.' (Mark 16:15).
 If applicable, promote reconciliation between the settlers and the indigenous people of your country. 'Here there is no Greek or Jew, circumcised or uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave or free, but Christ is all, and is in all.' (Colossians 3:11).
 'All Scripture is God-breathed and is useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting and training in righteousness, so that the man of God may be thoroughly equipped for every good work.' (1 Timothy 3:16-17).
, Every question you answer correctly donates 10 grains of rice to the World Food Program. No, someone doesn't go through a pile of rice counting out 10 grains at a time. The revenue raised from the ads and banners on the page is donated, which covers the cost of approximately 10 grains of rice. ‘Now this was the sin of ...Sodom... arrogant, overfed and unconcerned; did not help the poor and needy. (Ezekiel 16:49).
 Goodsearch is a free Yahoo-powered search engine which donates half of each search's advertising revenue to your chosen non-profit. Each search generates approximately a cent, but it adds up very quickly! Some organisations have earned tens of thousands of dollars through this. There are thousands of non profits to choose from. Go to www.goodsearch.com

, Although the majority of missions work is now being done effectively through national missionaries, God may still call you to serve Him in another culture. Pray and ask God for wisdom, but don't wait for a blinding light- it rarely comes. 'If any of you lacks wisdom, he should ask God, who gives generously to all without finding fault, and it will be given to him.' (James 1:5). 'Then Jesus came to them and said, “All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. 19 Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them inthe name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, 20 and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And surely I am with you always, to the very end of the age.” ' Matthew 28:19-20).

