 The quest will direct you to speak with Falion in Morthal, who studies vampirism.


If you can’t get an innkeeper to give you the quest, try another town or rest for a night. Their answers will sometimes reset with time.
This dialogue is only available once you are a vampire.
If you have reached stage 4 vampirism (by going too many days without feeding), townsfolk will attack you on sight (including innkeepers). You will need to feed or use a blood potion to lower your vampirism level before you are able to speak to an innkeeper for the quest.
 He will tell you about the ritual that cures vampirism, and ask you to bring him a filled black soul gem as the next part of the quest.


Morthal is located north of Whiterun. Falion typically resides in his house, which will be labeled as such on your map.
 Black soul gems are used to trap human souls for the purposes of powerful enchantments, or in this case, a ritual. Empty black soul gems can be purchased from Falion for a price. They can also be found in dungeons and dropped by Necromancers.
 Unlike other soul gems, black soul gems are filled with human souls. You will need to kill a human with a weapon enchanted with Soul Trap or by casting the Soul Trap spell on them.


Soul trap tomes can be purchased from a few different vendors, including the court mages at Whiterun and Windhelm or from one of the mages at the College of Winterhold. Scrolls of Soul Trap can usually be purchased from the same vendors who sell the tomes. This is a single cash item and does not require any mastery of magic.
You can enchant a weapon with Soul Trap if you have ever disenchanted one with the same property. Some can also be found or purchased throughout the world.
If you cannot enchant or do not want to purchase a weapon you can obtain the Mace of Molag Bal as a reward for completing the quest, “House of Horrors.” Speak with Tyranus in Markarth to begin that quest line.
 He will tell you to meet him at a summoning circle outside of town.
 The summoning stones are location just north of the town. You must meet him between 5 and 6 AM in-game time at which point he will begin the ritual.


Falion will not perform the ritual without your presence. This means you do not need to proceed to the summoning stones immediately if you do not want to.
 Falion will perform the ritual, and after a short dialog you will no longer be a vampire.

