 As a general rule, purchase steel with a medium to high carbon steel range. One of the best options is type 1095 steel, which is 0.05-inch (1.27-mm) thick.Type 1095 steel is fairly inexpensive, easy to treat, and easy to work with overall.
Another good option is L6 steel, which has a little nickel added into the composition. It is nearly as easy to heat treat but is slightly less durable.
Additional steel types commonly used for knives and daggers include 01 steel, W2 steel, and D2 steel.;
, The "guard" is the strip of material separating the blade from the handle. Brass is the best material to use.


Look for a brass bar measuring around 1 inch (2.5 cm) wide and 3/16 inch (4.76 mm) thick. The length you'll need will vary depending on the size of your dagger, but you generally won't need more than 6 inches (14.24 cm) or so.
 While modern knives usually have plastic-based handles, you should stick with natural materials like hardwood when creating a dagger for the sake of design and authenticity. Hardwoods will also be easier to work with as a beginner.


One good option is Purpleheart wood. You could also try osage orange, yew, iron bark eucalyptus, and manzanita.
 Wooden handles can shrink when exposed to heat and moisture, causing them to crack. One of the best ways to prevent this from happening is to thoroughly dry the wood out before you use it.


During the summer, you could leave the wood in a hot car for a week or two.
Alternatively, set your oven to the lowest possible temperature and let the wood bake inside for a few hours. Monitor it carefully and remove it if the wood starts smoking or scorching.
 When designing a dagger for the first time, you should consider a length between 3 and 4 inches (7.6 and 10 cm).


You can sketch out the blade first and measure your sketch to determine the exact dimensions, or you could decide on the dimensions before sketching out the dagger. Either option is acceptable.
Also consider the width. Ideally, the width of the blade should be between 1 and 2 inches (2.5 and 5 cm).
 Handle length should be decided upon based on the size of your blade and the size of your hand.


Take your hand size into consideration first. The handle should be a little longer than the width of your hand so that your hand can comfortably grab and control the handle.
Measure this against the size of the blade, next. The handle should be no longer than the length of the blade but no shorter than half that same length. The handle should also be the same width as the blade at its widest point.
 Take the time to actually draw out your dagger design and mark all of the dimensions on your drawing.


You can draw it by hand on paper or cardboard, or you could create the design on your computer and sketch it out. Work with whatever tools you feel most comfortable with.
 Use a hacksaw to cut of a length of steel equal to the total combined length of the blade and handle.Clamp the steel down using a vice while you cut it.
 Cut out the dagger pattern you sketched out previously and lay it out onto your length of steel. Carefully trace the shape of the blade and handle using black marker.


Alternatively, you could temporarily glue the template onto the steel using water-soluble adhesive.
 Use your hacksaw to cut around the pattern, removing as much excess metal as possible.


The idea is to get the rough shape down, but you do not need to achieve the exact shape of the blade during this step.
Continue holding the metal down using a vice.
Alternatively, you could use a power jigsaw during this step. Set the jigsaw on its highest speed and pause the process frequently to lubricate the blade with paraffin wax. If you do not lubricate the blade, it could overheat.
Note that the portion of the metal that will lie beneath the handle needs to be less wide than both the blade and the anticipated size of the wooden handle.
 Finish shaping the exact outline of the dagger using a metal file. You do not need to sharpen the blade at this point, but you do need to trim the blade to its actual shape.


If you need more power than a metal file can achieve, you could also try using a belt sander or jewelers saw.
 Mount the blade to the edge of a table using your vice and file in both side edges so that they slope evenly down toward the center. The edges should slope in on both the top and bottom sides.


Use a metal file to bevel the edges. Always file in the forward direction and never file back and forth.
Use both hands and apply as much pressure as possible.
Keep the blade clamped at waist height. Doing so will make it easier for you to put your body weight into the process, which will make it easier for you to finish the beveling without straining your muscles.
The ideal bevel angle is about 30 degrees. Keep this angle as consistent as possible around the entire edge of the blade.
 The simplest way to do this is with a charcoal grill or fire pit.


If using a grill, light a medium size pile of briquettes on fire and fan them until they start to glow.
If using a fire pit, light a medium size pile of wood mixed with charcoal briquettes on fire and fan the flame until it becomes strong yet controllable.
 Grab the handle portion of the metal with tongs, then insert the blade portion of the steel directly into the fire. Hold it there, rotating it occasionally, until the steel becomes medium red.


The steel needs to reach a temperature of about 1475 degrees Fahrenheit (802 degrees Celsius).
You can check for the right conditions using a magnet. Once the metal is hot enough, a magnet should no longer be able to stick to it.
At this point, the steel will be very brittle.
 Immerse the blade into a heat-resistant container of oil. Let it sit in the oil for several minutes.


Keep the blade vertical as it sits in the oil.
Nearly any type of oil should work. Motor oil works well, but so does transmission fluid and vegetable oil.
 Place the blade in a kitchen oven preheated to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius). Leave it there for about 20 minutes.


The quenching process cools the metal down, but the blade needs to be at a temperature between 350 and 550 degrees Fahrenheit (175 and 290 degrees Celsius) for it to temper correctly.
 Once you see the blade turn a wheat color, the metal has tempered correctly. Allow it to cool down to room temperature in a safe location.
 Use a drill press to drill two holes in the metal that will slip between your handle pieces.


The holes should be along the horizontal center of the blade. Keep at least 2 inches (5 cm) of space in between them.
Each hole should be 1/4 inch (6.35 mm) in diameter.
 Lay your pattern sketch on top of your wood and trace the outline of your handle onto the wood with pencil. Do this two times to make two separate pieces. Use a saw to cut out both pieces.


When you cut them out, the two pieces should be a little longer and a little wider than your desired handle.
 Hold the brass bar against the dagger metal, positioning it in between the blade and the lower portion (which will eventually be covered by the handle). Determine how long you want the guard to be, then cut it down to size.


You do not need to shape the guard after cutting it down.
Use a hacksaw or power jigsaw to cut the brass. Keep it clamped down using a vice as you make the actual cut.
 You need to drill and file a lengthwise slit in the guard metal that is just large enough to slide the blade through.


Using a drill press or power drill, drill five small holes side by side along the center of the guard. The series of holes should only be as long as the blade is wide.
Use a metal file to file away the metal in between these holes. The resulting slot should only be as large as the blade is thick.
Make sure that the slot is only large enough to slip over the handle portion of the dagger but not so large that it will slip over the entire blade.
 Slide the brass guard in place on your dagger, then clamp one wooden handle piece in its proper place along the handle portion of the metal. Use a power drill to drill through the holes of the metal and into the wood.


Make sure that the handle and blade are perfectly aligned. If they are not lined up precisely, the holes of your handle will fall out in the wrong place.
 Place the second wooden handle piece in place on the opposite side of the metal and clamp everything down. Drill two holes in this handle piece, working through the holes of the second piece and the holes of the metal.
 The pins should be 1/4 inch (6.3 mm) wide and long enough to fit through the series of holes keeping your dagger handle together.


It's better to make the pins too long than to make them too short. If they seem too long, simply file them down to size so that they'll lie flush against both sides of the handle.
 Mix heavy-duty epoxy and apply it liberally to both inner halves of your wooden handle pieces. Place the pieces back on the dagger in their correct places.


Do not let the epoxy dry yet.
 Place one pin in each hole, then gently tap them into the handle using a hammer.


Once the pins are in place, wipe off any excess glue with mineral spirits.
Clamp down the handle and let the epoxy set. Do not clamp down on the pins, though, since this could cause them to warp as the epoxy dries.
 Use emery paper to polish the blade until it becomes shiny.


You may need to clamp the dagger down as you polish the blade.
Work your way through a variety of Emory paper grits. Start at 200, then gradually move through the different sizes until you reach 1200.
This step completes the entire process.

