 First, you'll need to select a cage for your hamster. Dwarf hamsters, including Russian Campbells, are notorious for chewing and nibbling.Therefore, an aquarium style cage would be better than a cage with bars. Hamsters can chew through the bars of wire cages.An aquarium cage comes with certain special considerations. As it can collect heat easily, keep the cage out of direct sunlight. Make sure you set the cage on a stable surface, out of reach of children and other pets.Hamsters enjoy climbing. They cannot climb the walls of an aquarium cage. Therefore, pick up some ladders and other climbable objects at your local pet store. This will keep your Russian Campbell occupied in his cage.;
, Your hamster's cage needs to be cleaned on a regular basis. This prevents the spread or build-up of unwanted bacteria, which can lead to illness. Clean your hamster's cage once a week.


First, remove your hamster from the cage. Place him in a sealable box or pet carrier case with a few handfuls of clean bedding. You should also add some food and water, in case he gets hungry.Throw out all the old bedding, droppings, and any disposable toys made of materials like cardboard. Remove washable toys, water bottles, and food bowls. These can be washed in warm water and mild dish detergent. Wash these items, rinse thoroughly, and then set them aside to dry.Use a paper towel alongside mild soap or disinfectant. Wash the cage completely, getting the sides, corners, top, and bottom. Then, rinse completely. Remember, hamsters lick and chew so it's important to get any soap or disinfectant residue off. Dry the cage completely.Put down a fresh layer of bedding. Replace any disposable toys. Put washable toys, food bowls, and water bottles back in the cage. Your hamster's cage is now clean and you can put him back in safely., The bottom of a hamster cage should bel lined with appropriate bedding. Wood shavings are often used in hamster cages. However, pine or cedar chips can cause respiratory problems for dwarf hamsters. Make sure to avoid these types of bedding as well as unlabeled wood beddings.Aspen-based beddings or sand-based beddings are generally safe for hamsters. Before adding bedding to your hamster's cage, make sure it's free of mites and other insects. To do so, put the bedding in your freezer for 48 hours. This should kill any potential insects. Then, allow it to return to room temperature and add it to your hamster's cage.Never use cat litter, corn cob, newspaper, or scented bedding. These contain chemicals and other materials that could cause health problems for your hamster., Exercise is vital for your hamster's well being. Make sure you provide a wheel so your hamster can run. You should also provide toys. Dwarf hamsters need a lot of stimulation to be happy and healthy.


Pick a solid wheel without rungs as this lessens the chance of injury. For dwarf hamsters, you do not need a wheel bigger than 6.5 inches. If you're using an aquarium cage, you may not have a way to attach a wheel to your cage. Therefore, make sure you get a wheel that stands on its own.Tubes and hidey-holes are hamster toys sold at most pet stores. Due to their small size, dwarf hamsters tend to enjoy such toys as they can squeeze into them easily.Hamsters may also enjoy small plush toys for chewing and playing. Make sure you remove any small parts, like eyes and noses, as these might pose a choking risk. You should also check the materials used in any toy you give your hamster to make sure materials are hamster-safe.

