 This is located at: http://www.amtrak.com Amtrak.


Amtrak travels through almost every state in the continental United States (of America).;
, This will enable you to work out the route from your own area. Consult the available schedules to determine which days your desired train runs.
 Five different trains will be needed to circle the USA:


Clockwise, from top to bottom; and counter-clockwise, from bottom to top):

Sunset Limited -- (currently) New Orleans, LA to Los Angeles, CA.
Coastal Starlight -- Los Angeles, CA to Seattle, WA.
Empire Builder -- Seattle, WA to Chicago, IL.
Capitol Limited -- Chicago, IL to Washington,D.C.
Crescent -- Washington,D.C. to New Orleans, LA.


Alternatively, you could choose to cross the USA, instead of circumnavigating.
Currently, (due to damage from Hurricane Katrina) the "Sunset Limited" only travels from New Orleans to Los Angeles. The "Sunset Limited" previously traveled from Orlando, Fl to Los Angeles, Ca.
 Your range may be extended if you pay to ride the train to a station or two down the line.


For example: You need to board the "Sunset Limited" in Houston, Tx, which is scheduled to depart at 9:50 p.m. Instead of starting the rail pass in Houston, you pay $31 extra to ride the train to San Antonio. Your Rail Pass (which you purchased in Houston) does not go into effect until the next day (at San Antonio), giving you 22 extra hours to complete your trip.
Before doing so, make certain that such a change would truly be profitable to your schedule.
 Each destination listed on the clockwise pattern will require an overnight stay. Careful planning will allow the traveler to spend extra nights at some of the locations.


Planning and your initial boarding point will determine the time available for an area.

The Amtrak "USA Rail Pass" will allow you 15 days with up to eight legs.
A "leg" is uninterrupted travel only on one train.
An example of two separate legs: A traveler on the Sunset Limited leaves from New Orleans and is stopping in Houston to visit with friends for 2 or 3 days. The traveler gets back on the train to continue to Los Angeles.



Many hostels have rates as low as $15 per night, if you don't mind sharing a room. Many hostels also offer shuttle service.
 The trains often travel in areas where no roads go, so you'll get to see some amazing scenery.
 Amtrak allows you to bring on your own food and sodas (no alcohol). While ice is limited, having your own sodas and snacks will save you money. Carry foods that are non-perishable or heat tolerant, such as crackers, cheese, and peanut butter.


Eating in the dining car is an excellent way to meet new people and make friends. Also, having at least one hot meal a day will make it easier to endure the inexpensive food that you brought along. Note: Eating in the dining car is not cheap; one person can easily spend $30 - $50 a day. However, the food is excellent.

