 Choose clothing that doesn't constrict around your waist and stomach area, so that you can breathe easily. Select underwear that is able to hold sanitary ware as required. Wear clothing that breathes, to avoid feeling sweaty or hot.


Choose an old pair of underpants that you don't mind if they get wrecked to have as a spare for emergencies.
You can also try to wear shorts that are wide to conceal the pad (if you're using one).;
, If you are worried about leakages, experiment with stronger pads or use tampons. Or, use underpants with strong elastic that molds closely to you; avoid any underpants that sag or have loose elastic. Change often; this helps prevent leakage problems.


Try using Adira Period Panty. It is helpful for heavy flows because it can prevent leakage to your pants or shorts. These panties are breathable, so are safer and much more comfortable.
 Lying down a little more often can make you feel better, and sleeping has a lot of restorative power, especially useful for when you feel tired or down.
 Preferably, If you have a lighter flow, use a panty liner. But if it is heavy flow, then consider using pads (usually heavy flow ones as they're used for heavier flow), tampons, or menstrual cups.


If you feel that using pads and tampons is annoying, try to use a menstrual cup, it doesn't absorb the fluid so it is less mess and less worry. A menstrual cup is often good for 12 hours and reusable, too.
 Ask for help from a parent or doctor about over-the-counter pain medication or try some exercise to lessen the pain of period cramps. Don't self diagnose; get good guidance first.
 Eating fruits and vegetables is good for the body. So you will needing such foods. Don't forget to also eat food that has iron in it, for bleeding less., Just because you're on your period, you shouldn't eat a lot of junk food. These can make you feel worse, and you want to stay healthy!

, Listen to your favorite songs and music. Wear your favorite jewelry and make-up or enjoy a hobby (like reading a book). Keeping busy and happy while on your period helps you not worry about it.
 Hanging out with friends are fun and exciting and making you not to worry because they are here for you.
 Stay away from things or people that upset you until you feel stronger. Most moodiness that accompanies a period passes quickly. Try going to bed earlier that night, to sleep it off.

