 While you probably want to leave your parents out of conflicts with your sister whenever possible, they can play an important role in maintaining harmony between the two of your. Ask your parents to establish ground rules so both you and your older sister understand exactly what sort of behavior is tolerated in your home. Even more importantly, though, make sure your parents establish what the consequences are for breaking the rules.If you're not sure what how to ask your parents for comprehensive rules, you might say, "I want to make sure that we all know what behavior is acceptable and what isn't. Could you please set down some ground rules?"
You may want to ask your parents to establish a procedure for how to report rule violations too. You don’t want your sister to accuse you of tattling every time you try to alert your parents to her behavior.
 One of the worst parts of being a younger sibling is having to deal with hand-me-downs. Whether it’s clothing, sports equipment, or electronics, it’s no fun when you’re always getting your sister’s old things while she gets new items just because she’s older. Explain to your parents how you feel, and see if it’s possible to limit the number of hand-me-downs that you receive.It’s important to be mindful of the fact that money sometimes plays a role in how many hand-me-downs you get. Don’t expect your parents to buy you all new items if your sister’s are still in good condition.
If you're unsure how to broach the subject with your parents, you might say, "It really makes me feel like an afterthought when I have to wear all of my sister's old clothes.May I pick out a new shirt/dress/pair of pants for the party next week?"

, The best way to ensure that everyone in the family gets along is to set aside a specific time to address concerns and problems. Ask your parents if you can hold weekly or monthly family meetings where everyone can talk about what’s bothering them. That way, if there’s an issue with your sister that she’s not aware of or vice versa, you have neutral ground to discuss it, with your parents on hand to moderate.Explain to your parents that you think it's important for everyone in the family to have a chance to share their feelings. You might say, "I think we'll all be able to get along better if we clear the air on a regular basis."
You don’t want family meetings to have a confrontational feel, so it often helps to make them feel more casual and fun. You might hold them on a night when you’re eating out as a family or having pizza delivered. That can help make the meeting something that you all look forward to.

