 Autistic children thrive on a routine and predictability. A vacation is a break from routine, which can be upsetting and confusing, especially if your child is in an unfamiliar place. Therefore, have in mind activities that you know your child will enjoy. If your child enjoys the thrill of amusement parks, then that may be your best option. If your child enjoys simply relaxing at the beach, or exploring in a place such as in the mountains, then go with one of those destinations. Wherever you go, remember that it is important that you choose activities that your child will like.
 Show them pictures and videos of your destination, and even search the internet together. This will help your child know what to expect. Do this early, at least two weeks in advance, to give your child enough time to learn about your vacation destination with you.

Also, let them know how you will be getting there. If it is a plane, then show them pictures of what the inside of an airplane looks like. If it is your very own car, then let them know that, too.
Mark it on the calendar, and put it where they can see it. If they are too young to read much, explain it out loud whenever they show curiosity about it.
 If your child is not used to vacations, or is too young to understand everything that is happening, you can use stories to explain them. Look for kids' books that describe the type of trip you are taking (airplane, road trip, etc.) and each step along the way.

Try making a simple itinerary with words and pictures so your child can follow along the schedule during the trip. You can even have the child play "schedule master" and have them read the chart to tell you what comes next!

, Be very polite, and avoid demanding anything, but if there are accommodations you know will help, ask if they're available. There have been incidents of autistic people being kicked off flights because of their disability.Calling ahead of time to arrange any accommodations your child may need will help avoid this happening. Most companies will be happy to assist you, within reason, if something like providing a particular seat location or boarding priority will help.

Most airlines have a special pre-board option for passengers with disabilities. This allows you to board the plane before most of the other passengers, and you will be able to get your child settled.
 This will help if you are flying, and there are any airport security issues, or if you are going to an amusement park, as some amusement parks have a pass if you show this letter that will allow you and your child to go to the front of the line at rides, most of the time through a separate entrance., This will help your child avoid too many breaks from their normal routine, and it'll help keep repetition in your schedule, as this is another thing that autistic children thrive on.

Plan to take breaks in your hotel between transitions. This can help your child (and any other children) switch gears and relax a little.
 Taking kids on a family vacation can be a challenge, autistic or not. Do your other children have any specific needs to attend to—a toddler who needs naps, an introvert who needs lots of downtime, a teen who gets grumpy when hungry? How can you plan around these needs?, This way, they can make sure any important item that they like is not left behind. When you are packing, show and tell them the item, so this way they can be sure their favorite items are in with everything else.

When you're packing, bring along some tangible reinforcements for your child if they enjoy receiving them for good behavior, or if they need to receive them.
Set aside plenty of time to pack up the day before. This way, the process will be low-stress and you'll have plenty of time to remember everything.
 If your child is stressed, do they enjoy stim toys, reading, stuffed animal play, conversation about their special interests, or something else? Prepare materials accordingly, so that the child can be calmed and distracted as needed., This bag can hold things to keep all your children busy during car, plane, or train rides.

Easy, nonperishable snacks (granola bars, trail mix, crackers)
Drinks, if you are not at an airport
Stim toys
Comfort objects (e.g. security blanket)
Activities, like storybooks, audio books, and coloring books
AAC, if your autistic child uses it
Cleaning wipes and napkins/tissues for spills

, Sometimes, having a new item to explore and play with can make it easier to deal with the stress of a trip. Buy a toy or activity that you know your child will enjoy: new books to read, a coloring book to draw in, music for their MP3 player, soft yarn to crochet with, et cetera. If possible, find something related to their special interests.

This new item can keep them busy during car or airplane trips.
 Prioritize a person's needs (sensory needs, need to eat, need to sleep, etc.) over the wants of other family members. It's hard to have a good time if someone's needs aren't being met. Meet all needs first, and then everyone will be ready to have fun.

This applies to both autistic and non-autistic family members.
 It's okay to split into groups if that's what will make everyone's needs be met, and keep people happy. Keep cell phones with both groups, and designate a meeting place that is easy to see.

For example, if your son is overwhelmed and needs a break, while your daughter wants to ride a roller coaster, maybe your wife could take your son for a break and meet up in half in hour.
For example, if your husband is very tired and needs rest, and your daughter is eager to get out and do things, maybe you can take her swimming while your husband takes a nap.
 Whether you're flying or driving, delays may happen. Therefore, it is important to pack distractions such as an MP3 player, their favorite snacks, or even an eraser or another favorite object that will keep them busy.

Before leaving the hotel, have your autistic child pick out a stim toy or favorite object to take with them in a purse or bag. This can help them stay calm.
 If your child can tell you what they need (using speech or AAC), then you can often meet their needs before it turns into a meltdown. When any of your children communicate a need, take time to listen and talk about how to meet that need., The stress of travel and the confusion of a new environment may make your child prone to becoming overwhelmed. Therefore, be prepared for them, and do as close what you would normally do as possible in the event that one does occur.

Have an exit plan. Maybe one person can take the child out for a walk around the parking lot, or to sit somewhere quiet, so they can have time to calm down.
All parents have moments when their children scream and cry in public. It's okay. This happens to everyone.
 When planning your trip, consider each family member's favorite activities. Keep in mind your autistic child's preferences, their siblings' preferences, and the preferences of the adults in the family. This vacation is for all of you., It's okay if you don't have an amazing beach vacation just like the Sanchez family, or if you didn't spend as much money as Leslie in the corner office did. This vacation is for your family, not anyone else's. It might look a little different, and that's okay. Accept what you have, define your own fun, and make your own memories.