 Sleep is arguably the most important part of looking fresh. After all, when people are thinking about freshness, the first thing they think of is probably someone who is at the start of their day following a long and fruitful rest. People who sleep at least 8 hours per night actually feel more attractive, and they tend to look it too.Prolonged sleep deprivation comes with a laundry list of negative traits, not least of which includes dark eye circles and a bloodshot complexion.


If you find yourself having trouble getting to sleep at a normal time, try making a point of going to sleep at the same time each night. It may be tough to adjust to at first, but your body will eventually fall into the habit of tiring out at that time.
Oversleeping isn't usually as big of a risk for people, but it is something you'll want to be mindful of. If you oversleep, you'll feel just as groggy as you would without sleep, but you'll have also lost precious morning hours while you're at it.;
, Freshness has a large part to do with the way your hair looks. Greasy hair doesn't make for a good look on anybody. Though rinsing your hair in the shower each morning is recommended and feels good, you may not need to use shampoo as often as you think. Everyone's hair has its own set of needs, so rather than sticking to a single strict guideline, it's best to listen to your body's indicators and do what seems best.The amount you shampoo your hair should depend in part on your lifestyle choices, most specifically how physically active you are. The more physically active, the more often you should clean your hair.
Overwashing with shampoos is a bad idea as well. Although no one will ever hold a value on hygiene against you, you can inadvertently remove healthy natural oils out of your hair (and skin!) by overdoing it on the hair cleaners.
 Eating well is something everyone knows they should do, so it is lamentable that few follow through with it. Nonetheless, it should be made a priority if you want a fresher look. A healthy diet is manifest in virtually every part of your body, from the hair to the skin and everything internal.Although each person's diet should be custom-tailored to match the needs of their body, there are probably some things you eat regularly you know you could do without.


Cutting out 'empty calories' (like soda) and replacing them with healthy alternatives will transform your appearance by itself in as little time as a month.
Eating well has a considerable effect on your mood as well as your appearance. Being in a chipper spirit will make others perceive you as fresher than they normally would otherwise., Cardio exercise involve exercises like swimming and running that strain the lungs and heart. The benefits for these exercises are numerous.Not only will your lungs and heart get significantly stronger, your skin will look tighter and you're bound to lose pounds if weight is a current issue for you.


If you struggle with motivation concerning exercise, remember that it's only difficult to start. Once you get going, the subtly addictive properties of the endorphins you'll get during exercise should keep you coming back for more once you've made a habit out of it., While black eyeliner frames your eyes, white eyeliner opens them up. Running a line along the lower lid will make your eyes look more awake.
 It's especially important if you're not getting enough sleep regularly, as your body depends on full sleep to naturally rehydrate. Make moisturizing part of your daily hygiene ritual and you should see rewards in the way your skin looks before too long.


There is some debate as to whether an eye-specific moisturizer is really worth it, but it is recommended if you want the best effect on your eyes. Eye moisturizers have more delicate properties in them that are custom made for the area around your eyes.
 Everyone deserves to pamper themselves every once in a while. If your hands and feet are looking weary, taking them for a gentle, thorough treatment will improve the look in a potentially big way. Although it can be a bit costly if you're going on a regular basis, the way it changes the way you look can affect change in your self-confidence and the way you perceive yourself.


You can give yourself manicures from home if your budget is a concern.Nail clippers, a nail file, a rich cream and some polish can be used to give a great at-home makeover of your hands and feet. You may not be able to get the perfect look as you would in a professional studio, but you'll save a lot of money in the long run.
 When you're feeling tired, the first thing that suffers are your eyes. With that in mind, looking fresh with makeup has a lot to do with making your eyes look more alert. As lashes frame the eyes, curling them upwards can open them up wide. Use an eyelash curler and hold it up for five seconds.You can achieve a similar effect with curling mascara.
 While eyeshadow is less versatile for given events and situations than an easy eyeliner or mascara, it's still something you might want to look into if you're wanting to get the freshest look.
 Lighting powder is handy for a look of freshness because it takes your surroundings into consideration.A light dusting across your face will let light pick up on your face more effectively, which in turn will have a freshening effect on the way you look. Lighting powder is especially effective when you're going to have photos taken of you.
 Even if you've had the best sleep of your life and a long shower to boot, you won't look fresh if your clothes are a big mess. Giving things a 'sniff test' doesn't always cut it. Instead, you've got to put different regulations on different pieces of clothing.For example, in the case of jeans and most pants, you can wear them over the course of several days before they begin to lose their stretchiness. Tops should be laundered much more frequently however, as natural body odour is most concentrated from the torso upwards.


You should also keep your bedsheets in mind if you want the ultimate freshness. Sweating into your bedsheets can leave them smelly and gross. If you're prone to sweat or body odour, washing them as often as once per week is a good idea. Pillows and comforters can be done a few times a year., At the end of the day, you should carve out a unique and personal look for yourself. That doesn't mean, however, that you shouldn't at least have some appreciation for the sorts of fashion styles that come and go over time. This is especially true if a fresh look is important to you. Staying up to date can make you look contemporary and hip, and it's relatively easy to stay up to date.Subscribe to some hot fashion magazines, or take a trip to the mall to see what styles are getting showcased.If you're really daring, you can work these current trends into an existing style you've designed for yourself. Then, as time goes by, you can continue reinventing your personal style with the new looks these trends provide.
 Form-fitting clothes will make you look your freshest. Wearing something that's too baggy (or awkwardly tight) won't make it look like a lot of thought went into your outfit. Your best bet is to do some research into the kind of clothing types that best fit certain body types. It should go without saying that one natural body type is no better or worse than any other.Rather, it's the way you work with it that counts.


At the same time, don't let yourself get tied down by your body type. Your fashion sense should be liberated if anything, and if you think you can pull off a certain outfit in spite of what the guidelines say, you absolutely should.
 If you've got your chin up and your head invested in whatever you're involved with currently, people are bound to perceive you far differently than if you're looking glum and hate the world. Of course, it's never enough simply to want to be in a good mood. Knowing how to bring out the best side of yourself is crucial. Be mindful of the way you're feeling, and don't be afraid to laugh.If you're in a good mood, you'll have a positive impact on the way others feel when they're around you.


Laughter is a wonderful thing, and it's probably the easiest way to improve your mood outside of mindfulness. If no one's around to make you laugh, try putting on a comedy. Seeing the lighter side of life for a change can have a transformative impact on the way you feel for the rest of the week.
Eating dark chocolate has been proven to alleviate the stress hormones in your body. A few pieces should be enough to evoke a noticeable effect.