 Use a lice comb to comb out the nits, nymphs, and adult lice in your child’s hair. Use a fine-toothed lice comb (available in most pharmacies and department stores) to comb out your child’s hair.


Repeat the combing process after using orange juice on your child’s hair and then comb your child’s hair again either in the morning or the evening. You will need to do this for about 3 weeks to ensure that the lice are all gone.
Work under a good light so you can see what you are doing. Lice try to avoid light, but the light can help you see them.
 Wet combing has been shown to make it easier to spot lice in a child’s hair.You may want to keep a spray bottle on hand to moisten your child’s hair if it starts to dry. Using conditioner will help you comb through all the tangles. Use enough to coat the strands and the roots of your child’s hair.


As an alternative to conditioner, you can use olive oil. Use enough to coat your child’s hair from the roots to the ends.
 To make it easier to comb through all of your child’s hair, it may help to divide it into several smaller sections. Use hair clips to put up some of your child’s hair and then take the hair down one section at a time. Comb each section from root to ends.


Remember, the nits can be found near the base of the hair at the scalp and the adults will be present throughout the hair and scalp. You may find it useful to use a magnifying glass if you have trouble seeing the lice.
Make sure that you rinse the comb often under running hot water as you comb your child’s hair.
 Once you have completely combed your child’s hair, shampoo and rinse your child’s hair. You can repeat this process right away if you like, but you may only want to comb your child’s hair once in the morning and evening, since it is very time consuming.
 After you have finished combing your child’s hair, immediately soak the lice comb and wash the towels. You can soak the comb in a 10% bleach solution or 2% Lysol solution for 30 minutes and then rinse it well. Wash the towels on the hot setting with detergent and then dry on high for at least 20 minutes.As an alternative, you can soak the combs in vinegar for 30 minutes or boil in water for 10 minutes.

