 Keeping your skin clean and healthy will make you glow naturally without any makeup. Use a facial cleanser to gently wash your face every day. Rinse it off with warm water and pat your face dry with a towel. If you have oily skin, use a cleanser specifically for oily skin. For dry skin, use a cleanser for normal to dry skin.


Use an exfoliating cleaner once a week to wash away any dead skin.
Moisturize your face every day with a lightweight, non-clogging moisturizer.
If you have acne, use a skin care regime for acne and never pop your pimples.;
, Even if you can’t or don’t want to wear lipstick, you can still accent your naturally beautiful lips by keeping them healthy. Exfoliate your lips using a lip scrub. Moisturize your lips daily with chap stick or lip balm to keep them soft., Your smile is an important part of your appearance. It is also important to take care of your teeth for your health. Brush your teeth twice a day for about two minutes. Make sure to clean your tongue as well as your teeth. Also use floss and mouthwash daily., Make sure your nails are dry and clean. Wash them daily and scrub underneath them to remove any dirt. Trim them with clean nail clippers and round them with a nail file. Make sure to remove any hangnails.


You can apply a protective layer of nail hardener to keep your nails strong.
When applying hand lotion, rub the lotion into your fingernails and cuticles.
Try to avoid biting your fingernails.If you want and are allowed to, you can apply a colored polish to your nails.
 Because you are starting to get older, you will likely sweat more than you did when you were younger. Make sure to shower or bathe every day to remove dirt and to help you smell the best you can.


Apply deodorant daily to help with body odor.
You can apply a lotion after you shower to improve your smell.
If you want to and are allowed to, you can shave your body hair in the shower., Even if you can’t wear makeup, you can still make your eyelashes stand out. You can try natural remedies (such as castor oil and petroleum jelly) to help your eyelashes grow.


You can apply a clear mascara to your eyelashes to enhance their natural color and length.If you are allowed to, you can curl your eyelashes to help them appear longer and fuller.
 If you are allowed to, you can pluck your eyebrows to help accent their shape. Tweezing your eyebrows is easier than waxing. Make sure not to over pluck and to be very careful to stick to your natural shape.


Ask for help! Don’t start plucking until you talk to a parent or older sibling about how to pluck your eyebrows and have them help you.
Make sure you have your parents’ permission.
Ask a parent to take you to a professional salon to get your eyebrows done if possible.

