 They have cleansers that will not harm you and are environmentally friendly.;
,, Witch Hazel comes from a plant. After you use the witch hazel, then rub ice on your face to close the pores which works wonder on the skin. If you want to be more daring then try a rose water Toner which you can buy online or make at home for you. To make it home you need 1 cup of witch hazel, 1 cup of lavender oil, 3 dozen roses, 2 cups of distilled water and a tbsp of glycerin. Combine them altogether shake it or mix it well then store in the refrigerator when not using it.
 Use Argan oil, Maracuja oil or any plant oil that you can food at you local farmers market. If you wish to use lotion, find an organic line like Jason's natural or Dr. Bronner's to get your lotion.
 Fruity masks do help keeping your facial regime green so why not find a good fruit mask recipe to keep your skin supple and smooth. For example, combine half a cup of mashed papaya, 1 whipped egg white, one teaspoon of honey, and one tablespoon of natural yogurt. Apply the mixture to clean skin, allow resting for five minutes, and then rinse with warm water before patting dry.
 For hair care, there are tones of organic shampoo out in the market such as Burt's Bees, Jason's Naturals, and much more. Using an all natural shampoo and conditioner will aid in the war of green and chemicals but maintain health for your hair. If you do not wish to spend a lot of money in buying an all natural shampoo, then make one yourself which is cheaper and it's something you created in your own vision.


Use an herbal de-tangling spray instead of ones that contain large amounts of alcohol which is not good for your hair nor scalp.
 Pour water into a pot or saucepan and bring to a boil, then turn off stove, and place tea bags in hot water. Let steep and cool for at least 1 hour. Use this hair rinse when washing and de-tangling your hair then dry with a warm towel.


Use a organic hair moisturizer. Making you own hair moisturizer is great and not hard at all. Combine 3/4 cup of avocado oil, 1/8 cup of safflower oil, 1/8 cup of sweet almond oil, 8 drops of lavender oil, 6 drops of lemongrass oil, 6 drops of rosemary oil, and 4 drops of geranium oil. Use whenever needed.
Occasionally, try a hair mask that is green. Revitalize your health website has some good selections of homemade hair masks that are green and healthy.
 EWG.org is a good place to find healthier cosmetics brands that are affordable for anyone's budget.
 There are companies such as Tom's of Maine that create herbal products that are good for the outside and for the inside such as your teeth.
 There are salons that have natural or organic nail polish and nail products such as Zoya and Priti. There are a few in your area which can be organic salons and spas that have a green selection of products and services so, use the search engines to look around and see any in your area.

