 The key to overcoming alcoholism is to recognize you have a problem and commit to fixing it.If you are looking for ways to work through it, that is a good sign. Denial can be the largest obstacle to your recovery.Make a commitment to yourself (and to others if you wish) to stop drinking. Then begin to work on specifically how you will reach that goal.


Detail the costs and benefits of drinking versus the costs and benefits of stopping to help you get a clear picture and find motivation.
Write out your commitment “I will stop drinking alcohol” or something more specific such as “I will stop drinking on weekdays, and limit my weekend drinking to no more than three drinks a day.”
Pick a date to begin your recovery, and use that date to celebrate milestones later.
Develop a plan for your treatment and recovery such as what professionals you will see.
If you are unsure if you have a problem with alcohol, you may want to read How to Know if You Have a Drinking Problem first.;
, While you are planning for your recovery, it is important that you get sober safely. Depending on the level of your drinking you may need medical supervision as you withdraw from alcohol in order to do it comfortably and safely.If you are a heavy and frequent drinker you could suffer from headaches, nausea, elevated heart rate and in severe cases seizures and even death.


Set up an appointment with your doctor.
Detail that you believe you have a problem with drinking and that you would like to stop safely.
Honestly answer questions your doctor asks you about your drinking.
 Your doctor may be able to prescribe you naltrexone, which can reduce alcohol cravings. This can be taken in pill-form or as a monthly shot. You will need to have stopped drinking for at least 10 days before using any form or naltrexone as this can trigger severe withdrawal if you are still drinking.Remember that naltrexone will not "cure" alcoholism, but it can help you stay sober and overcome cravings once you have quit drinking.
Side effects may include nausea, nervousness, anxiety, or muscle and joint pain.
 Seeking treatment for alcoholism is most successful when you have multiple professionals and sources of support. Visiting your doctor will help you care for your physical concerns while getting sober. A therapist or a counselor will help work through some of the emotional triggers for drinking that become more pronounced when people stop such as anxiety and depression.Seek services by trying the following:


Contact local rehabilitation clinics or detox facilities and ask if they offer outpatient treatment.
Ask your medical doctor for referrals for local addiction specialists.
Utilize your insurance company's directory to help find an addiction counselor near you who accepts your insurance.
 When facing recovery you may greatly benefit from having social support in the form of a support group.Sharing your story with others, especially individuals who have a greater understanding of what you are going through, can be incredibly therapeutic. The largest and most successful form of social support for alcoholics is Alcoholics Anonymous (AA). Begin seeking support by attending local AA meetings. AA is free to attend and usually there are frequent meetings all around the country, as well as outside the U.S.Visit AA's website to find local meetings divided up by location, as well as information about online meetings.If you would prefer not to attend a group that has a religious base such as AA, look for a local support group for alcoholics based on your geographical location.