 Use any web browser to visit www.wellsfargo.com.Alternatively, you can download Wells Fargo’s mobile app for your phone. You can do this from either iTunes, the Window’s Store, or the Google Play Store., For help opening an online account, call 1-800-956-4442. Alternatively, apply online on the Wells Fargo website. You will be asked to provide your Social Security number and either your account, loan, ATM card, or debit card number.Afterward you will be asked to customize your account.
 On the website, there will be spaces to fill in a username and password which should have been provided to you by your Wells Fargo adviser. There will be a box above the username and password that you can click on to indicate what sort of activity you want to perform. If you want to see your checking account, pick "Account Summary" and then press the button that labeled “Go.”

, If you are having difficulty accessing your account, call 1-800-856-3557 to ask for assistance. Have your account and social security number on hand to verify your identity., When you login, click the tab above the username that says “account summary”—alternatively there should be an account summary tab for you to click on after logging in. On the account summary page, you can view all withdraws, deposits, and payments to determine your current balance and see if transactions have been completed. Click on transactions that were made with checks to view an electronic copy of the physical check., On the mobile app, click on “WF Surepay.” Click on “Send Money.” Choose a recipient—you can set up a new recipient just by providing the person’s name and email address. Click “from” and pick which of your accounts you want to send the money from. You will then be asked how much money you want to transfer. After that, press “send” to finalize the transaction. , To the right of the accounts tab at the top of the page should be a tab that reads “Transfers and Payments.” Click on this. New tabs should appear that read “Overview,” “Bill Pay,” and “Transfers.” Click on “Transfers” and then “Between Accounts.” You will be asked to pick a “from Account” and a “to Account.” You can transfer money between checking, savings, loans, and even brokerage accounts.


When setting up a transfer, you will also be asked if you want to set up a recurring transfer. You can have the money transferred weekly, monthly, or twice a month., Visit wf.com/text from your mobile phone to set up a text banking account.Once you set up the account, text commands to WELLS (93557) to get instant access to account information.


To get your balance, text: BAL ALL. For recent account activity, text: ACT. For credit card payment deadlines, text: DUE. To find ATMs text: ATM + the local zip code., Once you have logged in, click on the “Bill Pay” tab next to "Accounts." Click on the “Pay New Payee” tab and enter the payee’s name, zip code, and account number to set up the transaction. Determine how much you want to pay and click “Make Payment” or, “Save and Pay Later.” You can set up a reoccurring payment so that payments will become automatic from that point on.


The information for everyone you pay is saved online, so that you can make repeat payments with little difficulty. To find them, click on “Bill Pay” and, underneath that, “Payees” to find a payee and schedule a new payment.
Wells Fargo guarantees that all payments will be made by the date that you schedule.