 Scientists have discovered that drinking black tea was found to lower overall cortisol levels in a group of people performing stressful tasks.So next time you feel the cortisol bubbling up and threatening to unleash itself in a torrent of stress, grab a cup of English breakfast tea and zen out.
 Meditation activates the Vagus nerve, which triggers a response in your body to lower cortisol levels, among other things.Meditation techniques can run the gamut, from taking deep breaths to allowing your mind to wander to a peaceful place. For best results, participate in meditation for 30 minutes a day, three to four times a week. After the first session, you should see a significant difference in how your body feels.


Sit in a quiet, dark, room. Allow your mind to meditate. If you need help relaxing, visualize a quiet, peaceful place. Imagine how your body feels when it is relaxed. Try to recreate this feeling within your body. This helps to relieve muscle tension within the body.
Allow the eyes to close. Take deep breaths in and out until you notice your heart rate slowing down. Notice the beating of your heart and its sounds when you are relaxed. Imagine that all of the tension is radiating out of your body through your fingertips and toes. Feel the release of tension throughout your entire body.
 Joyous laughter can actually curb your body's production of cortisol, according to FASEB.So sidle up to a funny friend or remind yourself of a mirthful memory in order to lower cortisol.
 Exercise is a stress-buster, right? So wouldn't all exercise be beneficial in lowering cortisol? Not exactly. The problem is that running and other cardio exercises raise your heart rate, ultimately increasing cortisol.


Try yoga or Pilates for an adaptive exercise that burns calories, works your muscles, and lowers cortisol too.
Try other adaptive exercises using the Wii console, for example, to get your heart rate up without that unhealthy spike in cortisol.
 Music therapy has been shown to reduce cortisol levels in patients undergoing screening colonoscopy.So the next time you're feeling stressed or slammed, put on some soothing music and let it put a curtain on your cortisol.

