 The most common ukuleles, the soprano and tenor ukuleles, have their 4 strings tuned GCEA: the G below middle C (low G), middle C, E, and A. Each string is tensed or loosened with a tuning knob at the top of the fretboard.;
, To refer to the strings on your ukulele correctly, hold it with the fret board pointing up. The lower left of the 4 tuning pegs tunes the G string, the peg above it tunes the C string, the upper right peg tunes the E string, and the peg below it tunes the A string.


The pegs are what you will turn in order to change the pitch of the strings. Which direction you turn them can often vary between instruments, so experiment. Directionality is usually the same for the pegs on a single side of the instrument.
Tighten the strings to raise the pitch. Loosen the strings to lower the pitch.
Absolutely do not tighten the strings too much. This can break your instrument, and the strings may snap off.
 The strings are numbered from the furthest away to the closest to you, assuming you play the ukulele right-handed. The first string is the A string, the second the E string, the third the C string, and the fourth the G string.
 Frets are numbered from the tuning knobs to the sounding board, with the fret nearest the knobs labeled the first fret. Pressing a string against a fret when you pluck it raises the pitch of the string.
 The easiest way to tune your ukulele is to tune its strings to match the pitch of another musical instrument. You have several options: a piano, an online tuner, an electronic tuner, or a pipe tuner. You can tune just a single string this way (and tune the rest based on that string) or you can tune all the strings using a tuning instrument.
 You press the keys and strum the corresponding strings, adjusting the knobs until the ukulele string pitch matches that of the key.
 You can use either a round chromatic pitch pipe or a pitch pipe made especially for the ukulele, which resembles a small pan pipe. Blow into the pipe or opening corresponding to the ukulele string, strum the string, and then adjust the knob until the string's pitch matches that of the pipe.
 If you have a tuning fork for each string, you can strike each fork and adjust the string until its pitch matches that of the fork. If you have only 1 fork, use it to tune 1 of the strings and then tune the other strings against that one.
 Electronic tuners come in 2 types. One type of tuner plays a tone you have to match; the other analyzes the pitch of the string and tells whether the string is sharp (pitched too high) or flat (pitched too low). This is probably the most helpful tuning method for beginners, who have a hard time telling the difference between pitches.
 Tune the G string (the closest string to you) until it is in tune.
 Place your finger on the second fret (second open space from the top) on the tuned G string. This note should be an A, and the same pitch as the string furthest from you.
 Tune the A string according to the note you found on your G string.
 Place your finger on the third fret on the E string. This should be a G note and match your G string. If they don't match, your E string is probably out of tune.
 Tune the E string until it matches the G string.
 Place your finger on the fourth fret on the C strong. This should be E.
 Tune the C string until it is matched to the E string.

