 Practice will help you get a feel for the controls, but it can take a long time before they make sense. Here's a straightforward explanation of what the controls actually do:Q moves the right thigh forward and the left thigh back.
W moves the left thigh forward and the right thigh back.
O bends the right knee and extends the left knee.
P bends the left knee and extends the right knee.
 Beginners sometimes don't realize that holding down the key keeps the muscles flexed. A quick tap will flex your leg and relax it right away, leading to jerky movements. For consistent, powerful strides, you want to hold the keys down for a solid second.
 Press and hold these keys at the same time to give the runner a little forward momentum. Think of this as one control: pushing off with the right leg.While your right leg is pushing off the ground, your left knee will flex. When well timed, it will raise the left foot up off the ground.
 Just before your left foot (in front) hits the ground, release W and O, press Q and P at the same time, and hold. This will push off with your left foot, and bring your right foot all the way forward with a lifted knee.
 Keep your attention on the leg in front. Just before the foot hits the ground, release the two keys you're holding and press the other two. This will get your runner into a slow but well-balanced rhythm. He should shoot the next foot forward while leaning back, then fall forward a little further on the track.


You can also watch the runner's front thigh. It's time to press when it falls to a level parallel with the ground., If you don't want to spend a ton of time, you'll need to speed up. Instead of holding the keys down until your next stride, press for 1/4 to 1/2 of a second, then let go. When your forward foot just begins to fall, repeat with the other pair of keys. You'll move faster, but it will be much easier to make a mistake and fall over.


When done correctly, your runner's torso will stay vertical. The front foot will hit the ground directly below the torso. If the foot falls behind the torso, you're hitting the keys too late., Leaning too far back slows you down, but with practice you can recover fairly easily. The next time you hit the keys, press the thigh button slightly before the calf button, instead of at the same time. For example, instead of Q+P, press Q, take a split second pause, hit P, then release both keys.


Forward-leaning mistakes are very difficult to correct, since you usually fall quickly. You can try pushing off hard with your back leg (repeating the same keystroke pair) and dragging the forward calf up to catch yourself.
 If you accidentally fall into the splits, here's how to stand back up again:If your front leg is stretched forward, tap the key for the forward calf until your calf is roughly vertical.
Tap the key that controls the trailing thigh until it is vertical under your torso.
Tap the key for your front calf until the trailing foot just barely starts to lift off the ground, then push off with that foot. (In other words press p-p-p-W+O if your left foot is in front, or o-o-o-Q+P if your right foot is in front.)

, The hurdle at 50 meters isn't as scary as it seems, as long as you don't actually try to jump over it. Stick to your steady stride pattern and you should knock it over. This will often require one of the mistake corrections described above afterward, but with practice you'll learn to recover smoothly. After that point, there are no more obstacles between you and the 100 meter finish line.
 Even after they get the running rhythm down, most people don't reach the 100 meter finish line. It takes many attempts and often hours of practice. Good luck!

