 This lantern is perfect for those who like working with glue. Because it requires so much glue, however, you will need to give it some time to dry. If you are in a hurry, this might not be the right choice for you; the lantern will need at least a day to dry. Here's what you'll need to make this lantern:


Balloon
Tissue paper (white and red/yellow)
Scissors (optional)
Paintbrush or foam brush
White school glue
Water
Black or gold permanent marker (optional)
String
Hole puncher
Battery-operated tea light

, Not too big or it may pop.
 You will need some white tissue paper for the first few layers; this will make your lamp glow brighter. You will also need some red or yellow tissue paper for the last two to three layers. You can even use both colors, if you want. Be sure to keep the white tissue paper separate from the other colors.
 This will be your papier mâché paste. Make sure that you are using white school glue, as the clear type won't work.
 Dip your paintbrush or foam brush into the glue mixture and dab some glue onto the balloon. You don't need a lot of glue—just a thin layer. This will give the tissue paper something to hold on to.
 You can use your fingers, if you don't mind getting dirty, or your paintbrush/foam brush. Try to get the paper as smooth as possible.
 Be sure to leave some room near the bottom of the balloon where the knot is. You can to be able to reach inside the lantern, once it dries and you pop the balloon.


Consider keeping your balloon in a bowl; this will help keep it still and prevent it from rolling all over the place.
 Be sure to let the first layer dry a little bit before you add another. If your balloon starts to get too soggy, set it aside. You may also notice that after enough layers, you may not need to use much glue if at all; the lower layers will help soak up the upper layers.
 You are adding so many layers to make your lantern sturdy. If you don't use enough layers, your lamp will turn out flimsy.
 This may take 1 to 2 days. The lantern must be completely dry before you move on to the next step, or it will cave in on itself.
 You can use a black or gold permanent marker to draw a Chinese character on the lantern. You can also draw designs on the lantern using glue, and then sprinkle gold glitter over the glue. If you use glue to decorate the lantern, be sure to let it dry before moving on to the next step.
 This is now the top of your lantern. If the lantern caves in on itself, simply reach inside, and pop it back out into shape. At this point, you can also use some scissors to clean up the edges of the tissue paper.
 They need to be straight across from each other, or the lantern won't balance right.
 Tie the ends of the string together into a tight knot.
 Switch on a battery-operated tea light and drop it into the lantern. You don't want to use a real candle or a light bulb, as both can lead to a fire. Use the string to hang the lantern.

