 While there's no definite way of knowing how she feels about you without explicitly asking, you can get a better idea of how she feels by paying attention to how she behaves around you.


Notice how she dresses on a regular basis compared to how she dresses when the two of you spend time alone. If she dresses up when she is with you, then she might be attracted to you.
Pay attention to whether she leans in to you when she is speaking and whether she touches your arm or leg while she is talking to you. These are possible signs that she is flirting.
If she always chooses to sit on the opposite side of the couch or pulls away from you when you try to hug her or dance with her, then she's probably not interested.
Notice how she looks at you. Does she smile at you? Do you catch her looking at you when you're in a group?
Does she laugh at your jokes when other people don't? She may be laughing because she likes you and your goofy moods cheer her up.
Check to see that she wants to be alone with you. If she wants you to make a move on her, then she will suggest doing activities that allow the two of you to be alone.
If she only wants to spend time with you when others are around, then she might prefer your friendship as it is.
 With a friend, you really don't want to mess up by coming on too strongly. As your friend, she cares about you, and she might be scared of hurting your feelings. If you can't tell whether or not she likes you from checking the signs, you should ask before you make a move.


Asking can be just as fun and sexy as going for it. Enjoy the awkwardness. Ask in person, or write a note.
You can say any of the following: "I think about you a lot. I like you. I've been trying to figure out if you like me back, or if you're just a really great friend. It's cool either way, but—if you like me, let's go out sometime."
Add some compliments. Go for romantic rather than sexual, as you don't want to make her uncomfortable if she just wants to be friends. Say she has beautiful eyes, a great sense of humor, and a special way about her you just can't put into words.
Be prepared for a yes! Have a date plan. Ask her somewhere beautiful, where you can be alone without the rest of your friends showing up or tagging along.
 The "Friend Zone" is an idea that was made up by guys to scare other guys. It has nothing to do with how girls actually feel. You don't have to rush it: once you know you like a girl, you can make either make a move or tell her how you feel.
 Once you have established that your friend is attracted to you, your move might happen naturally. If you feel the need to plan, though, try extending one of your normal friendly interactions. Sometimes friends who are mutually attracted get into weird physical habits, like always hugging more than necessary, or giving each other massages, or wrestling. If you're doing something like that, try stopping the action and making eye contact.


If you always hug, make your move by holding on. If she freezes or moves away, let her go. If she gets closer or holds on to you tighter, you can try for a kiss.
Check in after. If you make a physical move, make sure she is enthusiastically consenting.

