 Different types of arthritis are the most common cause of joint pain in dogs, but there are a number of conditions aside from arthritis that may also cause joint pain. Your vet can best diagnose and recommend treatment for the specific problems troubling your dog.Prior to your vet appointment, make note of the types of symptoms associated with your dog’s joint. Take note of things like your dog struggling to walk or walking slower, the inability to get up and down off of the sofa, excessive trembling, falling, or tipping over. Also note where your dog seems to experience problems, such as around the hips or along the legs.
Also make note of any other irregular symptoms that may be accompanying your dog’s joint problems. Are they experiencing disorientation, loss of appetite, or anything else outside of their typical behavior?
When you meet with your vet, inform them of the symptoms you have observed, and ask them what types of treatments they recommend.;
, If your dog’s joint pain is the result of a chronic condition such as arthritis, ask your vet about scheduling follow up visits to monitor your dog’s condition and adjust treatment as necessary. Your vet will be able to recommend a proper check-up schedule.Many vets will want to see a pet every three to six months for minor to moderate conditions, and may recommend more often for dogs suffering from severe or debilitating joint problems.
 Your vet may be able to prescribe medication to help alleviate your dog’s joint pain. The type of medication needed will depend on the cause of your dog’s joint pain, so medication should only be administered after receiving a vet’s prescription.Natural supplements such as glucosamine and chondroitin may help alleviate some of the symptoms associated with joint problems and help prevent further deterioration. You do not need a prescription for these supplements, but you should still ask your vet about proper doses for your dog’s size.
 A veterinary chiropractor may be able to relieve some of the pain your dog experiences. Ask your vet for a referral or recommendation, and schedule a preliminary appointment with a chiropractor to see if they can help your pet.When you visit the chiropractor, let them know about the symptoms your dog has been experiencing. Provide them with the same list of observations you gave to your vet, and also let them know about any medication or supplements your dog is currently taking.

