 Watch some videos. Jaydee has made a fantastic video for the song 'Helena' by My Chemical Romance. Look at what she does well. Watch a lot of videos, mainly amateur ones. What did you like about them? What didn't go well? It's important to note what makes the videos special.;
, Three minutes of a Sim playing guitar/singing can grow very boring, very quickly. I find that doodling characters on a piece of paper can help you to come up with something quickly. Also, try to make it fit the song's lyrics. Whilst this isn't necessary, it removes confusion and overall helps the music add to the video.
 I would suggest using Bodyshop for this. In Bodyshop, you can edit and re-edit, and there are a lot more options. Take a while to get your characters to look as close to how you want as possible. Make them unique- with no subtitles or voiceovers, characters can easily blend into each other. If characters don't look different to you but do to everyone else, it will become very confusing for the viewer. Stick to the minimum amount, and make sure you can tell them apart easily.
 Do not make a house! You want sets: groups of 2-4 walls with what you need and nothing else. Here's a good link to a set building tutorial:

,, Hit TAB to enter it. Your mouse will disappear, as will the Sim's information. Use the arrow keys to move around, the mouse to change angles and the X and Z keys to zoom in and out. You can get much more extreme shots, easily. Look for interesting or unique angles, but make sure you can see what's going on. The closer, the better! Never show plumb bobs, thought bubbles, the sky, the outside or idle Sims unless intended. Being able to see what you shouldn't distracts from the video.
,, You need money for set building.
, Good for sets.
 It can be dangerous, make sure you look up a boolprop guide before using it.
, Must have!

, Also must have!

, It involves digging around in your system files a bit. But when it's on it's amazingly helpful. Google it.
, It comes free with PCs. For more professional results, you can download other programs, but Movie Maker is pretty good. Make sure you cut out anything you don't want- if you don't want to see it, we don't!

