 Health professionals or anyone who comes into contact with bodily fluids that can carry the virus should always be cautious at work. Never recap sharp objects (syringes, lancets, etc.) after use. Always dispose of used sharp objects in a clear container to avoid accidental contact. Wear the proper safety protection (gloves, gowns, goggles, etc.) when working with blood or other fluids. Always treat all blood and body fluids as if they are infectious.
 Whether you are health care worker who was splashed with a patient's blood, or you were having sex while a condom broke, it's important to consult a doctor as soon as possible. See the section on taking action for more detail.


If you are pregnant or become pregnant, talk to a doctor about your pregnancy and HIV exposure to find out more about reducing the risk of transmission to the baby.
 If you know a sexual partner is HIV positive, work out a way to have an intimate relationship with minimum risk. Use condoms while having sex, or perform sexual acts that do not exchange bodily fluids, such as having one person use their fingers or sex toys instead of other body parts. See "reducing the risk of sexual transmission" for more detail.
 Minimize the risk of a woman or baby contracting HIV from an HIV+ man through adoption or a sperm donor. If a woman has HIV, consider a surrogate mother. Using an HIV+ person's sperm is not recommended, but it can be treated by medical professionals to reduce, but not eliminate, HIV before it is used in in vitro fertilization or artificial insemination.Having unprotected sex with an HIV+ person carries the highest risk of transmission. Always talk to a medical professional before making this decision, and limit sexual activity to the woman's most fertile point in the ovulation cycle.
 This preventative medicine, also known as PrEP, is a drug taken daily by people who are exposed regularly HIV, such as people who frequently have sex with HIV+ people. It may also be recommended for long-term sexual partners of people who are at risk of HIV. It is not 100% effective, and is best combined with other safety practices such as condom use. It is important to take the drug every day in the instructed doses, or it will be much less effective.If you are not frequently exposed to HIV+ body fluids, PrEP is not for you. Instead, if there is an incident which may have transmitted HIV, ask a doctor about post-exposure prophylaxis immediately after the incident.

