 You can use just about any type of t-shirt for this: fitted or loose, solid-colored or patterned. A shirt with a wide collar would look best, however.


In this method you will be sewing or gluing shapes made out of lace onto your shirt. If you want to add a lace hem, click here.
 This is a must if the shirt is brand new, as it will remove any starches and shrinking. T-shirts typically do not need to be ironed, but if your shirt has a lot of wrinkles in it, it would be a good idea to give it a quick pass with your iron.
 There are two types of lace that would work for this: basic lace and bridal lace. Basic lace is thin and net-like, while bridal lace usually has a raised or embroidered design. You can use either type for this project.
 The most popular places for lace trim is across one or both shoulders. The shapes are usually asymmetric and follow the pattern of the lace. Another popular design is a basic shape (such as a heart) in the center of the shirt; this only works with basic lace, however.
 If you are using basic lace, you might want to sketch your design onto it using tailor's chalk. Bridal lace typically comes on a spool and is only a few inches/centimeters wide. In this case, you simply need to figure out how long you need it to be, then mark it off with sewing pins.
 If you are using basic lace, you may notice that it has some designs on it (usually roses or leaves). Cut around these when cutting out your larger shape. If you are using bridal lace, cut around the raised or embroidered designs instead of straight through them.
 Carefully lay the lace down where you want it to be, then sew it with sewing pins.
 Sewing will take more time, but it will last longer. Gluing is quicker, but the glue will eventually wear off. It may also cause the fabric to feel a little stiff.To sew the lace on: choose a thread color that matches the thread, then sew the lace on using a straight stitch as close to the edges as you can. Remove the sewing pins when you are done.To glue the lace on: use fabric glue or liquid stitch to glue the lace on bit by bit; this way, the glue won't dry too fast. Remove the sewing pins as you work.


