 Nintendo has a chart comparing each Nintendo DS.


The DS Lite is the cheapest model, but you can only play Nintendo DS games and chat with your friends. If you plan on using an emulator (ex. R4), this may be the perfect choice for you, since you can't update the DS. You can also play your old Game Boy games too.
The DSi has a moderate cost, but you get a built in camera. You also have the ability to download games that costs $2-10 dollars. However, the camera isn't good and the Color Change lens don't work properly.
If you like playing games on big screens, the DSi XL is perfect for you. The graphics quality is lower than the DS, DSi and the 3DS, but you get 2 free games pre-installed.
Another model is the Nintendo 3DS. Just like the DSi, there is a camera and the ability to download games. 2 games are pre-installed (Face Raiders and AR games). You can also make a Mii just like on the Wii. Keep in mind that you can get dizzy if you play on 3D mode (the higher the depth, the shorter time it takes to make you dizzy).
A bigger version of the previous model is the Nintendo 3DS XL. It has the same features as the Nintendo 3DS except it is larger, and costs more money. It is ideal for people with larger hands, or for people who want a better "3D" experience.
There is also a cheap 3DS known as the 2DS, it is very cheap and it does the same as a 3DS, just without the 3D. it might be outdated soon though.
The latest model of the DS is the new 3DS. It does the same a a regular 3DS but it is faster and the 3D way better. It tracks your head to deliver the 3D to it. This one costs a bit more than a 3ds, but if you want to get a 3DS, you should spend a bit more money on this one, as the other model will be out of date soon.
There is also the New 3DS XL. It is the same as the new 3DS but it is better for people with large hands or just want a bigger screen, just like the 3DS XL.;
, You can do some odd jobs for your neighbors or if you're talented, preform on the street for money. Stash your money somewhere safe, or deposit it into your bank account.



You can buy it from a retail store, but most of the prices are the same. If your parents have some loyalty card (ex. Best Buy Reward Zone), you can bring them to the store and buy your DS there, for a win-win solution. You get the DSi, and your parents get some points so they can redeem something!
If you can't afford retail, you can buy a pre-owned DS on eBay. There may be missing parts and a few scratches to compensate for the cheapness.
If you live in New York City, you can go to the Nintendo World Store to buy your DS. You can ask the Ambassadors there for assistance on setting up your DS, and you can get some other Nintendo-themed items for yourself.

