 Access the Apple AppStore either from your iPod touch, iPhone or Computer. Search for Perfect Photo app. Tap the price button to purchase. The app costs $.99. You may be asked to enter your Apple ID to make the purchase.;
, You will see the home screen with a butterfly right in the center. Here you have options to load the photo from you photo album, take a new picture with a built-in camera or load a photo from the documents. The Documents folder lets you transfer images from an iDevice to Computer through iTunes. This folder can be accessed only from inside the app.
 Once you have picked a picture, app takes you to the menu with 6 icons on the top. The butterfly icon will take you back to the welcome screen. Floppy Disc icon will open saving and sharing menu. Two arrows in the center are used for undo and redo operations. Palette will open the tools menu and a flipped hat with stars opens the photo-effects menu.
 The current version features the following:


Crop
Rotate/Flip
Alignment
Brightness/Contrast
Gamma
Exposure
Shadows
Highlights
Levels
Hue/Saturation/Lightness
Color Balance
Color Temperature
Sharpen
Denoise
Red Eye Reduction
Spot Healing

, Perfect Photo has multi-step undo and redo, so you can come back to the original image any time.
 Both tools are used in a similar way (check the video for more information). Once you choose a tool (either red eye removal or spot healing), you will see a small circle appear on an image. Drag the circle to the area you want to improve (dots or red eyes). Then choose the circle radius and tap apply. You may need to tap more than one time if the dots you want to remove are really noticeable.
 In addition to the editing tools, Perfect Photo gives you a choice of 6 photo effect to add to your images. If you like to have more effects, you should take a look at another app by the same developer - FX Photo Studio (http://www.fxphotostudioapp.com). This app focuses on effects and layers only and currently features App Store's largest collection of those - 181. The effects in Perfect Photo app are: Vintage, Posterize, Bloom, Pencil Paint, Black and White and Invert. You can adjust most of the effects. To see what the image looks like with effect, simply tap on it and check the preview, then tap Apply if you like the result or switch to another effect, if not.
 When you are done with editing you have options to save the image or share it. Tap the Floppy Disc icon to see all the options. You can save the image to photo album (camera roll), copy to clipboard and also to the documents folder for quite an easy sharing between iDevice and computer. You also share the image via E-mail, Facebook, Twitter or Flickr. To share the image via social networks, Perfect Photo app will ask permission to connect to your profiles, and you will need to enter your login details.

