 Tuna has omega-3 fatty acids, which help your brain balance serotonin levels. Tuna also has lots of good protein, so it will help you feel satiated longer.


Try a tuna wrap for lunch. A wrap will allow you to get your tuna while cutting down on the carbohydrates, since there is typically less bread in a wrap.
Try a tuna salad for lunch. By combining the omega-3 fatty acids with some fresh vegetables like green peppers, mushrooms, tomatoes and olives, you will get a well balanced and healthy lunch.
 Ask for beans and green vegetables, which both have folic acid, along with additional protein from beef, fish or poultry, to provide vitamin B12.Try a black bean and quinoa burrito. The combination of black beans and quinoa makes for a really healthy burrito. You can add steak or chicken if you want some more protein.Try a chicken and black bean burrito.Skip the extra sauce for a healthier burrito. If you are ordering a burrito, skip the addition of burrito sauce, mayonnaise and other fatty sauces. This will result in a healthier, lower fat burrito.
Make a burrito bowl with steak, chopped tomatoes, bell peppers, black beans and yellow corn.By asking for a burrito bowl instead of a wrap, you will lower the carbohydrates in your burrito.
 You will get your folic acid from the spinach and your vitamin B12 from the salmon, which are two of the most essential vitamins for nervous system health. Plus, the salmon contains omega-3 fatty acids that will help your body maintain a balanced mood., Drinking hot chocolate reduces stress hormones like cortisol in people who are stressed out. It may be because of the antioxidants in chocolate.Remember not to add too much sugar to your hot chocolate, which may result in mood swings.
 Ginger has antioxidants that fight free radicals and does not have caffeine, which can adversely impact mood if taken too late in the day because it may keep you awake at night.Ginger is also really great for an upset stomach. It has anti-inflammatory properties, improves blood circulation, and helps you digest your food., Almonds and hazelnuts have lots of magnesium and good amounts of fibre.This snack will help you keep your mood and energy levels up for that last push of your work day.


Make some trail mix snacks for the week. In order to avoid getting stuck in the middle of nowhere without a healthy snack, it can help to pre-package your trail mix on the weekend. Mix a cup of almonds with half a cup of hazelnuts, a quarter cup of sunflower seeds, and a quarter cup of chocolate chips. Mix it together in a big bowl and then package it for the week. Package your trail mix in small plastic bags or small, airtight glass containers and throw one in your briefcase or lunchbox in the morning.
You can also make a nice trail mix with a cup of raw almonds, a cup of cashews, a cup of banana chips, a cup of oyster crackers, three quarters of a cup of dried cranberries, and a quarter cup of chocolate chips. Stir the ingredients together in a big bowl and then distribute the snack into small plastic bags or airtight containers. The mix will stay fresh for a few weeks.