 You can use cardboard for a soft cover, or book binding board for a sturdier cover. Place your signatures over the board and draw around the shape. Then, add an extra ¼” to the height and width of the cover. Cut out this piece and use it to create the template for the back cover of your book.
 Hold a ruler up to the spine of your signature and measure the width of the paper stack. Then use this measurement along with the total height of the papers to cut out a long, thin strip of cardboard to use as the spine.
 You can use any cotton based non-stretch fabric you would like. Lay out your two covers and spine on top of the fabric. Space each piece so that they are ¼” apart. Then measure around the three pieces, adding 1” extra in every direction. Cut out this single piece of fabric.









At the corners of your fabric, cut a small acute triangle with a point that lines up with the corner of your cover board. This will allow you to fold the fabric in without making creases in the corners.
 Place your boards back in their original position over the fabric, with the spine centered and each piece set ¼” of an inch away from each other. Completely coat the front of the board with glue (preferably bookbinding glue, but any kind will work) and stick it to the fabric. Then, fold the excess fabric over the edges of the board and use glue to stick them on the inside.
 Place your book of signatures inside the cover you have just created to verify that it fits. Then, place a piece of scratch paper under the first page of the first signature. Cover the outside of this page in glue, and then press down the cover of the book to attach it to the cover page. Remove the scratch paper.









Open to the new first page of the book, and use your bone folder to rub the cover page you just glued to the cover. Make sure that it is completely attached with no air bubbles.
Repeat this process again for the last page in your book and the back cover.
 Place several heavy books or flat objects on top of your completed book. Allow it to sit for 1-2 days to completely dry and compress all the pages. After you have waited long enough, enjoy your new book!







