 If you want to talk about something potentially uncomfortable, it's important to find the right time and place. Talking when your mother is busy or stressed will only make an uncomfortable situation more stressful.Choose a time with no external time constraints. If you're telling your mother something private or embarrassing, you want to make sure the two of you can talk out the issue for as long as necessary.
You should also pick a time when you and your mom are generally not stressed. You don't want to talk to her about something embarrassing or awkward when you're already in a bad mood. If you both tend to have down time Saturday, this may be a good time to talk as you'll both be relaxed.;
, If you're talking something private over with a parent, there is likely to be some embarrassment. This is normal. It will be easier to go into the situation if you expect you're going to be embarrassed.Do not try to talk yourself out of feeling embarrassed or awkward. This is only likely to make you focus on these feelings more.
Instead, accept that you'll feel embarrassed but remind yourself why you want to talk things out. For example, you may want to talk to your mom about something like sex or dating. While raising the topic is difficult, your mom can give you valuable advice on the topic as she's older and more experienced.
 You should not go into the conversation without some idea of what you want. If you're telling your mother something private, you're doing so for a reason. Think about why you want to talk this over with your mom. Knowing what you want can also help you better direct the conversation.You may just want your mom to listen. If you're going through an embarrassing personal problem, you may just want to vent to someone. If this is the case, you can let your mom know you don't want advice or guidance.
However, you may want advice about something. Think about whether or not your mom's input would be helpful. If you want advice, you can ask for it directly. For example, "Mom, I need to ask you for advice about something."

, You may be very nervous approaching your mom. However, one simple sentence can easily get the conversation going. Take a few deep breaths and approach your mom to start talking.Try something simple. For example, "Mom, do you have a minute? There's something I want to talk to you about."
If you're nervous your mom will be mad, try to give her a head's up about this. For example, "Mom, something happened that I think you might be upset about. I need to talk to you about it anyway, even if you end up mad at me."

, There's no sense hovering around the subject. If you have something important to talk about, bring it up right away without hesitating. Being as direct as possible can help the conversation start off in an open, honest place.Provide your mother with everything she needs to understand the situation. Avoid hinting at anything.
For example, start off with a clear, direct statement like, "Mom, I've been seeing Joe for awhile now and he wants to have sex for the first time. I'm not sure I'm ready, but he keeps pushing me. I don't really know what to do."

, You may not necessarily want guidance. However, it's a parents' job to offer a child guidance. Even if you disagree with your mom, try to let her share her opinion without interrupting.Try to understand your mom's point of view. If you're feeling frustrated with her, pause and try to step into her shoes. Consider why your mom may feel the way she does about a situation.
For example, you're telling your mom a friend of yours has been experimenting with drugs. Your mom has a very negative reaction. While you may feel your mother is being judgmental, maybe she had a friend develop a serious drug problem in high school. This may be why she's having such a negative reaction.
 If you're sharing something private, there's always a chance your mother may not react the way you want. She may be upset, worried, or even angry. However, despite your mother's reaction, try to stay calm. You do not want the situation to turn into an argument, as this will not help the two of you work things out.Remember basic manners. Do not interrupt or raise your voice.
Always acknowledge you heard what your mom said, even if you didn't like it. For example, "I understand you think Audrey's a bad influence, but I really care about her as a friend."

, You never want to let a discussion turn into an argument. Even if your mom reacts negatively, refrain from arguing with her. Keep your tone calm and respectful throughout the conversation, even if you feel like your mom is being unfair.If you feel like you're losing your temper, it's okay to take a break. Say something like, "I feel like we're not getting anywhere. Can we take a break and talk about this later?"
You can then do something to get rid of your anger, like go for a walk or vent to a friend.
 Your mom may not react the way you wanted. She may get angry about the subject, or even punish you or make a new rule regarding your behavior. If your mother has a negative reaction, try to cope with it effectively.If your mom is lecturing you or talking to you in a way that is not helpful, let her know. Say something like, "I really don't need advice. I just wanted to talk."
If your mom makes a rule for your behavior (i.e., "I don't want you hanging out with Krista anymore.") accept the rule for now. You can talk to your mom again once she's calmed down. Being argumentative may just make your mom double down on the rule., You may want your mom's advice. This may be why you're raising the conversation to begin with. If you want guidance, ask for it after telling your mom about the topic. Say something like, "I just really wanted your advice because I'm not sure what to do."Remember, just because someone offers advice doesn't mean you have to take it. However, it can be helpful to just listen to and consider your mom's point of view.
 Some subjects may be too tricky to introduce to your mom. If your mom reacts very negatively and does not want to talk about it, reach out to another adult.You can talk to another parent, an aunt or uncle, an older sibling, or a friend's parent.

