


A strip heater, which is a tool that has a heating element along the length of it and rests on which to lay the material you want to heat so that they are not directly on the intense heating elementSheet of acrylic that is large enough for your needs
Chinagraph pencil, also known as a grease pencil, or permanent marker
A jig, which is a box or frame meant for holding holding a material and guiding a machine tool to the materialScrap wood
Cutting tools, such as a Dremel saw, circular saw, table saw, and/or razor knife
Clamps
Acrylic glue and an applicator

, Cut down the sheet of acrylic to the size or shape that you need for your project using a Dremel saw or razor knife.


It may be helpful to overestimate your dimensions, since you will be heating and bending the acrylic. Heating may cause a slight change in where the bend lies and how it fits into other pieces.
 This is where you will heat the acrylic on the strip heater.Make sure that your line exactly follows the shape you desire. If you want a straight line, make sure it is perfectly straight. If you need it to be angled, then make sure the line runs at the correct angle. The line will still appear on the acrylic after it is heated, when you need to bend it.
The Chinagraph pencil markings can be removed later. Remember that permanent marker will not come off.
 You will put the heated acrylic in the jig to help it form to the right shape.


Use the circular or table saw for this process. You may need to use wood glue or nails to assemble your jig into the shape you need, depending on how you plan to bend the acrylic. For example, you might adhere two pieces of scrap wood together at a 90-degree angle along their long sides if you want your acrylic bent in that shape. If you need a more acute or obtuse angle, then you will likely need to cut the edges of your scrap wood at slight angles instead of perfectly straight across.
Set the jig aside until you need it. Be sure to leave it close by and easily accessible.
Have a piece of scrap wood nearby, as well, for helping to form the shape of the bent acrylic in the jig.
 Be sure that the marked line is above the heating element.Turn the sheet of acrylic over on the heating element every 30-60 seconds in order to avoid damaging it. Wear gloves as you do this to avoid burning your hands.
Only keep the acrylic on the strip heater long enough for it to become flexible, at which point it is ready for you to bend.
It may be helpful to clamp the acrylic in place while it is being heated so that only the marked area is heated and the sheet of acrylic does not move., Remember to wear gloves so that you do not burn your hands.


Bend the acrylic to match the angle of the jig. Then, set the acrylic into the jig so that it will form to that angle as it cools.
Set the flat piece of scrap wood on top of the acrylic to keep it in place in the jig while it cools, so that it forms to the correct angle. You could also use clamps, if you have your jig set up on a table surface with room to apply the clamps.
Do not remove the acrylic from the jig until it has cooled, or it might lose its new shape.
 If you have no other bends to make in the acrylic, then move onto the last step, or you might be done with your project.


Remember to wait until the initial bend in the acrylic has completely cooled before attempting another bend in the same sheet of acrylic. Moving it while it is still warm and flexible will cause it to lose the bend.
 You will need to trace them onto an additional piece of flat acrylic.


Remember to trace both sides of your newly bent acrylic, as they may not be the exact same shape and size.
Cut out the side pieces using a Dremel saw or a razor knife. Take care not to crack the acrylic, which may cause you to have to start over.
Fit the side pieces into the bent acrylic to create your enclosure. Secure the sides with acrylic glue and an applicator, and use clamps to hold them in place to set for several minutes.

