 If you run out of stuffing for a decoration, newspapers make a frugal alternative. To use it as filling, take an old newspaper and divide it into pages. Crumple each page into a ball, then stuff the item until full. Newspaper is not as soft as polyester toy filling: keep this in mind before refilling your item with newspapers.


Newspaper ink spreads. If your item is a lighter color or may get wet, use something else instead.
You can also use it in place of tissue paper when stuffing gift bags. Divide an old newspaper into pages and then cut them into smaller squares. Place your present into the bag, then stuff it with newspaper sections until full.;
, In lieu of bubble wrap, use newspaper when packing delicate items into boxes. Newspaper can be wrapped around an object for shock absorption and cushioning for fragile things.


Newspapers can also cover hard floors while packing. That way, if something falls, it is less likely to break.
Again, do not use newspaper when packing something that stains easily.
Use packing peanuts or styrofoam alongside newspaper for extra protection.
 Use newspapers to line pet cages to make clean-up easier. If you need to disinfect your pet's cage, the newspaper lining creates a layer for mess-free removal later on.


If your budget is tight, use shredded newspaper as kitty litter. Divide your old newspaper into sections and cut them into thin, vertical strips. Newspaper is absorbent and can be used as an alternative to storebought litter.Pet owners who recently bought a dog can use newspaper lining on dog beds while training in case your puppy has an accident.
Bird owners can use newspaper as daily removable lining on the bottom of its cage to avoid cleaning the base each day., Line old newspapers at the bottom of your fruit or vegetable trays.Newspapers absorb smells and liquids, and they can take care of bad odors without you cleaning fridge trays daily.


If you have any under-ripe fruits, wrapping them in newspaper can help them ripen faster.

