 When you're developing feelings for someone, you don't necessarily see them through an accurate lens. You will find yourself magnifying their good qualities. Ask yourself whether you have a tendency to exaggerate this person's best features in your mind.If you fancy someone, you will be enchanted by them. You will find yourself illuminating their good qualities in your mind. You will find that you see this person as unique and special.
It can help to compare how you feel about the person to how you feel about a friend. With friendship, views tend to be more grounded in reality. While you may admire a friend's kindness, you won't find yourself completely in awe of it. With someone you fancy, however, you may find yourself completely taken with their kindness.;
, Tuning into your feelings when you are around the person may help you to determine if you really fancy them or not. The next time you are with the person, check in with yourself and consider how you feel.


Try asking yourself, "What am I feeling? Is it a good feeling? How do I know?"
For example, you might notice that you feel exhilarated, content, or interested. All of these feelings might indicate that you may fancy the person.
If you notice that you feel uncomfortable, annoyed, or impatient, then you might not fancy the person.
 When you have feelings for someone, you will be reminded of them all the time. They will always be on your mind throughout the day. Think how much time you spend thinking about this person. This can help cue you in to how you feel.Take note throughout an entire day of when and why you're reminded of them. You may find yourself being reminded of them by seemingly mundane things. For example, every song on the radio will be about them in some way.
If you're not reminded of the person that often, you may only see them as a friend.
 When people develop feelings for someone, they can spend a large amount of their time thinking of them. Evaluate your thoughts throughout the course of a single day. Pay attention to how often they drift towards the person in question.You may feel like you're obsessed with the person. This is normal. Romantic feelings, especially in the early stages, can feel like obsession.
You may find you're struggling to concentrate on other things. Instead of paying attention in class, for example, your mind may be wandering to this person.
 When you're falling for someone, you will want the people you care about to like them. Think about times your family and friends interacted with this person. Focus on your feelings during these moments.Do you watch how this person interacts with friends and family members? Have you asked a close friend or family member what they think of the person?
If you don't fancy someone, you won't worry as much what others think of them. However, if you have romantic feelings, you will really want the people around you to like this person.
 People tend to pine for people they fancy. When you're apart from this person, you may feel very sad. You will find yourself missing their presence in your life and wishing they were around. Even short term separations can cause you to feel sad.Keep in mind, however, it is normal to miss longterm friends the same way you might miss someone you're romantically invested in. Consider other factors in addition to missing the person when figuring out if you fancy them.