 Celebrate by blowing up a bunch of balloons, buying a cake and celebrating your grandchild.


Make your gift time together. Parents are often torn between work and caring for their children. It’s a rare occasion that a parent can spend the entire afternoon not fussing over the house or work and only focus on the child. However, as a grandparent, you can. Devote an entire day to talking with and focusing on what your grandchildren want to do or talk about.
Surprise your grandchildren - especially after they've had a rough day or week. Who wouldn’t want a party dedicate to them after a rough week in school or losing a big game? Find an impromptu time to surprise your grandchildren and celebrate the wonderful things make them feel great.
Pull out all the stops and include streamers, party hats, and even a fun party game. No party is complete without all the trimmings. Throw the party as though you are putting together a birthday party. Include balloons, party hats, streamers and even a cake. Find out what your grandchildren's favorite activities are and even sing a happy song.;
, Even if it’s camping in the back yard, plan a fun trip with either one or all of your grandchildren that they will remember forever.


Consider going camping or RVing. If Dom and Dad are too busy to go camping, make your grandchildren’s first experience extra fun. If you are into the RV scene, consider asking your grandchildren to come along for an adventure. Head to a favorite scenic wonder or take them to the ocean. Or, if camping is something you have in mind, be sure you have all the gear needed for comfortable camping. Consider an air mattress, blankets, coolers and a grill. Don't forget the graham crackers, marshmallows and chocolate bars for s'mores.
Take your grandchildren to a destination mom and dad haven’t been able to hit. Perhaps Mom and Dad have been avoiding a Walt Disney World trip mainly because Disney is a lot of work.
Try a few field trips. If a full-blown getaway isn’t possible, go on field trips to the zoo or local art museum. Share experiences and culture with your grandchildren in order to expose them to new adventures that you can discuss and share for years to come.
 Whether it's the YouTuber of the week or a tough MMA fighter, find out who they admire and why.


Offer to take your grandchildren to see their favorite band or role model. It may not be your favorite thing to do, but if you offer to take them to a concert or to see an event you’ll most likely be nominated for “Coolest grandparent of the Year.”
Ask questions about the person they admire. Find out why and where they found out about this role model. Show you have an interest in your grandchildren’s role models by asking questions such as what they admire most about this person and who did they discover this idol. Do you own research to help you understand why they may like this individual or band. If you can contribute a fact or two, you may solidify your role as “cool grandparent.”
Be willing to accept your grandchild’s “crazy” ideas for a role model. Just because your grandchildren think a rapper with gold teeth and 15 metal chains around his neck is cool, doesn’t mean you should automatically roll your eyes in disgust and make a snide comment. Find out more about their role model, and understand that the world may have changed since you were younger and that you can’t always judge a book by its cover.
 Just because you are a grandparent doesn’t mean that you know and have done it all. There’s still a world to explore and by just being open-minded and continuing to be a student of life will automatically make you a cool grandparent.


Offer to take a class with your grandchildren. Whether it’s a pottery class at the community center or learning to play a musical instrument, learn a new skill alongside your grandchildren to further your bond.
Ask your grandchildren for advice, even if you don’t plan to take it. Show your grandchildren that you respect their opinions by asking “what if” questions. If you’re divorced and want to remarry, ask about the current dating scene.
Laugh at yourself. When you do something funny or mess up, be lighthearted enough to laugh at yourself. Not only will you put others at ease, your grandchildren will see you in a more “human” light instead of an older, more serious adult.

