 To make the biscuit topping, measure 2 cups (250 g) of all-purpose flour into a large mixing bowl. Add the rest of the dry biscuit ingredients and whisk them well. You'll need to add:1 tablespoon baking powder
1 teaspoon fine salt
1 teaspoon sugar;
, Put 3 tablespoons of the cold, sliced butter in the mixing bowl and use your fingers to rub the butter into the mixture. Add the remaining 5 tablespoons of butter and keep rubbing it in until the mixture is crumbly. Stir in 1 teaspoon of finely grated lemon zest and 3/4 cup (180 ml) of milk.The mixture should look like a soft dough at this point.
 Sprinkle flour on your work surface. Put the biscuit dough on the surface and use your hands to pat it into a 1/2-inch (12 mm) thick rectangle. Fold the rectangle of dough into thirds (so it's like a letter) and pat the dough into a 1/2-inch (12 mm) disk. Use a 3-inch (7.5 cm) round biscuit cutter to cut 8 biscuits out of the dough.Chill the biscuits on a baking sheet in the refrigerator until you're ready to use them.
 Pour 6 tablespoons (88 ml) of vegetable oil into a soup pot and turn the heat to medium. Stir in 1/2 cup (62 g) of all-purpose flour and cook it for about 10 minutes. Stir the roux constantly, so it thickens and turns medium brown.The roux will look like it's drying out as it cooks which is fine. The roux will thicken the gumbo.
 Wash and chop 2 stalks of celery, 1 medium onion, and 1 green bell pepper. Add them to the pot with the roux and stir the mixture well. Saute the mixture over medium heat for 5 minutes.The vegetables should soften a little.
 Pour 3 cups (709 ml) of chicken stock into the pot and add 3 cups (375 g) of diced smoked turkey leg meat. Stir in 2 teaspoons of Cajun seasoning and 2 bay leaves. Turn the heat up to bring the gumbo to a boil. Then reduce the heat, so it's bubbling gently. Simmer the gumbo for about 30 minutes.Leave the lid off of the pot, so the gumbo thickens as it simmers.
 Turn the oven on to 450 degrees F (230 C). Add one dozen shucked oysters to the gumbo. Chop them if they're large. You should also stir in up to 1/2 cup (120 ml) of the oyster liquor that they're in. Add the rest of the seasonings and simmer the gumbo for five minutes. You'll need to add:1 1/2 teaspoons file powder
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper

, Spread 2 cups (500 g) of cooked white rice into the bottom of a 2 1/2-quart baking dish. Measure out 8 cups of the gumbo and pour it over the rice. Take the biscuits out of the refrigerator and place them on top of the gumbo.You can brush the biscuits with a little extra milk to help them brown as they bake.
 Set the baking dish on a baking sheet and put it in the preheated oven. Bake the pot pie for 20 to 25 minutes. It should turn golden brown once it's finished baking.Cool the pot pie for about 5 minutes before you serve it.

