 Rock climbing requires specific safety equipment. Buy equipment that is certified as the most reliable to protect you. The International Climbing and Mountaineering Association (UIAA) has a database of certified equipment that they update regularly. Certified climbing equipment will say that it is UIAA or CEN-approved.CEN is the European standard for safety.
The website for the UIAA database is http://theuiaa.org/safety-standards/certified-equipment/


, Choose a helmet specifically for climbing. Football and bicycling helmets are not made to withstand rocks and debris that might fall on your head. Pick a helmet with a snug, comfortable fit.Choose a helmet with ventilation if you tend to get hot quickly.
A light-colored helmet will keep you cooler in the sun on hot days.
 A good-fitting harness will keep you upright when you’re hanging or if you fall. Consider the fit of the waist, legs, and rise when choosing your harness. The waist should be tight enough that you can only fit a few fingers between your body and the harness. You’ll spend more time standing in your harness than you will climbing or hanging, so find one that is comfortable when you stand.Harnesses fit around your waist or your hips. You’ll be most comfortable in a harness that fits around your waist if your hips are bigger than your waist.
The leg straps should not be snug, but not tight.
The rise is the difference between your waist and your leg straps. You won’t be comfortable if this is too short. Try to find an adjustable rise.
Mesh harness are the most comfortable, breathable, and lightweight.
Gear loops should be easy to access. Make sure that they aren’t too far forward so your gear won’t bang on your thighs or get in your way while you climb.
 Ropes are critical for lead climbing, breaking a fall, rappelling, and even hauling gear. There are several considerations when you choose your ropes. Focus first on length, diameter, and whether your rope is dynamic or static. Get rope that is at least 60 feet long. Longer rope will give you more flexibility.
Ropes come in a variety of diameters. A thicker rope is a safe choice for starting out. It’s also highly durable, locks well into your carabiners, and is easy to grab.
Dynamic, stretchy ropes are best for lead climbing. Static ropes don't stretch. Both static and dynamic ropes can be used for rappelling and hauling equipment.
 Choose carabiners that clearly state they are for climbing and are certified to hold significant weight. Carabiners have locking devices and shapes that are specific to the sport. Start by choosing your carabiners based on these two features.


The D-shape is the most durable, lightweight, versatile, and common.
A pear shape has a larger basket to hold the rope and is usually used for belaying (holding the rope to stop another climber from falling).
Choose between a carabiner that locks automatically when it is shut or one that screws shut (mostly used in wet and icy conditions).

