 While it is normal to lose blood through your discharge, it is not normal to lose an excessive amount of it. Because of this, it is important to monitor your blood loss by looking at the the perineal pads your doctor will recommend that you wear. What to look for will be discussed in this section.You should use pads instead of tampons for a couple of reasons. The first is that pads will help you keep track of your blood loss much more easily than tampons will. The second is that tampons can introduce new bacteria into your vagina, making it more likely that you will get an infection.
Do not use scented pads because the chemicals that make them smell nice can increase your chances of infection.
 The color of your discharge will change as times passes after you have given birth. As discussed in the introduction, you should only really have to deal with discharge for six weeks after you give birth. There are three kinds of discharges (which are also called lochia) that should appear in the following order:



2 to 4 days after childbirth: Lochia Rubra is a bright red vaginal discharge with a fleshy smell. It is made up of blood, decidua, and other debris from the uterus.

4 to 10 days after childbirth: Lochia serosa appears to be brownish-pink because it consist old blood, leukocytes, and other tissue debris.

10 to 14 days after childbirth, lasting for 6 weeks: Lochia Alba is a creamy white vaginal discharge that consists of leukocytes, mucus, epithelial cells, and bacteria.
 We have just covered the normal stages of your discharge. If, at any point, your discharge becomes thick, yellow, and has a bad smell, it is an indication that you have an infection in your reproductive system. Go to the hospital right away so that you can get started on antibiotics.


The antibiotics used will be covered in Method Four.
 When monitoring your discharge after childbirth, it’s important to keep track of how long you can wear a pad before you have to change it (because this will give you an idea of how much you are bleeding). However, perineal pads vary in soaking time and appearance according to their brands.


It is a good idea to use the same pads every day so that you can get a better idea of how much discharge your body is creating each day. You should estimate the amount of blood you are losing each day (3 pads worth, etc.) and write down the amount.
 When looking at your pads, it may help to have a reference point from which to assess your own discharge. Scant, light, moderate, and heavy discharges are all normal. Excessive discharge means you need to get to the hospital immediately. These terms refer to the size of the discharge on your pad, and how long the pad took to be soaked. They are discussed below.Scant: Less than 2.5 cm (1 inch) on menstrual pad in 1 hour.
Light: Less than 10 cm (4 inches) on menstrual pad in 1 hour.
Moderate: Less than 15 cm (6 inches) on menstrual pad in 1 hour
Heavy: Saturated menstrual pad in 1 hour.
Excessive: Menstrual pad saturated in 15 minutes. Seek immediate medical help.

