 To-do lists will keep you organized. Tell yourself that you must complete the things on the list before you do anything else. The feeling you get once you cross something off the list is incredible! It make you feel like you've accomplished something and will keep you motivated.;
, This is very important when it comes to getting good grades. Teachers give out homework in order to prepare you for upcoming exams and assignments. Completing homework on the day you get it will also save you time in the future, and it also makes sure that you will have completed it for the next day. It is a good habit to get into. (Don't just get it out of the way though. Make sure you understand the questions and you show your work.)

, If you know that in biology class tomorrow you'll be learning about dichotomous keys, read up on it! Your teachers will be really impressed about your work and effort, and it will also make it easier for you during class as you will have a clear idea on what you are doing.
 Don't wait for your teacher to tell you when to take notes. You should make sure that you take as many notes as possible. Teachers sometimes leave out little things that can come up on the test, so make sure that you don't miss out on anything!

, Don't talk to your friends in class. As tempting as it is, that is what lunch time is for! You can't let them distract you from your goals.
 By attending classes like these, you will eliminate any doubts that you are having with your work.
 They are there to help you. They can't say "no" really.
 This will make sure that you on top of all your work and will leave you less stressed.
 This is a good thing to do because you can get someone to read it and give you some feedback. Having feedback from other people can increase your final grades significantly.
 This will save you from a lot of stress when your exams come around.
 Scientific research shows that meditation can increase your IQ and your ability to think deeper into situations.
 Go for runs, go out to the movies, meet up with some friends anything! Having a balance in school and social life is important, do not forget that!

, You go to school so that you can go to college and get a great job. Don't just fly through school with the minimum amount of work so you can do something else.
