 Since the dilation of the cervix happens when labor moves from "early" to "active," intervening in the process instead of letting it occur naturally is essentially the same as inducing labor. There are a number of reasons why a doctor or midwife might determine this to be the best course of action:


If you're two weeks past your due date with no signs of early labor.If your water has broken but no contractions have occurred.
If you have an infection in the later stages of pregnancy.
If there's a problem with your placenta.
If you have a medical condition that might pose a risk if you wait too long to have the baby.
If you're undergoing a dilation and curettage procedure.;
, Inducing labor should not be done as a matter of convenience, since it can pose risks to both the mother and the baby. Inducing labor should not be done lightly - be sure you understand exactly what your body will experience before you agree to taking medication. Inducing labor increases the risk of these complications:


Having a C-section.Premature birth.
Lowering the baby's heart rate and oxygen intake.
Contracting infection.
Uterine rupture.
 The most common medication used for this purpose is synthetic prostaglandin. Dinoprostone and misoprostol are two synthetic prostaglandins that may be used. Both of these medications are administered vaginally or orally.


These medications have side effects that may impact the health of the baby. Be sure to talk with your doctor about the risks involved before taking medication.
 Sometimes doctors use implements that will dilate the cervix mechanically, rather than chemically. Either a balloon-tipped catheter or a type of seaweed called laminaria is inserted inside the cervical opening.


Once the balloon-tipped catheter is inserted, saline is injected into the balloon, causing it to expand and dilate the cervix.
Laminaria is a type of seaweed native to Japan that forms a thick, sticky gel when wet. The dried stems of the seaweed are formed into "tents" that will swell up gradually. A layer of this substance is placed just inside the cervix, around the neck of the uterus to promote cervical dilation. Although laminaria has been used both prior to dilation and curettage and to stimulate labor, the safety of its use during pregnancy has not been proven at this time.

