  This should leave you a steel tank with a few holes you will need to deal with later.
 Horizontal heaters can handle longer wood, but have a larger foot print, vertical ones take up much less space, and as mentioned, have a smaller fire box diameter/dimension., For a vertical heater, come up about 1/3 the tank's height, and make a level line (perpendicular to the tank sides). For a horizontal, on one end, make a level mark about 4 inches up from the tank's lower side.

Keep in mind that once you begin laying out your cut lines, you need to maintain an orientation so all cuts will be square/plumb/level in relationship to each other for a good fit and neat appearance.
 Then make a top mark, level again, for the top of the door.,, You can tap screws through the metal, or simply weld the hinges in place. Make sure the pins are aligned and the hinges seat flat to the side of the tank., Having installed the hinges prior to cutting the whole door out will insure the door is aligned properly., This will create a door stop, and also help seal the door opening so sparks/smoke will be less likely to escape., Then insert a 5/16 pencil rod (cold rolled steel rod) through the hole. It will be bent 90 degrees nearly flush with the inside face of the door, and have another 90 degree bend on the outside. This will act as the latch.,, These will be for the firewood to rest on as it burns, and will keep the wood above the ash settling on the tank bottom.,  This is optional, but will support small kindling wood when lighting your fire. This piece will just lay in place, since it must be removed to remove ash after your fire has died down., For simplicity, we will describe using a single-wall thin gauge flue pipe, available at hardware stores. Buy the stove pipe before cutting this hole and you can use it to scribe the exact diameter/location for the flue. Notch the metal near the edge of the hole, so these pieces can be bent upward to provide a surface to fasten the flue pipe to.,  This attachment needs to be tight, if the cut is sloppy, use fire caulk or chimney sealant around the seam to prevent sparks and smoke from escaping., Use it to scribe a matching hole which you will cut into the tank. Cut a round piece of sheet metal to fit inside the pipe, then drill a hole through the top and bottom of the pipe to fit a rod to fasten this damper to.,, Make sure the legs or base is secure and support the tank in a plumb/level position., You can now test fire the wood heater. Assume any paint still on the tank may emit toxic fumes, so test the stove out out doors where there is plenty of ventilation.