 While the machines may be similar in many ways, care and use requirements may differ. The instructions should also tell you how to disassemble and clean the vaporizer.
 While you may use a vaporizer at any time, most users prefer to run the machine at night. As the machines ease dryness or stuffiness in nasal passages, users may experience a more comfortable sleep.


Avoid running the vaporizer all day since you will fill the air with too much moisture doing so, which may cause increased mold or fungus growth in your home. These problems may lead to further respiratory issues.
Never allow your home's interior humidity exceed 50%.Purchase an interior hygrometer to measure the humidity in your home's air.
 Tap water contains minerals, and some of these minerals can clog up the machine or spread dust and contaminants through the air in your home.Most vaporizers have a "fill line" marking how high the water level should be. Don't overfill the tank, as doing so may cause spills.
Some vaporizers will automatically shut off once the tank is empty, but you should plan to fill it each time you plan to begin using the device, such as at bedtime.
 You should place the vaporizer about 4 feet (122 cm) away from direct contact with anyone’s skin.The hot mist from a steam vaporizer can cause scalding if it comes into contact with skin, especially for an extended length of time.


If using the vaporizer in a child's room or in a home with children, place it high up on a surface that the child cannot reach to prevent accidental scalding. You should also make sure that the surface is sturdy enough to withstand vibrations that might dislodge the vaporizer.
Do not use or place the vaporizer in an area that would allow bedding, curtain, carpeting, or other fabric materials to get wet. You may want to spread towels out beneath the machine to prevent dripping water or condensation from damaging the surface of your furniture.
 Some vaporizers turn on as soon as they are plugged in. For the most part, though, there will be a switch, button, or dial that you will need to flip in order to turn the machine on.



If bacteria or mold starts to grow, you and your family will probably experience more respiratory problems.
Leave doors and, if possible, windows open during the day when the steam vaporizer is not in use. Run an electric fan, if necessary, to keep the air circulating inside the room.

