 Watch TV, provide snacks and drinks and have a good time. Chances are you're going to be up pretty late, so just enjoy it.;
, These are great as you can reflect on things that weren't so good last year, and think of ways to improve them for the year coming up! Also, they can improve your daily lifestyle. Can't think of any? Here are some ideas to get you going:

,,,,,,, Say thank you to the friends who gave you presents. Be happy when you go into school, because even though all the celebrations are over, just think of all the new opportunities, topics and fun coming up. Plus, now you have an opportunity to enjoy school more. Work harder in lessons, always try your best, have all your homework done and be polite, respectful and nice to everyone.
 The trick to dealing with this is to not stoop down to their level, but let them know you aren't going to put up with what they're saying. If someone says something about you, say something like "Yes, you may think that, but I don't agree with you" and walk away. Very common with girls, if some bitching is going around, don't get involved or talk about other people behind their back. Not doing any bitching makes you come across as a trustworthy friend. If you hear that someone has said something about you, but the mate who apparently has is a really good friend, don't get too upset about it. However, if you think it may have been true, ask for a little chat. Be calm and just say that you heard something, but don't be mean. Let her have her say and listen. If someone starts being catty, walk away and do something else. Sadly, mates can suddenly not like a girl in their group and turn nasty. If this is you, either talk to them about it and make up, or if she continues and won't listen to you, spend more time with your true mates and even make new friends. This will make you feel happier, knowing you have mates which are kind, caring, supportive and funny.
 Remember that it's important to chill and enjoy yourself, instead of always being busy busy busy! Watch TV or a film, read, go on the computer, write, just do whatever you want and have fun! Also, make the most of your weekends.
 Arrange a fun day shopping with your mum, see your cousins or just head out to town. Make the most of your days. After all, life's too short to sit around doing nothing.
 This includes homework, tidying and sorting your room, finding something that's lost, etc. When these things are out of the way, then you can just chill and enjoy yourself.
 These things are great qualities to have!

, You must get permission first, and if it's a yes, ask what you can do. If you would like to and can paint your walls a color you really like, baby blues, light pinks and purples or candy pink are sweet, girlie, positive colors. Try not to choose something too dark, as lighter colors can make your room appear bigger, whereas darker shades can make your room look and feel smaller. Cover everything up with old sheets and ask someone for help. When the walls are dry, you could take the advantage of moving your furniture in different angles, as you would have had to move it out of the way for painting. Make sure that no furniture is blocking anything you want in view, such as a window. Tidy up! Having a cool room means it's tidy, neat and organized, not like a pigsty. Take any rubbish downstairs, vacuum, wipe down surfaces and donate anything that's in good condition but you don't want anymore to a local charity shop. Organize your desk, draws, anything else and put things back. Change your duvet, even. Finally, make your room "you" by personalizing it. Display your favorite things, put up posters, art or photos of your favorite music and family and friends. Make a sign with your name on it. Now admire your new room and enjoy it.
 Hope this year is the best for you.

