 Patapons will be celebrating a dancing around the fire. Others giving you advice. Keep pressing button to carry on. The PSP keypad will now pop up. It may ask you for either for your name or like naming the tribe but it's all in Japanese, so type anything and press start to continue. It will say if you want to save, so do so. After that talk to the one with the cloak., selects things. Press to save and click the top option to do save or the bottom option to not save. The button is if you want to quit. Bottom option is no, top one is yes to quit. For both screens.,, , scroll left and right. goes back and selects a level. You will only be able to do the first square at the moment. Press to enter it.,
Button goes to the last screen.
Selects stuff.
Highlights stuff.
Hides things.
Button brings up units status.
The squad status screen shows your total squad status all together.
Highlight your Patapons with the D - pad press triangle and you will been on the unit status section. This screen shows stats for each Patapon. with D - pad you can select a Patapon and then by pressing up or down select either the weapon icon or helmet icon and press to select it. This will open a box where you can select weapons and items etc. You won’t have any to select at the moment so press to go back. Play around with the options until you get comfortable with it and press the button when you’re ready to start the mission.


New Sequence: = Attack.
Voice: Pon Pon Pata Pon.
Enemies: Three birds and four pigs.
You now have a new button sequence, Pon Pon Pata Pon. This makes your Patapon attack in this case throw spears at the wall. You can practice your Pata Pata Pata Pon instead but they won’t move but you can build a fever up by getting 10 combo points. Anyway attack the wall by doing keep on doing it until you destroyed the way you can build up combos with this one too. Remember to do the next one only after the Patapons have finished singing. After you have destroyed the wall do your victory dance by keep on doing Pon Pon Pata Pon four more times in a row after that move on forward with Pata Pata Pata Pon. when you get near the totem pole you will notice that it has symbols but you can't do anything there at the moment so keep on going. if you see enemies like birds and other things don’t stop to close because less advantage for you. attack and try to kill them if you can, sometimes helps if you're in a fever (10 combo points). you do more damage in a fever. the birds you see do run away easily.
You can get combos by doing Pata Pata Pata Pon, and then doing Pon Pon Pata Pon, it doesn’t have to be the same one each time. The more combo points you have the more damage you do. You can get coins from the sunflowers and enemies if they get destroyed while you’re attacking. Move over the coins to collect them. All the enemies on this level run away and don’t attack so don’t be afraid to attack them. Keep moving forward and attacking to get to the flag pillar and the end of the mission. Mission Complete!
On the mission complete screen you will see the Patapons carrying on carts the beasts you killed back to their home.
Another information screen will pop up.
 Talk to the Patapon with the cloak that is standing next to what looks like a shrine. Click on the shrine and this will take you to a screen with the items you have collected like how many spears you have and how much food you have from the beasts you have killed and lots more. Also how many coins you have is on the top right. Press to go back. Click on the big black pillar when you want to go to the world map and the next mission., You might want to build up a fever to do more damage. The 4 Zigotron behind the wall will move right behind the next wall what is next to another wall. A Patapon with a sword and shield will come out of the bush and join your group. Destroy the next wall will your group (your new Patapon is very strong). While destroying the walls watch out for enemy Zigotron. Just keep on moving right destroying the walls and the enemy and collecting the items as you go. Destroy the small black pillar then the small house. After that your new Patapon will die and turn into a butterfly. Pick the items it drops and go through the end of level flag. Mission Complete!

, When you select it, a menu opens up showing the Patapons you can make, how much you have all together, how much it cost to make a specific Patapon, and what items are need e.g. to make a spear Patapon you need meat, wood, and 80 coins. The circles show how many of each Patapon you already have., You need to press circle in time to make the tree shake and drop an item. If you fail you can try again but you need to give one piece of meat again. when you hear the person go for example Pon Pon Pon when he finishes you press circle, circle, circle and so on. Listen to what the person says, if it says four words you have to press the circle button four times but you have to do it in the same tempo as the singer. Once you done that you will get the items you need (wood).
The sequence is: O/O/O O/O/O O/O/OO O/O/OO O/OO/OO O/OO/OO O/O/O O/O/OO
If you get stuck just talk to the Patapon with a cape.
You have to pass the tree mini-game so if you fail it and don’t have any meat you have to play a previous level to collect some meat. You will know that the level contains meat because it will have a meat symbol on the world map. So play the level with the meat symbol and get some meat by killing beasts and completing the level. In this game it’s good to play over the old levels and a lot of the time is required.
Once you have passed and got a branch, make a spear Patapon, you will notice that it is all orange. Then make sure it’s on your team then play the second square on the world map.
 You will have to fight lots of Zigotron now, there not that hard if you have an axe Patapon because it will go up front and take all the damage while you’re attacking with your spear throwers behind. this is probably be the first time you get a proper fever going and maybe the first time a Patapon dies none did for me though. Keep on moving forward and attacking the enemy and trying to keep the combos going till you get to the end. Destroy the building and go through the flag. Mission complete!
Remember to upgrade your Patapons with better weapons when you can.
 Destroy the first wall, then take out the tower, watch out for the archers on the tower and the other Zigotron patrolling below it once they're all dead and building destroyed a Patapon archer will appear. for the next bit do the same tactic as before and destroy the wall, tower, house and the next tower if you see a green potion pick it up, it restores your Patapons life. If you get fever going it won’t take long to kill them all. The archer you got fires fire arrows which can set the Zigotron a light this makes them run around and not fight back. After you they're all dead and buildings destroyed, move forward. Destroy the black pillar. When you get near the house the bow Patapon will die and turn into a butterfly pick up the items it drops, destroy the building and go through the flag. Mission complete!
You can now make archers.
 This level might be hard if you’re not prepared because of the tough grim reaper type Zigotron you face, it keeps on attacking you with tornadoes which make your Patapons jump in the air and get hurt. In the middle is a Patapon trapped in a cage; you need to save him too so make sure you don’t kill him by accident. Keep on moving forward and attacking the enemy, having fever is very helpful and picking up green potions. Your probably won't are able to kill the boss here because it will probably run away from you. Mission complete!
To defeat the boss coming up you will need a lot of Patapons so do the second square, the one with the meat icon a few times to build up a bigger squad and use the best equipment you have available. Also do the tree mini game if you need more wood.

Go forward and destroy the pillar. You will get a new drum Chaka and a new sequence Chaka Chaka Pata Pon. Does the new sequence a few times, when ready keep moving forward. When the fire breathing dragon comes use Chaka Chaka Pata Pon each time, this makes you defend and attack. Only the Patapons with shields defend. If Patapons die make sure you pick up there helmets and just keep on attacking with Chaka Chaka Pata Pon. It isn’t that hard if you got the most Patapons you can get at the moment. I had 11 Patapons, 3 axes, 6 spears and 1 archer.
If any Patapons died, make sure you reborn them when you get back to your village. You do this by going to the heart shaped tree.
 If you go past it, you will start burning and dying very quickly because of the extreme heat of the desert. You will need something to cool it down., I don’t know if it needs to be raining for it to work., Basically the same as the last boss fight but a bit harder. Keep on attacking with Chaka Chaka Pata Pon. Your Patapons might get eaten so watch out for that. Keep attacking if your entire shields Patapons die then attack using Pon Pon Pata Pon. Keep at it and it should die eventually. The boss dragon drops a rain item.

New Sequence: = miracle
Voice: Don DoDon DoDon
Do the rain miracle at the start. You have to be in fever to do it. If you can’t do it, practice a lot. After that move forward to the tower. Destroy the tower then keep moving forward. You will see beasts that you can attack also one will have a blue symbol on it, if you attack that one it will turn into a snail. When you get tot he talking sign destroy the rock in front and get fever. Once the rock in front is destroyed use rain miracle then move forward and destroy the rocks and keep on moving forward. you need to try to keep fever going so you can use the rain miracle straight away or if you move forward really quickly and destroying the rocks as you go you can get out the desert with only doing the rain miracle once but you will lose a lot of Patapons this way so make sure you pick up the helmets they drop. Keep going forward destroy the building at the end and go through the flagpole.
, They will attack in groups and each group has two zigotrons on horses. This levels isn’t that hard if you use all the things you have learned so far like knowing when to attack and charge or when to hold your ground. When they are near most of the time its best to use the defend command. When they are not near use the attack command. Make sure you try to stay in fever for most of the time because this will help you do more damage. Make sure you pick up the green potions they drop. When you get near the end you will see zigotrons hiding in the bushes. Also near the end lots of them will attack if you are in fever and you use the attack command they will run away and retreat. So you don’t have to kill all of them near the end. Destroy the building then go through the flagpole.,, Do the rain miracle at the start. Move forward and you will see a blue beast, hit it and it will turn into a snail now all you have to do is kill the snail. Make sure you are in fever mode most of the time and keep on attacking. If it gets to far make sure you move forward with it and keep on attacking. When it dies it will drop a hat pick it up and go through the flagpole at the end., You will now have a new mini game. You can select the new mini game by pressing to get to it.,, When the game starts keep on pressing in time with the flashing sides or at a steady pace. While you do this the farmer will plant flowers, water flowers and do stuff with the big flower when this is done the big flower will talk to you. This is to allow you to get ready for the next bit. When your farmer is holding a leaf over its head, keep on pressing fast and if done right the farmer will catch a big cabbage. Well done you have completed the flower mini game., Make sure you have lots of Patapons with good equipment. This boss fight can be hard but if you have lots of Patapons it isn’t as hard, the boss does three attacks. A fire attack when it breaths in air. A head attack when it raises its head and a ground attack when it lies on the ground. When the boss is about to do an attack do the defend command then after that do the attack command. If you keep in fever most of the time and defend when it attacks and attack when it isn’t then you can beat it quite easy. When its eyes start to flash that means its going to die soon.,,, horse squad for the archer squad etc., Also you need to watch out for the zigotron army who are out in force to stop you. They are quite easy to defeat if you make sure your Patapons are up to the job and you have quite a lot of them. Make sure to remember all the tactics you have learned and use them in battle.,, You will see a zigotron that looks like a grim reaper. You don’t have to kill it. All you need to do is kill all the zigotron that are hiding in the bushes. The easiest way is to get fever going and keep on attacking. A big zigotron will come and attack in the middle of the battle but is easy to kill. After there all dead the grim reaper zigotron will retreat so all is left to do is go through the flagpole. If you fail the first time try again and you’re more likely to complete it.