 The best place to start looking for a credit card at a bank is to visit your own bank and check out what types of credit cards the bank offers.


One benefit of getting a credit card from your own bank is that you're building a financial reputation, both in terms of your bank account and your credit history, with one financial institution. That might make it easier for you to get a loan later from the bank.
 Although your bank might offer a credit card and you think you'll qualify for it, you might find a better offer from a bank where you don't have an account. Usually, you can visit bank websites and compare credit card offers online. If not, feel free to call the bank to get more information.


Start by comparing the rate. Some banks offer credit cards with very low rates, or even 0% rates for an introductory period. Be sure to check the rate that kicks in after the introductory rate expires, though.
Compare other perks. Does one bank's credit card offer travel rewards? Does another bank's card offer cash back bonuses? Determine which card has incentives that you might actually use.
Check the credit limit. Find out how much you will be able to charge on the card. One bank may offer you a $10,000 limit, while another may only offer $5,000.
 You might need to visit the bank in person to apply for the credit card if it doesn't offer an application process online. If you're visiting the bank in person, usually a representative will be on hand to help you go through the application process.


When you're asked for your Social Security number, be sure to write it down and give it the bank representative. You shouldn't say your Social Security number out loud in a bank, because you don't know who's listening.
You'll need to have some kind of government-issued photo ID if you apply for a credit card in-person at a bank. A passport or a driver's license should do the trick.
 If you apply in person, you might not get an instant approval. However, in this Information Age, it's likely that you'll receive an answer quickly.


If you don't get approved, you can always ask why. Usually, you'll get some information about what you can do to improve your credit rating.
If your application is rejected, you should start taking steps to raise your credit score, such as reducing your overall debt load, making payments on time, and correcting mistakes on your credit report.