 Taking time to make your own gift is often better than anything you could buy. Tap your talents to make her something special.


If you’re a talented baker, bake her something special or assemble some baking mixes for her. If you’re a whiz at knitting, make her a new set of mittens or hot pads. If you enjoy painting, create a piece of art to give her.
 Many products can be personalized with messages, names, or monograms. Personalizing a gift for your mom will show that you’ve gone the extra mile to find a present that’s uniquely hers.Pick a product that she’ll appreciate (and that fits your budget). It could be anything from a mug to a bag, bath robe to a piece of jewelry.
 Family photos mean a lot. Give her a lasting memento of one or more of your favorite moments by creating a photo gift. It could be anything from a simple framed photo to a printed pillowcase.


Do a family photoshoot. This could be informal or at a studio. Either way, it says that her birthday is day worth remembering.Make her a family photo album. Assemble some of your favorites into a book that she can look at whenever she want a reminder of how much you care.Be creative by putting a favorite photo on an everyday item, like a vase, mug, ornament, apron, or pillow.
 Create an archive of the recipes that you’ve enjoyed together over the years. Include all your family favorites in it, from staple main dishes to memorable treats to traditional holiday baking.Besides giving ingredients lists and directions, you can personalize the book more by adding photos and personal stories alongside the recipes. For instance, you can include photos of your family enjoying each dish and/or text that explains the origin of a particular recipe.
Consider making copies for the whole family so that your mom will see that her culinary traditions will continue to be passed along.
 Demonstrate that you’re paying attention to what she loves by giving her a gift that fits perfectly into one of her personal collections.


If she collects a particular kind of china, buy her a new piece. If she’s wild about hogs, get her something with a pig design on it. If she has a favorite series, get her the next book or dvd in it.

