 Pour the ground almonds into a food processor. Add the shelled pistachios and confectioner's sugar. Close the food processor and pulse it a few times until the mixture turns fine and powdery.

If you don't like pistachios, you can replace them with more ground almonds instead.;
, Place a sieve over a large mixing bowl. Pour the mixture through the sieve. Gently tap the sieve to help guide the mixture into the bowl. This will remove any large lumps or coarse pieces. Discard anything that is left in the sieve and set the bowl aside.

If you have lots of chunky pieces in the sieve, you can try grinding them again instead of throwing them out.
If you have just a few chunky pieces left, consider saving them for garnishing the cake with later.
 Save the other egg white for later. If your food processor has a whisk attachment and a bowl insert, you can use that instead. You can also use an electric mixer, but make sure that the bowl is clean and dry.

Don't toss the yolks out! Save them for another recipe, such as scrambled eggs.
 Pour a third of the sugar into the egg whites, then beat the egg whites for 1 minute. Add the rest of the sugar, then beat the egg whites again until they turn stiff and form shiny peaks. This will take a little over a minute., Use a rubber spatula to scrape the nut mixture into the beaten egg whites. Gently fold the egg whites over the nut mixture, again and again, until evenly combined. Be sure to scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl often so that everything gets mixed in., Beat the egg white first until it turns frothy. Gently fold it into the batter along with a few drops of food coloring. Keep mixing until the color is consistent and the batter is smooth enough to slide from the spatula in a thin ribbon.

Green is a popular choice, especially with pistachios, but you can also try other colors as well, such as pink.
A few drops of food coloring is all you need. The more you add, the brighter the cake will turn out.
 Cover two baking sheets with parchment paper. Draw a 10-inch (25.4-centimeter) circle on each one. This will be your template, so make sure that both circles match up. Use a compass, plate, bowl, or lid if you have to. Set the baking sheets aside when you are done., Cut the top off of a piping bag first, then insert a plain, round, decorating tip down the bag and out through the hole. Fill the bag with the prepared batter. Use a rubber spatula to scrape the bowl clean so that you don't waste anything., Use the drawn circle as a guide. Do not fill the circle in. This will eventually make the top of the cake., Start by outlining the circle with batter first. Then, working in a spiral from outside in, fill the circle with more batter. This will make the bottom of the cake., This gives the batter time to solidify enough for the baking process. It will also prevent the cakes from turning flat. During this wait time, you can start preheating your oven to 325°F (163°C)., Carefully place the trays into the oven. The ring will be done in 15 minutes. The filled disk will be done in 20 to 25 minutes. The cakes will rise a little bit during baking, just like macarons. They won't rise as much as real cakes., Once the cakes are done baking, take them out of the oven and let them cool while on the baking sheets. Don't remove them from the baking sheets yet, however. If you try to take them off too soon, they will break!, Once the cakes have cooled, peel them away from the parchment paper. Place the disk-shaped cake upside down onto a serving place. The curved side should be facing down. The flat side (that was against the parchment paper) should be facing up., Beat the sugar and cream together until thick. Add the vanilla extract, and continue beating until it thickens and forms soft peaks. Continue whipping the cream at 10-second intervals until it forms stiff peaks.Use a handheld beater if you can. If you have nothing else, then you can use an electric mixer or a food processor fitted with whisks.
If you are out of confectioner's sugar, you can use castor or super-fine sugar instead., Cut the tip off of a clean piping bag. Insert a large, star-shaped piping tip down the bag and out the hole. Use a rubber spatula to fill the bag with frosting and to scrape the bowl clean., Start by piping stars around the outer edge of the disk first, then fill the disk in with more stars. This is your filling, so be generous!, This time, place it right-side-up with the smooth part facing upwards and the flat side (the side that was against the parchment paper) facing against the cream., This part is purely decorative. You can make the piped stars as close together or as far apart as you'd like. If you are not fond of frosting, you can skip this step., For a more artistic touch, slice the strawberries lengthwise, then arrange them in overlapping rings, starting from the outside and working your way inward. This will make them look more like petals on a flower., If you'd like to, you can garnish it with raspberries and a sprinkle of ground pistachios on top.