 Bells are the main currency of the game series, but you start out the game with no bells at all. Since you need bells to buy your primary tool for this venture, it’s going to be a bit of a problem. Thankfully, there are many ways to make bells: the player can sell items and fruit, do favors for villagers, or even shake trees for money. At the very start though, shaking trees down for fruit and bells is the quickest way to get bells. Simply walk up to the tree and press A to shake it down, then press B (Y in New Leaf) to gather whatever falls out. In Wild World and New Leaf, you can also tap the tree with your stylus then tap the items that fall out.


Bells dropped from trees appear as items and take up space in the inventory. You can immediately drop the bells into your wallet (the part of the screen that says how many bells you have) by accessing your inventory (Y on the original game and Wild World, - on City Folk, and X on New Leaf), selecting a bell coin or sack with A, then dropping the held bell coin or sack onto that portion of the screen by pressing A again. You can also stack the bells by scrolling to another bell coin or sack with the D-pad or stylus, then dropping it onto that one.
Trees come in many shapes and sizes, and bells and items drop from them regardless. However, only certain trees bear fruit, and they can be distinguished by a lighter leaf color and the presence of three pieces of fruit when they bear fruit. Fruit grow back every three days.
Sometimes, trees also drop furniture and other items, which can be worth quite a bit if you decide to sell it.
Sometimes, if you shake down trees, Beehives fall down and sting your player, giving them a swollen eye and an unhappy look. This change is purely aesthetic though, and can be removed by saving and quitting the game or by buying medicine from the town store.;
, The thing you need most to take advantage of the Money Rock is a Shovel. Shovels can be bought from the town store run by Tom Nook (all games, excluding New Leaf) or Timmy and Tommy (New Leaf exclusive). This tool is vital because without it, you can’t whack any rocks in the town. The town store is placed randomly in every generated town in every game but New Leaf, where it can be found in the Main Street.
 To buy shovels and other items, walk up to the item in the display, press A or tap it with your stylus (DS and 3DS only), and Tom (or Timmy/Tommy in New Leaf) will ask you if you want to buy it. Reply yes and there you have it! A brand new shovel!


In all games, shovels are worth 500 bells.
Shovels and other tools are stocked randomly by the store, and the store inventory changes every day, so you might have to wait a few days before you can buy one. Since this game is real-time, you may have to literally wait a few real days.
If you’re short on money, selling excess items will help you gain enough. Simply talk to Tom Nook (or Timmy/Tommy in New Leaf) and he will ask you what you want to do. Choose “I’m selling!” and two windows will appear: one is your inventory and is at the bottom, and the other is the trading inventory, where you place whichever goods you wish to sell. Select the items you wish to sell with A, then place them on the trade window by pressing A again and select “Confirm.” You can sell most items you pick up, ranging from fruit to seashells to furniture.
 Equipping the shovel is similar to how you put your bells in your wallet: select the shovel, scroll to your character until the character icon is highlighted, then drop the shovel there. The character’s icon will then be holding your shovel.


In New Leaf, you can scroll through the tools with the D-pad.
 There can be anywhere from 5 to 10 rocks per town, scattered all around the area. As you travel around town, keep an eye out for rocks.
 When you hit a rock with your shovel, your character will bounce backwards, which costs valuable time. To avoid it, face your rock and then dig some holes behind you and on your sides by pressing A. This will keep you from moving when you hit the rock.


If the rock is near some trees, you can use the tree as one of the supports instead of digging another hole.
 Now face your rock and press A. If it doesn’t yield a bell after hitting it once, press A on the holes to fill them up and search for a new rock to hit.
 If the rock you hit suddenly yields a bell, keep hitting it as fast as you can! The Money Rock only lasts for 10 seconds after the first hit and afterwards becomes inert. So keep pressing fast until no more bells come out.


With each hit, the amount of bells that comes out increases! You can make at least 8,500 bells with a single rock if you’re fast enough. The amount varies per game, but it’s still quite a ludicrous haul.
 You only get one Money Rock per day, and once that 10 seconds of riches wear off, you’ll have to wait for the next day before setting off for a new one. As long as you keep it up, you’ll easily make a ton of money this way!

