 There is still some discussion about the "perfect" landing zone, but there is complete consensus that you should never land on your heel. The back of your foot acts like a brake, slowing you down, which is the last thing you want when running. Try to land just behind the balls of your feet, allowing you to pick up and land your feet quickly.The ball of your foot is the big knob of skin and bone right below your big toe.
 Time yourself running for a minute, counting the number of times your right foot hits the ground. Double this number to get your strides per minute. It should be between 175 – 185 strides in order to run with maximum efficiency. If your stride needs work, try to focus on it just a bit each run instead of correcting it all at once. Within a month you'll see the difference.


Most runners take too big of a stride, meaning their stride rate is too low. To correct it, try leaning slightly forward as you run.
If you run with music, find the songs that help you keep a good rhythm. Many runners look for songs at 180 beats per minute to help naturally time themselves. You can find 180 BPM playlists online and on running forums., When you land, keep your knees slightly bent. Focus on pulling your landing foot backward, towards you butt, as soon as it lands. This push-off motion should be backward, not up, transferring your motion efficiently forward as you run instead of bouncing up and down., You want to keep your chin up and your shoulders back, with loose, relaxed arm and hand muscles. Your elbows are bent at 90 degrees but swing freely. Though it's often forgotten about, remember to relax your face and neck muscles as well instead of tensing them. If anything, the only muscles you want to focus on keeping strong and tight are the ones in your core, as this will naturally keep your posture strong and help you efficiently channel energy., Training on good shoes is not just about your feet. The right shoes will help promote good posture and proper form, as well as prevent injuries. That's because an uncomfortable shoe usually makes you land or take off differently to avoid pain, which only creates more problems down the line. When buying shoes, look for a pair in which:


Your heel stays snugly in the shoe.
You have room to wiggle your toes.
The balls and arches of your feet are hugged by the shoe, but not so tight you lose circulation.