 A fixed mindset is narrow and insecure. You might have a fixed mindset if you view challenges negatively, think your abilities are static, and feel threatened by others’ successes. Those with a growth, or flexible, mindset believe they can enhance their skills with hard work and persistence.To become more mentally flexible, spot the times when you are falling prey to a fixed mindset. Once you recognize your tendency to be closed-minded, challenge it using your flexible mindset voice.
Ask a friend or family member to let you know when you are being closed minded. This can help to keep you accountable.
You may also want to journal about situations where you tend to be closed minded to help make you more aware of them. This will make it easier for you to recognize them in the future.;
, If you find yourself constantly justifying, making excuses, or defending your choices, you may need to expand your mindset. Notice your thoughts and words, and start to challenge any defensive language.

For instance, you tell yourself “I can’t do it right now. I have too much on my plate.” Challenge this by examining its validity. Can you remove something unimportant from your to-do list to add an important task? With a growth mindset as the focus, reframe the earlier statement to “I can do this if I manage my time better.”Instead, try telling yourself something like, "Let me think about that and see if I can make it work." This will help you to have a growth mentality about the situation.
 If you have a fixed mindset, you perceive being smart or creative as a characteristic that you either have or don’t. This can tank your self-esteem and cause you to shy away from challenges. Adopt a growth mindset by switching your focus to effort instead of static characteristics.For instance, don’t say, “I’m so smart.” Say, “I really put my all into that last work project.” You can also apply this statement to situations where other people are working hard at something. Having this mindset may help you to appreciate other people’s efforts as well.
 Your fixed mindset voice might tell you to ignore or defend yourself against criticism. However, a flexible mindset voice knows that you require feedback to grow. Actively seek out opportunities to improve by getting feedback from others.Ask about something specific like “I was a tad worried I rushed the presentation this morning. Did I sound rushed to you? Do you have any advice to offer?”
Resist the urge to defend any criticisms. Simply say “thank you” and consider whether the person’s advice can help you improve.

