 Using a pediculicide is the quickest way to combat a case of head lice. Some pediculicides are formulated to kill both lice and their eggs, while others only kill crawling lice. To use a pediculicide, read the instructions on the bottle carefully.


You can get a permethrin 1% creme rinse (such as Nix) or a Pyrethrins 0.33% shampoo or mousse (such as Rid or Pronto) over-the-counter at a pharmacy.
You can also get a prescription pediculicide, such as Malathion 0.5% lotion (Ovide), benzyl alcohol 5% lotion (known as Ulesfia), spinosad 0.9%, or Ivermectin 0.5% topical lotion (such as Sklice)
Have the person being treated put on old clothes and sit in the bathroom. This makes cleanup easier. Apply the treatment to the hair and scalp according to the instructions on the bottle.
Allow the treatment to sit for the recommended amount of time. It's usually an hour or less. Don't leave the treatment on for longer than recommended. Wash out the treatment using water, not shampoo. No shampoo should be used for 2 days.;
, This step helps to hasten the treatment process if you're using a pediculicide, but you can also get rid of lice using a nit comb alone. Nit combs are handy tools that are specially designed to pull out nits (eggs) and dead lice as they are combed through the hair.


Divide the hair into sections.
Starting at the scalp, pull the comb from the roots to the end of a section of hair.
Swish the comb around in a bowl of warm, soap water. This will kill the lice and their eggs; they die quickly without a source of food.
Continue combing each section of hair until all the hair has been combed.
Sanitize the comb by putting it in a dish of very hot water after every use. Lice and their eggs die when exposed to temperatures of 128ʡF (53ʡC) for 5 minutes or longer.
 After this initial treatment, wash all clothes, sheets, pillowcases, stuffed animals, and any other fabrics the person has come into contact with in very hot water, then run them through a hot dryer. While lice don't live very long once they jump off a person's head, it's still important to wash everything so you can be extra sure someone else in the family won't get lice.


For items that can't be soaked in hot water, like hairbrushes and hair accessories, place them in plastic bags for at least two weeks. The lice will die without air and food.
 After the initial treatment or combing, you'll need to diligently monitor the hair every 8 hours for signs of new life. Lice hatch in cycles, and it's almost impossible to get rid of all of them in one go. Do a thorough combing every 8 hours for the first 3 days. After that, continue checking the scalp every 16 hours and combing when necessary for the next 2 weeks.


Most lice treatments require a second application after about 10 days to kill any lice that may have hatched since the initial treatment.
 Whether you used a pediculicide or not, there are natural substances that repel and kill lice. If you're sensitive to chemicals, it's definitely worth trying this oil treatment to help naturally combat the lice.


Melt 1/2 cup of coconut oil or warm 1/2 cup of neem oil and massage it into the hair and scalp. Both oils have antibiotic properties.
Use the nit comb to work through the oil-treated hair. The nits should come out much more easily.
 This is another cheap, effective way to loosen the nits. Mix 1/2 cup water and 1/2 cup apple cider vinegar, and pour it over the person's hair and scalp. Use the nit comb on the hair; you should find them easier to remove. White vinegar may also work.
 Certain essential oils repel lice and cause the nits to loosen more easily. Fill a spray bottle with 5 drops of essential oil per 1 ounce of water. Try one or more of the following:


Tea tree oil
Lavender
Oregano
Peppermint
Thyme
Eucalyptus

, Adult lice and immature lice are pretty easy to get rid of, but their eggs (called nits) are much harder to get rid of, and it is with these that the most problems crop up. People can think that they are rid of lice, but then get another case of lice from just a couple of eggs. Constant vigilance will be necessary to win this battle.
 Lice can spread quickly in a household. When treating someone for lice, wash all bedding, scarves, and hats with hot water, and dry clean what cannot be washed. Disinfect combs and brushes in hot, soapy water.

Keep carpets and upholstery clean by regularly vacuuming them.
Do not treat pets with lice treatments, as it could possibly harm or kill them.

