 Don't try to be someone you're not. You are you, and that is one of the many things that makes you beautiful. If you are unable to appreciate your own inner beauty, you will have a hard time appreciating it in others.;
, That saying, 'eyes are the windows to the soul,'-- it's true. When you look into people's eyes, you see vulnerability, passion, kindness, and genuine feelings and be more aware of these things in yourself, as well.
 People have unique, special ways of being in and seeing the world that they reveal in how they speak about it. If you try to grasp how they see the world, what their unique perspective can tell you, you learn to appreciate them even more.
 These should be meaningful questions, about what people want out of life, what they value, how they got to where they are and be prepared to accept their answers without judgment. Try to understand what they care about, what drives them.
 Recognize that outer beauty is so much larger than what the media spoon feeds us, and that healthiness & happiness-- things that do show on the outside-- are more beautiful, more accessible, and more special than most the flashy kinds of beauty we're surrounded by.
 Invest in their well-being and put the needs of others first. Root for them, give them thoughtful advice, think about how you can make their day better. You'll feel more connected and all the more appreciative of their beauty, simply by being a friend.
 Many of the most internally beautiful people have something in common: they have given back to the community in some form or fashion, whether through representing an organization, leading a book drive, running a marathon for a good cause, or raising money for the disadvantaged. Do whatever you can to give back to the community, even if you won't get anything in return.
 Try to overcome prejudice and stereotyping by giving others the benefit of the doubt.
 Showing love toward others in practical ways will help you make friends and maintain good relationships.

