 This can be any image that is of a person and is not very blurry.;
, You can find it under the dialogs menu. This is important as you will be using layers a lot to put on the makeup.
 Select the healing brush(the 'band aid' one).
 Next, left click and drag your mouse across the eye bags. If the bags are still too visible, you may repeat this. Make sure that you are not leaving the light part of the skin tone, or you will have to undo your change. Set this layer's opacity to around 70%.
 Then click 'Gaussian Blur'. You should see a dialog with a preview of your image. Set the blur to 3.0 horizontal and 3.0 vertical. Click the 'ok' button.
 Click 'Add layer mask'. Select 'black' on the dialog. Set your foreground color to white and gradually paint over the skin so that the flawless skin is restored. If it looks too fake, lower the opacity.
 Set your foreground color to what color you want your subject's lips to be. Adjust your brush size and paint over your subject's lips. To add shine, put a bit of a lighter color in the middle of the lips.
 If there is any lipstick out of the mouth, use the eraser tool to remove it.
 Set your foreground color to what color to a dark brown, blue or black. Adjust your brush size and paint over the outside of your subject's eyes.
 Lower the opacity of the layer until it looks natural. Make sure there isn't any eyeliner in the inside of the eye!

, Do the steps described for eyeliner, but you can now do it in any color.
 Use the rectangle select tool to select the lips. Now under filters, click distorts and then IWarp.
 Now click on the parts of the lips you want to plump. When you are finished, press the ok button. Set the opacity of the layer to around 70 percent so that your subject does not look like they used too much plumper.
 You can now make any minor modifications you like. If you like your image, merge all the layers and save it as a new file.
 After a couple tries, you will probably end up with something that is very pleasing, so don't lose hope if your result did not end up as you though it would be. As shown in the result below, there are many ways to manipulate this strategy to suit your subject and the effect you are going for.

