 Make your favorite cupcake recipe and bake as many as you'd like to decorate. Try vanilla, strawberry, chocolate, or coffee flavored cupcakes. Just make sure that you let your cupcakes cool completely on a wire rack before frosting or decorating them.


For a sophisticated cupcake, try swirling together vanilla and chocolate cupcake batter. This will make a marbled effect.
 Place 1/2 cup of shredded coconut in a sealable sandwich bag. Add a few drops of blue food coloring to the coconut. Seal the bag and shake it. Look at the coconut and decide if you'd like it to be a brighter blue. If so, add another drop or two of food color and shake the bag.If you've made your blue coconut too bright for your liking, just add some more white shredded coconut to the bag and shake it again.
 Take an offset spatula and use it to scoop some blue frosting onto the tops of your cupcakes. Use the flat part of the spatula to spread the frosting evenly over the entire top of each cupcake.If you don't have an offset spatula, you could use a plain butter knife, a rubber spatula or a small spoon.
 Open your bag of blue coconut and dump it into a small bowl. Hold each cupcake near the bottom and turn them upside down. Dip the tops of the cupcakes into the blue coconut and twist them around so that the frosting is completely coated in blue coconut.Be gentle when rolling the cupcakes in coconut. If you're too forceful, you might rub the frosting off into the bowl.
 Dab a pea-sized amount of frosting on the backs of the white chocolate buttons. Stick two white chocolate buttons on each cupcake for the eyes. Take your tube of black icing and squeeze little circles on the buttons to make the pupils. You should also use the tube to squeeze a mouth onto each cupcake.Placing a little icing on the back of the chocolate buttons will help them stick to the coconut.
 Carefully use a sharp knife to cut a line where the mouth is. Place one small chocolate chip cookie directly into this cut so that only half of it sticks out of the mouth.If you'd only like to use half of a cookie, break the cookie in half and insert it just a little way into the cupcake.
