 The most important tool you'll need in order to kill ivy is a sharp pair of clippers or loppers, depending upon the thickness of the vines. Older vines can grow as thick as one's arm, while newer vines are as thin as flower stems. In addition to gathering appropriate cutting supplies, put on a thick pair of gardening gloves to protect your hands as you pull the ivy back.;
, One by one, walk around the tree and cut through every vine growing up the tree at ankle height.Even one remaining uncut vine can nourish the ivy further up the tree, so it's important to make sure no vine is left behind.


For very old, thick vines, use a handsaw to carefully saw through the vine.
As you work, be careful not to make cuts on the tree itself. Ivy weakens trees and makes them more susceptible to disease. Cutting through the bark could cause further damage.
 Use the same technique to cut all the vines again. This time, pull the cut sections of vines gently from the tree as you go. By making two cuts and pulling away the section of ivy at the bottom of the tree, you're blocking the vines higher up the tree from getting essential nutrients, and they'll soon die. Put the cut vines in a pile, then mulch them later so they won't take root again.


As you pull the cut vines from the tree, be careful not to remove too much bark with the holdfasts.
The same method works for removing ivy from outdoor walls.
 Take a close look to make sure no vines were left uncut. Cut and remove any you happen to find, taking care not to damage the bark.
 If the tree is surrounded by a mat of ivy on the ground, you'll need to remove the ivy from the ground so that it won't climb back up the tree. Removing a donut-shaped mat of ivy from around the base of the tree is sometimes referred to as a "lifesaver" cut. Here's how to do it:


Start by cutting a line through the ivy along the ground, from the base of the tree to a distance 4–6 feet (1.2–1.8 m) away. Cut several more lines radiating from the tree. Cutting the ivy into sections will make it easier to remove.
Make a cut that connects all the lines 4–6 feet (1.2–1.8 m) from the base of the tree.
Start pulling up the mats of ivy section by section. Keep removing ivy until you've cleared the area around the base of the tree such that no ivy reaches within 4–6 feet (1.2–1.8 m) of it.
 Now that you've cleared the base of the tree, the ivy growing above shoulder height will begin to shrivel and turn brown. Do not attempt to cut away or pull off vines that have grown above your shoulders. Yanking off the holdfasts will pull away the tree's bark, leaving it susceptible to disease. The dead ivy will look unattractive at first, but eventually the leaves will fall away and it will become less noticeable.
 After you've taken these measures, check back every few weeks to make sure new ivy isn't crawling in the vicinity of the tree. When you find some, cut it away.

