 The longer the meat stays on the deer carcass after the animal was shot, the tougher it becomes. Choose only deer meat that was cut, skinned, wrapped and refrigerated promptly by a professional or an experienced deer butcher.


Venison should also be aged for a period of 10-14 days after being dressed out. This allows the meat to dry out some, reducing the gaminess and making the meat more palatable.;
, Unlike beef fat, which imbues the meat with flavor and helps to keep the meat moist, venison fat does not taste good, and will do nothing for the texture of the meat. Using a sharp knife, trim away the connective tissue and fat from your cuts of venison before attempting to cook it.


You can discard deer fat, though it's also commonly rendered into tallow, and makes for excellent soaps, and suets for feeding birds."Silverskin" is a thin membrane that you'll find on many recently-processed cuts of venison, which you'll want to remove if it hasn't been already. It can be somewhat tedious, but peeling it off the meat as much as possible will improve the flavor and also make it easier to cook.
 Venison has a strong, gamey flavor that you can highlight or mask, depending on the cut and what you hope to do with it. Learning a bit about how to match a cut to a marinade will help you tenderize the meat and add flavor. The best way to marinade venison is in a large gallon Ziplock bag in the refrigerator overnight.

Use thinner cuts with marinade and brine larger cuts. At most, an overnight marinade will only penetrate about an 1/8th on an inch into the meat, making marinading a large roast kind of pointless. Use thin strips of flank or backstrap to marinade to get the most out of the process.For a simple marinade, use Italian salad dressing, or make your own with a half-cup each of vinegar and olive oil, a clove of minced garlic, and a teaspoon each of brown mustard and Italian seasoning (or oregano and basil).
For a BBQ marinade, sautee half a finely-chopped yellow onion and 3-4 cloves of minced garlic in about 5 tablespoons of butter until translucent. To this, add two cups of tomato sauce (or a cup of ketchup), a half cup each of apple cider, apple cider vinegar, and brown sugar, and two tablespoons of chili powder.
If you're not a fan of the "gaminess" of venison, use a citrus-based marinade. Citrus tends to mask the strong flavor of venison, and can make it more palatable to children and less adventurous eaters. Try marinading a half-cup of lime juice mixed with a half-cup of olive oil, half a cup of chopped cilantro, a minced green chile, a teaspoon of ground cumin, and a shot of tequila.
 Although the deer's own fat will affect the flavor of the venison adversely, venison lacks the "marbling" needed to keep it moist and tender, making it very easy to dry it out. Because of this, many experienced venison cooks will "bard" or "lard" the meat with another fat source, such as butter, margarine, oil, or bacon fat.Barding is done by adding fat to the outside of the meat. This method works best on the grill or in the skillet, because it involves essentially basting the meat with a fat source. After turning the meat over, you can brush some melted butter or olive oil onto the browned side of the meat to imbue flavor and moisture.
Larding is done by inserting fat into the meat, through little cuts. This method works well for larger cuts and roasts that you cook in the oven, and works especially will with other meats like ham or bacon. Use the tip of a chef's knife to make incisions into the thick parts of your venison roast, then push small cuts of bacon, or fatty pork, into the slits. As it cooks, the fat will help to keep the meat moist.
 Different cuts are more appropriate for different cooking methods. Some are great cooked up as steaks, while others make better stew meats or candidates for venison sausage.Whether you have a specific dish in mind and want to get the right venison for the job, or you want to find the best vehicle for your cuts, you can point yourself in the right direction:

Backstraps or tenderloin are the tenderest and usually the most desirable cut, and can be cooked whole, cut into individual steaks, or cut into smaller chunks for stews and stir-frys. Tenderloin can be served rare-medium.
Roasts are best from the lower hams, which should be braised or stewed at a low temperature for a long period of time to ensure tenderness.
Steaks are best from the top half of the hams, which are the most versatile section of venison. While it's initially a bit tough, after being properly-tenderized, this meat can be used for a variety of purposes.
Stew meat should come form the lower ribs, the belly, and the neck. If you've got a meat grinder, this also makes excellent ground venison or venison sausage.

