 Not everyone's aware of all the printer brands available in the market. It is best to get yourself familiar with the most well known brands.(HP, Canon, Epson are some of the tech-giants in the Print Industry).;
, Nobody wants to purchase an exorbitantly priced machine only to find out it's not compatible with their PC/Laptop. You won't get much problem with PCs running Windows OS. Whilst there are brands for Mac and Linux that will most likely work, you might have to make a research. (Canon and Brother inkjet printers would be your best buddies).
 The thing is, what do you prefer -- single-function or multifunction?

, Wireless capability is a great factor, especially if it supports Cloud Printing. While for digital camera enthusiast, PictBridge support is a plus. Latest inkjet printers nowadays feature LCD touchscreen displays for previewing files and images. Your challenge is to look for the one with decent screen resolution, size and touch-sensitivity.
 Finally you found the model which you decided to purchase, but then it doesn't fit to your budget. Failure of expectations, avoid it. Filtering your criteria will tend to narrow your options, but it can't be helped especially for someone with a limited budget. But don't loose hope, if no retailer downtown can offer what you need, try to search online.
 These two factors should be in a nice balance. However, it still depends on how you weigh each factor. But don't let the functionality compromise with quality, and vice versa. For this matter, quality ranks higher than functionality. You need a printer that is mainly built for photographic printing. For example, prioritize how well a printer can produce quality image printouts, rather than how fast it can print images.
 If you're planning to use the printer for special printing purposes like labels and banners. Choose a model that supports various media sizes, preferably one that can print up to A4-sized images.
Print Speed - Inkjet printers are typically slow, but that issue was actually years ago. In fact, the most latest photo-printers in the market nowadays can churn out results at a speed comparable to a laserjet printer. A compact photo-printer with a rated speed of up to 3-4IPM (image per minute) is quite decent.
Paper Capacity - Unless you're planning to get a printer for business, then you should check this one. Otherwise, give it a low rank if you'll just use the printer for occasional photo printing or non-profit purposes. Nevertheless, don't ignore this printer spec. Photo-printers' paper capacity basically range from 100-200 sheets at standard.
Interfaces - These include a USB host/port, PictBridge port (for digital cameras), Memory Card slots, WiFi and Ethernet. You can get all of these in a single printer, just make sure your wallet is prepared for the spending.
Cost Per Page - Determine the overall running cost of a given printer.
Connectivity - It's either you get a wired or a wireless enabled printer, the choice is up to you. Perhaps knowing how many laptops, tablets and smartphones you do have at home or at the office will surely give you the hint.
Dye Sublimation & Pigmented Inks - Most inkjet printers today use dye sublimation ink, primarily it is the standard type used in photo-printers. Distinguishing characteristic between these two? Dye-based are in liquid form while pigment-based are in powder.



Make use of the Internet. Using a browser, type the brand of printer you most likely prefer. See their full list of ink jets suitable for photographic printing. There you'll find a lot of models and make that might suit your needs and demands. Also, read the customer feedback and comments below the product description. A word from your fellow consumers might do the talking whether it is worthy to purchase it or not.
Check out some printer review sites such as PC Magazine, CNET, Printer-Comparison, Trusted Reviews and many more. Find what suits your needs. These reviewing sites provide detailed product specs and information including the pros and cons of a given printer. Their verdicts are reliable which may help you decide on what to choose.

