 Ear piercings are the most common type of body piercing. You'll see pierced ears at church and at a punk rock concert. Most schools and jobs allow pierced ears, but they can also be be covered with hairstyles quite easily.



Pros: Stylish and simple, a basic ear-lobe piercing is a good intro. If you want something a little more wild, you can get your lobes pierced multiple times, or stretch your piercings with gauges after they heal.

Cons: Lobe piercings aren't the most exciting choice, if you're looking for something a little more "out there." Still, it is a good introduction.
 The cartilage high on your ear is commonly pierced, versatile, and relatively painless. This area of the ear makes for an excellent and trendy piercing option.



Pros: You're piercing through thin cartilage, and helix piercings are relatively simple and easy to clean. It's also versatile enough to connect to other piercings, though it stands out from a traditional lobe piercing. You can pierce the helix or the antihelix, slightly lower on the ear.

Cons: This piercing sticks out a little more on your face, though it is easy to cover with certain hairstyles.
 The tragus is the cartilage in front of the ear canal, which partially covers it like a small flap. While this is a somewhat difficult piercing, it stands out a lot and offers a unique piercing option.



Pros: This advanced piercing stands out from the crowd. A small, tasteful stud or ring in the tragus can be a big statement. It's also a little painful, which can be a good way to show off your tolerance.

Cons: Because the cartilage is a little thicker than the top of the ear, this piercing hurts. Tragus earrings are also susceptible to wax build up, making frequent cleaning a necessity. This piercing can also be somewhat uncomfortable when wearing headphones, especially ear-buds.

The fold just about the tragus is the "daith," which is usually a little easier and less painful to pierce, but looks quite similar to the tragus piercing. Think about a daith, if you're concerned about the pain and aftercare.
 Conch piercings go between the helix and the lobe, along the back ridge of your ear. These make for another common ear piercing.



Pros: Like any ear piercing, the conch is relatively safe, quick to heal, and generally easy to care for compared to facial or body piercings. It looks great with bar-style piercings.

Cons: This is one of the more big-statement ear piercings. You'll definitely notice it.
 There are lots of cartilage folds in the ear, and most of them have been pierced at one time or another successfully, by experienced and licensed piercers at tattoo parlors.


If you want to get your ears pierced, get a temporary ring that you can clip onto different parts of your ear to experiment. Leave it there for a day or two and see how much you like it, then talk to the piercer for advice.

