 Open the Settings of your device, and select “Bluetooth” from the options. Tap “Bluetooth” in the Bluetooth menu to enable it.
 On the same Bluetooth menu, tap the option “Make the device visible.” This will allow other Bluetooth devices to detect it.
 It takes a few seconds for the printer to start. Once turned on, now turn on its Bluetooth by pressing the “Bluetooth” button.


The location of the Bluetooth button will depend on the printer make and model. Consult its Users Manual if you’re not sure.
 It will start searching for the Bluetooth devices nearby.
 Tap on the name of the printer once it appears, and then tap “Connect” The Bluetooth Pairing Request window will appear asking you to enter the PIN. You will need to consult the printer’s Users Manual for this. Enter it, and tap “OK.” Step 7: Now, you need to download the app on your phone for using the particular printer. There are a number of apps like PrintHand Mobile Print, Print share etc. Download any of the app from Play Store.
 Launch Google Play and search for “print wirelessly.” Several apps will appear, but most will be brand-specific (HP, Epson, Canon, etc.). Select an app that’s compatible with a number of printer brands, like PrintHand Mobile Print or PrinterShare, and install it.
 Tap the new app’s icon on your home screen or app drawer to open it.


You will be taken through a welcome tour, and after the tour, you will be presented with a list of apps where you can print your file, like File Manager, Gallery, Web Pages, Messages, and others.
 For example, if you want to print photos from your camera roll, select “Gallery” from the list.
 Scroll through the files (or photos, as an example), and select a file to print by tapping on it.
 Tap “Print” on the screen, and a message will pop up asking, “Set up Printer now?” Tap “OK” and then tap “Nearby Bluetooth printers” to search for the printer you’ve connected to.


Tap on the printer name once the app has detected it, and a new menu appears. Tap “OK,” and when it asks if you’re sure you want to print, select “Yes.” The app will send the file (or photo) to the printer, and it will begin printing.

