 Pour 1/2 cup (240 ml) of milk into your small metal pitcher. If you have a larger pitcher, you'll need to use more milk so that it comes at least 1/3 of the way up the side of the pitcher. Add 1 ounce (29 ml) of caramel syrup to the milk and set the pitcher aside.

You'll steam more milk than you'll end up using. This allows you to create foam and easily steam the milk.
You can use any type of milk so play around with what types you like to use. Some people find that nonfat milk creates thick dry foam, while others prefer full-fat milk for rich foam made of tiny bubbles.
 Start with a clean portafilter and dose 18 to 21 grams of espresso grounds into the basket. Level the grounds using your finger. Set the portafilter on a clean surface and tamp down on the grounds. Make sure you're applying even pressure so the espresso remains completely level. Aim for 20 to 30 pounds of pressure, or enough to pack the espresso compactly.

Practice your dosing by dosing and checking the weight of the grounds on a digital scale. Continue to do this until you're regularly dosing between 18 to 21 grams for a double shot.
 Insert your filled portafilter into a clean grouphead on your espresso machine and immediately start pulling your shots. It will take a few seconds before the espresso begins dripping out of the machine. Let it keep extracting until it starts to turn blonde or yellow. A double shot of espresso should take 25 to 30 seconds to pull.Pull the shots into a tiny metal pitcher or you can pull them directly into a small demitasse cup that you want to serve the caramel macchiato in.
 While your shots are pulling, steam the milk and caramel syrup in your small metal pitcher using the steam wand of the espresso machine. Heat your milk to 150 to 160 degrees. It may help to use a thermometer and stop steaming when it reaches 140. The milk will continue to heat even after you've removed the steam wand. To create plenty of foam for the macchiato, allow the tip of the steam wand to gently tap the surface of the milk so that it sucks in air. Tap the pitcher once you're done to break any large air bubbles.


Since you're steaming such a small amount of milk, it won't take long for the milk to froth.
Remember to clean the steam wand with a clean wet cloth. Purge it by turning it briefly so that any liquid that was left in the wand is sprayed out.
 To mark the shots, you can pour a small amount of steamed milk into the espresso, making sure to include some of the foam. Macchiatos are generally made with an equal ratio of steamed milk and espresso.Or, if you don't think you can pour enough of the foam, you can use a long bar spoon to scoop foam on top of the macchiato.


Consider serving your macchiato with a chocolate covered coffee bean. You may also want to set the macchiato on a small plate with a serving spoon. This way, you can stir the foam and espresso, if you like.

