 Fill a sink, bucket, or similar container with cool to room temperature water. Immerse the leather in the water and let it soak until it becomes completely water logged.


This process is generally recommended for use with vegetable tanned leather.
The amount of time you leave the leather in the water will vary based on the thickness and quality of the leather. Usually, leaving it in the water for 10 to 30 minutes will suffice. The leather should be notably flexible when you remove it.
 As the leather soaks, preheat the oven to 120 degrees Fahrenheit (50 degrees Celsius).Move the racks of the oven around as needed to clear enough room for the leather piece.
If your oven does not reach a temperature this low, simply use the lowest temperature available. Note that higher temperatures could cause a little steam scalding, however, which may alter the color and cause more greater shrinkage.
 Take the leather out of the water. If you plan on forming it in any way, do so now, while it is still flexible and easy to handle.


Since the leather is still fairly cool at this point, it may not keep its form when left alone. After shaping it, you should hold the new forms in place using string, stitching, or nails.
 Place the wet, shaped leather in the oven and bake it until it feels dry. Depending on how long you soaked the leather and the temperature of your oven, this can take anywhere from 20 to 90 minutes.


You can let the leather remain in the oven even after it dries out, but know that dry baking it will cause the temperature of the leather to rise and the structure of the leather to become both harder and more brittle.
 Remove the hot, dry leather from the oven and let it cool at room temperature until it is safe to handle with your bare hands. During this time, the leather will continue to stiffen.


Once cool, you should remove any string, thread, or nails holding the shape in place. If the leather has become sufficiently stiff, it should be able to hold its new form on its own now.

