 You cannot skip the thermometer -- you need to know when exactly to take the sugar syrup off the heat.The cream of tarter is not essential, but will lead to a smoother frosting. 1-2 tablespoons of light corn syrup can help with this as well, and can be added with the tarter or alone.;
, Using an auto mixer, such as a Kitchenaid, whip the eggs on high. The eggs will foam up and get to the “ribbon stage.” This means that when you run your spatula through the eggs and lift up, the eggs will run down in a ribbon that settles on top of the egg mixture.








You can't over whip the eggs! Just keep them going.
You will not need the whites of the eggs after separating. They can be discarded.
 Use a candy thermometer to gauge the temperature. It should reach 230 degrees Fahrenheit (“soft ball” stage). As soon as it hits this temp, take it off the heat and turn off the burner.


If the temperature exceeds 230 degrees, the mixture will reach the "firm ball" or "hard ball" stage. In these stages, the sugar syrup mixture will start to hold its shape if made into a ball. It won't be spreadable as icing anymore., Aim somewhere between the moving whisk and the side of the bowl, so it incorporates slowly without splatter. Be very careful and slow when pouring the sugar syrup into the egg mixture. Keep the mixer running as you pour.









It’s crucial that you pour very slowly. Otherwise, the hot sugar syrup will start to cook the eggs in the bowl.
 You want the mixture to keep moving until the sugar syrup loses all it's heat and the metal bowl is cool to the touch, especially on the bottom. Add a pinch of salt when done, if desired -- this will help bring out the richness of the eggs., Cut the butter into small pieces and add slowly into the syrup-egg mixture. It is a pain in the butt, but you really should add it one small, 1" cube at a time. If the butter is added all at once, it won’t mix well with the eggs and you’ll have chunky icing. You're creating an emulsion -- or mixture of two things that don't want to mix. It takes time.








Keep the butter out on the counter to soften as you work. This way, when you add it, it will mix in much more easily.
It’s best if you use a paddle attachment with your stand mixer for this step. The whisk may have trouble mixing the butter with the rest of the mixture.
 Once the frosting is all well-mixed and fluffy, it is the time to flavor your frosting if you so choose. Add 2-3 teaspoons of cocoa powder, almond extract, vanilla, lemon juice, or other flavors, mix them in thoroughly, and you're done.
 The raw egg in the icing, though not harmful, will go bad out in the open. Unlike classic buttercreams, this frosting must be refrigerated. You may need to whip it again before using to get a light consistency again.