 Feel free to make changes to fit into your budget/ time frame/enjoyment/ etc. You can follow any and all steps that you choose.;
, It is fun and requires little to no money. Invite friends and/or family and ask them to bring sandwiches, chips, fruit, vegetables, desserts, etc. You could go to a park, a field, or even your own backyard. Take a camera or phone and photograph the event so you can cherish your memories forever.
 Bike, jump rope, walk, run, dance, just do something. It is good exercise and it is good for your skin, too, because you are getting sun. Make sure to wear a sunscreen whenever you go outside, however, because harmful UV rays can damage your skin.
 Ask them to bring games, movies, magazines, nail polish, etc. to provide free entertainment. Don't forget to have a good old fashioned pillow fight!

, Invite friends and/or family to go with you so that it will be more fun.
 Take a DVD player (if you have one) and watch a movie. If you don't have one, an easy alternative is a book and flashlight.
 Include adequate exercise for each day. Get into the habit of following it.
 Include cleansing and acne treatment (if you have acne.) Also, get into the habit of showering daily (hopefully, you already do so.)

, Excess weight can cause all kinds of health problems for you, so it is best to avoid sugary, salty, and high-calorie foods as much as possible.
 Ask your mom or older sister to take you out to a movie, a nice dinner, a game of bowling, an hour or so of skating, or another enjoyable activity. You could follow up by a shopping trip or a visit to your local ice cream shop (hey, every girl deserves a little break from their healthy eating!)

, You could invite some friends over or make it a family event to make it more enjoyable.
,, You can go through your used supplies and see what you can still use, and see if your older sister (if you have one) has grown out of anything that you might be able to wear.
, Calm your nerves for tomorrow, it's OK! You'll do wonderfully in your new grade!

