 When purchasing the crate, make sure it is not too big. If the crate is too big, your puppy will still be able to eliminate in one corner and sleep in another. However, make sure the crate is not too small, as well. Your puppy should be able to lie, stand, and move around comfortably in their crate.Alternatively, you can purchase a crate that is appropriate for your Basset’s expected full-grown size. Use a divider to make the crate smaller, and adjust the divider as your puppy grows. Many crates come with dividers., Place a towel or blanket, toys, and treats inside your puppy’s crate. This will entice your puppy to explore the crate on their own. Once your puppy goes inside the crate on their own, reward them with praise and treats. At this point, do not shut the crate’s door right away. You want your puppy to have a positive association with their crate.Choose a word or phrase to say when your Basset enters the crate like, “Crate time,” “Go to your room,” or “Nap time.”
If you bought your puppy from a breeder who lives nearby, try dropping off a towel or blanket at the breeder’s place a few days before picking up your puppy. This way the litter can sleep on the blanket and leave their collective scent. Place this towel in your puppy’s crate to comfort your puppy., Once your puppy has no qualms about going into their crate on their own, select an appropriate time to enclose your puppy. An appropriate time to enclose your puppy is after they have eaten and eliminated outside. After you close the door, stay with your puppy and give them a new toy.If your puppy begins to cry, talk to them and reassure them by saying, “That’s a good boy (or girl). It’s ok, I’m here.”
Leave the puppy in the crate for only ten minutes. Slowly work your way up to longer periods of time.
 This way, your puppy will be comforted by your scent and will hopefully fall asleep more easily. Set your alarm for three hours so you can wake up to take your puppy outside to use the restroom. By setting an alarm, you will be able to take your puppy out of their crate before they begin to whine or cry. Therefore, you will not be rewarding bad behavior.Unless you know that your puppy needs to use the restroom or is hungry, do not take your puppy out of their crate when they whine or cry.

