 Flareups of Crohn’s and other forms of IBD are a major contributing factor in the development of gallstones, because bowel inflammation prevents your body from absorbing certain minerals correctly.Ask your doctor about taking immunosuppressants that can keep your IBD under control and prevent the formation of gallstones.
 Make sure to consult your digestive health specialist for more information about your Crohn’s and gallstones. Based on your medical history, they will be able to offer you guidance about the best way to avoid gallstones or gallbladder disease.


Share with your doctor any symptoms that might suggest gallbladder disease such as intense pain in your upper right abdomen, back pain between the shoulder blades, or pain in your right shoulder.
Stay in touch with your digestive disease specialist so they can manage your Crohn’s and help you prevent the occurrence or reoccurrence of gallstones.
Make sure all your doctors – general practitioner and digestive disease specialist – are in communication., Your doctor can monitor a variety of vital statistics that provide information about whether you may be at risk of developing gallstones. Many of these indicators can be measured through simple blood tests. Some include:


Blood sugar levels
Blood pressure
Cholesterol levels
Triglyceride levels
HDL cholesterol levels, Removal of the gallbladder is a relatively common event for people who have a history of gallstones. If you are considering gallbladder surgery to treat your gallstones, make sure that your doctor understands your history of Crohn’s disease so that you will be able to work together to minimize potential complications., By eating consistently, you’ll better manage your Crohn’s and make sure your body and gallbladder are processing food regularly. If you binge eat or starve yourself, your gallbladder and other digestive organs won’t function as efficiently as they should.


Try not to engage in binge eating. For instance, moderate yourself at buffets or during the holidays.
Do not engage in crash diets. A rapid decrease in your caloric intake will jolt your gallbladder and digestive system.
Avoid low calorie diets. Always make sure you are consuming more than 800 to 1200 calories every day.
Talk to your doctor about the number of calories you should consume every day and how Crohn’s impacts your consumption., Alcohol is a toxin that causes problems for the digestive systems of people with or without Crohn’s disease. While small amounts of alcohol may reduce the risk of gallstones, drinking more may harm your digestive system and increase the risk of developing gallstones.


Most adults should not drink more than 1 or 2 drinks every day.
Consult your digestive disease specialist, as alcohol consumption might aggravate your Crohn’s or conflict with your medications., Foods with a lot of saturated fat are associated with the formation of gallstones. Limit the amount of these foods you consume. Some examples of foods that are high in saturated fat are:


Sausage and fatty meats
Dairy products like butter, cream, and milk
Products that contain palm or coconut oil
Fried foods., While trans fats and saturated fats can contribute to your chance of developing gallstones, the consumption of healthy fats (monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats) may help prevent the development of gallstones. Thus, focus on healthy fats when you can. Foods with healthy fats include:


Nuts
Seeds
Avocadoes
Fish, Studies show that Crohn’s patients can benefit from a committed cardio routine. Not only will exercise help you feel good, but it will strengthen your metabolic system and help your body process saturated fats and other things that contribute to the formation of gallstones.


Know that a sedentary lifestyle – where you are not very active – may contribute to the formation of gallstones.
Dedicate yourself to a moderate and low-impact routine. For instance, don’t overexert yourself and try to run a marathon every day.
Try to spend at about 30 minutes, five times a week exercising.
Some cardio exercises include running, cycling, and swimming., By committing to a weight training program, you’ll work out your cardiovascular system, help your body process fats, and improve your overall health. Ultimately, a weight training program will strengthen.


Consider lifting weights 3 or 4 times a week.
Try not to over exert yourself.
Think about exercises like presses, lifts, squats, and more., Obesity offers an increased challenge to the digestive systems of people with Crohn’s as it taxes their body’s ability to process food. Ultimately, the best way to prevent gallstones is stick to a healthy weight.


Talk to your doctor about setting a healthy weight target.
Quick weight loss may contribute to the formation of gallstones.
Avoid gaining weight quickly, as your gallbladder and digestive system might be unable to keep up with increased consumption of food.