 If you are a bridesmaid or mother-of-the-bride it is important to remember that this is not your wedding. Your role is to support your friend or daughter throughout their wedding day. As a result, you should not be overly picky when it comes to selecting a bridesmaid or mother dress.For example, you may not like the colour that the bride has selected because it doesn’t look good on your skin tone. Major decisions, such as wedding colours, are outside of your control. You should just go along with it.
Alternatively, if you are the bride you want to make sure that your mother and wedding party are comfortable. Be considerate and take their opinions into consideration.
 If the bride has a specific style, colour, or length of dress in mind for the mother-of-the-bride and bridesmaids dresses, then shop for the dresses together. This way the bride can make sure that all of the dresses selected fit with the look she is going for. It also provides the bridesmaids and mother-of-the-bride the opportunity to give their opinions about the dress.


This makes everyone feel as though their voice is being heard and it is less likely that people will object to the dress if they played a role in choosing the dress.
 Body type is often a touchy point when it comes to selecting dresses. It is very rare for all of the bridesmaids to have the exact same body type, which can make selecting a dress difficult. As the bride, you should take the body types of the bridesmaids and your mother into consideration when you are selecting a style of dress.


For example, a mermaid style dress can be very flattering on people with curves, however, it doesn't look good on all body types.
Ask for input from your bridal party and mother and don't just select a dress and expect everyone to feel comfortable.
 If there are certain colours or styles of dress that you will not wear or if you have a set budget, you should talk with the bride about this prior to accepting a position in the bridal party. If you talk about these things openly and honestly in advance of shopping for a dress, is is less likely that there will be major problems concerning the dress selection.For example, when your friend asks you to be a bridesmaid you can say “I would love to be in your wedding party, but I am on a fairly tight budget right now. I can only spend about $1,000 in total, including dress, shoes, hair, and makeup. Is this going to be a problem?”

