 Many people feel that their thoughts are beyond their control. While we're never in complete control of our feelings and emotions, there are things we can do to direct our thoughts. While you cannot always change your circumstances, you can work on adjusting your own perspective.Remember, you can control your attitude. In any given situation, you can control how you choose to see and perceive what's occurring around you. Try to take responsibility for this throughout your day-to-day life.
For example, if you're unhappy with your current company, you do not have to see your situation as wholly negative. If you keep having thoughts like, "This is terrible. I hate my job," pause and think of other ways to view the situation. You could, for example, think about positives like your family and social circle. You could also see your disdain for your current job as motivation to get your career on track.;
, The only sure thing is change. No matter where you're planted, situations and circumstances will change with time. If you want to learn to bloom despite any circumstances, it's important you learn to calmly embrace change.Remember, change is necessary to progress. If things always stayed the same, there would be no personal growth or forward motion. If something has changed recently, adapt instead of feeling upset or uneasy about the changes.
Be on the lookout for ways you can change given your current situation. If you're in a situation that's not ideal, there are likely ways to change it or yourself for the better. You can bloom where you're planted by always looking out for ways to change things for the best.
 If you're feeling negative about your life overall, this can affect your overall energy level. A negative mentality makes it difficult to bloom. Instead of wishing for ideal circumstances, look for things you can appreciate right now. This can help you develop the positive attitude necessary to bloom.If you're unhappy with where you're planted, negativity can consume your thoughts. It's easy to forget the good things about life when you're faced with difficulties every day.
Try to make a conscious effort to focus on what you do have. For example, maybe you don't love your job, but do you have coworkers you like? Are you learning skills you can use later on? Are there other things about your life, such as relationships, that make you happy? Focus your energy here.
 One great way to bloom in any circumstances is to always be on the lookout for life lessons. Look at where you're at right now. Ask yourself what you can learn. How can you make your present experiences and situation into a life lesson?Even bad situations come with lessons. If you, say, relocated for work and hate your current town, think about what you could learn. Maybe this will be a lesson in resiliency. You may learn a lot about yourself. If you're, say, lonely in a new town, this is a chance to get to know yourself and learn how to stay entertained and fulfilled when alone.
It's not always easy to see the lesson if circumstances are bleak, but a lesson often becomes more clear later on. If you can't find a lesson right now, try to remind yourself you will learn something from your experiences some day. Do not think of the present moment as a waste.
 Radical acceptance means learning to accept your current situation, and everything you cannot change, as it is. This can help you bloom where you're planted as you will not waste time indulging in "what if" scenarios. Try to wake up every morning with a sense of acceptance about what you cannot change.Practice acceptance with little things at first. For example, traffic is heavy and you will be late for work. You cannot change this, so do not get upset. Try to accept it and not let this setback interfere with your attitude at the office.
As you practice accepting small things, you will begin to learn how to accept bigger setbacks. For example, you do not get a promotion at work despite trying very hard. This can be a devastating blow, but if you've learned to accept circumstances as they come you'll bounce back from this quicker.

