 Signs of respiratory problems in gerbils include sneezing, runny nose, and runny eyes. Your gerbil might also make a 'clicking' noise when it breathes, indicating moisture clearing out of the airways.In addition, your gerbil's eyes might look dull and half closed., Many cases of respiratory problems in gerbils require treatment with antibiotics, which are available through your vet. Many types of antibiotics are available. However, the bacteria causing respiratory problems in gerbils can be resistant to certain antibiotics.Your vet will need to be careful about choosing which antibiotic to use in your gerbil.
 If you house multiple gerbils in one cage, move the sick one to its own cage.Respiratory problems in gerbils can be contagious, so you will not want your sick gerbil around your healthy gerbils. In addition, having the sick gerbil in its own cage will allow it to be more comfortable during treatment.


Keep the sick gerbil isolated until it has completed antibiotic treatment., After your vet selects an antibiotic, they will explain how you should give the medication. Because gerbils are so small, you can give the antibiotic using a syringe. Make you give the entire amount of prescribed antibiotic.Stopping the antibiotic too early—even if your gerbil looks better—could leave bacteria in your gerbil’s system that could become resistant to other antibiotics.


The antibiotic will be a liquid solution. Your vet will provide you with small syringes (without needles) in which you will draw up the antibiotic. Or, your vet will give you pre-filled syringes so you do not have to fill the syringes yourself.
While holding your gerbil, position the syringe in the back corner of its mouth. Slowly empty the prescribed amount of antibiotic in your gerbil’s mouth. Watch your gerbil swallow so you know the medicine has gone down its throat.
 Usually, antibiotic treatment is very successful with treating respiratory problems in gerbils. However, this success may be temporary. For example, if a gerbil improves while on therapy, but then gets sick again after treatment ends, there may be another health problem making the gerbil sick.During treatment, the symptoms of respiratory illness (loss of appetite, noisy breathing, tiredness, etc.) should start to improve.
If your gerbil gets sick again after the antibiotic treatment, take your gerbil to your vet. If your vet diagnoses another health condition, follow the treatment instructions carefully and keep your gerbil isolated until the end of treatment.
 A gerbil can develop respiratory problems if its cage isn’t getting enough fresh air. If your gerbil’s cage is a glass aquarium, place a mesh or wire lid on top. These types of lids are available at your local pet store.Too much humidity can cause respiratory problems in gerbils.Adequate air circulation will make the cage less humid.
Do not place your gerbil’s cage near an open vent. Fresh air blowing through the vent into your gerbil’s cage could make your gerbil uncomfortable and/or cold.
 Gerbils can develop respiratory problems from their cage bedding, particularly pine or cedar shavings. For example, cedar shavings have fragrant oils that can irritate a gerbil’s airways. Paper bedding, such as CareFRESH®, is ideal.Shredded paper towels also make good bedding for gerbil cages.If your gerbil’s nose feels irritated from the bedding, your gerbil may rub its nose against the side of the cage. If there are cage wires, your gerbil could damage its nose on the wires. In this case, your vet will prescribe an ointment that you will put on your gerbil’s nose., Whether you’re treating your gerbil with antibiotics or just changing bedding types, a clean cage will help your gerbil feel better. Each day, remove left over food and soiled bedding. Each week, clean the entire cage and cage accessories (water bottle, food bowl, plastic toys) with hot, soapy water.Here are some other weekly cleaning suggestions:Use a toothbrush to clean tough spots or corners in the cage.
Disinfect the cage and its accessories with a diluted bleach solution (1/2 cup bleach per 1 gallon of water).
After cleaning, disinfecting, and rinsing the cage and cage accessories, let them dry completely.
Wash your hands after you finish cleaning the cage.

