 Overhand knots are probably the easiest, and first, knot that people learn to tie. 








Make a loop that looks like the loop of a roller coaster. Insert one end of the string into the loop. Pull both ends in opposite directions so that the knot becomes tight.;
, This knot, also called a bowline hitch, makes a fixed loop at the end of a rope or string. The loop can be secured over an object like a post or passed through a ring or hole before the knot is tied.








Hold one end of the string in each hand. Make a loop with the end of the string in your left hand. The end should be under the main portion of the string.
Put the end of the string that is in your right hand through the loop that you have made with your left. The right hand end should come towards you as it goes through the loop.
Bring the right end up and around the left end (that should be pointing up since you created the loop with it.)
Pull the right end back through the loop. This time the end should go away from you. Pull the two ends away from each other so that the knot is tight.
 Square knots are also called reef knots. The square knot is a simple, handy knot for temporary ties.








Hold an end of the rope in each hand. Cross the end in your right hand (end A) over the end in your left hand (end B) so that the rope forms an X.
Wrap end A so that it goes under end B and comes up again. Bring end A back over end B to form a half-knot.
Place the top of end A over the top of end B. Bring end A back over end B to form an overhand knot. Pull tightly on all four ‘ends’ coming out of the knot. The result should be a knot that looks like a loop stuck in another loop.
 Sheet bend knots are used to tie two ropes together.








Form a loop (also called a bight) out of one rope (rope A) and hold the loop together with your hand. Take the other rope (rope B) and run one of its ends through the loop.
Pull the end of rope B so that it goes up through the loop and wraps under both parts of the loop.
Take the end of rope B and pull it up and under itself where it comes up out of the loop. Pull both ropes away from each other to secure the knot.

