 You should exercise about 2 hours a day. You don't have to do bench presses or lift weights to exercise. It could be simple press ups or maybe going on the trampoline if you have one.;
, Eat about 5 vegetables and 5 fruits a day. Don't eat over 10 as this will cause you to gain weight. At dinner, don't eat chips, burgers and pizza, eat a salad and a glass of water.
 If you are eating about 15 dinners a day, that's bad for you. Try going for 3 meals a day. At breakfast, eat a healthy, well balanced cereal which has lots of vitamins. When its the evening, don't eat anything. If you can't go bed, just have a glass of milk or a glass of water.
 Spend some time to look at every illness on the NHS. This will allow you to see every illness there is out there and you will know what to avoid doing to stop you getting ill and if you do happen to get ill what your symptom/s could be. This may take hours but it helps you a lot.


Note down the causes. When looking through all the illnesses note down all the causes for everything. Don't just forget to note one down because you want to still do it. That does not help your health one bit. For an example, a cause of meningitis is using toothbrushes, cigarettes others have used.
Note down the symptoms. Just like the causes, write down all the symptoms of all the illnesses as well. For example some symptoms of bacterial meningitis are a severe headache, fever, vomiting, drowsiness, confusion, seizures/fits, photophobia and a stiff neck. Also, note down what to do if you notice these symptoms on yourself or your young child. For example, with meningitis, if you notice any one of the signs you must phone 999, or your local emergency service number immediately.
Know a test method for each illness. This will require long hours of studying, but learn a method to test if a person possibly has a certain illness off by heart.
Don't let this make you a hypochondriac, though. The point is to be aware, not to make you freak out every time you have an itch.
 Studies have shown people who eat off of strict, healthy diets, such as vegan or vegetarian, live longer. Not eating meat also reduces cholesterol and the risk of heart disease. If you choose one of these ALWAYS TAKE VITAMINS. Although vegan/vegetarian is fantastic for your body, you can be missing some vitamins and essential nutrients. Take vitamins, you can even find vitamins specific for vegan/vegetarians at a Whole Foods or other health stores.

