 Calder isn't afraid to rock a t-shirt, particularly in a brand she likes, such as Tommy Hilfiger. She often pairs t-shirts with skinny jeans or pants and a leather or denim jacket, then classes it up with a fancy pair of sunglasses and a choker., Calder also likes to keep it simple in the sweater and shirt department. She may dress it up with a skirt or jacket,but she will also just throw on a sweater over jeans or a simple button-up shirt with jeans. She often chooses neutral or more muted colors for sweaters and shirts., Calder usually doesn't get too crazy with her jewelry. For instance, she may stick to a watch and a simple bracelet for a casual outfit.However, she also likes to add chokers to some outfits or other types of simple necklaces, usually in black or silver.Sometimes, the shirt or sweater she chooses becomes the accessory. That is, she'll pick shirts with lace-up ties or with a lacy collar, which acts as its own accessory., Calder has many styles she likes in jackets. For instance, she's at home in a short, black leather jacket with silver accessories,but she's equally as comfortable in a more flowing black thigh-length blazer.She'll also rock a short, distressed denim jacketand even a post-gym metallic zip-up sweater., One thing that Calder is particularly known for is her sunglasses, often Ray Bans. However, you don't need to shell out that much dough to have a pair like hers. You can find many affordable knockoffs. Calder wears a variety of colors, from brown and black to pink., In winter, Calder will dress up her outfits with scarves. For instance, she may choose a big, chunky gray scarf to go with an all-black outfit of a thigh-length dress, thigh-length blazer, and ankle-high boots. She manages to stay warm and still look stylish., While Calder often wears pants, she usually sticks to skinny pants or jeans. She also sometimes goes in for skinny capris. Whatever pants she's wearing, though, they are often not baggy or loose. Pick something that hugs your curves.Sometimes, she does go for something a little looser, such as silk or dress pants with vertical stripes.She also sometimes chooses cut-off shorts with a tattered edge., Calder wears skirts on occasion, though not as often as she wears pants, dresses, or jumpsuits. Try a solid-color knee-length skirt, such a red skirt, paired with a light gray sweater and black leather jacket.Another option is a mid-thigh length wrapped skirt in white., For casual outfits, Calder often picks solid color sneakers or canvas tie shoes to complete the look. She sometimes wears Converse shows or other similar styles. However, skip the socks or wear ones that can't be seen, as Calder almost never has socks that show.Try sneakers in solid, neutral colors like black or white.
 When Calder isn't in sneakers, she often chooses a fancy boot to dress up her outfit. Black is a popular color for her in boots. Choose one with a filigree buckle, or pick one that has a fancy design on the front in silver. Skip bright colors, as Calder usually opts for more neutral footwear.Calder goes for both ankle boots and much taller boots, so pick a height you like.
 One look that Calder picks on occasion is a bright one-piece jumpsuit. This type of outfit creates a casually dressed-up look, especially if it's in a classic floral print. She often chooses ones that are fairly short on the bottom.Calder also likes lacy jumpsuits in dark colors, such as a black jumpsuit with a lacy collar., Calder also sometimes picks light and twirly dresses in floral prints. Usually, these are fairly short, coming down to the top of the thigh or mid-thigh. Choose an airy floral print, like pink flowers on a white background, to be in line with Calder's style., Another look Calder goes for is a sweater dress, such as a simple thigh-length sweater dress in white with long sleeves. She also likes this style in other neutral colors, such as black or gray, so don't be afraid to mix it up a little., For a more formal look, Calder will pick a dress that has more length. She still likes black and whites, as well as floral prints, even in long dresses. For instance, you could choose a black and white floral print in a mid-calf dressor a fancier black floral filigree dress for a fancier event., Calder has a style that is all her own, and she tends to keep it more modest. That's not to say there's anything wrong with having a sexier look that shows more skin. However, many of Calder's looks don't show a lot of cleavage, with a few notable exceptions., Calder often keeps her look simple and clean. She's not afraid to wear a pair of skinny jeans with a somewhat loose and bulky sweater. Of course, sometimes she gets more wild, but her every day look can be fairly simple.A good pair of skinny jeans can go a long way to creating a look. They can be a little rugged. Calder isn't afraid of a few ripped knees or shredded thighs in her jeans. Pair it with a simple sweater or even one with a logo or goofy saying., That is, while Calder will pick feminine, floral prints, she often chooses to stick to neutrals, like an all-black outfit, broken up only by a neutral accessory, like a dark grey piece of fur trim or a gray scarf. Just be sure that if you pick all black, that they are all truly black. You don't want faded black paired with a piece of clothing that is truly black., While she often chooses plain colors, you can also add a few wild prints if you are drawn to them. Calder's main advice is to make sure you don't do all prints. That is, adding something more basic can help tone down the print and provide a calmness to an otherwise busy look., While Calder doesn't exclusively wear London brands, she does try to focus on them. Even if you can't buy from these brands, check out what's trendy for London brands, and you'll have a good idea of what Calder likes., While Calder does buy and wear some high-end brands, she also likes to mix it up with less costly brands. Plus, she's not afraid to browse a thrift store or vintage shop to pick up items for her wardrobe. So while you can buy high-end items, don't feel like it's a necessity if you want to dress like Calder., One way to keep up with what Calder is wearing is to follow her fashion blog, The Trend Pear.You can also follow her on Instagram (eleanorj92). While she doesn't have an official Tumblr account, many accounts have been dedicated to her style that post recent pictures of her in new outfits.

