 You should create a dark, quiet environment for the automatic writing session, free of distractions. Automatic writing is a popular surrealist technique that allows the writer to create text spontaneously, without overthinking or analyzing the text. This technique is supposed to help the writer access the subconscious mind.You can also put on music in the darkened room to help inspire your writing. You may choose classical music that could trigger certain emotions or feelings. Often choosing music without words can be less distracting during the writing sessions.
 You may then choose a letter to begin the first line of the text or limit yourself to using a certain letter to start each sentence. If you are writing with others, you may all agree to use the same letter for the automatic writing session.You can also use a writing prompt to get you started on the automatic writing session. You may set a timer for 10 to 15 minutes so you do not have to keep an eye on the time and can pay attention to just writing.
 Unlike traditional free-writing, automatic writing is all about trying to focus on the act of writing rather than what you are writing down on the page. Try to give yourself up to your subconscious and avoid reading back what you have written down or analyzing the words as you write.It may help to focus on the music playing the background to help distract your mind from trying to control your writing. Think about how the music sounds as you write and let the words simply flow on the page.
 Once your timer goes off, you should finish your last sentence. Then, read over your automatic writing. It may come across as gibberish or one long, strange sentence. Think about certain word combinations you made in a certain sentence or the sound of several lines when they are read together. Try to look for patterns, moments of strong description, and elements of a story or a character in the automatic writing.Do not be too disappointed if you do not notice any clear images or a cohesive story in the writing. Automatic writing is more about letting your subconscious run free on the page and often you may be surprised or amused by the results.

