 The worst thing you can do when you go into your manager's office to ask for a promotion is to be 100% convinced that you deserve it. Just because you've worked at the company for a certain amount of time doesn't mean that it's time for you to get a raise and a promotion. Go into the conversation prepared and with an open-mind. If you sound too self-assured, your boss or manager may think you're being arrogant or unreasonable.
 In an ideal world, your boss will be aware of all of your accomplishments and will be on the same page about when it's time for you to move up the corporate ladder. However, even if your accomplishments have been impressive, your boss still may not think it's enough for you to move on to the next level.


He may agree that you've been accomplishing as lot, but he may also have a better idea of how many skills and how much experience you'll need to acquire before you can move on.
Be open-minded. If he thinks you're not ready, ask what else you can do and even write it down. Show that you're determined to keep up the good work and will do whatever it takes.
 Though you may feel that your coworker, Jim, doesn't have as much experience or education as you but was promoted more quickly, the worst thing you can do is complain about other coworkers who have been promoted and say that they don't deserve it or that you're a harder worker than they are. This will make you look petty, whiny, and most of all, not mature enough to move up the corporate ladder.Let's face it -- maybe you feel that you really do deserve a promotion more than old Jim. That doesn't mean you have to talk about it. Focus on yourself, not the people around you.
Promotions happen for a number of reasons that may not be clear to you. Don't try to guess why so-and-so was promoted instead of you or you'll drive yourself crazy.
 Though personal circumstances may lead you to need more money, and thus, a promotion, as soon as possible, you should avoid talking about your personal life when you ask for a promotion. Instead, focus on all that you've contributed to the company as well as the contributions that you plan to make within your new position.Don't mention the fact that you need money to pay for a new house, to support a new baby, or to pay for a pricey divorce -- these may be relevant points for you, but they'll make your boss think you're not focusing on the company.
 If you didn't get the promotion you want it, don't sulk, complain, or even tell other coworkers about how badly your meeting went, how your boss is out to get you, or how nothing you do will ever be enough. This kind of word will spread, and you won't come off in a favorable light.


Be polite and calm to your boss and ask what you can do to be a better employee -- you may be frustrated, but you shouldn't make your feelings public or you won't be considered for a promotion in the future, either.

