 If you want to get involved with MADD, find the chapter of the organization nearest you. Visit the MADD website at http://www.madd.org/local-offices/ to get contact information.Select the name of your state from the drop-down menu and submit your search. You'll get a list of local offices in your state as well as links you can use to donate to them directly.
As a member, you'll get the local office's monthly newsletter, as well as notifications and invitations to local events.
Membership typically is free, but there will be a suggested donation.;
, MADD provides multiple options for you to donate money to the organization. You can work a larger donation into your budget by setting it up as a recurring donation of a small amount each month.Your donations are tax deductible, so keep your receipts.
You can donate to the national organization online, or you can give directly to your local office.
 By donating your old car, you can directly impact the lives of people who are victims of drunk drivers. MADD will pick up your car within 24 hours, and you may be able to deduct the fair market value of your car on your taxes.Your car doesn't have to be in perfect condition – MADD will take your car even if it's seen better days. They'll even take your car if it's not running at all.
 If you have tickets to an entertainment or sports event that you won't be using, you can donate them to MADD. To donate your tickets, go to the tix4cause website at https://www.tix4cause.com.You will receive a receipt and may be eligible to deduct the full face value of the ticket from your taxes as a donation.
In addition to donating tickets, you also can purchase tickets through the same website to support MADD.
 MADD organizes 5k events in more than 90 cities around the United States each year. When you register for one of these events, you can solicit donations and pledges from friends and family members to help raise money for MADD.Check MADD's website or contact your local office to find out when there's a 5k taking place near you.

