 Cover your work table with a drop cloth, old towel, newspaper, or similar material. If young children are involved, consider layering similar material over the surrounding floor. Also, have cleaning materials handy in case of spills. Once your work table is set up, remove the shade from the lamp and place it on the work table.Paper towels and water will clean up fresh paint easily.
 Expect any type of paint to work well with lampshades.If you’re happy with your paint’s exact shade, simply squirt or dab some onto a paper plate. Or add one or more shades to the first and stir them on the plate with a plastic spoon or similar tool until they’re evenly mixed.For a more varied look, consider altering the paint’s shade row by row. For example, start with, say, kelly green for the top row. Then mix it with a lighter green for the row below that. As you go down, add more and more white paint to the mix for even paler shades.
 First, have a second paper plate handy. Then dunk your stamp in the paint on the first plate. Press the wet end lightly into the second plate a couple of time to remove excess paint and avoid any runs or drips on your lampshade.You don’t want any extra paint on your stamp, but you don’t want to remove too much, either.
Take a test run first and count how many prints you make on the dry plate before the they start to look incomplete.
Depending on the size of your lampshade, you may need several paper plates for this over the course of your project, especially if you are using more than one color or shade.
 Press your loaded stamp gently on the shade’s surface. If your shade is curved, roll the stamp from side to side so all of it makes contact with the shade. Use light, even pressure as you do so in order to create a more uniform stamp instead of one that is darker on one side than the other.Also be careful not to grip your stamp too tightly if you are using materials like foam or toilet paper rolls. You don’t want to squeeze or crush it, since this will alter your stamp’s shape.
If you are using a foam or premade stamp with intricate designs, test how much pressure you should use on a paper plate before you start on the lampshade.
You can also practice your rolling technique on a curved object of similar size, like a plastic bucket.
 Continue filling in your pattern until you finish. Once you’re done, strip your tape off the lampshade, especially if your stamps overlap it at any point. If you intend to reuse your stamp, clean it immediately with soap and warm water. Then let the stamps on your lampshade dry before handling it again.If your stamps covered the tape on your lampshade, the paint may seal it to the shade as it dries, which could make later removal less neat.

