 One of the best ways to set your child up for success is to talk to them on a regular basis. Let them know where you will be going, and what you plan to do there. Give them an idea of how long you will be gone, and when they can expect to play, eat, or come home.Have them repeat this back to you so that it sticks. This will give them a sense of control and something to look forward to.
 When you set expectations for children, they should be very explicit. Most children have limited vocabularies compared to adults, and have trouble interpreting abstract ideas. Tell your children exactly what you expect them to do in each situation that they are going to encounter.For example, you should tell your children something like “At the store, I expect you to use your inside voice and walk beside me,” instead of a vague statement like “I expect you to be good at the store.” You might interpret both of those sentences to mean the same thing, but your child doesn’t understand what “good” is unless you tell them how to be “good.”

, Once you tell a child exactly what you want them to do, you can give them strategies to succeed. Come up with a way that the child can gauge their own behavior to limit the amount of times that you have to intervene. Being told that they are not meeting your expectations repeatedly will frustrate children and make it even harder for them to focus on the goals that you gave them.For example, if you have set the expectation that your child will alongside you in the store, you can tell them something like “Your arm should always be able to touch me or the cart. If you can’t reach me or the cart, then you are too far away and should come closer.” This lets the child gauge their distance in a way that they can understand instead of an abstract “Stay beside me.”
You can also roleplay with your child before going somewhere. This way, they get practice meeting your expectations and feel confident when they are put in a public situation. For example, you could practice things like saying “thank you” when someone gives them something.