 Before you research possible teachers, consider your goals for playing and expectations for a good teacher. Are you a beginner who is interested in learning the basics? Do you want to refresh skills you learned earlier in life? Do you want to play at school or church, compete at recitals, or pursue a career in music? Asking these questions will make it easier to identify the best teacher for your needs., Are you the student or is your child? What kind of music do you want to learn how to play? Piano teachers often specialize in specific types of students and music. Thinking about the student's traits will also help you identify the right teacher.Consider the student's age. Are you the student or is your child? The way a piano teacher approaches a student who is a child is different than how they would engage an adult student.
Consider the student’s ability level. If you are a beginner, you might prefer someone who works with students of the same ability level. The teacher will likely know best how to avoid common frustrations beginners have and be less rigorous than a teacher who works with professionals. Likewise, a person who is looking to play for the public may want a teacher who is more disciplined and strict.
Consider music style. Are you interested in playing a specific type of music? Just as with the student’s age and ability level, many piano teachers specialize in certain types of music such as jazz, classical, or pop music. You can choose someone who teaches your specific style wish or someone who teaches different types of music., Think about the type of lessons you want to take. You might prefer private lessons in a home to a music school with group lessons. Identifying what format best suits your needs and comfort level will help you further narrow down your list of teachers.Consider group or private lessons. Private lessons are generally more expensive but have the benefit that you get more “one on one” time with the teacher to practice your skills. Group lessons tend to be less expensive and can be more fun for some students, though it may take longer to learn how to play the piano.
Consider the lesson location. Where do you want to take your lesson? Do you want to take it in the teacher’s home, a studio, or music school? Do you want the teacher to come to your home? If a teacher comes to your home, remember that you will need to own a piano before you can take a lesson.
Consider your schedule. How often do you want a lesson and are you willing to practice? Learning how to play the piano requires substantial time commitment to take lessons and practice. It also means spending a lot of time with a teacher as you refine your skills., Once you’ve established your goals and expectations, start looking for individual teachers who meet your needs. You’ll want to identify the names of several people to interview. This will ensure finding the best match for you.
 Word of mouth is one of the best resources for finding a good piano teacher. It can easily- and quickly- point you to a teacher


Friends and family may have recommendations from their own experience or from someone they know. Local elementary and secondary schools may know good teachers for children. Music departments at colleges and universities can recommend teachers for adult students.
Music and piano stores are another source of recommendations for good piano teachers., The websites of the Music Teacher's National Association (MTNA) and Piano Teacher’s Federation can point you to good, qualified, and certified piano teachers in your local area., Piano teachers sometimes have ads in the yellow pages of telephone books. The yellow pages can also point you to music and piano stores or music schools that can recommend a teacher.
 While you’re researching teachers in your local area who meet your requirements, make a list of several possible piano teachers who you can contact to interview.Having several options will allow you to hire a teacher that not only best meets your needs, but with whom you feel comfortable and inspired to learn.Write down the teacher's contact information as well as what considerations factored into your decision to put her name on your list. This will help you think of any questions you might have when you contact her.
 Once you’ve compiled the names of several possible teachers, contact each person. This will help you establish if there is any rapport with her, which contributes to a pleasurable and positive learning environment.


Call or email your potential teachers. If you feel comfortable speaking or writing to her , schedule a face-to-face interview. Interviewing candidates is an important step to establishing if the person will be the right fit for you or your child.
If a teacher doesn’t respond to a phone message or email within a week, contact her once more. Remember to leave her your contact information. If she doesn’t respond, move to other names on your list.
 The interview will let you know if the teacher is the right fit for your needs. It will give you the opportunity to ask plenty of questions about her qualifications and her work methods. It also gives the teacher a chance to consider if her instruction style is a good match to your needs.


Ask questions about topics such as the teacher's instruction style and materials, her certifications, if she varies her teaching routines and refreshes her own skills. Ask about the teacher's background in music and if she works in other areas of the music industry. Find out about payment and general policies including make up lessons.You may also ask for references from current or former students. They will often give you a good sense of the teacher’s instructional methods.Look for the qualities of a good teacher during the interview. These include: empathy, a positive attitude, patience, inspirational, and someone who recognizes and rewards accomplishments.It's very important that you and/or your child feel comfortable with the teacher, so trust your instincts. No one can learn in an environment in which they’re not comfortable., If you can see the teacher “in action,” it will give you a good idea of her style and whether her students are comfortable and happy with her instruction., Once you have interviewed a few teachers, compare your experiences with each of them.


Make a checklist of what you liked and didn’t like about each teacher.
Once you have an overview of your experiences with each teacher, you should easily be able to list of your top choices.
 Contact your top choice teacher first. If she doesn’t work out for any reason, you can continue down the list until you get the right person.


Contact the teacher and tell her you’d like to take lessons with her. Make sure to discuss your goals and expectations, and anything elements you want to talk about in greater detail like schedule or lesson format. Ask any lingering questions and allow the teacher to make inquiries as well.
Respect the teacher’s decision. The teacher may not be able to take you for any number of reasons including time constraints or she doesn’t feel her skills or teaching style can best serve you. If she cannot commit to teaching you, accept the decision and call the next teacher on your list. You could also ask her for additional teacher recommendations.
After you’ve found and hired the right teacher for your needs, you’re ready to start learning how to play the piano! Enjoy!

