 Fluency in this language will help you both when you are in Argentina and when you are looking for work before you go. Most business is conducted in Spanish, although there may be a multi-lingual culture in some foreign firms.;
, This will be the first step to traveling and living abroad. In some countries, this can take 3 to 6 months to receive.
 In order to work legally in Argentina, and receive a livable wage, you will need to be sponsored by a company in Argentina. This can be a foreign-based company or a domestic company looking to employ foreign workers.


Those young and without dependents can seek a Teaching English as a Foreign Language (TEFL) teaching certificate. After taking the necessary courses and receiving your TEFL certificate, you must work approximately 120 hours or more as a TEFL instructor before being eligible to work in Argentina or many other foreign countries. The wages for TEFL teachers are not very high, and they are paid in Argentine peso, which is worth much less than most foreign currencies. You will want to search for TEFL jobs online in order to find 1 before you travel to Argentina.
Seek training and a job in Information Technology (IT), banking or the oil industry. Companies in these 3 fields are regularly looking for foreign workers. Research companies that have branches in Argentina. You may need to work in your country for a while before being given a post in Argentina. The advantage of working for a foreign company, rather than a domestic company, is that you will most likely be paid in your home currency, which will go a lot further in Argentina than the Argentine peso.
Become a financier. If you are a business person and you want to consider starting a company in Argentina, you can apply for a financier visa. You will need to prove that you have at least $2,200, or $8,500 Argentine pesos, that will be transferred into an Argentine bank every month. You may want to hire an agency, such as the Argentina Residency and Citizenship Advisors (ARCA) to process your paperwork for you.
Look for an internship. If you are not employed in those fields, you can work for a short period of time in Argentina as an intern. The Travellers Worldwide website lists a number of internship opportunities in law, marketing, medicine, veterinary medicine and journalism. With these internships, the company must apply for the visa for you as well.
 You will have a smoother time getting your employment visa and other official paperwork if your company handles it all. Since they are required to sponsor your visa, you can supply them with the official documents.


If you do not have a company individual that will handle the documents for you from Argentina, you may consider hiring a company to do so. Companies, such as ARCA, will charge a fee to help process your paperwork for you. Argentina is known for its bureaucracy, so having support with the process will be helpful.
 You will need your passport, with copies, your employment contract, your birth certificate and a birth certificate of good conduct that proves you don't have an international police record. Any items that are in English will need to be translated into Spanish by a certified translator.
 Once your paperwork is processed, you may need to do this in Argentina or at an Argentine consulate in your country. You will need to pay the fees associated with your application at this time or before.
 It is a good idea to wait for the process to be secured before moving to the country. You will need to renew your visa approximately every 6 to 12 months that you plan to work in Argentina.


You may be required to return to your country and apply for the visa after your visa has expired. Speak with your company about handling the reapplication process.
 If either of your parents were born in Argentina, you can qualify for Argentine citizenship. Visit the National Immigration Office website, at migraciones.gov.ar, to begin the application process.

