 Remember it won't come in a week or two. Gradually do these things in order to become popular. Make a calendar and plan out your further actions of attempting to join the group.;
, Write down (or type, think of, etc) a list of things you want to improve. Whether it be shinier hair, better style, or a better dancer. Whatever it is, you have to set your mind to it.
 The popular group won't have any desire to be friends with you if they haven't already. Why? Because they don't know enough about you. So do things to get noticed, get on the An Honor roll, because when they look through it, seeing you're on it, well, it might impress them. Also, you could join a few teams and clubs. Yearbook Committee, Dance Line, and Tennis Team (or any other popular sports) would be great. Don't join something you're terrible at. That will only make them annoyed. Be committed to this and don't be a complainer!

, Looks are very important. For your hair, do something fun! Don't dye it any unnatural colors like purple or blue, but colors like chestnut, dark brown, honey blonde - all really cute colors. Make sure it's always neatly styled and pretty. It doesn't have to look model-like but shiny, beach waves are definitely going to attract some attention. For makeup, you must wear it. Try the bare minerals get started kit, it comes with great quality makeup. Also, make sure you have a brown eyeliner (preferably pencil), blush (peach for fair skin, pink for tan, and lilac-ish for olive skin) that is good quality such as Clinique or MAC, a good concealer (like Lancome, Clinique, etc) and definitely mascara. Eyeshadow isn't a must, but a plus. Before you try to do your makeup, go to a counter at the mall (Estee Lauder, Chanel. The better makeup quality the better they will teach you how to apply it) and get help on how to apply it all! If you want inspiration for a perfectly natural look, watch The Clique movie. All Pretty Committee members have really natural makeup. Always make an effort to look nice at school. Or anywhere where popular people will be.
 Clothes make a difference as well. Vineyard Vines, Abercrombie, Hollister, American Eagle, Aeropostale,H&M and even Juicy Couture and BCBG are popular amongst many popular crowds. Oh, and no FUGG boots. Buy the real thing. Have a trendy-but-classic style. Make it your own, though. Don't copy someone. Maintain great style.
 This is possibly the riskiest step. Target someone that is most likely nicest and friendliest. Don't try to be all buddy-buddy with the snobby rich girl. This is easy. Compliment them a few times a week, say hi in the halls, text them, and the next thing you know - they will ask to hang out with you, or if they don't, but you think you're at the right time, say 'hey, we should see that new movie on Saturday.' Be very careful. Do not bring up sensitive topics, complain, or share deep secrets. Save it for your diary.
 Once you have interacted with them, it's up to them whether they choose they want to be friends with you or not. Hoping they say yes, become friendly to everyone, even the queen bee (if there is one) but don't follow the queen bee. Try to be inspiring to the whole group. Don't let the queen bee intimidate you, she's a regular girl, just better at covering it up than most. However, don't be clingy or rude. Be polite and sweet, and laugh with them. Try to blend in with them, while inspiring them naturally. If you're funny, let it show. If you have great boy advice, share it! Don't make it like 'Oh My God. I know everything about guys,' But if someone says, 'I wish ____ would like me,' give them a flirting tip. Or if someone is sad, make a sarcastic joke that will cheer her up, if it's the appropriate time. Let natural talent shine. don't wait too long or hey will think you are weird.
 Assuming they aren't total freaks, help them join the new group, too. If you do not wish to be friends with them, don't hold on to it for their sake. It sounds mean, but friends drift apart. Text them less, sit with them at lunch once a week instead of three times, eventually, the desire will go away and you have your new friends.
