 Talk to your girlfriend about her dad and find out what you can about him. Knowing about his personality and interests can help make interactions with him easier.Find out about his temperament and personality, if you don't already know him. Knowing what to expect in this regard will allow you to prepare yourself better mentally for interactions with him.
For example, if her dad is a laid back guy with a good sense of humor, you might want to think about some G-rated jokes you can tell when you're around him. On the other hand, if he's a serious, grumpy, or even hostile man, you'll want to prepare yourself for this so you aren't taken aback if he's unpleasant to you.
Find out about his interests and values. This can help you find things to talk to him about, especially if you can find things you have in common with him. This can be as deep as his political or religious beliefs or as simple as being a fan of some sport, hobby, or TV show.;
, Ask your girlfriend to talk to her father and tell him she'd like him to get to know you better. This will lay the groundwork for spending some time together.If she wants to say some nice things about you to her father when you're not around, that can help too. You might suggest that she brings up some recent accomplishment you've made (e.g. a promotion, a scholarship, or a sports victory), or mention something you have in common. This can help "grease the wheels" by giving him something to think about you that's positive.
 For most people, spending time with someone helps increase comfort with that person (assuming that time spent together is a positive experience). Even the most hard-nosed dad is likely to develop more trust for you after awhile if he sees you regularly.If you haven't already met your girlfriend's dad, keep in mind that your first meeting with him will be especially important in creating an impression of yourself as a trustworthy person. As the saying goes, you only get one chance to make a first impression, so do what you can to make it a good one if you haven't already.Spending time with your girlfriend's dad may be awkward and difficult, especially at first. Do your best to tough it out and make the most of it--it will be worth it in the end if you can build a trusting relationship with him.

