 While a general psychology degree will help you get into graduate school, consider going for a specific degree in child development, child studies, or cognitive studies.Specializing your degree will give you more knowledge in your field. It may also give you more insight into the world of child psychology so you can determine if it's the right career path for you.


Look at the available degrees when searching for a university to attend. Some colleges offer more child psychology related majors.
Some of the best colleges to get your psychology degree include Stanford University, The University of Pennsylvania, Yale University, and The University of Michigan.;
, Once you obtain your bachelor's degree, you'll need to go for higher education to work as a child psychologist in the majority of circumstances.During your graduate or Ph.D. program, you'll have to concentrate on one of the four fields of child psychology which include clinical, developmental, school, and educational psychology. Determine which type of job you would want post-graduation and specialize in it.


Clinical child psychologists deal directly with the children and help assess, diagnose, and treat children with developmental or psychological disorders.
Developmental child psychologists work more towards a better understanding of child behavior in a research-based setting.
School psychologists deal with the mental health needs of children in a school or education setting. They determine child eligibility for government sponsored programs and help build curricula to suit the needs of children.
Education children psychologists work to improve the learning and teaching processes in schools. They suggest changes to classes and curriculum, so it can better suit the needs of children's psychological health., Your Master's degree in psychology or a related child psychology field will allow you to assist practicing child psychologists that have their Ph.D. Often, graduate level child psychologists will conduct research.Look for schools that have good programs for the type of child psychology you are looking to pursue. An undergraduate degree alone will not enable you to do advanced research or to treat and diagnose patients.Graduate courses include adolescent and young adult development, child development, and psychopathology in children.
Good graduate schools for child psychology include The University of Kansas and The University of Virginia Curry School of Education.Graduate school usually takes two to three years to complete.
 Getting your doctorate will take between four to six years on average and will enable you to start your own practice and directly diagnose and assess patients. You don't have to get your Masters degree before going for your Ph.D. If you know that you want to work directly with children, then it's recommended you get your doctorate. Some graduate level programs will combine your masters and Ph.D. program together.A Psy.D. is an applied clinical doctorate and is one of the highest levels of degrees for those in the psychology field., If you are getting your doctorate, undergoing a one-year internship while you study is typically required. This is usually followed by another year residency under supervision before you can attain your license to practice.During your practicum you may work for an in-house health department at your school or your local hospitals, clinics and research facilities., Different states differ on their requirements to become a licensed state child psychologist. For most states, you'll need to have your doctorate in child psychology and have hours of experience under supervision. Look up your state's website to find application forms and requirements.In Washington, you must have your doctoral degree and 750-hour residency and 300-hour practicum.In New York, you must have your doctorate from an accredited program as well as two years of full-time supervised experience., A Board certification from The American Board of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology will allow you to designate a specialization. It shows that you have the capability and competence to serve as a child psychologist.You can visit the official website for The American Board of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology and fill out the specialization and application forms to get started.


Being Board Certified will also make your skills more marketable., Once you have the proper licenses, certifications, and education to practice, you can start looking for jobs at different organizations. Some organizations that need child psychologists include, mental health clinics, legal organizations, hospitals, and research centers.Use online job boards to find jobs in your area.


Take your time and do research on each company to determine the best fit for you.
 Because you've already undergone your residency and internship or practicum period, there's a good chance you've already networked with people in the psychology or health fields. Reach out to old colleagues or bosses and let them know that you've completed your education and are ready to practice.


Often, if there's a position available, you will get precedence over someone who did not do their residency there.
 Once you've applied and gotten a callback, your potential employer will want you to come in for an interview. Make sure that you have a good demeanor, especially if you are going to be working in direct contact with children.


The hospital or organization you are working for will also be looking for additional skills and knowledge over the newest techniques in cognitive therapy and interpersonal psychotherapy., Typically you'll need years of practice in the industry before opening your own practice. In addition to being on the top of your field, you'll also need to understand the basic principles of business and marketing to make your practice stand out from the rest.Retain old patients and try to get new business through referrals and word-of-mouth.


Work with a business development consultant if you aren't business savvy or are not sure about the technical aspects of starting your own practice like billing and getting new customers.

