 One of the key parts to a trustworthy friendship is knowing that you can call on your friend when you’re feeling down, upset, lost, or confused. They should try to make you feel better. Trustworthy friends know that it’s important to be present and caring.For example, let’s say you had a rough day at school or work, and you call or text your friend to chat or hang out. You explain that you’ve been having a tough day and the reasons why. They don’t respond until a day or two later, and it’s a generic response. Do you feel supported?

, A good friend won’t make you feel less-than or judge you harshly. Friends who are supportive and kind are likely people you’ll trust more with your emotions and your fears. Figure out if your friends seem make a lot of judgmental statements about you or other people. Do they seem to only focus on the negative aspects of other people’s appearance or behaviors?
Or do they do the opposite? Do they make positive and supportive statements? Do they encourage you to be happier and healthier in a loving way? This is a more trustworthy friend.
 When you’re with your friends, do you feel anxious or uncomfortable about what they’re doing or saying? Do you feel like you’re just “going along” with them, but don’t really enjoy their company?Notice if you feel comfortable enough with your friends to express a differing opinion. If your friends are trustworthy, they will respect your opinion and, while you may have a discussion about your conflicting opinions, it won't be a big deal. If you are afraid to express an opinion that is different than the rest of the group, this may suggest your friends are not very trustworthy.
Sometimes people make friends because they want to feel like they have a big social circle. But bigger doesn’t always mean better.
Evaluate whether you actually have similar interests and personalities with your friends. Trust yourself, and don’t feel like you have to be exactly like them.
For example, let’s say they only like to go to the mall and buy clothes, and you’d rather play music and start a small band. They don’t seem to understand why you play music, and don’t really like the music that you do. You may not feel very supported.

