 If it's because you are depressed, self harming or having suicidal thoughts; being labelled it by people at your school or college or because you want to try and get an emo boys attention, it's the wrong reason. You should indulge in emo culture because it's who you are; a lot of your interests, music taste and hobbies should fit with emo.;
, Research is one of the most important things you could ever do when trying to learn about something, especially about something as controversial as "emo" (which shouldn't be controversial at all). The first mistake a lot of people trying to get into subcultures do is not research the term and go off mainstream media definitions and what their friends say. This is your chance to find out completely what emo is, through reliable resources. Some basic facts about emo are:

Emo stands for "emotive hardcore punk" and it's out growth of hardcore punkand post-hardcorewhich originated out of Washington D.C in the mid 80s.
Emo was a reaction to the heightened violence in the hardcore punk scene, as the music had strayed from the original topic of politics and rebellion.The first emo band is considered to be Rites of Spring, even though they reject the term, and second, Embrace (US). In 1984, Guy Picciotto, who was a Minor Threat fan, formed Rites of Spring and broke free of hardcore's self-imposed boundaries in favor of melodic guitars, varied rhythms, and deeply personal, impassioned lyrics creating "emo".Emo was originally an insult given to people who listened to this type of music.People who stayed true to the hardcore punk scene used to go to show and scream insults at the so called "emo" bands.
 Listening to emo music is one of the most important things of enjoying and being involved in emo culture, so without it, you cannot be considered "emo" as the music ties everyone together. Throughout the decades, emo has been reinvented several times, so here are a list of bands that are considered "emo":


Emotive hardcore punk/post-hardcore (old school emo)

Rites of Spring
One Last Wish
Embrace (US band)
Beefeater
Indian Summer
Dag Nasty
Gray Matter
Soul-side
King Face


Screamo

City of Caterpillar
Circle Takes The Square
Pg.99
Heroin
Funeral Diner
I Hate Myself
Pianos Become The Teeth
Orchid (Massachusetts band)


Indie emo

Sunny Day Real Estate
Texas is the Reason
Jawbreaker


Emo pop punk (the most popular type of emo, due to its mainstream success)

Jimmy Eat World
The Get Up Kids
The Promise Ring
My Chemical Romance (after debut)
Paramore (early work)
Fall Out Boy (early work)
Panic! at the Disco
Twenty ∅ne Pil∅ts



, If you were to primarily listen to emotive hardcore then you would be an old school emo. If you were into indie emo, you would be a 90s emo and if you were more into emo pop punk then you would be considered emo pop, which technically isn't a genre of emo as it combines emo and pop punk, making it something different. This is why it's important to understand where emo came from and what's truly emo. Screamo is a subgenre of emo that emerged in the early 90s, that was pioneered by San Diego bands like Heroin and Antioch Arrow but developed further by East Coast U.S bands like Pg.99 and Orchid. Lyrical themes usually include emotional pain, romantic interest, politics, and human rights, which differ slightly to emo lyrical themes.,

Don't buy an off the rack complete emo outfit straight away, ease into the fashion by buying single garments. Characteristics of emo fashion include:

Band shirts (before you buy, make sure you know the band inside out otherwise wearing the band shirt of a band you don't listen to would make you a poseur)
Skinny jeans
Sweat/wrist bands
Eyeliner
Converse or Vans
Hoodies (can feature band logos, too)
Black rimmed glassesStudded beltsPlaid shirts

, This is important because since punk is DIY, it means emo is too, so it's important to show your creativity when putting your outfits together. The statement "they claim to be individuals yet listen to the same music and dress in the same clothes" comes about because people have been going to malls and getting all their clothes from chain stores like Hot Topic. There isn't any creativity in that. It just means you and thousands of others have the same outfits, when the idea in a subculture was to take inspiration from your idols instead of directly copying them. Try buying patches of your favourite bands Etsy.com, eBay.com or another creativity website and try sewing them on.,

Make sure what you want to do doesn't clash with the school uniform rules and regulations, but that's only if you go to a school that has one. Emo hair tends to be dyed a dark color, usually black and choppy. Bangs are swept across one eye and straightened.Don't be afraid to dye it different colors; there are thousands of online pictures you can use for inspiration.,

Some people still don't understand what emo is, and continue to poke fun at those who are. People in middle school especially often tease others because they are insecure. If someone bullies you, it's most likely because they are insecure and shouldn't get away with it. Report these people to one of your teachers or someone of higher authority.