 Check with your boss or supervisor first, as some offices may have safety policies about this. If you get the green light, go for it! Sitting on a stability ball automatically makes you use more muscles than you would by sitting in a chair by forcing you to use your abdomen and back to keep yourself upright.It’ll also encourage you to have better posture., This is a great, secretive way to exercise your glutes at your desk. Just squeeze your butt cheeks together and hold for at least five seconds, then release. Repeat this exercise 4-5 times.Women can also do Kegel exercises by tightening their pelvic muscles for at least 15 seconds, then releasing. Repeat 10 times.
 Buy a hand gripper at any exercise supplies store. Rest your elbow on your desk and squeeze the gripper for 30 seconds. Repeat this five times, and remember to do each arm.Increase the amount of time you squeeze the gripper for a tougher exercise.
 Do 4-5 sets of 12-15 “repetitions,” or reps. Be sure to work out both of your arms!If you don’t think it will bother or distract anyone in your office, you can also bring a light set of weights to work. Do the bicep curls with these instead.
 Keep your feet just off the ground and touch your fingers lightly to the edge of your desk. Tighten your core and use your abdomen muscles to swivel the chair to the right and then the left. Do 10 twists to each side, and repeat this 3 times over the course of the workday., Straighten one leg under your desk and hold it up for 5-10 seconds. Put it back down and repeat the exercise on the other leg. Do 15 reps for each leg. If this isn’t tough enough for you, loop a purse or briefcase strap over your leg and lift that.
 Make your hands into fists next to the arms of your chair. Use the muscles in your thighs to lift yourself out of your chair and hover above it. Repeat the exercise 4-6 times.This may only be appropriate if you have a private office. You don’t want to distract or annoy your co-workers.
 Lift yourself up and hold your body out of the chair for 10-20 seconds. Rest for a minute once you’re sitting again, and then repeat the exercise 4-6 times.This exercise works best if you can cross your legs in your chair and then lift yourself up. This cross-legged position won’t work for those in tight pants or pencil skirts, however!
Again, be sure not to cause any problems in the office. If your co-workers feel your exercises are preventing them from getting their work done, you’ll definitely need to make some adjustments.
 Over the course of the day, be sure you’re taking the time to stretch. This gets your muscles moving as well, and it’s super important for relieving any workplace tension. Try these stretches to get started:Lift your arms above your head and rotate them one at a time.
Shrug your shoulders and roll them backwards and forwards a few times.
Roll your neck gently from left to right, focusing on tight spots.
Roll your ankles, point your toes, and flex your feet.
To avoid bothering your co-workers, stretch in the bathroom.

