 Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (180 C). You should also have several cookie sheets on hand. You won't need to grease the cookie sheets before baking the cookies.If you like baking with a silicone mat, you could place one on your baking sheet for even cooking.
 Place 1/3 cup (76 g) of softened butter, 3 ounces (85 g) of softened cream cheese, and 3/4 cup (150 g) of sugar into a large mixing bowl. Beat the ingredients with mixer on medium speed until they're completely combined.It's important to have the butter and cream cheese softened. If they're too cold, you'll have small lumps of butter or cream cheese in your dough.
 Add 1 egg yolk, 1 1/2 to 2 teaspoons of almond extract, and 2 teaspoons of orange juice to the bowl with the creamed mixture. Beat the yolk and flavorings on medium speed until you no longer see the egg yolk.You can discard the egg white or save it for another use.
 In a separate bowl, whisk together 1 1/4 cups (156 g) of all-purpose flour, 2 teaspoons of baking powder and 1/4 teaspoon of salt. Whisk for about 30 seconds so the baking powder is evenly distributed throughout the flour.You could also sift and stir the dry ingredients to help combine the baking powder into the flour, especially if your flour is lumpy.
 Slowly add the dry ingredients to the creamed butter mixture while beating on low speed. Beat the mixture until the dry ingredients are completely combined. Stir in 3 (225 g) cups of sweetened coconut flakes until the dough is combined.If you mix the dry ingredients into the creamed mixture on high or even medium speed, the dry ingredients will be quickly beaten out of the bowl and onto your counter.
 Cover the dough and refrigerate it until it's firm enough for you to shape (about 1 hour). Portion out the dough into 1-inch balls. Roll the balls into the remaining 2 cups (150 g) of sweetened coconut flakes. Set the balls on the cookie sheets, leaving a few inches of room between each cookie.This recipe will make 48 cookies, so you'll need several baking sheets.
 Bake the coconut macaroons for 10 to 12 minutes. They should be light golden brown when they're done. Take the cookies out of the oven and immediately push one unwrapped Hershey's Kiss into the top of each cookie. Let the cookies rest on the sheet for a minute. Let them finish cooling on a wire rack.Cool the cookies completely before serving. This will help them firm up a little.

