 The ideal crate is one that is big enough for your dog to comfortably stand up, turn around and lie down in. Choosing a crate that is too large will give the pup enough room to defecate on one side and sleep on the other side. You can either opt for a plastic dog crate such as this, which is easy to clean or a wire crate, which allows your dog to see his environment. If the need arises, the wire crate can be covered with a blanket or towel to make your pup feel safe.;
, To make the crate comfortable and cozy, you need to add some bedding to it. Avoid using newspaper, as it may send the wrong signal to the pup that it can eliminate on the newspaper, especially if that’s how the dog was previously trained to relieve himself. Use a towel or soft blanket instead, and if the pup soils it don’t provide any bedding until he/she understands that it’s meant for sleeping and not for eliminating.
 Dogs are social animals and should not be left alone for long periods, especially puppies, who have always been in the company of their mother or siblings since birth. Therefore, it’s important to place the crate right beside your bed at night during the initial days. Make sure the crate is placed close enough for you to comfort the pup with your fingers if need arises.
 It’s very important that you introduce the crate to your pup in a positive way. Start by tossing small treats in the crate; in order to get these treats your dog will go inside. Once you feel he/she is comfortable in the crate, shut the door for few minutes and offer treats through the door, then allow him/her to come out. Slowly use this technique to feed his regular meals, this way he/she will associate with the crate as a pleasurable place.
 Make it a habit to keep the pup in the crate or kennel whenever he/she is not under your supervision. This way you won’t allow an accident to take place, thereby preventing potty mistakes. This habit will also help your pup understand the concept of house breaking faster.
 Pups are prone to developing fear of being alone; if possible keep the radio or TV on and at a low volume in the room where you’ve placed the crate. If you are going to be away for the whole day, request your neighbor or friend to take your pup for a walk, or if possible hire a dog-sitter.
 Each time the pup is taken out of the crate, immediately bring it to the potty area, even if he/she was in the crate for as little as 15 minutes.
 As soon as you reach the potty area, put your pup down or relax the leash if he/she is on leash, and say something like “do your business” or “go potty.”

, Use the phrase once again, this time softly, when you see that the pup is actually trying to find a spot to relieve himself. Control your excitement and don’t be loud, as this can distract your pup from the task at hand.
 Be consistent throughout the training, whether it’s the feeding and exercise schedule, potty area and phrase or the door through which you take him out. Sometimes, your pup will give you signals if he/she wants to relieve himself/herself again, such as drinking a lot of water, sniffing around, circling, wandering, looking at the door, whining, etc. Take them out without any delay.
 Some dogs have the habit of pooping twice or at two different places in one outing. So make sure the walk is long and you don’t have to rush him out again. Active dogs that are usually playing get thirsty more often, and drinking water at regular intervals also means they will have to be taken out to eliminate more often.
 Last but not the least, reward your pup with a quick walk once he has relieved himself. Putting him back in the crate immediately will take all the fun away and your pup might adopt unwanted habits just to stay out for a bit longer or to enjoy your company.
 When potty training accidents occur, clean the surface with an enzymatic cleaner. Make sure your pup is out of sight when cleaning, to avoid unintentional punishment. Never scold your pet for a crate accident, because they won’t have the slightest idea what they did wrong. Any accident that occurs during the training period is your responsibility and punishing your pet for it can have a negative impact on him/her.

