 If you’ve been thrust back into consciousness and there’s no chance of immediately returning to sleep, gather the dream in your thoughts. Take inventory of the most important and memorable details of the dream, and especially our place within it: what you were doing, how you were perceiving the action, etc.It’s important to try to grasp as much of the dream as you can while it’s present in your short-term memory. The part of the brain that forms and stores memories is effectively dormant when dreaming, so the details will quickly evaporate, possibly for good.If you’re unsure whether you actually remember a certain detail or your imagination is just filling it in, zero in on it anyway. If nothing else, it will come in handy for helping you resume a dream that’s close to the original, with missing details supplied by your own creative touch.
 Turn each remembered impression into a real thing with physical qualities. Focus on how things looked and sounded, what the setting was like and any other sensory aspects you can recollect. This will give your mind images of substance to fix on while you attempt to redirect it back to the dream state.


A good method for coaxing out as much detailed memory as possible is to quiz your dream memory on the six basic questions that journalists attempt to answer when investigating a story: who, what, where, when, why and how., In as much detail as possible, write out what happened in the dream from the viewpoint from which it occurred. If you’re able to remember an entire scene, put it down from beginning to end. If you only retain fragments of the dream, try to order them with as much continuity as you can so that your brain can get back in the groove. Record the content of the dream accurately: it’s important that your mind be able to recall all the relevant details, like giving a description of a suspect to a police sketch artist.Don’t wait to jot down what you remember from a dream. It’s easy to fool yourself into thinking that you’ll be able to recall the dream later, but it’s never as simple as you think it will be.
Don't worry about spelling, grammar, or even writing in straight lines when scribbling an entry in your dream notebook. Just make sure you get it all out while it's on your mind!

, On a blank page next to your description, make a few quick drawings of the action that transpired in the dream. Give characters and happenings more of a visual foothold in your memory, as well as something to hold in your mind when you try to return to the dream. Think about the storybooks you read as a kid, and how they provided illustration for the major events of the narrative. Your dream notebook should contain as much as you can remember about each phase of the dream.If you wish, you can go so far as to color your dream sketches, or create a kind of progression of drawings like the storyboard for a film. The more detail you can record, the better.

