 More and more people use social media to discuss news and current events. Campaign news especially has been filtered through these mediums. Take advantage of your personal Facebook or Twitter page to foster discussion. Post links to articles about issues you care about and engage with others who comment. Encourage a healthy, productive dialogue online.
 The app store, which can be found through your smart phone, showcases the various apps available for purchase or free download. As apps are frequently a key part of the latest trends, click on tabs like "Top Rated Apps" and "Most Downloaded" or "Most Purchased." This will give you a sense of what is and is not currently popular. Try to make a habit of downloading the most popular apps. You want to make sure you're up-to-date with the latest in smart phone accessories.
 A variety of trendy applications, such as SnapChat and Instagram, are now solely available through smart phones. If you want to be a trendy online user, you need to be on such sites. If you do not already have a mobile phone, it's vital to get one to follow online trends. Having a variety of mobile phone specific social media accounts will keep you fresh and trendy., While Facebook and Twitter remain among the most popular social media outlets, keep your eye out for new outlets. Being trendy means keeping ahead of the game and you'll want to hop on new social media platforms as they come. Ello is a new social media platform that promises never to sell user data to advertisers. Yik Yak is a new social media platform in which you can exchange completely anonymous messages with people who are nearby. Keep track of growing social media trends and create accounts with new websites., If a certain social media outlet is no longer in style, it's not necessary to keep updating. Social media outlets such as Myspace and Google Plus, which have fallen out of fashion, should be discarded. Put your energy into maintaining accounts that currently reach out to many users.

