 There are three traditional branches of the religion that include Roman Catholicism, Eastern Orthodoxy, and Protestant Christianity. Each of these religions hold different beliefs and have different traditions. All of the religions believe in Jesus Christ and Scripture, but have differing views on whether the Pope or the Catholic Church hold any religious authority.Protestants concentrate on Scripture and the Bible to guide their faith, rather than a centralized church.Eastern Orthodoxy teaches the writings of the Deuterocanonicals and holds the belief that the Pope holds the same authority as other bishops.Roman Catholicism believes in the doctrines of Transubstantiation and Purgatory and the belief in the Pope as a Holy authority.Transubstantiation is the belief that during communion, the Eucharist or the bread and wine, are transformed into the actual body and blood of Jesus.Purgatory is the belief that you can make penance with God after death for minor sins and an allotted amount of time.

;
, Under the traditional branches of Christianity, many sects or denominations exist as well. There are also churches that are non-denominational or that are aimed to be accept people of all denominations of Christianity. Go to a library or look online for the various Christian denominations that exist. Researching them will give you insight into their differences and may point you in the right direction for which kind of church you'd like to attend.


Inter-denominational churches do not hold a specific historical creed.Members of the Baptist Church do not baptize members as infants and fully immerse adults under water through a ceremony called believer's baptism.Quakers reject ordained clergy and sacraments and are pacifists who aim to live quiet, simple lives.Sects of Protestant Christianity include Methodist, Lutheran, Pentecostal, Baptist, Presbyterian, and Evangelical., If your family was actively religious when you were younger, it's possible that you are already affiliated with a specific sect of Christianity. While you can always change your denomination, it may be a good idea to stick to your religion if you already believe in its teachings.


It's also possible that your family may have an established relationship with a specific church or specific nuns or priests.
Being active at church earlier in life can create stronger bonds with others in your congregation.
 After doing research on the major branches and denominations of Christianity, you'll be able to make a more informed decision on which doctrines ring true to you personally. Think about your stances on important issues like same-sex marriage, reproductive rights, or acceptance of different people who may be viewed as sinful to some Christian Churches.


For instance, some Protestant churches believe in reproductive rights. These churches include the Quakers, the Lutheran Church in America, the Episcopal Church, the Moravian Church in America, the Presbyterian Church, the Unitarian Universalist, the United Church of Christ, and the United Methodist Church.There are various churches that accept people in the LGBT community, such as the Alliance of Baptists, the Covenant Network, the Independent Catholic Christian Church, and the Reformed Catholic Church.Though the Pope has said positive things about the LGBT community, same-sex marriages are still a violation of Catholic beliefs., Prior to joining a church, decide how big of a role your faith plays in your life and how much time and energy you have to devote to worship and doing acts of good. Some churches are more active and call on members to help build the community while others concentrate on Sunday worship and teaching. In addition, other churches require you to tithe or contribute 10% of your income to the church.Take these things into consideration and choose a church that can match your schedule and budget.


Don't choose an active church if you don't like doing volunteer work or community service.
 If you're still unsure of which denomination or sect of Christianity that you should practice, you should ask God. God may be able to give you clarity on which path to follow. Ultimately, you want to choose a church that will allow you to worship in a way that makes you feel fulfilled and comfortable. You should not be anxious or stressed while making the decision.


You can ask God something like, "I want to be the best Christian I can be, but I'm unsure of which denomination to choose. Please guide me on this journey of finding how to worship your word and live a good life."

