 This method demonstrates the fundamentals of dog training, and how to use them to teach this trick. If you already know how to train your dog but your dog is having trouble with this specific trick, check out the sticky notes method below.;
, Choose a specific reward that the dog enjoys, such as a ball, a plastic bone, or a smelly treat. Show the dog the reward at a time when the dog is attentive, but not overly excited. Command the dog to sit.


If the dog is too energetic, it won't focus on the lesson. Tire it out a little before training, or choose a slightly less exciting reward.
If your dog doesn't respond to "Sit," teach your dog that command before you teach it this one.
 Start waving the reward very slowly on a horizontal line 30 centimeter (11.8 in) in length (about the length of a ruler). This shouldn't look like you're saying no or scolding the dog; it should look as if you're trying to hypnotize your dog. As soon as the dog follows the treat back and forth with its whole head (not just its eyes), reward and praise him. If the dog doesn't follow the movement, let him sniff the object, then try again.



Clicker training makes it much easier for the dog to understand your behavior. The basic idea is to use a "clicker" (or any short, sharp noise) immediately when the dog displays the correct behavior. Do this in addition to giving praise and treats.
 If your dog doesn't respond to the moving treat, try snapping your own head to one side. If the dog mimics you, say "good head shake!" and give it the reward. This may take several tries or even several training sessions.


If the dog still doesn't understand what you want, you may have to wait for the dog to shake its head naturally. Immediately reward the dog for this behavior.
 Choose "Head shake!" or any other verbal command, but stick to one exact choice of words. Give this command at the same time you wave the treat or move your own head. As before, reward the dog and praise it as soon as it responds correctly.
 Keep the first session to ten or fewer repetitions, to avoid making the dog tired or bored. Repeat the training daily, but stop each session as soon as the dog starts to tire, looks distracted, or resists your commands (typically within a few minutes). As you continue the daily training sessions, your dog should respond more consistently. Give him time and patience. Some dogs learn much faster than others.


End sessions on a positive note whenever possible. Praise the dog for its efforts.
 As your dog learns the command, repeat it with just a hand motion and a verbal command, without holding a treat. When your dog successfully responds, reward it and praise it as usual. When the dog consistently responds to this, start giving it just the verbal command. Continue the training until it responds to the command alone.

