 Click Start > Settings to open up the settings menu. This menu was made to make customizing Windows 10 easier than ever. Once the new window loads, click “Personalization.” A new page will load with a series of different menu options on the left-hand side. From this list, select “Lock screen.”;
, The page that is now in front of you is the main area from which you will customize your lock screen. As you scroll down the page, you will see a series of different options available to you. In particular, you are looking for a subheading that reads “Choose an app to show detailed status.” It should only have one little gray button underneath it, with a + icon in the center of it. Click this to show a list of apps that can display a detailed status.


Note: Only specific apps will have this option, and it may not be listed in the app store when you download them. You will need to check back under this option after you have downloaded a certain app, to see if it will work with a detailed status.
 You should now be looking for a subheading that says “Choose apps to show quick status.” It should have 7 different gray buttons below it. Most, if not all, of these buttons should be blank with a + icon in the middle. Clicking on a + icon will pop up a menu with a few different app options on it. The number of apps will be different, depending on how many you have downloaded and installed. Simply click on an app to add it to the Quick Status. Keep doing this for as many as you like. You should see the + icon replaced with the icon for the app you have selected.
 Once you have completed your selection, you will want to test and make sure that you have the number of apps that you would like and that they display properly. You may need to remove some of the apps you have added to your list. To test and see how everything looks, go ahead and press and hold the Windows key on your keyboard, and then hit L. This will take you to your lock screen, where you will be able to see your Quick Status apps.


You will need to enter your password again to log into your account.
 If you have found that you would like to remove some of the apps that you have added to your Quick Status list, you can easily remove them. Simply go back to the Lock Screen settings (Start>>Settings>>Personalization>>Lock Screen). Scroll down to the bottom, and click the icon of the app you would like to remove. From the pop-up menu select either “None” at the top of the list, or the app you would like to take its place.
 It can be easy to just select some apps and just leave them there, but remember that things change over time. You will no doubt download more apps, so make sure to check your Quick Status from time to time. That way you may just find that an app you use more often, like Crackle for example, would fit better in the Quick Status. In order to check this, when you click the + icon, or current app icon, you should see a list of available apps. Select the new app by single-clicking it from the list, and there you go! Enjoy your new Quick Status apps!

