 You have probably received a letter from a trademark holder accusing you of selling counterfeit goods. You should not ignore this letter.If you ignore the letter, then the trademark holder can go to court and get a default judgment against you.;
, You might be reeling after receiving a letter that accuses you of breaking the law and demands money as compensation. However, once your head has cleared, you should sit down with the letter and a highlighter. Pick out the most important facts:


What goods has the trademark holder identified as counterfeit?
When were they sold? Has the trademark holder identified specific dates the goods were sold?
Is a buyer identified?
How many counterfeit items has the trademark holder identified? Is there a specific number or a blanket statement like “you are selling counterfeit goods”?

, The cease and desist letter will probably include a number for you to call. You should hold off on calling until you have spoken with a lawyer.


The number probably belongs to a law firm. Remember that anything you say can be used against you later in court. Accordingly, if you call the law firm you could make damaging admissions.Try not to panic. If the trademark holder files a lawsuit, you will be notified. The fact that you have received a cease and desist letter and not a court summons means you have some time to pull a defense together.
 You should go through your paperwork and try to figure out if you knew that you were infringing on the trademark.


If you intentionally infringed, then it would not be unusual if you were sued for over a million dollars. You may even face criminal prosecution.However, if you were an innocent infringer, then the trademark holder often can’t get much in money damages from you.
Look for the sketches that you made for the products that you manufacture. Also check your communications, such as email. If you sent an email to someone acknowledging that your goods look like the trademarked goods, then there is some proof that you were aware of possible infringement.
 Building a strong defense will require expert legal help. You should schedule a consultation with a trademark attorney as soon as possible.To find an attorney, you should visit your local or state bar association, which should be able to refer you to a lawyer.
When you meet for your initial consultation, the lawyer will want to know the background of the case. Be honest. If you intentionally counterfeited goods, then your lawyer needs to know that so that she can plan the best defense possible.
 Once someone accuses you of selling counterfeit goods, your best course of action is to immediately stop selling the goods until you resolve the dispute. If you can continue to sell them, then the amount of money you might have to pay will only increase.


If you manufacture goods, then tell your clients that you won’t be selling the goods anymore.
If you sell goods in a store or on your website, then remove them. Tell the suppliers that you can’t sell the product until you resolve the legal issues. Chances are the supplier has received a cease and desist letter as well.
 The cease and desist letter should contain a demand for money.


Analyze the strength of your case. If there is no infringement, then you might want to negotiate further with the trademark holder. Also, if you infringed innocently, you might want to continue to negotiate.However, if you intentionally infringed, then you should abandon all sales of the product and work aggressively to settle the dispute.
 Your lawyer should prepare extensively for settlement negotiations. Proper preparation will require that you and your lawyer discuss the following:


Your aims. What do you hope negotiation will accomplish?Do you want to prevent a lawsuit? Pay no money? Continue to be able to sell the goods because you truly believe that they are not infringing on the trademark holder’s rights?
Your walkaway point. This point is what you absolutely must have in order to settle. It is not your ideal result, but the maximum you are willing to give up.
The other side’s goals. You should try to look at the negotiation from the side of the other party. What are its interests? Are there low cost ways to work around the disagreement?, If you can reach an agreement with the trademark holder, then you should get that agreement in writing. A settlement agreement is a contract and it binds you to the agreement.


In the typical agreement, you will agree to either pay the trademark holder money or stop selling the goods (or both). In return, the trademark holder agrees not to sue you for past violations.
Make sure that the settlement agreement contains a release provision. This provision will release you from any liability related to the infringement. After your lawyer drafts the agreement, review it yourself. A typical release provision will contain language similar to the following:“Trademark Holder, on behalf of itself and its successors, agents, attorneys, assignees, representatives, affiliates and any other entity acting on its behalf, releases and its representatives, affiliates, agents, attorneys, successors, assignees, and any other entity or person acting on its behalf, from any and all claims, debts, expenses, demands, damages and liabilities, of all kind, whether known or unknown, that is ever had, now has, or may in the future have, for its past use of the trademark and any similar tradenames or trademarks.”



, If you fail to settle the dispute, then the trademark holder can sue you in court. You will receive a copy of the complaint and the summons.


The complaint will explain the circumstances surrounding the dispute and the laws which authorize the lawsuit. The complaint will also include a request for relief. Typically, the plaintiff will sue for money damages or possibly an “injunction,” which is a legal command for you to stop doing something.
The summons should tell you how much time you have to respond to the lawsuit.Make a note of this date.
 You must respond to the complaint by filing an answer. In this document, you respond to each allegation the plaintiff made in the complaint. In particular, you must admit, deny, or claim insufficient knowledge to admit or deny each allegation.Your lawyer should draft the answer for you. Be sure to go through the answer before your lawyer files it to double-check that all of the information is accurate.
 In your answer, you can also raise any affirmative defense that applies. With an affirmative defense, you can get the lawsuit dismissed even if everything the plaintiff alleges in the complaint is true.


You can argue that the plaintiff is violating the anti-trust laws. It is illegal for the plaintiff to file lawsuits against competitors with the sole purpose of tying you up in court and ruining you financially.You also can argue that the plaintiff received the trademark through fraud.For example, if the plaintiff lied on its trademark application, then you can raise this as a defense. A plaintiff cannot sue you if it has “unclean hands,” and obtaining the trademark through fraud can prevent the plaintiff from suing.
You might also argue that the plaintiff is using its trademark to mislead its customers.This is another example of “unclean hands.” For example, if the plaintiff uses the trademark “Natural Life” to sell heavily-processed food with plenty of preservatives, then it may be misleading consumers.
Also, you can argue that the plaintiff waited too long to sue. Federal trademark law has no “statute of limitations” for trademark counterfeiting.However, you can still raise “laches” as a defense. In effect, laches is the same thing as a “statute of limitations” violation. You argue that the plaintiff waited too long to file the lawsuit and that you were prejudiced by the plaintiff’s delay.If the judge agrees, she will dismiss the lawsuit.
 Once your lawyer has completed the answer (and you have reviewed it), then your lawyer will file the answer in court. You should ask your attorney for a copy of the filed answer.


Your lawyer then needs to send a copy of the answer to the plaintiff’s attorney., After you respond to the complaint, the lawsuit will enter a fact-finding phase called “discovery.” The purpose of discovery is for each party to get information from the other side so that there are no surprises at trial. As part of discovery, you might have to answer questions put to you face-to-face by the plaintiff’s lawyer under oath. This is called a deposition.Your deposition will focus on what you knew when you sold the allegedly counterfeit goods. Specifically, the plaintiff will try to get evidence that you knowingly infringed its trademark.
Accordingly, you can expect to asked about any trademark search that you performed.
You will probably also be asked if anyone ever mentioned that your goods look like the plaintiff’s. If they did, then the lawyer will want to know what actions you took to make sure you were not violating the law. For example, did you visit an attorney?

, A trademark trial will probably be held in federal court. The trial will consist of jury selection, opening and closing statements, along with the presentation of witnesses. You should let your lawyer handle the day-to-day aspects of trial.


If you don’t have a lawyer, then you should think about hiring one just to represent you at trial. In most states, lawyers can offer “limited scope representation.” This means the lawyer will only handle whatever parts of the lawsuit you give her. For example, you could handle all of the pretrial tasks but hire a lawyer to represent you at trial.Because you will be at a severe disadvantage at trial if you do not have a lawyer, you should seriously consider hiring one to represent you.
 You will probably have to testify. To prepare, you should go over your testimony with your lawyer. Remember the following tips for being an effective witness:Listen carefully to the questions and make sure that you understand them before answering. If you are unsure of a question, then ask the lawyer to repeat it or to phrase it differently.
Always answer in full words. Don’t shrug or gesture. Also don’t say “uh huh” or “hmmm.” Instead, use words.
Avoid arguing with a lawyer. Instead, try to stay as calm and as still as possible. If a question is inappropriate, then your lawyer will object.
Tell the truth. If you lie, then you commit perjury.
 Your best defense at trial might be that you were an innocent infringer. If you get goods from a supplier to sell in your store, then you might not have known that they were counterfeit.


This defense might not work in every situation. For example, if you purchase goods with a Nike “swoosh” on them, then you should know that the goods are counterfeit (especially when you don’t buy them from Nike). However, if the trademark is less well-known, then you might be able to claim that you didn’t know the goods were counterfeit because you are not familiar with the original product.
If you manufacture counterfeit goods, then it will be harder to claim that you are an innocent infringer. Today, you can search for trademarks online in only a few minutes. The jury might not believe that you are an innocent infringer if you didn’t bother to do a search before using the trademark on your goods.
 If you lose at trial, then you might want to file an appeal. You should discuss whether to file an appeal with your lawyer. Appeals can take quite a long time (over a year) and are expensive.


To decide whether to bring an appeal, discuss the strength of your case. You can appeal if the judge made a mistake or if there is no conceivable basis for the jury to have decided against you.
If you want to appeal, then you will need to file a Notice of Appeal form with the court. You don’t have much time. Typically, you have only 30 days from the date final judgment is entered against you, although it could be less if you were sued in state court.