 If your house has one, use your fireplace! Rearrange the furniture to make the hearth the centerpiece of that room. Make a blazing fire a daily, nightly, or weekly ritual with your loved ones.If your fireplace is inoperable, stack some bright firewood in the rack anyway to suggest the idea of a nice warm fire.
 Whether or not you have a fireplace, light candles to add the flickering glow of flames to your home. Choose candlesticks or holders that enhance the winter theme either by color, design, or both. Enhance the effect by burning scented candles that fill the house with pleasing smells that highlight the season.Gold or brass candlesticks provide warm colors and reflective surfaces, enhancing the light and suggestion of warmth.
Mugs, bowls, and jars filled with readymade candles and decorated with seasonal designs are also widely available.Popular scents for winter include cinnamon, cloves, oranges, pine cones, and various types of wood.
Alternatively, you can also use LED candles if you’re worried about fire risks or forbidden to use candles.
 Drape throw blankets over the backs of your couches and armchairs. Arrange throw pillows in the corners of each one, too. If you have an accent chair, pile extras on the seat so family, roommates, and guests can help themselves as needed. Don’t be mingy with them; the more, the better!Choose neutral-colored throw pillows and blankets to use year-round. This way, you can easily dress up each seating area with just a couple of new winter-themed blankets and/or pillows.
 Make an instant dramatic change to your home by hanging curtains selected especially for winter. Choose whichever color or design highlights the season best for your tastes, but favor thick, heavy fabrics to suggest more warmth and protection from the cold outside.For the best insulation, choose thermal curtains, which are designed to prevent heat from escaping while also blocking drafts from the windows.If you miss the sunlight in winter and still want to let it in without keeping the drapes shut all day, you can also find thermal-backed vertical blinds that allow more light to pass through with minimal heat loss.

