 The more you and your spouse can agree upon, including debt and asset division, child custody, and support, the lower the cost of your divorce.


If you can agree on every issue, you may be able to get a divorce with an agreed settlement for just the cost of the Court’s filing fee by preparing and filing the pleadings yourself.
Check your county and/or state’s website for forms and instructions for divorcing without hiring an attorney.
You may also be able to hire an attorney at a greatly reduced cost if you do not feel comfortable preparing the documents yourself.;
, The right attorney is not always the most expense attorney. There are several things you should consider when choosing a lawyer:


Attorneys’ fees are based on their experience, expertise, and special skills. If you and your spouse agree on custody and support, a custody specialist may be money not well spent. Conversely, if custody and support are issues upon which you and your spouse disagree, an attorney who does not specialize in custody may be less expensive, but not worth the savings in the end.
If you choose an attorney from out of town, you will be charged for the time he or she spends driving to and from the Courthouse for hearings. An out of town attorney will be unlikely to already have a working relationship with your spouse’s attorney; a disadvantage when it come to negotiation.
An attorney with a reputation for being tough may sound good, but a bully might not be your best option. It costs money to go to Court, and a tough attorney is more likely to wind up there than one who can provide you with less expensive, and generally more effective, options.
 You can therefore reduce your legal fees by dealing with your lawyer in a cost saving manner.


When issues arise, attempt to settle them directly with your spouse before calling upon your attorney to negotiate for you. Attorney’s charge for time spent on the phone with you, your spouse, and your spouse’s attorney. Attempt to work things out with your spouse before turning to your attorney for help.
Do not call on your attorney to solve all of your problems. Divorce can be frustrating, and having someone you can talk to who will be on your side may be comforting, but if that someone is your attorney, it can become very expensive. Consider hiring a therapist. They are often less expensive than an attorney, and likely to be better equipped to handle your emotions.
When you must call your lawyer for assistance, talk to a paralegal if possible. Paralegals’ time is billed at a much lower rate than attorneys’, and many paralegals are able to help with most any problem with which your attorney could help.
If you have a simple question, such as when your next hearing is scheduled, or if the attorney received your e-mail, talk to a secretary. Secretary’s time is billed at a lower rate than an attorney’s or a paralegal’s, or not at all.
 If your spouse handles the finances, you may be in the dark about what you own and whom you owe.


Obtain a copy of your credit report to ensure that you are aware of all open credit accounts. You are entitled to one free report each year at http://www.annualcreditreport.com.
Hire an appraiser to appraise personal and real property if there is any dispute regarding its value.
Do some investigating to be sure that you are aware of all of your spouse’s accounts. If your spouse’s employer provides a 401(K), 403(b), or other pension plan, ask for a copy of an account statement showing the value as of your date of separation. In many states, the date of separation is the date a petition for dissolution or divorce was filed with the Court. Check with your attorney or the County Clerk for information regarding how to determine the date of separation in your state.
 Choosing your battles during a divorce can save you time, frustration, and money. Think about your assets carefully, decide which ones you really cannot live without, and do not spend time fighting over little things that do not really matter.
 Most states assume that dividing the property equally in a divorce is the fair and equitable thing to do.


If you are asking for more than half of the property, be sure that you have a legal reason or asking for more than half.
 Mediation is less expensive than going to Court, and a mediator is a neutral third party whose job is to help you and your spouse reach an agreement which is acceptable to you both. Many states require couples to attend mediation before going to Court. Check with the county clerk’s office to determine if your state requires mediation before your divorce can be granted.
 Some of the simple tasks performed by your attorney are tasks that you can do yourself, and save billable hours and administrative fees.


Make your own copies. Many attorneys charge a set fee for making copies of your documents. Making your own copies is less expensive and ensures that you retain the original document for your records.
Make your own phone calls. Many of the questions you might have for your attorney are ones that can be answered by making a phone call to someone who will not charge you for the time spent on the phone giving you the information.
Keep track of hearing dates yourself. When you are waiting to get a hearing, call the Court instead of your attorney to ask if it has been set. Your attorney will charge you for calling the Court to get the information, and then for calling you to relay it. Cutting out the middleman can save you quite a bit of money.
Keep track of Court Orders yourself. If you are waiting for an Order from the Court, call the Court instead of your attorney to find out if one has been issued. The Court will not charge you for the phone call, and will know if an Order has been issued before your attorney does.

