 Thrift stores require a lot of rummaging, which can be time-consuming and tiring. Often they smell musty or are dusty, so if you have allergies, be sure to spend only short amounts of time visiting. Also, you won't always find an item in your size. You won't always find something you like, either. If you are someone who loves to rummage, would sacrifice a half day in pursuit of a bargain and enjoys the thrill of the hunt as much as the kill, then thrift store shopping is for you! You must have perseverance, determination, patience and grit.;
, You need at least a spare hour, maybe two. Since rummaging requires energy, choose the time of day when you feel strong and energetic. Some stores are open at night or weekends. Nights are good because fewer people go then. Weekends are likely to be busier. Sales days are the busiest.
 It can help to get another opinion and you'll be less likely to leave the store with something that looks awful, or something that you don't actually like. If you're having absolutely no luck, it's good to have a friend along so you can show them all the humorously horrible things you find.
 There are two ways to shop. The first is that you have come with an object in mind, for example, a pair of jeans. So head straight to the area where the jeans are and look with that in mind alone.
 In this case, start at the beginning. It is always wise to choose one type of thing though - for example, focus on clothes rather than also trying to look at the books, china, toys and bikes etc. Unless the store is tiny, you'll wear yourself out and possibly over-buy.
 This makes it easier for you to avoid colors that you don't like and not waste extra time. If the clothes are hanging up, it is easier to spot items. Learn to look for a. color; b. texture and c. style. If they're in a heap, dig in and pull!

, This takes care of the need to pull out every item.
 Texture is really important - you should become familiar by eyesight with high quality fabrics and knits such as high quality cotton, cashmere, linen, silk, natural fabrics etc so that you focus on these. Avoid items that are all synthetic (except for serious outdoor clothing, or if you're looking for something that won't wrinkle in a suitcase) - that is probably why they're in the store in the first place. Look for classic styles which don't date easily.
 Do you really like the style overall - the arms shape, the leg flare, the neck plunge etc? Is it really your color? Will it match with clothes you already own? Also be honest with yourself about whether you would really make any alterations or repairs necessary before you would wear it -- if you're not likely to get out the sewing machine or pay a tailor, stick with items that already work!

, Do pants have a shiny seat, are beads or buttons missing? If you see these, ask yourself if are they easily reparable or are they so damaged that the rag bag would be a better place for these clothes? In general, only get items in good condition or capable of an easy repair. And never buy anything with perspiration stains - they just will not come out. Remember that buttons are not a problem - you can easily replace lost ones with better ones.
 As mentioned above, some repairs, alterations, or cleanings are relatively simple. If you are handy with a sewing machine, shortening a hemline is no big deal. If a white shirt has a stain, time to get out the bleach. A tailor can have it altered or cleaned and you will still end up being a lot less than purchasing it brand new or from a consignment store.
 Many changing areas only permit 3 items at a time (something that is a bit hard when you have a cartload of goodies!) or they are so open as to be almost immodest. A good trick is wear clothes that enable you to try the items on over the top. A good set is a leotard or swim suit with a little t-shirt and short flared skirt. Slip-on shoes are essential.
 If there is no mirror, you take the risk but given the price, it'll probably be a cheap risk!

, Sometimes items donated by the same individual of your taste and size will be close together on the rack. Maybe match some items together with the ones you already have.
 If you have coupons, be sure to use them.
 You can't be sure they're really clean. Check pockets before cleaning--you could be pleasantly surprised by forgotten money!

, Second-hand is no longer second-best; it is about sharing wants & needs with others around the world.

