 Mentally engaging conversations with lots of open-ended questions show you care. Speak off the cuff and from the heart. This will show him you trust him and that he can trust you.You can ask about his day, interests, or family. Deep conversations don’t have to be things like the meaning of life or about politics.
You can ask questions about things he's said in the past to show you remember what he says. Try saying things like, "How are your family? How is your mother's health?" or "I haven't heard you talk about gardening lately. How are your vegetables doing?" You may also say, "I saw a commercial for a tropical vacation. It made me think about you and how you want to have your big adventure vacation.";
, One great way to show your boyfriend that you love him is to listen to him. Sometimes, he will need your undivided attention as he talks about random things. These things may not mean anything to you or seem pointless, but they mean something to him. Listening to him can help you both feel connected and shows him how much you care for him.When you talk to him, make sure to make eye contact and watch him. Really listen to what he says. You may want to repeat things, ask questions, or add ideas to what he says.
Put away electronic devices so that your attention is completely focused on him.
 Guys often want to feel appreciated and masculine, which helps their self-esteem. You can help show him your love by complimenting him and praising him. Make sure your praise is genuine and not fake, which can backfire and cause problems in the relationship.Find ways to compliment and praise his manliness. For example, you can comment on something he made or did around the house, or a project he finished at work.
 Focus on building an honest, open relationship with your boyfriend. Keeping secrets and hiding things can come between you. If you’re hiding something, he might eventually find out and lose trust in you. Always be open and honest with him.Even if he doesn’t find out what you’re keeping from him, your guilty conscience could eat away at you and make you feel miserable.
 Arguments are part of a healthy relationship, but picking fights with him for no apparent reason doesn’t encourage a good relationship or show that you love him. As far as he knows, a fight could give you an excuse to leave him and meet someone else. Unfaithful partners also pick fights as a result of guilt. If you love only him, don't give him a reason to think otherwise.Learn the rules of “fair fighting.” Speak calmly without raising your voice too much. Make sure you attack issues and not him. Give him a chance to speak and listen to what he has to say. For example, if he's done something that hurts your feelings, explain why his action was wrong without calling him names.For example, you may say, "The way you treated me in that situation really hurt my feelings" instead of "You always ignore me and never want to be with me!" You can also say, "Your words were harsh and upset me" instead of "You are such a jerk! You are always mean to me!"

, This is a strong sign of honesty and loyalty. Everyone slips up, and you’re no exception. If you know you've hurt him, admit it and apologize. Afterward, don’t dwell on it or constantly revisit the subject with him. However, you should make an effort to learn from your mistake., Speak in the first-person (I, me) to show that you're honest with your feelings and thoughts. When you use “I” words, you show that you're not ashamed to associate yourself with the topic. Keeping the focus on yourself also shows him that you're not trying to blame him for anything.Try saying, "I was hurt by your actions last night," "I did not appreciate the way you spoke to me in front of your friends," or "I feel like I have been treated unfairly by you."

, Compromise is an important part of any serious relationship. It’s a way you can show him you love him. When there are things he wants to do but you aren’t interested in, you can compromise and go anyway. He’ll know you don’t really want to do it, but he’ll know you love him because of your willingness to do things for him.When you agree to do something, don’t talk about how you don’t want to be there the whole time. Instead, enjoy being with him, even if the event or activity isn’t your thing.
Make sure he compromises and does things for you, too. Compromising for each other is part of a healthy relationship.
 Just as you have have your dreams, your boyfriend has dreams. Some of these dreams may never be achievable, but everyone needs things to think about and hope for. Don’t shoot down his dreams, but encourage him. Dream with him, and maybe the two of your can come up with your own dreams together.For example, his dream may be to hike up an exotic mountain. Don’t tell him he can’t do it, or that he won’t have the money or time. Instead, say things like, “That would be so much fun!” or “You should try to save up for that adventure one day.”

