 Many toddlers who say a swear word are just trying out a new word and want to get a reaction from their parents. If you have a dramatic reaction to your child using a swear word, chances are they will do it again when they want to get your attention. The first time your child swears, try to ignore it—don’t laugh, snicker, or discipline. They want a big reaction from you, either good or bad, so don’t give them one.Swearing for most toddlers is simply an experiment to see what you’ll do. If you don’t respond, most toddlers will naturally stop swearing.;
, Again, do not react passionately to your child swearing. Instead, react neutrally. Calmly ask your child where he learned that word. Knowing where your child picked up the word can help you to limit the number of other swear words he picks up from the same place.


For example, if your child watches a certain TV show that has swear words in it, consider blocking that show on your TV.
 If your child keeps repeating the word as they wait for your reaction, distract them with a story, song, or another activity. They most often will forget about the swear word and trying to get your attention if you give them positive attention in a different way.


Put on your child’s favorite song and sing along, or change the setting by telling your child that it is time to go play outside.
 It may seem counterintuitive, but try not to discipline your toddler too much for swearing. Toddlers don’t understand what the word means and are simply doing it to get a reaction.


When you punish your child for swearing, he will remember how you respond to swearing and may do it again if he wants to get another reaction out of you.
 This isn’t to say that small forms of punishment aren’t effective if swearing becomes a long-term problem for your child. Consider putting your child in a time out whenever he swears. This is especially useful if your child is swearing out of anger, as a time out gives him time to calm down.


Most children naturally outgrow their swearing experimentation if you simply ignore their behavior. For other children it takes more rules and work. Setting rules will be covered in the next section.

