 Sterilizing before the first use is incredibly important, as it removes all the grime and germs from the packaging and from anyone who touched the bottle before you purchased it.


You should sterilize every part of the bottle, including the nipple and attachment rings.;
, You should do this while your child is very young, as her immune system will be weaker than when she is older. As your child grows, you can gradually switch to sterilizing the bottles after every few uses during the first six months of your baby’s life., Sterilizing a baby bottle isn’t effective if the bottle isn’t clean first.Always rinse and wash baby bottles with baby-safe dish soap before sterilizing them.


Be sure to wash your hands before touching a baby bottle to limit the amount of dirt and germs that touch the feeding tools.
 After your baby reaches six months of age, your baby’s immune system is stronger, and cleaning the bottle by hand with dish soap or in the dishwasher is sufficient., To sterilize by boiling, place the baby bottles and all other feeding equipment in a large saucepan and cover them with water. Cover the pot with a lid and bring the water to a boil—keep the water boiling for five minutes.


Leave the lid on as the water cools, then drain the water and store the equipment in the refrigerator until needed.
 To sterilize the bottles with baking soda, fill a large pot with water and three tablespoons of baking soda. Add the bottles and accessories to the pot. Bring the water to a boil and allow the water to boil for at least three minutes. Once the water has cooled, remove the bottles and allow them to air dry before use.


Baking soda can be incredibly useful for more worn baby bottles, or if you want an extra boost to the sterilization.
 To sterilize the bottles in the dishwasher, simply put the glass baby bottles on the top rack of the washer and put the accessories in a basket on the top rack. Run a hot rinse cycle and allow the bottles to dry completely either in the dishwasher or on the counter., Special microwave baby bottle sterilizers can be purchased at any baby store. Follow the instructions on the sterilizer’s package:


They typically require you to put a small amount of water in the bottom of the device, place the bottle inside, and microwave on high.
The steam and hot water from the microwave remove germs and bacteria from the bottle.

