 Change is a flowing constant. See that things aren't going to be the same, and getting angry at elected leaders that you are secretly or openly envious of is pointless; they are mostly good people trapped in a rotten system. While this isn't meant to be dire, understand that adjustments will have to be made, and that it's largely your attitude that will determine how they "feel".
Your attitude can either come along for the ride, or lead the way!


Recognize that you may be in a better position than many people--if you're able to read this, maybe a lot better.
If you let go of what you may hardly have anymore, anyway, it might help you to find what you can't seem to get.
See that you've probably never been starving, or otherwise near death, although it may have seemed like it for a while there, after High School...trials build character. Feel that instinctive shrinking away, just hearing that? It's that feeling that we're trying to get to.;
, People generally float along on their premises; the word is hardly ever spoken. If you have to look it up, trust that you're not alone; and yet, premises are what you run on -- your starting point; it will pay you dividends to insure that they are sound.
The truth is never shouted; it doesn't need a commercial, and it won't come as spam in your inbox.
The truth, whatever that is for you, has to be sought, and is easily drowned out by your attention to other things.Har Meggiddo is Armageddon, to you -- but if your whole concept of Armageddon was given to you by another, you might want to relieve yourself of some of those related misconceptions, too, by reading this article.
 Of course there are certainly exceptions ~ people who are more blessed than "rich"; but they have had to insulate themselves from the "aspiring rich". When you're "well off", you have a big load of worry, and no friends that you can really trust--they all want to be well off, too; and you know, not very deep down (because striving for profit keeps you on a "surface"), that they probably wouldn't mind getting well off on you.


The "rich" aren't, by and large, the consolidated "Builderbergers" you might think they are; this gives you a distinct advantage over someone who is an "aspiring rich", and probably distracted with thoughts of eating their young, etc., that don't burden you.
See that "opting out", an option promoted more by the dis-enfranchised, is really just "copping out" -- and following those who would seek to amass billions of dollars for themselves.
It might seem impossible to separate "good" from "bad" in what you hear, but it's not; just completely ignore what is being said, and look at what is being done. Talk is cheap~contrast rich people calling you from their "island", commiserating about how horrible "things" are, with (both?) rich people currently in Haiti, doing something about it.
 The saying goes, "If you want to have a friend, be a friend. Opt in to an opportunity that you might have normally passed on, even a year ago (you were so busy), for the sake of lending a helping hand; unseen benefits always seem to accrue from these. You might call back someone that offered you an opportunity to volunteer, or something, even a year ago--that might possibly be a great connection that "they" were just a little more sensitive to than you, at that moment.
Currently, your school system, local government, and local giving organizations all need assistance. Even if it seems...different, at first, not what you're used to, stick around long enough to understand why your "new friends" seem to call this the best part of their day.


If you haven't been offered any such opportunities lately, you might want to take a look at that, and recognize that opportunities to make a difference are...anywhere you look, all of a sudden.
 Escalades, motorboats, the second home? Recognize that most everything you "own", right down to your cell phone, could seem like a necessity; but much of the world has gotten along fine without most of that stuff (and had a happier life than many in "developed" countries), even if they may have been striving to be like you (in jealousy and admiration, no less).
Anyone who really matters to you should be able to get hold of you, with or without a phone; even people in other countries. Your city has busses, libraries pretty much all have internet now (at least for the time being); with computers you can get on for free, and Skype, etc. Losing the cell phone alone brings an amazing...lack of constant ringing.

1

Do many of the things you own, really own you? Don't forget to appreciate how your maintenance load is so much lighter in a month or two.
 It often works like this--it occurs to you that some unused piece of...something shiny, has just been taking up floor space for a year; sure, you should Craigslist it, maybe (but, for what? a third of it's "value"?)-- why not just commit to giving it to the next person that evinces a need for it? When you have a need later, don't be surprised when it gets as quick a response.


This is great for your mind, a "letting go" type of thing; it can be a good place to start, mentally. Encourage your kids to let go a little, too, and they may quickly take a lead, here, even if they seem reluctant, at first; kids are more naturally giving. (although this might sound untrue; they are just following their societal "training").
 you might be amazed, even stunned, at what you spend in paper products in a year! Paper towels, newspapers, coffee filters, and a whole host of other things that you spend money on right now have quite serviceable replacements; you'll come to see that many are superior.
 we'll look at these two together just because they sound alike! Get your kids, who may be completely trained out of "chores", or "helping" (is it like punishment, to them?), involved -- you may start them out slow, at first; an older kid can be put in charge of "composting", maybe (learning it and all! he's on the computer enough, probably?).


It's winter right now--which means spring is right around the corner. Get started planning a garden--a driveway sized patch of dirt will feed your family of 6, with a bunch left over for the neighbors you should be getting to know better, anyway.

A younger kid will be easier to get engaged, here; especially after some of their favorite veggie starts to pop through! Let them shop for seeds with you; they'll be more enthused than you might be. Get what you can't grow from a Co-op; they'll take your extras, too.
 All this takes is a minute or two, every time it occurs to you; little steps at a time. Is your dog happier than you are, most of the time? All of the time?. Reflect on what that means! (they get in fights, too)
A little exercise that can pay you dividends, if you take it seriously--finish this sentence: My dog is happier than me most of the time because______. Whatever you put in the blank is where your dog has the advantage of you, and only you can change this.
Get, or get rid of, whatever you put in the blank.
Don't say you can't.
 If you'll commit to this lifestyle (and you may not soon have a lot of choice here), before you know it, you'll see that you're suddenly surrounded with what matters--good food, good friends; and a more fulfilling life."If there were in the world today any large number of people who desired their own happiness more than they desired the unhappiness of others, we could have paradise in a few years". -- Bertrand Russell

