 The motor and gearing for different models might be the same and the cost difference is due to the amount of stitches the expensive machine can do.;
, Besides straight stitching, the zig-zag, double-stitch, button hole, reverse feature, and a handful of other stitches are all that is necessary. From a list of sewing projects you plan to do, sometime maybe, ask which sewing machines could do those projects. Check the stitch quality. When taking a test "drive" of the sewing machine determine the quality of the stitching by sewing the straight stitch. A good sewing machine will produce fine, even straight stitches. A poorer quality machine will have uneven or not-so-fine straight stitches.
 An economy sewing machine will have one gear and that gear will be equivalent to a third or fourth gear in a four-speed standard transmission vehicle. The sewing machine will be be erratic at the start and when it reaches a medium-high speed it will run smoothly. A standard car can be operated from the 3rd gear and will be erratic initially and after reaching a moderate speed will run smoothly.
 The machine is compact, made of a lot of plastic and light. The hand wheel will be of great assistance when starting and at lower speeds, but the light machine will be unstable when turning the hand knob (wheel).
 The hand wheel is now so small that it should be more aptly called a hand knob. Hand fatigue will be immediate when assisting the motor when doing fine work and also when sewing through many layers. A belt carrier project, for example, is an extremely demanding job in that as many as eight layers of materials have to be sewed. This is the type of job that without a large diameter hand wheel is very difficult to do and have a nice appearance. A low gear, like the 1st gear in a vehicle, would be desirable for attaching carriers to the waistband.
 The obvious things like bright lighting, concentration, the use of reading glasses and having a helper (to shift the rest of material while the machine operator sews) all help. Fine control of the sewing machine's pedal is best done without footwear, with your ankle in a comfortable angle so fatigue will not compromise the fine control necessary.


The hand knob on the sewing machine has to be used when sewing through thick fabrics or layers. A sewing machine with a big and easy to use hand wheel (like the older sewing machines) is the vital key, for sewing with a machine with high gearing, for highly visible work besides heavy-duty work.
 Jury rig the present knob to make it turn easier or somehow replace the hand knob with a hand wheel. When choosing a sewing machine, beyond the machine having certain quality, having a usable hand wheel is the most important thing to have.
 A commercial sewing machine is costly, so for occasional use in doing sewing that normally require a commercial machine, your economy machine can do it.

