 The number one cause of dried out polish is leaving the cap off of the bottle. A good general rule is to keep the cap on the bottle whenever you're not using the brush to apply polish. If you stop using one color or switch to another, don't leave it open on the counter. Take a few seconds to screw the cap back on. Remember — nail polish is made to dry quickly when it comes in contact with air whether or not it's on your nails.


Screwing the cap on tightly is important. A loose seal can let air in or lead to messy cap threads (see below).;
, Heat and light are your enemies when it comes to keeping your polish fresh. Try to store your polish somewhere out of the sun and away from sources of heat to keep the polish lasting longer.


If you have room in your refrigerator, this is a good place to keep your polish. Otherwise, keep it in a closed cabinet (rather than on the counter).
 Polish that is allowed to sit for long periods of time is more likely to start to set. To avoid this, occasionally roll the polish in your hands or turn the bottle over a few times. If you paint your nails regularly, just agitate the polish every time you use it. Otherwise, take a few seconds to agitate each bottle every two to four days,


You can also shake the bottle gently, but shaking vigorously can create bubbles which can make the polish apply unevenly the next time you use it.
 Gunky threads (the spiraling ridges on the mouth of the bottle that the cap screws on to) can affect the cap's seal and even let in air. Luckily, it's not hard to clean the threads once they get clogged with caked-on polish. See below:


Moisten a cotton ball or Q-tip with fingernail polish remover. Try to squeeze most of the remover back into the bottle — you don't need a soaking wet cotton ball.
Gently scrub the cap threads. The dried polish should start to dissolve. If necessary, re-soak your cotton ball or switch to a new one. Finish by wiping the clean cap threads with a tissue.
Try not to let nail polish remover get into the polish itself. This can affect the texture of your polish — it may even ruin the whole bottle if enough gets in.

