 Your snake needs a comfortable home in order to be happy and healthy. Make sure to clean the cage on a regular basis. You should also make sure that you get the proper size of enclosure.Small snakes, such as garter snakes, can happily live in a 10-20 gallon aquarium. King snakes will be fine in 30-55 gallon tanks.
If you are going to keep a large snake, such as a python or boa constrictor, you will need to get a custom cage. These snakes can become very large, so average pet stores do not sell cages for them.
Provide a log for the snake to hide in. A fake log will work just as well as a real one.
 Snakes, like all reptiles, must live in an environment with an optimal temperature. Snakes are not able to heat themselves the way mammals do, so you will need to provide heat sources.The best temperature depends on which type of snake you have. Corn snakes, for example, should be kept at 75-85 degrees. A ball python will enjoy basking in a spot between 88-96 degrees.
Provide more than one heat source. Consider using a heat lamp and an under the tank heating pat. You can purchase both at pet stores.
You can use a thermostat to monitor your snakes environment. Make sure all of your heating equipment remains in working order.
 Snakes are well-suited for living in captivity. It is easy to provide them with all of their nutritional needs. Most snakes live on a diet of insects and rodents.It is a good idea to feed your snake rodents that are already dead. You can buy frozen mice at most pet stores and keep them on hand. Just make sure to thaw thoroughly before feeding to your snake.
If you have a corn snake, it will happily eat every about every 10 days. If your snake doesn't eat within 10-15 minutes of being offered food, remove it. He is not interested.
A ball python will usually eat every 10-14 days. Don't worry if your snake refuses a meal or two. That is normal.
Snakes rarely drink, but it is important to keep fresh water in the cage. They need the moisture to keep their skin healthy.

