 The idea of the home kit is that it will contain a wide variety of items relevant to your daughter’s puberty experience. Because of that, the kit is going to be substantially larger than the on-the-go kit, which focuses mostly on her period. Consider anything from a shoebox size to a large packing book box. But you should alter the box to adapt it to its new use:


Make it look attractive and inviting by decorating it.
Decorate the inside, with tissue paper or other materials.
Do not write “Puberty Kit” on the box – this might cause embarrassment with friends, siblings, or family members.;
, The kit should prepare your daughter for a much wider range of puberty-related experiences than the on-the-go kit. You should include a variety of toiletries, personal hygiene items, and informational material. If you have space, also include beauty supply items or other things that might make your daughter feel less awkward or embarrassed about puberty. Try to make her feel excited about this life change.
 Go out and gather all the items you think your daughter might need. It is best to not buy too much at one time, as your daughter might wind up not liking certain brands or certain types of products. Consider a variety of products, such as different deodorants, razors, or types of pads or tampons. Include the following and more:


Bras (try training and sports bras first).
Antiperspirant deodorant.
Scented body spray.
Gentle face cleanser and an acne spot treatment that contains benzoyl peroxide.
Razors specifically made for girls or women.
Shave gel.
Pads and panty liners.
Tampons—start with "light" or "slender" and "regular" sizes.
Hand sanitizer.
A calendar to track her monthly cycle.
An informative book about menstruation.
An all about a girl's body book.
 You then need to give your daughter the kit. It is best that you do this in the context of a talk about puberty. Also try not to act embarrassed. Your daughter should feel comfortable with the kit, as it just aids her through a normal part of life. Make sure to explain the need for all of the items in the kit. Remember, this is an opportunity for you and your daughter to bond, and for you to share your life experience with her and to prepare her for the exciting time before her!

, Communication is one of the most important intangible aspects of the kit. Make sure you continually follow up with your daughter over the next weeks and months (and after, of course). Let your daughter know that she can take some time to think about the kit and get back to you if she has further questions about puberty or how to use anything in the kit.

