 The cricket bats, team uniforms and protective equipment are similar to the ones used in outdoor cricket. Just as in conventional cricket, a hard ball and a full length pitch (22 yards) is used. If necessary, a mat may be rolled out on the floor of the arena to replicate the playing conditions of an outdoor pitch. Since the game is indoors, collapsible spring-loaded stumps are used instead of regular stumps. Any sports hall of suitable size or similar shaped indoor room can serve as the playing arena.
 The side which is batting must score runs by hitting the ball while the fielding side attempts to restrict the total score and dismiss the player. Both sides get a chance to bat. The team that has the higher score at the end of the match wins. These basic rules are the same in both indoor and outdoor cricket.
 All six players in the team don’t have to bowl. There can be a maximum of ten overs of six balls in an innings. Every over takes place from the same end of the pitch which is the central strip between the wickets. One bowler can bowl a maximum of three overs. In addition to conventional methods of dismissal, a batsman can be declared out if the ball, bouncing directly off the side wall (but not touching the floor or roof), is caught.
 The rules of indoor cricket are almost identical to outdoor cricket. However, there are a few exceptions to this, most notably the means of scoring.


If you strike the ball and it straightaway hits the back wall (“boundary wall”) behind the bowler without touching the floor or any part of the wall or roof, you will score six runs. If it touches the floor but not any other wall or the roof, you get four runs.
If the ball is struck to hit one or more of the side walls, one run will be awarded, even if the ball subsequently hits the boundary wall.
If you strike the ball in such a way that it directly hits the roof, it would be immediately declared a dead ball. This means that there will be no dismissal and no runs scored on that delivery. The ball won’t be re-bowled. However, if the ball hits the roof after it hits a wall, it’s still in play.
When the batsmen complete a run physically, that is, run from one crease to the other, two runs will be scored. These two runs can be scored on top of a run for hitting a side wall but are not counted when a boundary (six or four) is hit.
After reaching a personal total of twenty-five runs, the batsman must retire. However, if the rest of the team is dismissed before ten overs are completed, the batsman is allowed to return. If five wickets are lost within ten overs, the last player will continue batting and the fifth player who was out will remain as a runner.

