 Even if you don't want to worry about trying to sell your book to the public, you might want to have it designed and printed to keep for yourself and give to your family members and other people featured in the book. Research companies that offer book designing, printing, and shipping services, and decide how many copies you'd like to order.Many companies offering these services produce books that look just as professional as those printed by traditional publishing houses.


If you don't want to pay for a publishing service, you can still create a nice copy of your book by taking it to a copy store and having it printed and bound.
 Research agents that work with autobiographies and send them a query letter with information about your book, yourself, and how you think the book should be marketed.


Start the query letter with an airtight blurb succinctly describing the highlights of the book. Situate your book in the correct genre, and describe what will make it stand out from the rest. Tell the agent why you think he or she is the right person to shop your book around to publishers.
Send sample chapters to agents who show interest.
Sign a contract with an agent you trust. Make sure to read the contract carefully and check into the agent's history before signing anything.
 If you don't want to take the time to find an agent, you can submit a letter directly to publishers and see if anyone bites. Research publishers that publishes books in the same genre. Don't send the entire manuscript right away; wait until you get a manuscript request from the publisher.


Many publishers don't accept unsolicited manuscripts or queries. Make sure you only send letters to publishers that accept them.
If a publisher decides to move forward with a book deal with you, you'll need to sign a contract and set up a schedule for editing, designing, proofreading, and finally publishing the book.
 Research online publishers that publish the books in the same genre, submit your query letter, and move forward with editing and publishing the text.

