 Depending on the kind of anti-arrhythmic drugs you take, they may do one of several things. Some medications shorten the action potential of your heart, some lengthen the action potential, and some decrease the sympathetic activity of your heart.


The action potential of the heart refers to the electrical changes that each heart cell goes through when your heart beats.Decreasing the sympathetic activity of your heart means that the medications slows your heart down so that it is not beating very fast and irregularly., If you have one of the conditions listed in the section of this article that discusses risk factors, you should talk to your doctor about treating that condition. When the condition is treated, your AF will most likely go away.


For example, if you have hyperthyroidism (an overactive thyroid), you would most likely take a dose of radioactive iodine that treats hyperthyroidism. After that, your heartbeat would go back to normal., If you want to help your heart stay healthy, it is important to eat foods that give your heart the strength is needs to keep beating away. Some of the best heart healthy foods include:


Salmon, flaxseed, oatmeal, black beans, almonds, walnuts, tuna, tofu, brown rice, blueberries, carrots, spinach, and broccoli.For more information on eating a heart healthy diet, click here.
 by your doctor. When you have been seen by a doctor and he or she has determined that you have no underlying heart issues, you should try to work out everyday to keep your heart healthy. While it can be hard to fit exercise into your schedule, it can really help your heart if you manage to exercise for at least 30 minutes everyday. Exercising helps your heart to get strong and healthy. Exercise in ways that make you happy--be it intensely gardening, rock climbing, or wind surfing. (Of course you can also walk, run, swim, or bike if you prefer activities like that instead).
 In particularly, caffeine, tobacco, and excessive amounts of alcohol can all give your heart a hard time. Quit smoking and reduce your intake of caffeine and alcohol--if not cut them out of your diet entirely.

