 Visit Facebook’s website using any web browser on your computer.;
, Use your registered email address and password to log in. The login fields are found on the upper right corner of the page. Click the “Log in” button to proceed.
 This will take you to the username creation page of Facebook.


Do this only if you don’t have a personalized URL yet. Otherwise, you will be brought to page indicating that you already have a vanity URL.
 Once you reach the page, you will be presented with some options that you can use for your username. The last option here is a free text field where you can enter your own username, if you don’t like any of the proposed ones.
 From the options, click the one you’d like. If you want to create your own username, select the last option and enter the username you want.
 Usernames are unique. You have to check for your username’s availability first before it can be yours. Click the “Check availability” button right below the options.
 If the username you’ve selected is still available, you will be informed via a message box. Click the “Confirm” button on the box to officially make it yours.


If it’s unavailable, you will be brought back to the username selection page so you can choose another one.
 You will see a confirmation page indicating your new vanity URL on Facebook. You can now share this with your friends and have them directed to your personal Facebook page.
 Open any web browser on your computer, and visit the Facebook website.
 Use your Facebook account and password to log in. The login fields are found on the upper right corner of the page. Click the “Log in” button to proceed.
 Click the down arrow on the rightmost part of the page header. This will bring down a menu. Click “Settings” from here, and you will be brought to the Settings page for your Facebook account.


The first section on the left panel of the Settings page will be the General Accounts Settings. The right side will display all settings for this section, including the Username section.
 The Username section will be expanded, showing you your current username in an editable text field.
 Your username can only be changed once, so this is your last chance to do so. You’ll be stuck with what you enter here for the rest of your Facebook life.
 As you enter your new username, Facebook will automatically check for its availability. If it’s unavailable or doesn’t meet the requirements, an error message will appear right beside the text field.


You will see a message “Username is available” when you’ve entered something acceptable and available.
 Your new username will be saved.

