 If you had an account at a credit union or bank which became insolvent, you might be owed money. You might also be owed money if your account was determined to be abandoned.


An abandoned bank account is defined as an account that has had no activity or communication for a year. Communication includes making a deposit, withdrawal or checking the account balance.
If a bank owes you money, check with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). The (FDIC) receives money from failed financial institutions, and if current addresses are not on file or dividend checks are uncashed, they hold the funds for the owner.Search their institution list at https://www.fdic.gov/bank/individual/failed/unclaimed_property_states.html.
If you believe a credit union owes you money, check with the National Credit Union Association (NCUA). The NCUA regularly publishes lists of individuals with unclaimed funds on its website, https://www.ncua.gov/services/Pages/asset-management/unclaimed-deposits.aspx.
 If you are owed money from a client or customer, your best option might be let someone else find your money for you. Debt collection agencies, lawyers, and companies which buy your debt are all options for someone trying to find money owed to them. Debt collection agencies and lawyers might ask for some money up front in addition to taking a cut of whatever the collected total is.You will need to provide as much info as you can to the professional assisting you. The debtor’s credit card, financial, and personal information will be required. If you have data on their known aliases, acquaintances, or former addresses, this could also be of use.Be sure to understand the terms and conditions of the debt collector’s service. Ask what their fees and associated charges are.
Older debts often require bigger fees to pursue collection, since they are harder to collect.
Search the Better Business Bureau site (https://www.bbb.org) to locate a reputable collection agency in your area.
 Children or other heirs could be unaware that their loved one left behind monetary holdings. These holdings are transferred automatically to state treasuries after a certain amount of time, but are still recoverable if a family member wishes to claim them.Online databases such as unclaimed.org can be used to find unclaimed money for a deceased person.
In addition to proving your identity and relation to your heir, you will need to know the deceased’s past addresses and Social Security number.
 Confront individuals who owe you money and insist on immediate or timely repayment. Write a letter or contact them by phone or email. If the debtor refuses or fails to pay, threaten to sue and follow through on the threat.


Use clear, forceful language to insist you expect full and timely repayment of your money.
If you cannot locate the person who owes you money, inquire as to their whereabouts among his or her friends and acquaintances.
Use debt collection agencies to pursue evasive debtors.
Small claims suits can be filed in most states and municipalities for debts of up to $5,000, with some states allowing suit for sums of up to $10,000. A judgement in your favor could allow you to extract money from the debtor’s business or paycheck.Where possible, avoid confronting individuals who owe you money in person.
 If you recently lost a loved one, they may have had a life insurance policy which named you the beneficiary. But unlike federal home loans, tax refunds, and treasury monies, there is no central database to locate life insurance money owed to a beneficiary (death benefits). However, there are several ways to learn if you are owed death benefits.Contact the deceased’s insurance agent to see if they ever took out a life insurance policy.
If you don’t have the policy details but know which company the deceased held a policy with, contact that company directly.
Search your loved one’s credit card receipts and cancelled checks to see if any were issued to life insurance companies.
There are several companies which search for unclaimed life insurance policies for you, but you will be asked to pay a fee.
If you purchased life insurance from a company which eventually went bankrupt, contact your state’s insurance department using the National Association of Insurance Commissioner’s list.They should be able to identify if the company was purchased by another company, which you could then contact to obtain a refund., Since many people change jobs or retirement plans during the course of their working life, they often leave behind savings meant to go into their retirement funds. You may be able to find money owed to you from pensions, 401(k)s, IRAs, or other retirement accounts.


Various companies offering 401(k) plans founded the National Registry of Unclaimed Retirements Benefits to connect former employees with their retirement funds. Search their database online at https://www.unclaimedretirementbenefits.com/. Searching is free and requires only a Social Security Number.
The Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA) also helps retirees receive the money they are owed. EBSA is a branch of the Department of Labor designed to help people get the pension money they are owed.Find your local EBSA offices at http://www.dol.gov/ebsa/aboutebsa/org_chart.html#section13 to get in touch with someone to help you.

