 The forms for changing the name of a minor child who is under the age of 18 are basically the same as they are for changing the name of an adult. The New Jersey Administrative Office of the Courts has prepared forms for unrepresented persons to file with the court and request a name change for a minor child. You can access those forms on the state website.
 All of the same forms required for an adult’s name change must be filed for a minor’s name change. You also must pay the $250.00 filing fee, just as if you were seeking a name change for a minor.
 You must publish notice of the pending name change complaint for a minor in the newspaper, just as you would do for an adult seeking a name change. The newspaper must publish the notice at least 20 days before the scheduled hearing. You will receive an affidavit of publication from the newspaper following publication, which you must file with the court.
 If the petition is not being filed jointly by both parents and the parents do not reside together, the child’s other parent is entitled to notice of the name change petition. You must send a copy of the Verified Complaint and Order Fixing Date of Hearing, after you have received them back from the court, to the other parent at least 20 days before the hearing.


These documents must be sent to the child’s other parent by regular mail and by certified mail, return receipt requested.
 Just as if an adult were seeking a name change, if a minor has pending criminal charges, or has ever been convicted of a crime, notice must be given of the name change petition to the law enforcement agency who filed the charges.
 If the other parent objects to the name change, the court will hear evidence related to the complaint and any objection filed by the other parent at the scheduled hearing.
 The judge will take any evidence in support of your complaint, as well as any evidence presented by the other parent, particularly if he or she is opposing your complaint. The judge then will make a decision about whether changing the child’s name is in his or her best interest.
 Assuming that the court grants the requested name change, you must publish the Final Judgment in the newspaper no later than 20 days after the court issues the judgment. This step gives notice that your minor child’s name has changed.
 You can take a certified copy of your final judgment to your local Social Security Administration office in order to request a new social security card for your child. The new card will contain the child’s new name.

