 It’s a great idea for you to tell some of your friends about your bipolar depression. They can provide you support and encouragement. But you don’t have to tell everyone you know or even all of your friends. Before you tell your friends about your bipolar depression think about who will be supportive of you.Make a list of your friends. The list doesn’t have to include everyone you know, but should include anyone you are considering telling.
Think about how close you are with each friend. You may not want to tell people who are acquaintances. For example, you probably want to tell your best friend of five years. You may not want to tell the guy on Facebook who friended you three months ago. Similarly, you might not want to share this with someone who might make fun of you or use it against you.
Ask yourself whether each friend is generally understanding and supportive. Consider telling friends that have been there for you in general. You may even consider telling a group of your friends at the same time.
Consider the person’s role in your life. For example, are they also your coworker, boss, or professional colleague? You may still be able to share with this person, but you may want to consider the potential implications of sharing with them.;
, There is no absolute right or wrong time to tell people about your bipolar depression.If you knew about your bipolar depression before you knew these friends, then decide when in the friendship you will tell them. Deciding when in the friendship you will bring it up will make it easier for you to do so.


You don’t need to tell your new friends the first time you guys meet. You do want to have this conversation before you start calling each other BFFs, though.
Think about what criteria the friendship must meet before you tell them. A length of time? Level of trust? Evidence of good character?

, If this is a friend that you have had for a while and you were recently diagnosed with bipolar depression, you still need to decide when to tell them. It’s generally better to tell the people close to you sooner rather than later.However, make sure that you give yourself sufficient time to process the information and learn about your condition before you tell people.


This gives them more opportunity to support you and for you to be honest with them.
Think about when you will have enough time to talk without interruptions. For example, you might determine it’s better to talk about it over the weekend when you both have free time.
 Planning how you will tell your friends will help you in several ways. It will boost your confidence and give you the chance to choose the right words. It will also help you include everything you want your friends to know about your bipolar depression when you tell them.


Write down the main points you want to make when you tell your friends. For example, you might write, “I want them to know that I have bipolar depression, how it affects me, and how they can help.”
Then think about and write down how you will tell them each point. For instance, you might write, “I can use the example of a roller coaster to describe my emotions.”

, Even though you have planned what you will say, it’s also a good idea to practice saying it. It’s one thing to think about it or write it down, it’s another thing to actually say the words. It will be much easier for you to tell your friends about your bipolar depression if you’ve gone over what you want to say already.In the days leading up to telling your friends, visualize this conversation going well from start to finish. Visualize them being supportive and understanding. You cannot control their response, but this will help calm your nerves and give you an idea of how you deserve to be treated.
Stand in front of a mirror and practice telling them. For example, you could look in the mirror and say, “Guys, I want to talk to you about bipolar depression. It’s something I have.”
Notice how you look and feel when you say the words. Does your forehead look tense or do you look relaxed? Do you feel nervous or calm? Practice what you will say to your friends until you look and feel calm saying it.
If possible ask a family member or friend that already knows about your bipolar depression to role play with you.

