 The things discussed above come first - relationships, studies, and extracurricular activities. A job is not worth sacrificing any of those aspects of your teen years, and it is very hard to juggle a lot of different responsibilities with a job. On the other hand, if you feel you can manage to fit in a part-time job with your other activities, getting a job will help show your parents that you are responsible, and can give you money to save or buy things that your parents can't spare the money for. Some common teenage jobs include:



Babysitting. If you have little siblings, you can babysit them. If not, set signs over houses where anybody under 12 lives. You can usually make pretty good money babysitting, and this is a good weekend job that still lets you study or call friends on the phone once the children have gone to bed.







Pet sitting. If you don't feel comfortable being responsible for another person, a pet might be a way to start. Talk to your neighbors and family friends with pets, and let them know that you'd be happy to watch the pets when they go on vacation. The beauty of this job is that it will usually be periodic rather than every day. If you live in the country, don't forget that farmer neighbors might jump at the opportunity of the chance to take a little time off for a break knowing you're caring for their farm and animals.







Tutoring. If there's a subject that you excel at, you can make money teaching it to others. Post signs around town with your contact information, talk to your friends and their younger siblings or ask your old teacher(s) if s/he can recommend you to parents of struggling children.







Being a camp counselor. Contact the YMCA or the director of your favorite childhood summer camp and ask when they hire camp counselor and if you can apply. Usually, people start hiring for the next summer from around January to March or April, depending on the size of the camp.







If you can legally get a work permit, apply for jobs at a local business. Look into being a restaurant host/hostess, working in retail, or helping to coach a sport.







