 It's a good idea to learn about Bollywood before you begin on your path to become a singer. While Bollywood started in India, Bollywood is now incredibly popular in Britain and growing in popularity in the United States. Large US film companies, like Twentieth Century Fox, have begun setting up offices in India.A lot of films are produced by the Bollywood industry. The turnaround for film production is faster than in the United States, so you can expect to work a lot of long days as Bollywood singer.
Familiarize yourself with films starring some of the icons of the genre. Watch films that star actors like Arjun Rampal, Amitabh Bhachan, and Salman Khan.
One major downside to Bollywood is that you may not make as much money as a Bollywood star as you would in the US film industry. Piracy is a major problem in Bollywood, so even popular films end up making less money.;
, In addition to knowing how to sing, you will need to know how to act. Many Bollywood films tell stories via song, so the ability to play a character is vital. In high school, get involved in drama. This can help prep you for a career in Bollywood.Join your school's drama club, if you have one. You can also take any drama or film classes your school offers.
Try out for roles in the school play, especially if your school is putting on a musical. Acting in a musical can teach you how to sing and act simultaneously, which will be vital for your role as a Bollywood singer.
 Outside of school, look for other acting opportunities. Acting, like all forms of art and crafts, requires years of experience. The more experience you have acting, the better your chance of making it professionally.Join a local theater troupe. Many big stars got their start working in local theater.
If there are any plays or musicals being put on by local theater companies, audition. Getting a role, even in a small production, can help you develop your acting skills.
 Even if you're naturally talented, singing requires a certain level of technical skill. If you want to sing professionally, you have to develop a certain amount of expertise regarding singing. Look for a tutor to give your voice lessons. This can help improve your pitch, tone, and delivery.You can browse the yellow pages or look online for tutors in your area. If you know other people who sing, ask them about where they take voice lessons.
If voice lessons are out of your budget, there are free singing tutorials online. While they may not be as good as one-on-one tutoring, you can still learn a bit about the craft of singing from such tutorials.
You also may be able to find a tutor online, if you can't find a tutor in your area. You can use something like Skype to talk to a tutor through your laptop, and he or she can help evaluate your singing and progress.
 Many big singers got their start performing locally. If you want to eventually sing professionally in Bollywood, work on developing a local following. Not only will support help you cope emotionally as you work towards your dreams, you will gain valuable experience performing for an audience.Sign up for local talent shows, fairs, and other events in which people perform.
You can also try hosting your own shows. Try running an open mic night at a local establishment and play your songs during the course of the evening.
 Higher education may be helpful to your Bollywood career. Certain Bollywood stars have gone to college, and many singers and actors study the craft at a university. While college is not necessary to become a Bollywood star, spend some time considering whether it's right for you.You can try getting a degree in something like music, acting, or something else related to the arts. Getting into arts programs can be competitive, so keep this in mind when applying. There is no guarantee you will get into your chosen school.
A degree may help improve your skills. However, it can also be time consuming and costly. Art degrees, especially for private schools, can be incredibly expensive.
 A good way to build yourself up as a singer is making use of the Internet. Websites like YouTube can allow you to upload content of yourself and your singing. Many popular singers got their start with online content, and having a strong online following can really help set you apart during auditions. You can also potentially attract the attention of talent agents.You can create a YouTube account, and also maintain something like a personal website or blog. Upload videos of yourself singing. You can also upload any videos you have of yourself performing at talent shows, open mic nights, and elsewhere.
Try to incorporate your personality into your brand. Having a big personality in addition to talent can help. Try adding your sense of humor to your posts, tweets, and videos. This may help you gain followers.
 Usually, auditions take place in person. As Bollywood is primarily set in India, most of the time films are shot at locations in India.It may be necessary to make a move to India if you're serious about your career. While Bollywood is gaining some following in the United States, it's still primarily centered in India.It can be complicated to move to another country, so make sure you're serious about your career path before doing so. You will need to learn things like the language in India. While English is prevalent, about 30% of the population speaks Hindi, so some classes may be necessary.
Searching for a job after entering the country can be challenging. Salaries can be lower in India than in the United States, so make sure you're willing to live on less money.
You will also need a visa, and regulations for receiving one vary. If you move to India for something like school, a student visa can help. Consider studying at a college in India as a way into the country to pursue your dreams. You may also need to have a job to maintain a visa, so make sure you have work lined up before making the move, or have a solid plan to find work.
 When you feel ready, look for auditions for Bollywood films. You will have to go through several auditions in order to gain a part in a Bollywood film.You can find auditions online on sites like Dubai Auditions. You can also consider getting involved in the industry itself. Taking a small role as a something like a set assistant may help you hear insider tips about upcoming auditions.
 If you end up landing an audition, take some time to prepare. You want to go into the audition ready to impress the directors.Choose a song you know you can sing well under any circumstances. Pick a song you know by heart, have sung many times before, and that gives a sense of your personality.
Know a bit about what you're auditioning for. If you have a script, or a portion of a script, read it carefully prior to the audition.
Rehearse. In the days leading up to the audition, rehearse every day. Solid practice can increase your chance of getting the role.
 When the audition comes, take steps to wow the directors. Go into the room and give it your all. With luck, you'll impress a director enough to gain a role in a musical.Follow any instructions regarding attire. You usually do not need to dress as a character, but pick an outfit that seems appropriate. You should also be sure to bring in any materials asked for in the call for auditions, such as a headshot.
Be friendly when answering questions, and provide answers that showcase your personality. An actor or singer with a lot of personality can sell more tickets.
Take deep breaths in through your nose and out through your mouth. You should also drink water prior to the audition, as this can keep your voice from drying out. While a warm drink can be soothing, avoid coffee or anything else that contains caffeine.
 Remember, failure is part of the process. If you truly want to be a Bollywood singer, stick with it. Eventually, you may be cast in a Bollywood film.Most creative people faced setbacks early on in their life. Actors and singers have histories ripe with rejection. Keep this in mind when you face setbacks along the road.
 Being in a creative field is difficult. Support is vital to your success. Make sure to surround yourself with friends and family members that support your dreams.Seek out friends that build you up and not down. Friends who are jealous, or who put you down, are not worth your time.
Stay in touch with positive people. People who encourage you are important to have around as you continue down a creative path.
 It's okay to be upset if you are rejected. In the aftermath of a rejection, practice some basic self care. This will help you heal.Do something nice for yourself. Go for a walk, watch a movie, or relax and read a book.
Remind yourself it is normal to feel bad. However, you have to pick yourself up and continue on the path towards your dreams tomorrow.
 Sometimes, knowing the likelihood of success can help lessen the blow of rejection. Prior to going in for an audition, try to figure out how many people are trying out. If you know your chances of getting cast are unlikely, it'll be easier to take the audition with a grain of salt.Also, if you're relaxed going into the audition, you may do better. This can increase your chance of getting cast.
 There are many reasons why a director may not cast you. There are probably many talented people auditioning for the same role. You also simply may not fit the needs in terms of your specific vocal range or singing style. Rejection is usually not a reflection of your talent or your value as a person.