 When a dog has a weak heart, exercise can add extra pressure to his condition. Heart failure can lead to difficulty with blood circulation, meaning that your dog’s vital organs do not get enough oxygen. If your dog has heart failure, he should not be allowed to exercise heavily, though he can still wander around the yard. Forgo taking him on walks for peaceful hours petting him or letting him lounge. To help your dog rest:


Cut out activities that can put extra strain on his heart. Move his water and food bowls closer to where he spends most of his time. Keep him from walking up and down stairs unless absolutely necessary.
Making small changes like carrying him up flights of stairs rather than making him walk can help to make his life more comfortable.;
, Sodium chloride, more commonly known as salt, causes fluid retention. A high salt diet can slow down blood circulation and cause fluid to collect in pockets of your dog’s body.


Look for salt-free or low-sodium dog foods., Some dogs become stressed at the vet's office, which leads to the vet getting an inaccurate reading of how rapidly your dog’s heart is beating. Because of this, it is helpful to count your dog’s heart rate at home, when he is asleep.To do this:


Place your fingers on your dog’s heart and count how many times it beats in a minute. Likewise, counting his resting respiratory rate can give your veterinarian useful information.
 Because the heart deteriorates over time, it is important that you dog gets regular checkups to do everything that you can to make his lifelong and comfortable.


If your dog’s symptoms seem stable (as in they are not getting worse), you can schedule an appointment with your vet for every three months.
If your dog’s condition appears to be getting worse, you should contact your vet right away to set up an appointment.
 Heart failure in dogs is generally associated with fluid buildup around the lungs or in the abdomen. When this fluid build up happens, it can lead to symptoms that you should look out for if you are concerned that your dog may develop, or has developed heart failure.These symptoms can include:


Rapid breathing.
Excessive coughing.
Collapsing with exercise.
Lack of energy.
Panting after very slight activity.
Weight loss and lack of interest in food.
Rapid heart beat.
 When your dog begins to show symptoms like those listed in Step 1 of this section, it is likely that the vet will start your dog on a medical regimen that includes diuretics, and ACE inhibitor, and a positive inotrope.


Diuretics that you can give your dog will be covered in Method 2, while ACE inhibitors and positive inotropes will be discussed in Method 3.

