 Guests like it when they feel their server is approachable. Smiles are also contagious, putting your customers in a good mood and increasing your tips.;
, If you sound bored or like you hate your job, they aren't likely to tip you very much. Let your guests know you will take care of their needs.
 People will sometimes ask how a specific dish tastes or what you recommend, so prepare yourself to answer these questions. You also need to know what ingredients are in each dish, as people do have food allergies and special requests. Saving a vegan from a dish made with chicken stock will boost your tip.
 Take the drink order, go get the drinks and come back after allowing the guests to look over the menu for a minute. Also bring out any complementary starters your restaurants serves, like bread or chips.
 If a customer orders an appetizer, that needs to come out first; don't bring the salads until they are done or almost done with their appetizer. Likewise, don't bring out the entrees right after bringing out the salads. Proper spacing between meals will make the guest more comfortable; rushing him will reduce your tip. If you need to, wait to send the entrée order to the kitchen to allow for the proper timing.
 After you serve the entrée, check back within two minutes to see if everything is cooked properly and if they need anything else, like condiments or napkins. Stay within a close radius so you can see if they ever start looking around like they need something. Always refill drinks as soon as they start getting low.
 In many cases, customers won't order dessert unless specifically asked; the high dollar value of desserts will add to the ticket and boost your tip. If they say no, offer to put it in a to-go box for them, but don't be pushy.
 This is called pre-bussing, and doing this will give the guests more room to spread out, which puts them at ease. Too many dishes makes the table feel cluttered and frustrates the guests. Wait to clear all of entrée dishes once everyone has finished. Clearing one or a few dishes but not all can often make guests who eat more slowly feel rushed or uncomfortable. This is never done at a fine dining establishment.
 Sometimes, people are willing to pay the high prices for dining out assuming they'll have leftovers for lunch the next day.
 While you may have to clean your section before you can clock out, you don't want to do it at the expense of your final tips.

