 Go to SMS GupShup and click on "Sign Up" in the top right hand corner of the screen.


Alternatively, click on "Explore" and you will be taken to a page where you can continue joining from. If you follow this route, click on "Get started" and you will be taken to the joining page.





;
, Here you will need to add in the SMS verification code.
, You will be asked for your username, name, email address, and agree to the terms and conditions.
 Once your verification code has been approved, You can log in to your account and you will be taken to your profile page, where you can fill in your details.






Ensure that you create a nickname that makes it easy for your group members to identify you.
 By creating a group, you can stay connected with friends, family, and work colleagues. Having your own SMS group is an important part of using SMS GupShup because it lets you post messages on the website or send SMS using the short code provided by the site to your group (via SMS).
 Browse all of the Groups on GupShup by clicking on the "Groups" tab located in the top navigation bar. You can join groups that consist of friends of friends, that represent causes you care about, or that just seem like fun.
 You can use GupShup via mobile phones (the most popular method), and/or from the website, whatever you prefer. Some of the things you can do include:





Send SMS texts to your friends via GupShup. Any friend who has an Indian mobile number can receive your SMS messages. Tell your friends how you're feeling, what you're doing, etc.
Send SMS greetings. These are already in a prepared form to make it easier to send and reflect special events, festivals, etc.
Start messages about a cause, an interest, something you want to share with lots of other people and ask them to pass the message on through their networks. You can share information about stock tips, upcoming parties, answers to an assignment, etc.
 It's important that you don't overwhelm or hassle your group members. Things to keep in mind include:






Don't overdo your messaging. Sometimes less frequent but important/useful/funny messaging is better than lots of messaging that wears out your friends' interest!
Avoid messaging after bedtime, or before 7am or after 10pm.
Avoid sending random invites to a collection of phone numbers.
Think privacy and don't spread the personal information of others within the group unless you have permission to do so.
Be kind, thoughtful and keep in mind how you'd like others to treat you when messaging about you.

