 You should visit the Cox & Kings Global Services (CKGS) website to obtain a visa.The website address is https://www.in.ckgs.us/.
 You should gather the following information before sitting down to apply for the visa:your passport number, date of issue, and expiration date
any previous India visa that you have received
details of all countries you have visited in the past six months
your current citizenship
information about your proposed itinerary, including all cities or places you will visit, in order of your planned visit
reference contacts

, At the website, you will answer a series of questions. CKGS requests this information to help you understand if you are eligible for a visa. Also, the information will be auto-filled into the applicable forms.
 At the results page, you will get your results as to whether you qualify for a visa and which kind you should apply for. You should also receive the following information:a documents checklist
your fees
the processing time
a temporary number
a sample of how to fill out the Indian government’s form (which you should print)

, You should be directed to the Indian government’s website, where you will fill out the government’s application. Use the sample provided by CKGS to help you complete the online visa application.Make sure to fill in the correct jurisdiction. The CKGS sample should identify this information for you.
 Print on white, non-glossy paper using a laser printer.Also note the new web reference number that you will receive. You will use this number to track your application’s status.
 You must include a photograph on your visa form. Your photograph should meet the following specifications:cannot be the same photograph that is in your passport
must have been taken within the past six months
be two inches by two inches
be a color photograph
should be an original photograph (and not a scan)
should show your entire face, in frontal view, against a white background
do not wear hats or other headgear unless you wear them for religious reasons
if you wear glasses or a hearing aid, then make sure you are wearing them in the picture

, After completing and printing the visa form, you should click on the link that says “Appointment and Payment.” This will return you from the Indian government’s website to the CKGS website.You will have to complete other supplementary forms. Most of the information should be auto-filled. Provide any missing information.
Review and print the forms. Some will have to be notarized, so check before you sign them.
You should also print a copy of your document checklist.
 Gather all relevant forms, making sure that they have been properly notarized. You can either hand deliver your application to CKGS or mail it.Make sure the documents are put in the order they are listed on the document checklist.
Tick off the boxes on the checklist so that you know you have included everything.
If you choose to mail, then print off the mailing label. This will make the mailing process easier.
 If you choose to hand-deliver your application, then you should schedule an appointment. Continue online to complete the “Appointment Process” section.Pick an appointment date and time slot.
Wait for confirmation.
Appear for your appointment on the given day.
 If you are submitting an application by mail, then you should include a money order, banker’s check, or cashier’s check. If you are hand-delivering the application, then you can pay during your scheduled appointment.


Make payment to “Cox & Kings Global Services USA LLC.” Print the name.
Personal checks are not accepted. However, you can pay by credit or debit card on the CKGS website.
 If at any time you need help, then you should call CKGS at 516-206-1483. Someone is available from 9:00 am to 9:00 pm Eastern Standard Time.

