 If you are training for a specific test, it may also be beneficial to train with a partner, as studies have shown that training in tandem can encourage better fitness. Make sure your partner has a yardstick (91.44 cm ruler) and a stopwatch.;
, Take a 5 minute walk and stretch any tight muscles before beginning. You may also want to do arm circles or other warm-up exercises.
 Aerobic, or cardiovascular, fitness is the physical activity that you are capable of while your lungs are capable of supplying all the oxygen you need to complete the activity. Choose 1 of the following ways to test your cardiovascular ability on a flat track.


On the low end of the spectrum, choose a low-impact 1-mile walk. You should aim to walk 1 mile (1.6 km) within 16 minutes.
You can choose a 1.5 mile (2.4 km) jog. This should be completed within 15 minutes, although some tests will have much lower times that you have to reach, such as 10 minutes.
Do a 2-mile run. Most military tests will require a 2-mile run for entrance. Men must test between 13 and 20 minutes in order to qualify. They will receive a point score based on their time. Women must test between 15.5 and 20 minutes with point scores also allocated based on time.
 This is the test of how fast you can run 300 meters. If you will need to chase or apprehend people in your job, it will be required.


Mark a section of the track with chalk or tape at 300 meters (984 feet). Get ready at the starting line. Ask your friend to say, "Go" when the stopwatch begins. Sprint as quickly as you can. You should aim to reach between 56 and 71 seconds.
 Both standard and modified (knees-down) tests may be applicable. Place your shoes on the ground and form a plank with your body, bend your elbows back toward your body until you almost reach the ground, and then push back up to count 1 push up.


A modified push-up is usually used for testing women, who tend to test lower in upper arm strength. The knees must be far behind the body so that your back is straight from buttocks to shoulders. The elbows bend in, even with the body and you are lowered until you almost reach the ground and then raise yourself back up.
Many tests aim for a total of 25 push-ups. Point standards are given in the military for achieving between 5 and 77 for men and between 5 and 50 for women.
 Lay down on your back on a flat surface or yoga mat with your knees at a 90 degree angle. Ask your partner to place a piece of tape to indicate where your hands reach naturally as they lay by your side, and ask them to place another piece of tape 3.5 inches (8.9 cm) below that point.


Ask your partner to time how many of these curl-ups you can perform within 1 minute. You must reach the second piece of tape with each curl up. Remember to pace yourself so that you can continue for the full length of time. Record the number that you can do.
Army standards for females and males allot points for anywhere between 20 and 100 sit-ups performed in 1 minute. Other standards aim for approximately 35 or more sit-ups.
Although some organizations still require full sit-up tests, most rules have changed because full sit-ups have been found to be hard on your tailbone and back. The United States Presidential fitness test suggests using this curl-up test instead of full sit-ups. Read your organization's rules before taking the test.
 The most common way to do this is the sit-and-reach test. The following are instructions on how to complete the test:


Place a yardstick (91.44 cm ruler) on the floor. Tape it to the ground over the 15-inch (38.1 cm) mark.
Take off your shoes and sit on the floor. You should sit straight up with your feet 1 foot apart. Flex your feet and place them at the 14-inch (35.6 cm) mark. Place 1 hand over the other and touch the yardstick (91.44 cm ruler).
Exhale and stretch your hands forward slowly. Have your partner mark at what inch (cm) marker you can reach. Rest for 10 seconds. Perform the forward stretch 3 times and mark down all 3 scores.
 This may only be rarely required on tests, but it is a good judge of scaling abilities. Ask your friend to test you 3 times, just as was required with the sit and reach test.


Stand near a wall with your predominant arm straight up. Have your friend mark the height at which it reaches. Tape a ruler or yardstick (91.44 cm ruler) above that point. Ask your friend to stand on a step stool so they can accurately read your jumping ability.
Do a few practice jumps to warm up your legs. Crouch down low and touch as high on the ruler as you can. Wait 10 seconds. Repeat the jump 3 times and record your findings. Many tests aim for 16 inches.
 If you are doing this for general interest, you can submit your metrics to the United States President's Adult Fitness Test at adultfitnesstest.org. They will send you results on how you measure up based on adult fitness standards.

