 It’s time to start planning the Military Themed Sleep Over, but the first question to answer is where do you have it? There are so many options and picking the “right” one can be difficult for some people. Just remember, as long as your child’s family and friends are there, the location really doesn’t matter to them. So pick somewhere that is convenient and easy for you to setup and clean up in a minimal amount of time. Now keep reading for an Ultimate Army Theme Party Idea.


Barracks: Want to send your kid and guests through basic training? Then the best place to start is at the barracks. You don't know what they look like? How to decorate? Don't worry, by the time you get done reading all the ideas from this site, you'll be ready.;
, You might be thinking NO WAY!!! You won’t forget any crucial party items at your home (e.g. piñata bat). Your reservation won’t get screwed up…because you are already there! Finally, you know where everything is, how convenient. You do run the risk of damage and such, so be sure to weigh the benefits and risks and pick what’s best for you and your child!


Training Field: An excellent Theme Party Location is the local park. Now there are a lot of benefits of having the party outdoors. You aren't at "your" home where something of "yours" could get broke. You have more opportunity to really decorate the area how "you" want. But to get started on selecting the "Ultimate Park", begin by making a list of all the local parks/water parks in the area and write down the key features of each one. For example, how much area is available? is there a playground? tennis court? trash can availability? bathrooms? covered areas? capacity of park? etc. You don’t want to show up at an overcrowded park, with no playground or bathrooms and it starts to rain. Spend some time in selecting the right park and your party will run a lot smoother. Don't worry, you'll still be able to use a lot of the decorating ideas from this site, so don't stop here...keep reading for more kid theme party ideas!
Field Training: Why not take your recruits to the field. One great thing about renting an establishment is they sometimes provide you with invitations, discounts on food, a cake, etc. Make sure you find a decent place that provides you with enough stuff to balance out the rental cost. Don’t be afraid to ask for food discounts and other items, you will be surprised on what they will offer, but only if you ask! Also, ask if you can bring your own decorations.
 Picking out or designing the Ultimate Army invitation can either be a fun or challenging part of the party. It all depends on how much time you have, what type of planning you want to do and how much thought you put in to it.


Store/Internet Bought: If you are reading this idea, it might be because you don't have enough time to create an Ultimate Invitation. Or maybe you just like store bought invitations better. It doesn’t really matter because you can find great Army or military theme party ideas for party invitations you can choose from that will fit your theme party perfectly. American Heroes Invitation or Camo Invitation.
Invitation Help: As you start to create this Army invitation masterpiece, don't forget to check out Army clip art for lots of different pictures. They will help you design the inside and out.
Party Slogan: Before you get into the designing process, why don’t you pick out a party slogan? Pick something that your party could be developed around. Pick out a theme party slogan to help you:

"The Few, the proud...The Party Patrol!"
"We Want You...to come to "child's name" Party!"
"child's name" is our Birthday Hero!"


Army Theme Party Invitation #1: On your computer create a recruiting notice to send out. The wording could be: You have been recruited!!! You must report to boot camp! Wear your camo gear (if you have any). Be prepared for food, fun and Army games. Chow will be served in the mess hall. Our mission is to celebrate (child’s name) (age) birthday. Report to the (insert location) at 1100-1400 (insert real time).
Army Theme Party Invitation #2: Pick out a few different pictures from our clipart section. Put them on the front of the invitation and pick out a phrase to put on the inside.
Army Theme Party Invitation #3: Another invitation could start with buying some scrapbook paper with an American Flag in the background. Here is an example of what you could put: Your mission, should you choose to accept it, is to rendezvous with an elite force of young men to celebrate (child’s name) birthday. Arrival time: 1400 to 1600 hours, (insert date and address). On the bottom put, the kids will be going through “boot camp” so they’ll be crawling on the grass and will probably be hit by a few water grenades, during their missions. Have them wear green or tan or camouflage clothes, if you can. Call: (phone #) to sign on. Drill Sergeants: (parent’s names).

Don't forget to add the RSVP, location, time, date, and other pertinent party information on the invitation.
 Picking out, setting up and fine tuning the decorations can be a long tedious process. But, there is hope, because with a little planning and creativity, it will be one of the most rewarding experiences of the party.
,


The very first thing you should do is contact your local Army recruiter. They can provide you, free of charge, items such as, pens, pencils, antenna balls, posters and a ton of other items. They can also provide you, on loan, life size cardboard army men, camo netting, sleeping bags and other military gear. Give them a call; you’d be surprised on what they will give you.
How about the Ultimate Army Prop? Check out your local Army Surplus store or 1st Army Supply to find some ammo boxes and other accessories.
If you’re having the Ultimate Party outside, try to get a camo net from your local recruiter or 1st Army Supply. The nets are very large and could cover part of the party area with it. Plus, it’s a great shade maker.
You could also make some paper airplanes and hang them around the house. Try to put some on a ceiling fan, the kids will love it! Also, check out American Flags, if appropriate, for decorating your house and Party Area. These flags will not only add to your theme, but also show your patriotism to your country and fellow war fighters. These few simple decorating tips will really help set the mood as you start playing the games and activities.
Need an Army Happy Birthday banner? Check out this Camouflaged Birthday Banner that will fit your theme perfectly.
 Use a white vinyl shower liner and 10" black vinyl letters (you can purchase these from an officer supply store). On the banner you can write something like, Bikini Bottom or Rock Bottom. You can also let your children or guests draw Army characters all over it.


Tie helium balloons of different shades of green, brown, black, etc. in clusters of 3 or 5 to the back of chairs or tucked into corners. Don't forget to tie a bunch of balloons to the birthday child’s chair. If you choose not to use helium, tie balloons to varying lengths of curling ribbon, and hang them from the ceiling or from light fixtures throughout the house.
Move on to another simple, yet familiar decorating item, Streamers. Streamers offer an economical way to splash lots of color around the site of the party. Create a fun and colorful effect by draping rainbow colored metallic streamers from the center of the ceiling to the walls on each side of the room. The streamers can be twisted after they are anchored to a ceiling wall or table for a more dimensional look. Two different colored streamers can be placed back to back and twisted for a unique look. After you are done, it should look like a spiral rainbow above the room! They also look terrific hanging from door frames or cascading vertically down walls. Streamers are an excellent Army Theme Party Idea.
Clear out all toys and books, except for those related to the Army Theme.
 Check out our Free Clipart Section for ideas.
 Put one on the shed, if you have one, which says, “The Brig”. Hang another around the kitchen for the “Mess Hall”. If you need to contain the kids in a specific area, hang signs that read, “DANGER KEEP OUT EXPLOSIVES” around the off-limit areas. Kids will love this special touch as it makes them really feel like they’re in the military.
 Stick with green, brown, black, etc. After you have selected the party theme colors, decide on whether you will use either printed or solid color party tableware.


Here are some great Army Theme Party Tableware.

Army Dessert plates
Army Dinner plates
Army Beverage Napkin
Army Luncheon Napkin
Army Plastic Tumbler
Army Table cover
Army Centerpiece


Going solo on your theme party? Can’t find any party theme tableware you like? Then take a look at the silverware, plates, napkins, etc in solid colors. You’re guaranteed to find a color that matches your Army Theme Party Idea.
 Now that you have picked out the location, selected a few decorations and picked the theme colors and party tableware, what is your child going to wear at their Ultimate Army Theme Party? Wouldn’t your child love to dress up as a Soldier? Here are a few Ultimate Theme Party costumes!!


Check out Face Paint Crayons. You can decorate the children's faces however you want, with camo, tanks, airplanes, etc!!!

,


Icebreaker Activities

Trying to keep the guests attention until the party starts isn't an easy task. But with these kid theme party ideas listed below you won't have any problems!
Let those who’ve arrived early play with Bubbles while they wait for the other guests to arrive.
A coloring activity is a great way to keep the children occupied until the party starts. Plus, you can send their pictures home in their goody bag.


Have the children decorate a large birthday banner in honor of your child that says, “Happy Birthday, Name”. You can get a large roll of paper from a store like Target. Give the children crayons, stickers, and other such items to use.
 Attach to Popsicle sticks.


New Recruits: Right from the beginning, you need to gain control of the party and make sure everything flows smoothly. You need to get the children in the “Army” mood right away. Setup a table right by the front door. As they come in your home, have them “sign in” as if they were joining the Army. You can issue them dog tags, helmets or any other item to help get them into the Army spirit. The kids will love this and you will set the stage for the Ultimate Theme Party.
War Paint: Your new recruits are going to need to transfer from “civilian” to “military”. There is not better way than to help them put on their War Paint. After they have “in-processed” send them over to the War Paint station. This will help keep their attention until the real party starts.
Water Balloons: If you’re going to have a water balloon war later in the party, this would be a perfect time to get the balloons ready. Have the children fill up the balloons now and watch their anticipation grow, as they can’t wait to throw them at each other. Check out the games section for complete details on the game.
Jet Fighter Training: Have the children construct different Jet Paper Planes and see whose plane will fly the farthest. This should keep them occupied until the real festivities start.
 If the kids are standing around with nothing to do, you have forgotten something. Try to keep them occupied at all times and the party will flow smoothly.
 Picking out the perfect food, refreshments, treats and cake should be a fun experience. Think of clever names for each item that relates back to the Army Theme. Pick out a birthday party idea or two to get started:


Army Theme Party Food.
If you are looking for a good food to serve and one that could give you a break, try old faithful, pizza and soda. Almost every kid loves pizza and soda, and this could earn you maybe 20-30 minutes of time to cleanup, setup or just sit down. You know every drill sergeant deserves a break.
You could also setup a mess line and serve simple items such as, Mac and Cheese, Hot Dogs, Chips and other items right out of your kitchen. If you have the room and equipment, setup a mess tent where the soldiers go and eat. They will feel just like the military eating in a tent.
Don’t want to give your soldiers a home cooked meal? Call the local Army Surplus store and buy some good old-fashioned MRE (Meals Ready to Eat). The party will definitely be a hit. Kids will be talking about it for months about how they ate MREs at their friends Ultimate Army Party.
Army Theme Party Refreshments:
Now we need some refreshments to wash down all this excellent food.
Try making the Swamp Punch. Take some light lemonade and add green food coloring. Kids will love it because of the color! Want to add your own special touch? Add two raisins to each cube in an ice cube tray. They will end up looking like little bugs in the punch. The soldiers will feel like they’re “roughing it” when they are eating “bugs”.
Army Theme Party Cake:
Deciding on whether you are going to make or buy the Ultimate cake is a tough decision. It mainly depends on how much time you have and how many guests are coming. I would suggest for a smaller party, you Try to make that Ultimate cake. But if there is going to be a large number of guests, maybe a large cake made by the baker would be the best decision. It’s up to you, but here is a Birthday Theme Party Idea for making an Ultimate Army cake.
Tank Cake: This is a simple yet awesome cake to make. Start out by using a 12x18 sheet pan and a half of a Wilton ball pan (can be found at many craft stores and Walmart). Cut sheet cake in half and stack it, slice an angled wedge off of the front and then put the round part on top. You can use Juniper colored icing, a long thick pretzel covered in frosting for the cannon and Oreo halves for the wheels. You can also add a flag on a toothpick and decorate with Army men and crush Oreos and graham crackers for dirt. Not only will this cake taste good it will be the centerpiece of the party.
Army Battlefield: Start out by making a sheet cake. Cut a small area out and turn it upside down to make a little hill. Fill the hole with blue tinted pudding to make a lake. Frost the rest of the cake with chocolate frosting. Crush some graham crackers and vanilla wafers for dirt and spread over the cake. Set up an Army battle using plastic army toys.
Edible Army Logo: Want to really impress your soldiers? Check out this Ultimate Army Logo, which will turn any ordinary cake into the Ultimate Birthday Cake.
 At night you can sit around a campfire, tell scary stories about fallen soldiers, and sing songs like the Balled of the Green Beret.

