 Based on your self-evaluation, conduct a job search using keywords to define what you are looking for.


This includes using the advanced search option on many sites, in which you can specify title, company name and/or industry.
You do not need to check these sites every few hours for new jobs posted.
You can choose a schedule and check on a daily or weekly basis.
 Targeting specific companies is a quality over quantity tactic. It allows you to use your energy wisely and not waste time applying for jobs at companies you would not work for.


If you are very specific with your job search and the type of company you want to work for, you may find it easier to conduct research about potential companies and create a list of companies that you would definitely want to work for.
You can then go down the list periodically (for example once a week) and search for jobs at the companies that best fit your qualifications.
 Research well-known companies in your area or location that you would like to work for and that would need your expertise. You can do this by using the company’s name as a keyword when conducting an internet search.


Then, read through the list of results to find articles published about or by them, company reviews, and social media profiles.
Read through each company’s website to determine what the company is about and the type of culture they have.
Create a list of all the companies that fit what you are looking for. They may not have an open position for you right now, but keep them on the list for the future.
 To help you get your name out there to the right companies, it may be helpful to seek assistance from a recruiter/headhunter.


These individuals can work on the behalf of multiple companies to find the right people to fill open positions.
Recruiters/headhunters have significant connections and may know about job openings before they are even advertised on the web.
Plus, companies that work with recruiters or headhunters may have a trusting relationship and provide your resume with a greater chance of being seen by an actual person.
There are many services and agencies available for you to work with. You can conduct an internet search for either your physical location (city and state) or for your area of expertise since some agencies specialize in one industry (such as the medical industry) or positions (such as sales representatives).
 Do not underestimate your contacts, because you never know who may be looking for someone with your expertise.


Once you have determined what type of job you are looking for, you should reach out to your contacts individually.
Never use a mass email or group message because it is too general and will receive less of a response.
This means contacting each individual via phone, email or social media message and personally asking them for their assistance.
Whichever form you choose to reach out to each of your contacts, all you need to do is tell them that you are looking for a new opportunity and to please contact you if they know of any openings you may be qualified for.
 There are most likely multiple networking events for you to choose from in your area.


When starting your job search, it is important to make new connections and let people know who you are, how you can add value to a company, and that you are looking for a new opportunity.
Sometimes attending these networking events, whether they are specified for job seekers or not, can put a face to a resume and create a greater potential for you to get interviews.
Remember, some jobs are not even posted publicly because they become filled by someone who was referred to the company.
 Due to priorities, number of candidates and company procedure, it can take some time to hear back from a company after submitting an application.


Sometimes you will not even receive a response from a company unless you are a strong candidate.
To keep on top of your application process, you can follow up on a submitted application.
Contacting the company will help you stand out and show your strong interest in the position.
It could even spark the recruiter or hiring manager to take a look at your application and evaluate your potential candidacy that day.

