 The best way to learn the blues is to listen to them. Pay particular attention to the singers, who need to create complex emotions and tones with only a few notes. How do they hold back, create silence, and/or rush notes to give the song it's feel and power? Do the instrumentalists, particularly guitarists, do anything similar?









Muddy Waters, Ma Rainy, Lightening Hopkins, and modern blues players like Gary Clark Jr. are all great places to start listening.
The blues began with just guitar and vocals, with singers like Robert Johnson and Blind Willie. Tapping into this relationship is essential.;
, Well-placed silences are the reason guitarists like Eric Clapton and Jimi Hendrix are so famous for their speed. They know that the blues is a constant up and down -- an emotional rollercoaster that mimics actually feeling the blues. Good blues phrasing opens up space with silence, then fills it with a blistering run of notes or a soulful, slow bend. But it is the well-timed silence beforehand, not the notes themselves, that show a master of blues phrasing.









When you're first starting out, think of silence as a way to create suspense. Get the audience on the edge of their seat, waiting for your next note.
Almost as good as a silence is a long, powerful note or bend held a long time to build suspense and tension.
 The call and response is one of the oldest blues forms, and can be found in many songs. It is when words or a melody are used, then immediately repeated, often with a subtle change or different pitch to make things interesting. The point is to start a conversation between two instruments, singers, or sections of the song.









Listen to the king of the blues, B.B, in songs like "How Blue Can You Get." Note how he sings, and the guitar "answers" the call.
Call and answer works best with another instrument -- the guitar and piano, for example, copying and playing off of each other.
 A theme is simply 3-5 notes (or more) repeated throughout the song. It often mimics the melody of the singer, or another memorable line from the song. Returning to this theme, often adding a new note or changing the tempo or rhythm, is a good way to make a solo feel cohesive but still surprising.









Keep a few bars or measures in between your phrases, letting them disappear before they come back.
 This gives you the sort of pleading, crying sound essential for blues guitar. A dovetailing note starts out strong, then weakens and fades into silence gracefully. Remember that silence is a key part of good blues phrasing -- getting in and out of it is essential too.
 The blues is all about emotion and expression, and the physicality of the guitar is the best way to show it. Bend, shake, manipulate, and slide along the strings to add excitement and personality to your playing. While it is hard to teach, letting yourself relax and get into your playing is really the key to great, personal blues playing.









Bends: Use your fingers to push the strings around, bending into new notes and holding everyone's attention with soulful string pulling.

Vibrato: Shake a note back and forth, using all the fingers you can get behind the fret to really move it. This is a subtle, bluesy way to add emphasis to a note.

Slides: Gets you around the neck in the most bluesy way. Spend some time find where you can slide to and still sound good.

