 Your boyfriend won't think you love him just because you obsess over his ex-girlfriends or any girls who come within a twenty-foot radius of his person. Instead, he'll just think you're insecure about the relationship, and he'll be annoyed and won't want to hang out with you. If you want to be a cool girlfriend, have faith in your great relationship and don't be freaked out if you see him talking to another girl.


Don't get jealous if your boyfriend and his buddies talk about another girl. Hey, if the girl is hot, you can admit it too. As long as your boyfriend isn't making creepy comments (and why would he?), you should show that you can appreciate a beautiful woman, too.
If any time another girl comes up, you jump to criticize her looks, her weight, or the outfit she wore last Tuesday, you will just come off as looking really insecure. Instead, show that you know you're beautiful but that you're not the only woman in the world, and admit that the other girl is a cool chick.
Don't be mean or snooty to his female friends. If you're being a crazy girlfriend, they'll report back to your man.
Don't snoop through your boyfriend's phone or Facebook to see if he's been chatting it up with other girls. If he finds out, then he won't be able to trust you.
 You'll have a path straight to your man's heart if you're cool with his bros. Seriously. If his friends love you, then they'll actually want to hang out with you, and won't think you're just another one of those possessive girlfriends who won't let her man be any fun.


Take the time to get to know them. If they're receptive, ask them about their lives. Show that you see them as individuals, not just as the guys who hang around your boyfriend.
Don't get upset if the guys are overly obnoxious. Just let them be themselves. You don't want them to feel like they're hanging out with their mom all of a sudden.
If you want to be cool with your man's bros, then don't hang out if you're not wanted. Don't intrude on an obvious "guys only" night, or sit through a male activity just because you don't want to let your man out of your sight. If you're cool with letting him have his man time, then the guys will be much happier to see you when you're around at the right times.
 If you want your man to see how much you love him, then you need to show him that you respect him as an individual and want to give him time to do his own thing and to be his own person. He won't be able to grow if you're clinging to his side twenty-four hours a day. Plus, if he spends a bit more time apart from you, he'll appreciate the time he spends with you even more.


Understand the meaning of "me time." If your guy wants to read, go for a run, or just spend some time alone watching TV, don't ask if you can come along.
Don't check in on him every five seconds. If he's out with friends or just hanging solo, don't call or text him every ten minutes to make sure he's okay. This will make you look possessive -- or even obsessive.
Let him spend time with other friends and family. Don't ask to tag along to every last social item on his agenda.
Don't forget to do your own thing. While your man is out with his friends or pursuing his interests, make sure that you have friends and interests of your own, too. You don't want him to think that he's the only good thing in your life.
 Don't spend all of your time together nagging and whining. You're allowed to have a bad day, but your man should feel like your equal, not your therapist. He should cherish the time he spends with you and think of it as a fun, positive experience, instead of as a cross to bear. If you want him to see how much you love him, then you should keep things positive as much as you can.


Make an effort to smile more. It will brighten your face as well as your man's day.
Be goofy and show off your sense of humor. You and your man should be able to spend hours just being silly.
Make a rule of thumb: for every one complaint, you should mention at least five things you're excited about. This will make your man more excited about hanging out with you, and more excited about your future together. He'll know you love him because you'll be in a good mood when you're together.

