 Musculoskeletal pain can sometimes be called myalgia or myopathic pain. This pain often involves more than one muscle and also typically involve tendons, joints, ligaments, and other muscle tissues such as fascia. However, it may just feel like overall muscle ache, since all of these tissues are interlinked.


Ligaments are the tough tissues that connect bone to bone and bone to cartilage.
Tendons are the tissues that attach muscles to bones or to organs, such as the eye.
Fascia are the almost transparent very thin tissue that cover muscles or organs., There are many causes of muscle pain. There are some causes that are common and frequently occurring, such as that due to tension, over-stretching, overuse, or injury. However, muscle pain may also be a symptom of some infections, such as the flu or other medical issues, including systemic disorders such as thyroid disease, fibromyalgia, Lyme disease, or systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).


Muscle pain may also be a reaction to prescription medications, such as statins that help lower cholesterol.
It can also be caused by imbalances in the minerals in your tissue and blood., Although some muscle pain is expected, common, and should not cause alarm, there are some situations that you should have seen by a doctor. If you try all the suggested methods and do not feel any relief within three to four days, you should call your doctor. Your doctor will ask about the history of the pain, so a physical examination, and possibly run some tests to find the root of the pain. You should also call your doctor if you experience muscle pain accompanied by:


Severe, unexplained, or persistent pain
Any sign of infection, such as redness or swelling around the muscle that aches
Poor circulation or restricted blood flow around the aching or injured muscle
A tick bite
A rash that occurs after an insect bite
Recently taking on new medications or changing the dose of a medication, Once you go to your main doctor, you may need to go see a chiropractor. Your chiropractor will make adjustments of your bones and joints all over your body to help relieve your musculoskeletal pain. Your doctor will let you know if this is a viable option for you.


There have been recent studies that indicate the usefulness for chiropractic methods for these conditions.