 This recipe makes a stiffer pudding that you can invert and de-mold onto a plate. You can make it in an oven or in a pot fitted with a steamer. Here is how to set this up depending on what you want to use:



 


If you want to make this in an oven: preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C). Fill a baking pan with 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) of water. The pan needs to be large enough to hold your ramekins.If you want to make this in a steamer: fill the pot with 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) of water. Place the steamer on top of the pot.;
, Place the sugar in a dry pan, then melt it over medium heat. Once it melts and turns brown, add the water; the caramel will start to bubble. Swirl the pan to mix; don't stir it., Tilt the ramekins around to spread the caramel evenly across the bottom. Work quickly before the caramel hardens. You will have enough to coat two large ramekins or four small ones.
 Pour the milk into a saucepan, and cook it over medium heat, stirring frequently. Once it starts to boil, take it off the stove and set it aside to cool. Move onto the next step immediately; you still want the milk to be warm when you go to use it again.
 Keep stirring until the sugar dissolves, about 1 minute.You can do this by hand or by using an electric mixer.
 Slowly pour the milk into the egg mixture to prevent curdling, stirring as you pour. Keep whisking until everything is combined, about 1 to 2 minutes. Once everything is mixed, stir in the vanilla.
 The strainer will remove any strands of egg white and give you a smoother, silkier pudding in the end., Return to the items you have prepared at the beginning of the method. Bake or steam the pudding according to one of the methods below. The pudding is ready if a fork inserted in the middle comes out clean.


If you are baking the pudding: place the ramekins into the water-filled pan and bake for 35 to 45 minutes on the lower rack.Make sure that the water doesn't cover the ramekins; if it does, pour some water out.
If you are using a steamer: let the water come to a boil, then insert the ramekins. Cover the steamer and simmer for 10 to 20. Remove the steamer from heat and wait 5 minutes.
 Take the ramekins out of the oven or steamer, and set them aside to cool to room temperature. Once they have cooled, chill them for at least 1 hour in the fridge; don't put hot ramekins into the fridge or you will change the interior temperature.
 Slowly lift the ramekin off the plate, leaving the pudding behind.
 You can serve it as is, or with a dollop of whipped cream. Keep any leftovers in the fridge.

