 If you have a habit of leaving your front door or garage door open, mice may be taking the opportunity to dart inside when you aren't looking. Keep your doors closed to discourage mice from entering.


Mice are most active at night, so it's best not to leave doors open overnight.
If you like to have your doors open during the summer to let the breeze inside, install screen doors, so mice won't be able to come in.
 Mice are good climbers, and they'll have no trouble getting in through a window, especially if it's on the first floor. Keep your windows closed or screened at all times.


If it has been awhile since you've looked at your screens, go around your house and inspect them. Screens break down over time, and a rusty hole or a tear in fabric screens could be providing an entrance for mice.
If you have a window that won't close all the way, or has a gap between the window and the frame, seal it with steel wool or hardware cloth.
 Another likely place for mice to enter your home is through cracks in your walls, especially near windows and entryways. Walk around the outside of your house to inspect it for cracks or holes mice could use to enter your home.


Seal any holes you find that are bigger than 1/4 inch (6.4mm). It's best to use sturdy repair materials such as sheet metal, hardware cloth or concrete mortar. Mice may be able to quickly chew through weaker materials and regain access to your house.
Check the wall that separates your garage from the rest of your house. Sometimes mice get in through garage doors, since they're harder to seal than smaller doors, and then find a way into the main house.
 Mice can easily follow cables into your home if the hole is large enough for them to fit into. They can also come in around access holes created for running pipes and drains or scurry into vents and chimneys.


Stuff stainless steel pads into small holes around pipes and cables, and then seal the holes with caulk. The steel pad creates an abrasive barrier to keep mice out, and it can easily be cut up with scissors to fit into smaller areas.
Prevent mice from getting inside pipes, vents and chimneys by installing screens.

