 When you see a low-calorie dessert, it is very easy to reason out that it is okay to eat more rather than less. Instead, segment out one serving of the dessert and when you are finished with that portion, you are done. It might help to drink water as you eat to make the dessert last longer.Overeating low-calorie desserts can quickly increase the amount of calories, fat, and sugar that you are eating. This will negate the purpose of eating a low-calorie dessert in the first place.
 Satisfy your desire to sample a variety of desserts by selecting bite-sized portions. Some desserts, such as mini cupcakes, make this easy as they naturally come in a low-calorie package. A skinny mini red velvet cupcake can contain just 150 calories. However, just make sure to limit the amount of dessert bites that you consume., This is a great option because you can break off a segment, thus limiting your total calories consumed. You can even continue to break down the bark, making you feel as if you are eating a series of small desserts. You can also make a low-calorie brittle or bark by using healthy mix-ins, such as poppy or sesame seeds.You can also do a dark chocolate bark with tart cherries mixed in. This gives you the benefit of the cherries’ and chocolate’s antioxidants. Small pieces of this bark average around 95 calories., Slice or peel a few of your favorite fruits, such as apples and oranges. To maintain portion control, set aside two handfuls of slices. Get a container of Greek yogurt or dark chocolate for dipping. Then, dip and enjoy a low-calorie dessert or snack. You can also use biscotti or pretzels for dipping if you are in the mood for something less sweet and more salty., This is a great way to save calories. Order a dessert off the menu, or make one at home, and then share it with someone else. You can even split one dessert between several people. This guarantees that you will not overeat and divides the calories so that you can indulge., If you're unsure about the calorie content of a dessert or if you're craving a high calorie dessert, you can try following the three bite rule to prevent yourself from overindulging. You should only take three bites of the dessert before stopping. The idea is that the dessert will not taste as good after the third bite, so there is no reason to continue eating it. This rule will let you eat any dessert, as long as you can stop after three bites., It can be dangerous to your health to drink your calories. But, if you do so purposefully, and use a drink as a dessert, then it can be a good option. To keep your portion size under control, limit yourself to one drink only too. For example, if you mix cranberry juice, mint, and lime over ice, it makes a light summer dessert drink.