 When hibernating plants, you'll want a cool place that is completely dark and stays above freezing throughout the night. Ideally, the temperature of your hibernating location should range from 40 to 50°F (4.4 to 10°C). Some places you might want to consider include:


Crawl spaces
Garages
Outbuildings (like sheds, barns, etc.)
Unheated/unfinished basements, Plants in the ground should be doused with water a day or two before they are dug up with a shovel. After digging up the plant, the roots should be fully intact and there should be enough dirt on the root ball to keep them covered. Put the plant in a pot and fill in any empty spaces with nutrient rich filler, like compost.


Generally, you should transplant your tropicals in the evening and lightly water them following transplanting., If you have to walk through a nicer part of your house to get to the plant hibernating area, you may want to lay down towels, newspaper, or a drop cloth to prevent the spread of dirt. After that, take your plants to the storage location.


Plants that are already potted can be moved directly to their hibernating location. However, you may want to clean these off, first.
You may want to have a permanent cover, like a plastic mat, to catch any loose dirt or decayed plant matter and keep your hibernating location clean., Sudden drops in temperature can influence the temperature of your hibernating location, too. In the event of a drop in temperature, you may need to relocate your plants somewhere warmer. The soil should remain slightly moist throughout overwintering. Add water sparingly as necessary.


If you have tight space constraints, you may want to lightly prune away large limbs or growths. In most cases, though, heavy pruning should be saved for spring., Many tropical plants will be too sensitive to survive winter weather, but some more resilient plants may be able to survive mild winters with a little help. Ground cover, like a thick layer of mulch that completely hides the plant, helps keep roots warm and alive. You might also:Use a frost cover, which are available at most home and garden stores. This is essentially a piece of fabric used to completely cover and protect plants from cold damage.

Even an old blanket, carefully wrapped around a plant, can work as a frost cover. Be careful your cover doesn't crush the plant.


Build or purchase a cold frame or hoophouse for your plants. These are simple structures that permit good light while keeping frost at bay., When the weather returns to suitable conditions for your covered, hibernating plants, use a shovel, rake, or hand spade to remove the mulch. Be especially careful not to damage the roots. To give your plants the best chance of growing back, you may want to use fertilizer. Be sure you water the plants adequately, so they have enough nutrients for the spring re-growth phase.


When waiting for your plants to come out of hibernation and regrow, try to be patient. Some plants may take up to two months to start regrowing.