 The Cheltenham Gold Cup is not just any race. First run in 1819, Spectre was the winner, taking home a prize of 100 guineas. Since then, horse racing legends have been born at the Gold Cup. Golden Miller for example won five years running in the 1930s, while Arkle was the darling of the race in the 1960s. Best Mate won the Gold Cup three years in a row from 2002 and more recently, the incomparable Kauto Star won the race twice and captured the hearts of the Cheltenham crowd. This is a race of champions, which is run over a notoriously arduous course, which stretches over 22 fences and culminates in a challenging uphill sprint finish. Each year jockeys, trainers and owners hope to triumph in this premier race and with it write their names into the history books.;
, Although the Gold Cup itself is the finale of the entire Cheltenham Festival, there is plenty more going on during Cheltenham Gold Cup day itself on 17 March, 2017. For a start, there are a further six races to be run during the day, starting with the Triumph Hurdle at 1.30pm and finishing with the Johnny Henderson Grand Annual Steeplechase at 5.30pm. This means that whether you are lucky enough to get a ticket to the Prestbury Park track or whether you are following the action online, your enjoyment can last much longer than just the big race itself. You can be sure of experiencing a special atmosphere on Gold Cup Day as the crowds flock for this special occasion.
 The Cheltenham Festival is one of the busiest betting weeks of the year, which makes the Gold Cup itself one of the most popular races to bet on in the entire calendar. However, you can enjoy the thrill of having a punt from the comfort of your own home by betting online. For the simplest betting format and the widest selection of options, it is a good idea to bet at one of the large online betting sites such as Paddy Power, Betfair, or William Hill. These popular sites usually offer a very impressive selection of odds. Not only are the odds usually good value for money but you can also place your wager on a wide variety of options even for a single race. You don’t have to simply pick a winner, there are plenty of other options to choose from too. In addition, when you bet online you are usually just a click away from checking out the form of all the runners and riders, helping you to make an informed betting decision.
 Of course, your enjoyment of the big race will be increased hugely if you manage to pick a winner. So, it is a good idea to study the runners and riders carefully and follow news around them closely. Thistlecrack, an all time favorite in 2016, might be unable to enter the 2017 Gold Cup due to a tendon injury.
 Last year produced one of the classic Gold Cups. Although the Prestbury Park track was soaked, this was about as exciting as it gets with a classic slow-motion finish. In the end, Don Cossack won the gold with a lead of four-and-a-half lengths ahead of Djakadam.
 Placing a wager is just one part of the online betting experience. Most reliable sites also offer extensive coverage of the sport, including the latest news and views from horse racing experts. You can also keep up to date with the best betting tips through articles and podcasts. As a result, you can keep bang up to date with the Gold Cup action from the comfort of your home.

