 Of course you know your sister—she's your sibling after all, and you probably live together and have grown up together. Nonetheless, before you zero in on the perfect prank, it's important that you think about your sister's character and temperament: What kind of person is she? How do you think she'll react to being tricked?


Is she a jokester? Does she find nearly anything funny? If so, you probably have a bit more free reign in deciding how to prank her.
Is she sensitive and/or easily embarrassed? If so, you should be careful about what kinds of jokes or pranks you want to pull on her. You don't want to cause lasting hurt feelings that could put your relationship in jeopardy.;
, In your effort to tailor a unique prank, don't forget to identify your sister's interests and hobbies. You'll make a lasting impression if you can find a fun way to joke around with her about something she's really into.


Is your sister a jock? If so, then you could design a prank aimed at this, while being careful to not cross the line and destroy something that really matters a lot to her.
For example, if your sister is a soccer fanatic, you can let a little bit of air out of her ball each night. She'll have to continually re-pump the ball (which will be fun to watch!) but you won't have destroyed her property.
As another example: perhaps your sister is book lover who scorns pop lit. If so, you can remove her favorite classics from their dust jackets and replace them with the Hunger Games series.
She'll be in for a surprise when she pulls Great Expectations down from the shelf and instead is confronted with Katniss's dilemma! And who knows—she may decide to read it and see that the series is popular for a reason!

, Just as it's important to design a prank which is sensitive to your sister's personality, it's also important to think carefully about the dynamics of your relationship together.


You may think of yourself as very easy going, but if you and your sister don't always see eye-to-eye (perhaps she isn't as laid back), then choosing the wrong prank or pranking too often can hurt your relationship.
Try to think of ways in which you and your sister connect: if you both love to cook, for example, then choosing a prank which plays upon this shared interest could result in a prank you'll be able to laugh about together.
 The best pranks are those where everyone involved is able to laugh together (at least eventually). What you don't want to do is set your sister up to be laughed at.


Finding the fine line between pulling off a prank where your sister is mildly embarrassed, surprised, or confused and those where she is mortified or terribly scared can be tricky. Nonetheless, it's important to not move into this cruel territory.
One guideline to keep in mind to help keep you from crossing that line is to think about how you would react if the tables were turned.
For example, if your sister hacked into your phone and switched her contact info with your girlfriend's, would you be mildly annoyed and/or embarrassed, or would you feel that your privacy had been violated?
If you would be unable to trust or forgive her for pulling a particular prank on you, then don't pull it on her!

, Just as you don't want to cause any hurt feelings, you also want to avoid causing any physical harm to your sister.


You can find lots of prank ideas which set people up for physical falls, or which have you set up booby-traps where things will fall upon the unsuspecting victim.
When nothing goes wrong, and no one is hurt, then these can be funny. Keep in mind though, that it's typically out of your hands as to whether or not the prank will work as designed.
For example, there will be nothing to laugh at if your sister falls the wrong way and hits her head on the counter because you greased up the kitchen floor.
 In what follows, we offer some tried and true ideas for pranks, many of which are classics. Once you've thought about the unique characteristics of both your sister and your relationship, feel free to pick and try those that appeal to you.


Keep in mind that the very best pranks, though, are those that are inventive, creative, and designed specifically around the particular person you're trying to prank.
With that in mind, stretch your creativity to find unique pranks that will have your sister asking you “How did you think of that?” instead of “How could you do that to me?”.

