 This is very important -- the baking soda is added and whisked very quickly, and any chunks of powder might not incorporate if you're not careful. Use a sifter to complete sift the powder, or whip it up with a fork if you don't have a sifter., Smear a little butter on a paper towel and wipe down the pan and parchment paper to prevent the honeycomb from sticking as it cools. You can also use aluminum foil, or an ungreased Silpat (silicone) mat., This recipe moves very quickly, which is why everything, from the baking soda to the sugar, must be ready to add at a moment's notice. No matter which recipe variety you're using, get everything measured out before proceeding., Your recipe will quadruple in size as you cook it, meaning you need a very high-sided pot to pull the recipe off. Furthermore, it must have a thick, heavy bottom (at least 1/4"), otherwise the heat from the stove will be too close to the sugar, burning it.
 You just want the sugar to be damp, not swimming. There should be no dry patches of sugar. Make sure you wipe down any spare sugar crystals off the sides of the pot as well using a rubber spatula.
 Stirring will cause the candy to crack, but you want a nice, smooth caramel. Keep an eye on the candy as soon as the heat comes on -- this moves quickly. It should begin to boil within 3-5 minutes.
 If you have a candy thermometer, this is easy. Even if you don't, the recipe is forgiving enough that you should be fine. Simply cook, never stirring, until the mixture reaches the color of a slightly worn penny.
 While not strictly necessary, some recipes call for speeding up the process by plunging the bottom of the pan into a sink full of cool water. Whether you choose this strategy or not is up to you. But, whatever your strategy, do it quickly, and get to the next step., Spare no time between dumping in the baking soda and beginning to mix. While a large, long whisk is the best option, a slotted wooden spoon is equally effective. Stir until the whole thing is frothing and foaming.


As soon as you add the baking soda, be ready for the whole thing to bubble up like a volcano.
 Once the honeycomb is hard and crumbly it is ready to eat. Remove from the pan, snap or cut into bars or chunks, and enjoy!