 Keep the sides of your hair neatly trimmed, but leave plenty of hair on top. The extra volume on top, when matched with the decreased volume on the side, adds inches to your overall height. This trick works especially well if you use gel to create a spiky style.
 Heel inserts slip inside your shoe and lift your foot an inch or more, physically adding height. Avoid heel inserts if you anticipate taking your shoes off in public, however. Also avoid inserts if you already have a shoe with a thick heel.
 Some men's shoes look fine with a half-inch heel, but you must be careful about choosing the right style. For best results, stick with black loafer-style pumps or boots. Avoid wearing athletic shoes or regular dress shoes that simply have an extra heel.
 In general, jackets build up the shoulder, broadening your stature and creating the illusion of height. To maximize this illusion, consider a cropped jacket where the bottom hem cuts off at the same point as the wrists. A jacket that stops at that point shows more of your legs, making your legs look longer. Longer-looking legs will help you look taller overall.
 A narrow necktie creates a slim, vertical line that draws the eye up and down. Thicker ties have more width, which reduces the effectiveness of this tactic.
 A taller man typically wears a suit coat so that a half-inch of the shirt cuff shows beyond the edge of the jacket sleeve. Wear your suit so that only a quarter-inch of your cuff shows, instead. The narrower horizontal line makes your arms look longer than a thicker line would. Likewise, narrower folds along your collar or lapel also reduce the widening effect of these horizontal folds. Generally, the less wide you look, the taller you look.
 Shorter shirts expose more of your leg, creating the illusion of both leg length and overall height. Look for shirts that end somewhere around the base of your thumb. Shorter shirts may look as though they are too small for you, however.
 Pants that are too long will bunch up at the bottom, which draws attention to your short stature. Trousers and jeans should have a lower hem that strikes around your shoelaces. Also avoid pants that "turn up" or fold over at the bottom hem, since this has a tendency to create thick horizontal lines that shorten the leg.
 Low-slung jeans make your legs look stout and stubby. Keep your pants snapped and belted at your natural waist in order to maximize the length of your leg.
 Dark colors have a slimming effect, which make your legs look lean and long. Think black dress pants and dark wash jeans.
 Wear a pocket square or bright tie to add detail to a suit, or look at casual shirts with epaulets and upper pockets. When you wear details higher up, it encourages an observing eye to move up from your feet toward your head, causing the eye to take in more height.
 Short men are typically short because they have shorter limbs. Shirts and bottoms that draw attention to your limbs only emphasize the fact that you lack long limbs. Consider wearing longer garments made of lighter materials when the weather just barely begins to warm up, since these will keep you cool without drawing attention to your limbs. Save your short sleeve shirts and shorts for unbearably hot weather.

