 That seems to be how we learn.' Repeating the same mistakes over and over is what is injurious to our own purpose. However we are free to do that as well. What we should ask ourselves is : "What is the cause of pain and suffering and how can we uproot it at a deep level?" Some say that it is only through excess, that one can know what is enough. Being Here-Now is thought by many to be the first step towards Liberation.;
,, Too often, we get so tense or stressed with our responsibilities that we forget to take pleasure in the moment.
 Remain in the here and now. Become calm and clear.
 Approach other everyday situations in the same way. Doing this often brings you closer to pure consciousness.
, Many of the great philosophers such as Gautama, Jesus, Lao Tzu, Shunryu Suzuki, Mohammed, Dante, Francis Bacon, William Blake and others. The Doors of Perception has much to say about this subject, both directly and indirectly.
,, A real "step" towards enlightenment would be to make something that is now an unconscious part of you conscious. i.e. "integration". Practical steps toward integration can be found in the related how to wikis.
, We live by the eternal law of cause and effect, which is, if you do something bad you will get a bad result, if you do something good you will get a good result. What matters is the consciousness you experience regardless of what takes place.
 Walking can spark higher consciousness. Use walking meditation. Just like aspirants learn to count their cycle of breath to consume normal and allow higher consciousness to come forth. The cycles or steps in walking can serve this same purpose. This same thing happens in music with the rhythm, that is, normal consciousness is consumed, allowing higher to consciousness come flooding in for the musician, bringing forth the higher consciousness. Don Juan put the flooding of images into walking for Carlos Castaneda. Carlos hiked with Don Juan while having his eyes crossed in order to flood the vision and insure the total consumption of normal consciousness. This awareness of higher consciousness while walking will motivate more walking/meditation and ability to walk/meditate more and more.

