 A number of factors should be considered before choosing deciding when and where you plan to go:



Weather: Conditions in the channel vary dramatically, with shifting swells, high waves, and fog making the trip an even greater challenge. Anyone planning to make the voyage should consult the NOAA Weather Service (phone), the Channel Islands Internet Weather Kiosk (online), or weather radio via VHF-FM 162.475 MHz (marine forecast), VHF-FM 162.55 MHz, or VHF-FM 162.40 MHz (land-based observations).

Shipping Lanes: The trip across the channel will take boaters through some of the busiest shipping lanes on the California coast. Those making the trek should be aware of where the shipping lanes are and use extreme caution when crossing them. Additionally, the waters in and around the islands are occasionally shut down for military exercises.

General information: Before making the trip, all boaters should seek out the U.S. Coast Guard’s “Local Notice to Mariners,” which can be obtained by contacting the USCG directly. Nautical charts can be purchased at nearby marine stores, at bookstores, or online.
 It is suggested that boaters consult each island’s respective park ranger before landing. Boaters can use a VHF channel to hail the rangers, who will then ask the boater to switch to a different channel for the purpose of providing a brief orientation, landing instructions, and other details. Here is a brief look at landing protocol for the five major islands:



Santa Barbara Island: No permit is required. Boaters must access the island through the landing cove, as dock access is limited to unloading vessels.

Anacapa Island: No permit is required for boats landing at East Anacapa or Frenchy’s Cove. A permit is required for boats landing at Middle Anacapa and a park ranger must accompany any visitors. Access to West Anacapa is prohibited. Boaters may not use moorings located at East Anacapa; these are reserved for other boats. Visitors must tie their boats a reasonable distance from these moorings. Permits can be obtained via The Nature Conservatory website.

Santa Cruz Island: The eastern quarter of the island is accessible without a permit. Buoy access is prohibited, though boaters are permitted to use the pier at Scorpion Anchorage or Prisoners Harbor. Surf conditions here are particularly treacherous, so boaters are encouraged to use caution. A permit is required to access the remaining three-quarters of the island. Permits can be obtained via The Nature Conservatory website.

Santa Rosa Island: Boaters can use the coastline or beaches to land without a permit, though access is limited to a maximum of one day. Piers are available at Beaches Bay, but visitors may not use area buoys.

San Miguel Island: Boaters may land at Cuyler Harbor or Tyler Bight for overnight stays. Visitors may only land on the beach at Cuyler Harbor.
 The float plan should be as detailed and specific as possible. Be sure to include personal information for every person in the boat, as well as destination specifics (departure time and date, destination), craft specifics (size, age, color), and any emergency equipment you have with you. The more information included, the easier it will be for search crews should trouble arise.
 Enjoy your trip around Channel Islands National Park. If you find that the weather has taken a nasty turn or that you do not have the required safety gear, do not hesitate to turn around and make the trip another time. Safety should always take precedence.

