 Though being a police officer isn't mandatory for being a detective, it is highly recommended. You can get experience in other ways, such as military training, but this is the most well-trodden path. As a police recruit, you'll need to complete the training academy program, which will require you to pass written and physical tests before you become an officer. You can get your training at a local police department, or a state or federal agency. These courses typically run about 14 weeks long.The programs involve training and classroom study that will include self-defense, traffic control, and first aid.
 Once you've become a police officer, you'll need to put in your best effort for at least three years before you're even eligible for a detective position. You'll need to let your superiors know that you want to be kept in mind for a promotion and that you're interested in being a detective. To prove yourself, you'll need to go above and beyond the call of duty, score high on agency exams, and get high marks in evaluations from your superiors. Here are some ways to make yourself stand out as you gain experience:


Brush up on the latest techniques and technology and be computer savvy. Study computer forensics to learn how to battle cyber crime. Always be up to date on the latest advances so that you're ready to be a detective when the time comes. Taking night college courses can help build your experience.
Stay physically fit. Continue to exercise regularly, to do aerobic and strength training, and to look physically fit so that you're able to handle the grueling nature of your job.
Develop your investigating skills. You must work to be perceptive and to pay attention to detail; these are crucial qualities for a detective.
Write detailed reports about crime scenes and accidents, showing that nothing can pass by you.
 If you know that your agency offers this test, you should be prepared to take it at any time, whether or not the agency has any openings. This will not only get you ready for the job, but it will show initiative and will make you more likely to succeed when the time comes., If you work in a state or a large police department, then you'll get training right in your own agency's police academy. But if you work in a smaller department, you may have to go to a state or regional academy to get your training. Your training will involve classroom instruction in civil rights, state laws, constitutional law, as well as police ethics. You will also get trained in other areas that include how to use firearms, self-defense, first aid, and emergency response.


One option is to enter the Federal Bureau of Investigation's National Academy. This academy provides training for municipal detectives.

