


Determine whether you will need the equipment or supplies on a permanent basis or just for a short time before you get home-use medical supplies. You may need to rent equipment like walkers or wheelchairs for a short time, but supplies needed for long term use may be cheaper if purchased outright.;
,


All equipment like wheelchairs, bed lifts, scooters and ramps have specific height and weight capacities. This is the amount of weight the equipment can safely support and the corresponding height, if applicable. Take the measurements of the person that will be using the supplies with you when you buy home-use medical supplies to be sure the equipment is safe.
, A specialist will be able to help you decide what you need and what will fit in the home.



Ask your health care insurance provider about coverage options for home-use medical supplies and equipment before you purchase. Your insurance may cover some or all of the cost based on medical necessity, but might also require you to use a specific brand or vendor in order for the items to be covered.



Items used daily in the home can be made more comfortable with extra details like added padding on crutches or wheelchair seats, baskets on walkers or a smaller-size needle in a glucose monitoring device. Consider what equipment will be most comfortable and easy to use in addition to cost when you make your home-use medical supply purchases.



It will be helpful to make a list of all the items needed if you're outfitting a whole room or entire home with home-use medical equipment. Work with a doctor or physical therapist to compile a list of necessary items ahead of time so you don't get overwhelmed by options and products.



Ensure home-use medical equipment is safe to use by having items like wheelchair ramps or bed lifts installed by a professional. These items need to be anchored to wall studs and secured with safety brackets to ensure they will support the full amount of weight, so find a professional medical equipment installation company that can do this for you to guarantee it's done right.

