 Sibling rivalry is common and this can often lead to fighting and arguing. Support your sibling by trying to get along with them. Avoid petty arguments and fights. Use your communication skills to mediate any issues you might have with your sibling.Take a time out if you get upset. Step away from the conversation and take a five minute time out where you go off on your own to calm down and think. Then, return and start the conversation again with your sibling in a more relaxed manner.
 Sometimes siblings can be divided when one sibling sides with one parent or with other relatives. Try to support your sibling when they are in a conflict with a family member, even if you may not agree with their choice. Listen to their concerns and remind them that you love and care for them, despite the conflicts in the family.


For example, you may say to your sibling, "I don't agree with you siding with mom on this issue. But I want you to know that I love and care for you. I will support you."

, Support your sibling by doing a new hobby or activity together. This way you can both bond and feel acknowledged. Having a hobby or activity in common can help you and your sibling bond. It will also allow you to both support each other and recognize each other’s accomplishments.Take a fitness class, a craft class, or a cooking class together. Try a new hobby like knitting, painting, or tackle a new video game.
 Make sure you devote a portion of your schedule to spending quality time with your sibling. Have a meaningful conversation over lunch. Spend time doing a fun activity together, like preparing a meal, listening to music, or going for a walk.Having regular quality time with your sibling will take time and effort, but this will help to maintain your relationship.


If you and your sibling both have your own families, then plan family outings together and make time for family get-togethers.
Stay in contact with your nieces and nephews. If you have nieces and nephews, then be a good uncle/aunt by keeping regular contact with them.
You can also involve your other family members and spend time together as a family. Doing this can make you all feel supported and loved. Your sibling may also feel they can lean on their other family members, as well as you.
Plan a trip to visit your sibling once per year if they live far away.

