 If you have difficulty with two legged squats, you may not be ready to do a full pistol squat. Make sure that you can do at least twenty two-legged squats without a problem before progressing to this move.To do a normal squat, stand with your feet shoulder-width apart, and lower your body as though you are about to sit in a chair.
 Instead of lowering yourself towards the ground, place a chair beneath your body. When you lower yourself, squat down onto the seat and raise yourself again. This will help you build leg strength without hurting yourself.You can also use a stool or box if you need to squat higher or lower. Gradually lower the height of the seat until you are comfortable and stable going into a full squat.
 If you’re having trouble keeping balance while doing a pistol squat, you can hold onto a pole, doorframe, barre, or other fixed object to keep you stable through the exercise. Face the pole or frame. As you lower yourself, hold onto it for balance. Your standing leg should still be doing most of the work., Use a dumbbell or kettlebell that weighs between ten or fifteen pounds. Hold it in front of you with your arms straight as you lower yourself. Once you are comfortable with the movement, progress gradually to smaller and smaller weights until you do not need a counterweight at all., If you find yourself consistently falling from one side to another, you may need to work out your upper leg muscles around the knee. Some exercises you can do include:



Step-ups: face a bench while holding a dumbbell in either hand. Step up onto the bench, then step back down.

Split squats: stagger your stance with one foot forward and one foot back. Raise the back leg, and lower yourself into a squat. Raise yourself up again.Leg extensions: at the gym, find a leg extension machine. Place your feet beneath the pads, and grasp the handle bars. Raise your legs but keep the rest of your body still.Barefoot pistol squats: practice the pistol squat without wearing shoes or socks. This will help your foot grip the ground and build strength through your leg.