 Bloat refers to the stomach filling with gas and becoming distended. The dilated stomach then flips over on itself, sealing off the esophageal sphincter (the entrance to the stomach) and the pylorus (exit). Gas producing bacteria trapped in the stomach continue to ferment and produce more gas, distending the stomach still further.


This outward pressure prevents blood flow to the stomach wall, and without an adequate blood supply this tissue dies off. Toxins are then absorbed into the bloodstream and a combination of toxicity, shock, and circulatory failure will kill a dog who has not been taken into the vet.
Most dogs become seriously ill within 4 to 6 hours, but death can happen in as little as 2 hours after occurrence, which again makes it very necessary to bring your dog to the vet.
Bloat is more correctly known as gastric dilation and volvulus (GDV) which is a term that describes the stomach distension followed by twisting.
 Because of their anatomy, some dog breeds are at higher risk of acquiring bloat than others. Typically, deep-chested breeds are at greater risk, such as the German Shepherd dog, Dobermans, Great Danes, Irish and Gordon Setters, weimaraners, and Greyhounds.This is because these breeds have a narrow abdomen and deep chest, such that the stomach is suspended inside the abdomen like a hammock slung between trees. This gives the stomach more range of movement within the tummy, and predisposes it to flipping over on itself, especially if the dog is exercised with food in his stomach.
 It is normal for small volumes of gas to develop during digestion (hence the reason we burp!) Certain foods, such as those with a high cereal or pulse content, produce more gas than others (just think of baked beans!)


Thus, as a result of gas produced during digestion bloat is more likely to happen within 90 minutes of feeding. If that dog then rolls over, or goes for a run, the weight of food is more likely to make the stomach swing from side to side and if it gains enough momentum, possibly flip over.
 The key danger period is within two hours of feeding. Any deep-chested breed predisposed to bloat should be never be exercised within 90 to 120 minutes of eating.