 Some stores may be more expensive than others, or may specialize in certain kinds of garments, like gently used items or designer brands. You’ll have to be selective with the kind of online store you shop at to find the items you’re looking for efficiently.


Check the shipping policy for each site. Some sites may include free shipping, some may only ship to certain regions, and others may ship for a fee.
Sites that sort their stock according to season can really cut down the time it takes for you to find season specific wardrobe items., Most frequently you'll see stores advertise secondhand clothing that is like new or gently used. These shops are often very picky about the items they stock. These items can be a little more pricey, but will generally have the appearance of a garment fresh off the rack.


Stores may use a sliding scale for clothing quality. Generally, moving from high to low quality, you can expect ratings like: new with tags, new without tags, like new, very good, good, and acceptable., Clothing sizes aren’t always standard. Certain manufacturers use different measurements for the same size. For example, a small for one brand might be a medium for another.


Double check size information before purchasing to prevent receiving items that don’t fit your children.
 There are sites now that can put you in touch with other parents directly. Once you do, you can organize a clothing swap or pay money for clothing. Some common sites like this include Facebook, SwapStyle, threadUP, and Rehash Clothes.When you cut out the middle man, like a secondhand store or consignment shop, you'll likely save more money than you would otherwise.
 Paying for your items should be as simple as adding them to your online shopping cart, hitting the pay button, inputting your credit or debit card information, and then confirming the sale. After that, the items will be shipped to your home. Be sure to wash items before letting your child wear them.


A downside to buying clothing online is you won’t be able to inspect garments before purchasing them. Due to this fact, you may purchase an item that doesn’t have a tag. Hand wash these items separately in a bucket, clean tub or sink, and so on. Use cold water and a little detergent.In many cases, items without a tag can be cleaned by washing them separately in your washing machine in cold water.

