 Braids are one of the easiest and cheapest ways to make your hair look like you just left the beach. When you take the braids out, you should have natural waves.


First, wash your hair and towel or air dry it, but not completely. Use a thickening shampoo that is designed to help define curls and waves, not to straighten your hair. You want your hair to be a little damp as you style it. Separate your hair into 8 sections (smaller braids will create tighter waves). Then, braid each section. You could use French braiding instead as it is closer to your scalp, but either approach works. French braiding is preferable, though, because it will curl your roots and upper hair as well.
Leave your hair in braids for about 5-6 hours. It’s even better if you leave it in overnight. Remove the braids. Finger comb your hair because a brush or even a comb will mess up the waves and could make your hair look frizzy. Add a little hairspray if you want but not too much.
For best results, your hair should be completely dry when you take out the braids. If you take them out while your hair is still wet, the waves will fall out.This method works even if your hair hasn't been shampooed. If you just washed it yesterday, dampen it thoroughly with a spray bottle full of water. It should be damp, but not dripping wet.;
, If you don’t want the kinks of braids, or you don’t know how to do them, or don't have the time, try a bun instead. It will give you a beachy look.


To use the bun approach, simply twist your hair on top of your head or low – either works – and then secure it with a scrunchie. As with braids, you want to put the bun into your hair while it’s still damp. Sleep overnight with your hair in the bun. Then remove it, and run your fingers through it, and use hairspray to set the style. You could also divide your hair into four sections and tie each section up into a loose bun. Make sure you don't brush it when you remove the buns. Use your fingers or a wide tooth comb.
 You can also create beach-style waves by twisting your hair around a headband. This approach is a bit harder to pull off, but it can also work.


Take an elastic headband, and put it over your head. It must touch your forehead. Then, grab a piece of hair, and twist it. Wrap the hair around the inside of the headband.
Repeat the process until you have most of your hair twisted. Apply hair spray, and then sleep on it. As with the other approaches, this method works better with slightly damp hair that you then sleep on overnight.

