 If you are worried about any of the changes or side effects of testosterone, direct your questions to the doctor. You may want to ask:


What are the side effects of testosterone supplements?
Do I need to see an endocrinologist?
How do my testosterone levels look?
If your doctor is not knowledgeable about hormone replacement therapy for female to male transitions, or is not comfortable with prescribing testosterone to you, you may need to find another primary care physician or specialist who does have experience with hormone replacement therapy.
 You’ll also have your blood tested directly for testosterone levels.


If you have any conditions that could be worsened by taking testosterone (like blood clots or hormone-sensitive cancers), you may need additional tests. Your doctor might recommend an alternative treatment.
You might also simply need to exercise more or change your diet to correct symptoms like increased fat, decreased bone mass, and feelings of fatigue.
Your doctor might direct you to see an endocrinologist, a doctor who specializes in hormones.
It is illegal to buy, sell, or use testosterone without a prescription from a healthcare professional.
 Be sure to get at least two or three tests to establish your baseline testosterone level before deciding supplements are a good choice.


These tests will probably be performed in the morning, since that is when testosterone levels tend to be lowest.
A healthy testosterone range for men ranges from 250 – 1,100 nanograms per deciliter of blood.
Taking additional testosterone will not speed up puberty.
Testosterone treatments are not appropriate for age-related declines in testosterone levels.
 This might take the form of heart palpitations or arrhythmia, a fluttering or racing heart, or heart valve problems that could produce lightheadedness, chest pain, or general feelings of fatigue. Truly dangerous side effects include heart attacks, strokes, and heart failure.These side effects increase in likelihood with age.
 Common side effects of testosterone supplements include a high red blood cell count, breast enlargement, acne, and increased prostate size.Less common side effects include blood clots or swelling (edema) in the legs and/or ankles, pain in the breast, and sleep apnea (an inability to breathe properly during sleep). Testosterone has also been linked to negative sexual results, including changes in the size of testicles and low sperm counts.You might also experience:


Increased skin oiliness and acne
Unbalanced emotions (especially at high doses)
Headaches and migraines
An increased appetite
Weight gain and redistribution of fat around the abdomen
Unwanted or excessive body hair growth
Increased sweat production and stronger body odor
A receding hairline or male-pattern baldnessAn imbalance in thyroid function, especially if you have been treated for overactive or underactive thyroid function in the past.
 Some doctors rely on your reports of physical and mental changes to adjust your dosage rather than doing expensive blood tests during every visit, and your comfort level with the changes can be used to determine whether your dosage or prescription should be changed.


Before beginning testosterone therapy, your doctor should test your red blood cell count (hematocrit). Testosterone can cause an increase in hematocrit and hemoglobin, which increases the viscosity of your blood. This can make you at risk for blood clots and stroke.
Follow up with your doctor for routine exams and blood tests to stay healthy. You will need medical supervision for the entire time you are using hormone replacement therapy and for a while after you stop taking testosterone to detect and control any harmful changes or side effects.
If you decide that you do not wish to continue testosterone therapy, you are free to stop at any time, in consultation with your doctor. They can help you through any side effects from stopping hormone replacement therapy, and can help you find other treatments that can lessen your symptoms and help you reach your goals.

