 Stand at the sink or over the garbage before you go to peel your potato. This way you don’t end up with bits of potato skin all over your kitchen. There are two generic "shapes" potato peelers; here's how to hold each one:


If you have a standard long potato peeler, hold it like a paint roller, with your thumb balancing it in your fingers, but still away from the blade.
If you have a Y-shaped potato peeler, hold it like a pencil. This way is more efficient, and you’re less likely to hurt yourself. It should be resting between your middle finger and thumb (of your dominant hand), with your pointer finger holding it in position.;
, Imagine drawing a line with the peeler going away from you, with your elbow pointing out, away from your body. Start at the base and try to make one swift motion all the way up the potato. Ideally, you should be peeling off the skin in strips.









This goes for both shapes of potato peelers, even the y-shaped ones. Though it's possible grandma held it differently and drew it into her, this way you'll find results in a much cleaner potato.
Some potatoes are a bit fussier than others and the skin will come off in chunks – especially if the potato isn’t smooth and round. Pay special attention to these areas to get every last bit off; they'll need extra work (and a slower peel, lest you hurt yourself).
 As you get one side done, rotate it in your hand, developing a rhythm of peeling and rotating, peeling and rotating. Don't worry about peeling the top and bottom just yet.









This isn't a speed contest; go as slowly and patiently as you have to to avoid hurting yourself or taking off the good parts of the potato. Going slowly at first can help you perfect your technique for later, too.
 You may find that as you expose the inside of the potato, you see dark spots. This is pretty normal – few potatoes are perfect. Focus on this area and keep peeling until you’ve peeled away the dark layers entirely.









Sometimes the dark “meat” of the potato goes pretty deep (this is often called an "eye"). If this is the case, cut out the area with a knife or the edge of your peeler. The potato won't be perfectly round, but it'll still be good to eat.
 This part is sort of like shaving your knees – maneuver the peeler around the curves as best you can, going back to those teeny spots you inevitably end up missing.









Rinse with cold water when finished. Your potatoes are then clean and ready to be prepared.

