 It's best to keep lists of what needs to get done. That way, you'll be sure to remember it. It also gives you a sense of satisfaction to see the number of things-to-do go down as they get crossed out.;
, "Clean the bathroom" might seem overwhelming, but the task seems much more manageable when it's presented as "clean the toilet, wipe the mirror, clean the tub, wash the floor.", After you get home, try to get some simple things done, such as picking up clothes, washing dishes, and putting things in their places. That way, things won't pile up until they seem like impossible tasks., Maybe Monday nights you'll vacuum, Tuesday nights you'll mop the floor, Wednesday nights you'll do the laundry, Thursday nights you'll dust, and Friday nights you'll finish what's left., Everything around the house can be postponed, but a dirty kitchen can really get on your nerves, and makes you feel guilty every time you see the sink full of dirty dishes. So you do the dishes, then clean the counters, then mop the floor if you have time. If not, just put a wet rag on the floor and clean any stains, that way you will cheat your way to a clean kitchen.
 Bring a box and put all the stuff that does not belong in the living room (such as your kids' toys) into that box. Place the cushions of the couch in a tidy way and if you have the time or energy you can vacuum your carpet. You will get yourself a clean living room.
 Nothing feels better like waking up in the morning and going to a clean bathroom, make this your last task for the day. That way you will feel great about yourself giving your house and kids such a shiny clean bathroom, and cheating your way to a clean bathroom is really easy. Start by cleaning the toilet by the brush and toilet cleaner (any kind), then clean the edges of the bathtub and apply some cleanser to the sink while cleaning the bathtub and the toilet. That way, by the time you finish them you do not need to scrub the sink. Put a wet rag under your feet and move it around the floor of the bathroom and that shall make it shine.

