 Every seemingly normal situation can be made funnier and more interesting when you add some mischief. Change the way you see everyday life in order to create something fresh and act differently.For example, instead of seeing a banana on the table as just a piece of fruit, pick it up and start talking to your dentist. Cultivate your impulsive side by acting in ways you might not normally act.
Being mischievous relies on your ability to act spontaneous. The point is to always be on the lookout for an opportunity.;
, Risk taking is a critical aspect of being mischievous. Live to your fullest potential by not worrying too much about the consequences. If you tend to be a serious person, this can be a difficult. Try to replace your feelings of stress or anxiety with lightheartedness.For example: it’s late at night. You and your friends are bored and hungry. That's the perfect opportunity to go outside and find an adventure. Why not take a late night walk to the 24-hour diner across town?

, There might be someone in your friend group, class, or at work who is considered mischievous. Observe how they crack jokes or play practical jokes for fun. There is no need to seek out people who vandalize public property. These people aren't being mischievous; they're just being jerks.


Don’t ask for advice from this person, but instead observe how they act. You could even try to hang out with them if it is appropriate.
There are many famous characters who are mischievous. For example, Peter Pan values play and friendship over anything else. Peter Pan can be reckless, but that is what makes him an influential and mischievous leader to the Lost Boys., While you are first starting to get the hang of acting mischievous, you need to be careful you don't take things too far. If you are ever in a situation where somebody may be hurt physically or emotionally, back out of the prank. Avoid anything that is illegal, like graffiti or arson.


There is a line between mild jesting and being a nuisance. It is not always clear, in the beginning, what side of the line you stand on.
Take advice from your peers seriously. If your friend says you are acting hurtful, you are becoming more of a nuisance than a mischief.

