 The spring is the best season to plant most saplings or seedlings. Extreme hot or cold weather leads to "transplant shock" which can cause seedlings to die prematurely.Planting your trees in the spring will also lead to greater root growth before top growth begins., Before you start planting your trees, you'll want to use a measuring tape to ensure a 5–8 foot (1.5–2.4 m) radius around each of your trees. Plant a flag in the spots where you'll eventually dig holes to plant your trees. This will also let you know how many saplings that you can grow on your plot.
 Go to the locations of your flags and dig a hole that's big enough to fit the sapling's roots. Usually, this means digging a hole at least a foot deep. An electric drill with an auger bit will allow you to do this quickly and easily. You can also use manual tools like a shovel to dig your hole., Place the saplings into the holes that you created. To encourage growth, pour an inch of topsoil into the hole before you plant your sapling. Pack soil around the hole once the tree is in it. Finish by tamping the soil with a garden tool, like a shovel.
 Use a garden hose or watering bucket to saturate the soil around the plant site for your trees. This will help initial root growth and will prevent your seedlings from dying because of a lack of water.For the first year, your trees will need weekly watering. After the first year, you won't have to water your tree forest unless there is a drought.Test the moistness of your soil by sticking a screwdriver eight inches (203.2 millimeters) into the soil. The screwdriver will easily pass through the soil it it's moist. If you can't push it down, it means that your soil needs more water., Shearing your trees will help shape the trees to grow the way that you want. Use tools like hand clippers, hedge clippers and shearing knives to maintain the shape of your tree. The time to shear your tree depends on the climate and type of tree that you are growing. Remove the double tops and cut the main shoot 12 to 14 inches (30.5 to 35.6 cm). You won't have to shear many of the side branches.Pines should be sheared during the growing season, near the time that terminal growth is almost complete.
Douglas firs should be sheared late July or early August.

