 Update your resume before you begin the application process. Make sure that it is accurate and free of spelling mistakes and grammar mistake.Tailor the "objective" portion of your resume so that it is specific to Starbucks and to the position you wish to apply for.
Keep it fairly simple, too. You should include work experiences from the last 10 years, starting with the most recent, and mention your education and any relevant professional achievements. Describe how your professional accomplishments added value to your previous work experiences.;
, You can apply for a position using the company Career Center website, or you can apply in person at specific locations or public events.


You can visit the Career Center page at: http://www.starbucks.com/careers

When applying online, search for the position you're interested in and apply to it by following the on-screen instructions. Fill out the entire application form and upload your resume when requested.
Starbucks tends to be active on large college campuses and also hosts numerous regional career fairs. You can usually apply in person at either event. If you know of a local Starbucks currently hiring, you can usually go there directly to fill out the appropriate application.
 If you're interested in a corporate career with Starbucks but don't have the education and experience for it, apply to the company's annual internship program.


Internships offered through the program are paid positions.
The program is open to college students and usually hosts roughly 50 interns. You'll end up working at the company's headquarters in Seattle, Washington, for approximately 10 to 12 weeks during the summer.You'll need to attend a local recruitment event to apply for an internship. Talk to the Career Services office of your university for assistance or ask your local Starbucks staff for information about upcoming events.
 There are six basic types of retail positions you can get at Starbucks: baristas, shift supervisors, assistant store managers, store managers, district managers, and regional directors.Additionally, there are numerous corporate positions to consider, as well. Each position has its own specific requirements, and you'll need to meet those requirements to get the job.


Note that for all positions, you must be at least 16 years old and legally allowed to work within the country.
Lower-level positions, like baristas, are easier to break into without experience or education. In fact, you can start in a retail position without a degree and train on the job to acquire greater skill sets. Starbucks also has its own "College Achievement Plan" to help employees finish their degrees.
While the company still accepts applicants with varied, diverse backgrounds when filling corporate positions, your odds of being hired will improve greatly if you have the right education and experience backing you. These requirements are usually similar within the field the job belongs in. For instance, if you want a corporate financial position, you'll probably need a college degree in accounting, business finance, or a similar subject.
 After receiving your application, the hiring manager will review all of the candidates and select those who seem most eligible. If yours is among the chosen applications, you should receive a phone call within several days to one week.The exact amount of time can vary depending on how many candidates applied to the position, so try to be patient.
When you hear from the hiring manager, be prepared to set up a date and time for your interview.
 Before going to the interview, you need to familiarize yourself with the Starbucks corporation, the specific Starbucks location you applied with, and the overall culture promoted by Starbucks.


Spend time inside of the Starbucks location to gain some understanding of the ambiance there. You don't need to love coffee, but you should know plenty about it and about the other drinks Starbucks serves.
Review the company's mission statement: "To inspire and nurture the human spirit – one person, one cup and one neighborhood at a time."Analyze the statement and develop your own ideas about what it means.
Read about the latest news concerning Starbucks and its competitors, both locally and nationally.
Try to research the specific team you'll meet with. At the very least, you should know the names of the teammates. Consider checking LinkedIn for information about their background and experience, too.
 During the interview, you should usually wear business casual clothes. This is true even if you're only applying to a low-level retail position and even if you know that you won't need to wear such clothes if you actually get the job.


Your clothes don't need to be bland, but they do need to be relatively conservative and formal for the interview to demonstrate your seriousness about the position.
You need to be well-groomed, too. Take a shower, brush your teeth, and comb your hair.
 Even though the hiring manager may already have a copy of your resume, you should bring another copy with you to the interview. Use it to cite specific experiences and qualifications.You may need to hand over your copy immediately, or you may be able to keep it throughout the interview. Either way, you should avoid reading directly off the resume as much as possible.
 Body language is the best way to demonstrate your focus. Make eye contact, smile when it's appropriate, and shake hands when you greet and depart from the hiring manager.


Even if you have a phone interview, you also need to give the hiring manager your full attention. Do not text, surf the Internet, or distract yourself in any other way during the interview.
 The person in charge of your interview will ask you a series of behavioral-based questions. Answer each question as thoroughly and accurately as possible.


You'll likely be asked about how you've handled past situations and may need to talk about past mistakes. Provide real-life examples in your answers instead of offering generalities, and explain how you've learned and improved yourself through each experience.
Listen carefully to each question and make sure that your answer addresses that question completely. Relax, but stay on topic and avoid rambling about unrelated matters.
 Typically, the company looks for people who are passionate about their culture and their company, so express plenty of enthusiasm about the possibility of working there.


You need to describe why you want to work at Starbucks. This answer should also have some connection to your values and your overall career goals.
You don't need to love coffee, but you need to have some appreciation for the place coffee has within society and your local community.
Additionally, you should also show passion for your community itself. Company policy dictates that each branch should be interested in becoming part of the community its in, so if you live in the area and know the culture there, you'll improve your odds of getting hired.
 Coming to the interview with your own questions demonstrates more interest in the position. The questions you ask should be specific to the team and location you'll be involved with.


For example, you might want to ask about the qualities your hiring manager values most or the opportunities you'll have to contribute to the team. You can also ask specific about specific job requirements or responsibilities.
 This isn't strictly necessary, but it can leave a good impression if you do it the right way. Consider sending a "thank you" note immediately after the interview that elaborates on something previously discussed. The note should make the hiring manager think about you specifically.


On the other hand, you should avoid sending a form-letter note. Doing so may not hurt your chances of being hired, but it won't leave a lasting impression and may make you appear dispassionate about the job.
 If the hiring manager chooses you for the position, you should receive a phone call shortly after completing the interview. For many retail positions, the call will come within a week. For most corporate positions, it should come within two weeks to one month.


For management positions and corporate positions, you might be called back for one or two more interviews before you hear back on the final decision. Go through each interview process in the same general manner as the one before it.
 Starbucks hires new employees on a daily basis, but the company also receives countless applications. Even if you have the right experience and handle the interview appropriately, there is no way to guarantee that you'll get the job.


Retail positions are more prevalent than corporate positions, and lower-level positions are easier to break into than upper-level ones. Approximately 70 percent of the company's employees are promoted within the company, including shifts from retail to corporate careers.
 If you get hired—congratulations! Find out when your new job starts and what your new supervisor expects of you. If you don't get hired, you'll need to determine what to do from that point on.


You should discuss your pay and benefits package once you're offered the position and before you accept it. Nearly any employee working 20 or more hours a week is eligible for a benefits package with Starbucks.When applying for barista and shift supervisor positions, your application is considered active for 60 days. For all other retail and corporate positions, your application remains active for 12 months. During this time, a member of the appropriate team will contact you if a new position opens within the area, so you don't need to immediately reapply if you don't get the job you originally applied for.

