 The Fertility Treatment is a Lifetime Reward that you can purchase if you have 10,000 Happiness points. You gain Happiness points as long as your Sim is in a good mood, and you can gain significant bonuses for fulfilling your Sim’s Desires and completing his or her Lifetime Wish.Click the triangular button labeled “Sim Panel”.
Click on the treasure chest button labeled Lifetime Happiness.
Click on the Lifetime Rewards button.
Scroll until you find the Fertility Treatment. This reward costs 10,000 points.
For maximum effectiveness, both parents should have this reward.;
, To have twins or even triplets, your Sim has to be pregnant. To get a Sim pregnant, the two Sims of opposite gender must have a high romantic relationship. The Relationship bar will need to be almost full for pregnancy to occur.


When the Sims are getting intimate, there will be a "Try for Baby" option in the Romance menu. You must use this option, as pregnancy rarely occurs otherwise. If you hear a lullaby twinkle sound when they are done, your female is pregnant, although the sound doesn’t always play.
 Once your Sim is pregnant, she should constantly be watching Kidz Zone on TV, listening to the Children’s Music radio station, and reading pregnancy books. You have several in-game days before the birth, and the mother should be performing these actions as much as possible.


Try to keep the mother happy during the pregnancy so that you have some control over the traits of the new infants.
 Decide whether you want boys or girls. If you want boys, eat three or more apples consecutively in the first two days of the pregnancy. If you want girls, eat three or more watermelons continuously in the first two days of the pregnancy., Once you’ve given birth, it’s time to start taking care of the new kids. Make sure you have extra money set aside, as raising twins is significantly more expensive than a single child.
 If you have Showtime, you can wish for a large family with a Genie. Your Sim will get a moodlet, "Feeling Fertile," which will remain until they Try for Baby; this interaction will automatically result in a set of triplets.
 If you have Supernatural, drinking a Procreation Elixir will give your Sim a "Twinkle in the Eye" moodlet for 8 hours. Trying for a baby within those 8 hours will automatically result in twins or triplets.
 If you give your female Sim a massage using the Infinite Zen Massage Table (available in The Sims 3 Store), she will get the "High Fertility" moodlet for 24 hours. Trying for a baby during those 24 hours will result in twins or triplets.

