 Since DACA recipients entered the country illegally, they do not qualify for an adjustment of status because they have never been inspected or legally admitted. However, if you leave and re-enter on “advance parole,” then you technically have been inspected and admitted into the U.S.After re-entering the U.S. using advance parole, you might be eligible for adjustment of status if an immediate relative who is a U.S. citizen sponsors you for a green card.
 Instead, DACA only prevents you from being deported. If you leave on DACA status, the U.S. government can deny you re-entry. However, you can seek permission (“advance parole”) which can allow you to leave and re-enter. You can seek advance parole for the following purposes:Education. For example, you might participate in study abroad or perform academic research.
Employment. You can seek advance parole for work-related purposes, such as attending trainings, interviews, or client meetings.
Humanitarian. You can seek advance parole to get medical help, visit a sick family member, or attend a funeral. You may also seek advance parole to attend to another urgent family matter.
 As of 2016, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) allows people who re-enter the country by advance parole to apply for an adjustment of status if they otherwise qualify. However, in the future, DHS might change its interpretation of the law. In particular, a new President who takes office in 2017 might change the law.


Furthermore, getting advance parole doesn’t mean the government will automatically let you back in. Instead, it authorizes you to seek re-entry. Customs and Border Protection could still deny you entry.For example, Customs and Border Protection might find that you are unhealthy and shouldn’t be allowed back in.
You should talk with your attorney about the risks involved with leaving the country and trying to re-enter. This article is not a substitute for legal advice.
 You must download and complete Form I-131 to get advance parole. This form and its instructions are available at the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) website.Alternately, you may call 1-800-870-3676 to ask for a form.


Complete the form neatly using black ink. You can also type the information into the form.
Answer every question that applies to you. If a question doesn’t apply, write in “N/A” or “not applicable.”
You can use additional sheets of paper, if necessary, to answer questions. Type your name at the top of the sheet. Also include your Alien Registration Number (if you have one). Be sure to identify the Part and Item Number that your answer refers to.
 USCIS wants proof that you have a valid reason as a DACA recipient to travel outside the U.S. Accordingly, you should look for the following documents, depending on why you are requesting advance parole:Educational reasons: You should seek a letter from a school official describing why the travel is beneficial or required. Alternately, you could get a document showing that you are enrolled in an education program that requires that you travel outside the U.S.
Employment purposes: get a letter from an employer or a conference host describing why you need to travel for your job.
Humanitarian purposes. You need documentary proof of a family member’s death or serious illness. A death certificate or a letter from a doctor could qualify. If you are traveling for medical treatment, then you should get a letter from your doctor explaining why you need to leave the country for medical treatment.
 You also need to provide USCIS with a copy of your photo ID as part of your application for advance parole. For example, a copy of the identity page of your passport or a state-issued driver’s license is acceptable., You should provide USCIS with a copy of your Form I-797, Notice of Action, which shows that action has been deferred on your case. However, if Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) deferred action, then you should submit a copy of the letter, notice, or approval order issued by ICE., Gather your entire application packet: Form I-131, supporting documents, check or money order. Make a copy for your records. As a DACA recipient, you will mail your application via U.S. Postal Service to USCIS, PO Box 5757, Chicago, IL 60680-5757.If you use a courier service (like UPS or FedEx), then you should send your application to USCIS, ATTN: Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, 131 S. Dearborn—3rd Floor, Chicago, IL 60603-5517.
Remember to include the $360 fee. Make your check or money order payable to “U.S. Department of Homeland Security.” Avoid using abbreviations such as “DHS” or “USDHS.”Because fee information is subject to change, you should call 1-800-375-5283 to get the updated amount.
Also provide additional information, if requested. USCIS might contact you to provide additional information. They may also call and ask that you attend an interview at an agency office. Be sure to provide requested information as promptly as possible.
 After USCIS grants you advance parole, they will mail you Form I-512L, Authorization for Parole of an Alien into the United States. You will need to have this form when you travel.Remember to take the original with you.
 Remember not to stay too long out of the country. Your Form I-512L should have an expiration date on it. Make sure to return to the U.S. before this date. If you overstay, you will probably be denied re-entry into the United States and you will lose your DACA status.


You will need to show your Form I-512L when you get on a plane, bus, or boat to head back to the United States. You must also show it to Customs and Border Protection on your attempted re-entry to the United States., Once you are inspected and paroled back into the U.S., you can have an immediate family member sponsor you for an adjustment of status to legal permanent resident.


The family member must be an “immediate relative,” such as a spouse, parents, or children.Your family member has to start the process by filing an I-130 petition, which they can download from the USCIS website.
See Obtain Green Cards for Your Family for more information.

