 Gently warm up one cup of honey over low heat. Add 3-4 tablespoons of freshly squeezed lemon juice to the warm honey. Add ¼ to ⅓ cup water to the honey-lemon mixture and stir while continuing to heat on low. Refrigerate the mixture. When you need the cough medicine, take 1-2 tablespoons as needed.


Medicinal honey, such as Manuka honey from New Zealand, is recommended but any organic honey will have antibacterial and antiviral properties.Lemon juice contains high levels of Vitamin C-- the juice of 1 lemon contains 51% of the daily Vitamin C requirement. Lemon juice also has antibacterial and antiviral properties.It is believed that the combination of Vitamin C and the antimicrobial properties make lemon useful for coughs.Do not give honey to any child under 12 months of age. There is a small risk of getting infant botulism from bacterial toxins sometimes found in honey. There are less than 100 cases of infant botulism in the US every year and most babies recover fully, but better to be safe!;
, Cut a washed, whole lemon into thin slices (along with the skin and the seeds). Add the slices to one cup of honey. Heat over low heat for 10 minutes with constant stirring.


Break up the lemon slices as you stir.
Once finished cooking, strain the mixture to get the leftover lemon slices out and then refrigerate.
 Garlic has antibacterial, antiviral, antiparasitic and antifungal properties.Peel 2-3 cloves of garlic and chop them as finely as possible. Add it to the honey-lemon mixture before you add water. Heat on low flame for about 10 minutes. Then add ¼ to ⅓ cup water to the honey-lemon mixture and stir in while heating over the low flame.


Refrigerate the mixture. When you need the cough medicine, take 1-2 tablespoons as needed.
 Ginger is often used to improve digestion and to treat nausea and vomiting, but it has also been traditionally used as an expectorant. It can help a cough by thinning out mucus and phlegm and as a bronchial relaxant.Cut and peel about 1.5 inches of fresh ginger root. Finely grate it and add to honey-lemon mixture before adding water. Heat on low flame for about 10 minutes. Then add ¼ to ⅓ cup water, stir the mixture, and then refrigerate.
Refrigerate the mixture.
When you need the cough medicine, take 1-2 tablespoons.
 Licorice is also an expectorant. It is mildly stimulating, so it helps to produce phlegm and thereby remove it from the lungs.Add 3-5 drops of Licorice (Glycyrrhiza glabra) essential oil or 1 teaspoon of dried licorice root to the honey-lemon mixture before you add water. Heat on low flame for about 10 minutes then add ¼ to ⅓ cup water to the mixture while continuing to heat over the low flame.
Refrigerate the mixture. Take 1-2 tablespoons as needed.
 If you don’t have, don’t like, or can’t use honey, substitute glycerin. Heat ½ cup of glycerin with ½ cup of water over low heat. Then add 3-4 tablespoons of lemon juice to the mixture. Add ¼ to ⅓ cup water to the glycerin-lemon mixture and stir while continuing to heat over the low flame. Refrigerate the mixture. When you need the cough medicine, take 1-2 tablespoons as needed.


Glycerin has “generally recognized as safe” (GRAS) status with the FDA. Pure glycerin is a colorless and somewhat sweet vegetable product that is used to make all sorts of ingestible products and personal care products.Because glycerine it is hygroscopic-- it takes up water-- it can be helpful in small amounts to reduce any swelling in the throat.
You should get natural glycerin (and not the synthetic or man-made form).
Be aware that glycerin is used to treat constipation, so if diarrhea becomes a problem, reduce the amount of glycerin used (¼ cup glycerin with ¾ cup water in the basic recipe).
Prolonged and excessive ingestion of glycerin can increase blood sugar and blood fat levels.