 Encourage your customers to post pictures of their fathers and husbands doing what they do best. That might include playing with their kids, fixing the car, or cooking dinner. Ask people to vote on their favorites or select the winners yourself. Give the winners a free gift, such as a major discount on your hottest-selling product or a gift card to a local home improvement store.;
, When someone buys something from your site, send them a gift card to a restaurant in their city. Treat them to a Father's Day dinner on you. You can even let them pick the restaurant of their choice at the time of their order.   To make the offer financially viable, limit it to orders that exceed a certain dollar amount. For example, you might send customers a $50 gift card if they spend $250 or more. Tip: you can buy gift cards at a discount from auction sites, card-swapping sites, and club stores, such as Costco.
 Allow visitors to your site on June 15th to get a discount if they type in a special Father's Day code. For example, offer to slash prices by 30% if they type "I love my dad!" in a special field during the checkout process. How will people know what code to type in to get the discount? That's where you're marketing prowess come in handy. Send out press releases. Email the people on your mailing list. Spread the word on Facebook and Twitter. Submit a few guest blogs and mention the promo in your author bio. If you run a traditional storefront, you can still use this idea. Simply let your customers know that they can get the discount by whispering "I love my dad!" to the person handling the register.
 If you sell items that people might purchase as gifts for their dads - for example, golf shirts, power tools, premium beef jerky, etc. - offer to gift wrap them. Also, let your customers submit heartfelt or humorous notes that can be sent along with the gift

, This promotion idea is meant to be fun and playful. If people have a fun time shopping at your site, they'll be left with a positive impression of you and your company. Here's how it works: When someone orders a product from your site on Father's Day, let them choose a fun giveaway item they can give to their fathers and husbands. For example, offer to send a pair of stress balls with a note that says, "Because being an awesome dad is a stressful job!" Or send a special Father's Day first-aid kit that has the words "Be careful dad!" emblazoned on the top. Dads can keep it handy when they tackle those pesky do-it-yourself jobs around the house. The point is to give your customers a fun way to celebrate the holiday.
 Along with every order that meets a certain dollar amount, send a t-shirt that lists the reasons we love our dads. For example, print the words "27 Reasons I Love My Dad" on the front of the shirt at the top and cover the front and back. Include a few humour lines too. Make sure the t-shirt is made of quality material so it doesn't fall apart after a few wash cycles. Some examples of lines are:


He's honest
He's hardworking
He's devoted
He's dependable
He's patient
He laughs at my jokes
He can fix anything
He's a great cook
He loves his family
He still has some hair on his head
He doesn't snore too loudly
He lets me have the TV remote (sometimes)

