 Before you make any assumptions about your spouse’s response to your friend’s behavior, find out if they thought your friend was being deliberately flirtatious, or just being friendly. Sometimes kindness, polite conversation, and friendly attention can be mis-construed as flirting.Say something like, “I noticed that Ben stayed near you at the bar yesterday and didn’t seem interested in talking to other people. Do you think he was flirting or just being friendly?”
You should have this conversation relatively soon after the flirting occurred. It will do you little good to wait a month before bringing up the incident.
 Married partners should be emotionally transparent with one another, and this situation certainly calls for transparency. In this situation, you need to help your partner understand your emotions, and bottling up your feelings of frustration won’t help.You don’t need to be petty or sarcastic; rather, help your partner understand why the flirting bothers you. Say something like:


“I think that Steve was flirting with you last night; it made me feel like you enjoy talking to him more than to me, and I couldn’t help but wonder if you enjoyed the flirtation.”
“It made me jealous to see Jess flirt with you at the party; I don’t like it when other people speak to you like that.”

, Unless your spouse was clearly enjoying the flirting and even flirting back, don’t blame him or her for having encouraged the attention, as this was likely not the case.Also, if you blame your partner, they will likely react with hostility and may accuse you of prying or being overly sensitive, which will stop productive conversation.


You can clarify this by saying, “I know you didn’t ask to be flirted with, and no part of it is your fault.”
However, if your spouse becomes defensive or evasive, that is also information. Sometimes flirting can indicate that someone is cheating.
 This should be a healthy and productive conversation for both you and your partner, in which you can clarify what you do and do not find acceptable concerning behavior that seems like flirting with other people. The line between flirting and normal social behavior can be thin, so you and your spouse should name specific actions that are either acceptable or too far—and make it clear that any sexually suggestive behavior or comments from other people are inappropriate.Say something like:


“Of course friends can hug each other, but it concerns me when other men put their arm around your waist.”
“You and Cindy seemed to be sharing a lot of inside jokes last night after the movie, and didn’t spend time conversing with anyone else. That makes it seem like you’re flirting with her.”
You can use this as an opportunity to make a list of boundaries that are important for each of you in the relationship.

