 The cost of insulin products is not the same at all pharmacies. Every pharmacy sets its own price and large chains can often use their buying power to demand lower prices from the pharmaceutical companies. Ideally, these savings are then passed on to you.Compare prices at the pharmacies of big box stores, local pharmacies, and online sellers. If may be more cost effective to buy insulin online, even with shipping costs.;
, There are a wide variety of insulin products on the market and they all have different pricing. For example, longer lasting insulins, which only have the advantage of being injected once a day instead of multiple times and may not work any better, are typically more expensive than shorter-lasting insulins.Make a list of products that you think might cost you less. You can then take this list to your doctor and discuss your options.
 Most pharmaceutical companies that make insulin have financial assistance programs for low-income individuals that need their products. In order to get insulin at a discounted price from a pharmaceutical company, you will need to apply to their programs and meet their eligibility requirements.Each company has a different financial assistance program. These programs have slightly different requirements, so you may qualify for one and not for another.
 There are non-profit assistance programs that can help you find financial support if you cannot afford your insulin. These programs work by searching all pharmaceutical company assistance programs and government sponsored and other discount programs in order to find one that will be right for you.These programs are helpful because they remove the work of you contacting each pharmaceutical company individually.
In order to use one of these programs you will need to fill out an application. They will ask for your basic information, your income, and your monthly insulin costs.
If you meet the eligibility requirements, these programs can reduce your insulin costs dramatically.

