 Use a sharp knife and slice the beef into strips along with the grain. Each strip should be about 2 inches (5 cm) wide. Cut each strip crosswise into 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) slices.;
, In a large bowl, whisk together the cornstarch, half the soy sauce, and the sesame oil. Add the beef, then stir well until all the meat is coated.


Set the meat aside for 10 to 20 minutes.
 Use your hands to separate the noodles into strips. If necessary, cut the noodles into 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) pieces.


Note that the noodles may break into shorter pieces as you separate them.
Use actual chow fun noodles if possible. If not, use any wide rice noodle.
 Cut the white portions off the green onions. Smack the white parts with the flat side of your knife, and place them in a bowl.


You should also add the ginger and garlic to the same bowl, as well.
Place the green portions of the onion in a separate bowl. Set aside.
 In a small bowl, whisk together the white pepper, sugar, remaining soy sauce, rice wine, oyster sauce, and water.


Place this seasoning liquid near the stove, next to the other ingredients.
 Place a large skillet or wok on the stove and heat it on high. Once hot, add 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of cooking oil.


The skillet is hot enough when you can add a bead of water to it and watch it evaporate withing 1 to 2 seconds.
 Place the ginger, garlic, and crushed sections of the green onion in the hot oil. Cook, stirring constantly, for 15 seconds or until the aroma gets drawn out.


Once ready, carefully push the aromatics to one side of the pan.
 Add the beef to the pan in a flat layer. Sear it without stirring for 1 minute.
 Place the bean sauce in the skillet. Stir together with the beef and continue cooking for 30 seconds.


Use black bean garlic sauce. If you cannot find any at the store, you can crush 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of cooked black beans with a fork and add that, instead.
The beef should be cooked through, but be careful to avoid overcooking it.
Once cooked, remove the beef, bean sauce, and aromatics. Set it aside.
After removing the contents of the pan, rinse and dry the pan.
 Reheat the pan on high heat before adding another 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of oil. Add the noodles in a flat layer and sear, without stirring, for 2 minutes or until crusty. Add the bean sprouts and cook, stirring constantly, for another 1 minute or until the sprouts are soft.


Note that some noodles may stick to the pan during this time.
 Place the beef and aromatics in the pan, along with any juices. Add the remaining green onions and stir to combine. Add the seasoning liquid and stir-fry for another 1 minute.


When done, the beef should be well cooked and the sauce should be heated through.
 Remove the chow fun from the heat and transfer it to a serving platter. Serve immediately.

