 If the jerk is merely trying to get a ‘rise’ out of people, try to deny him or her this. More importantly, you don’t want his or her unfriendliness to escalate into an actual conflict. Let that person play the role of the office jerk. Remember the aspects of your job and your home life that make you happy and try to move past the jerk's unfriendliness., If the jerk is intentionally being unfriendly with you, he or she will be put off by your continued kindness. However, don’t ‘smother’ him or her with kindness. It will be obvious if you are trying to combat his or her unfriendliness with the opposite. You don’t want to come off as trying to combat their behavior in any way. That will only prolong the behavior, and even turn it into a dispute.For example, a cheery “good morning” as he or she passes by is always appropriate. However, don’t make a point of walking over to his or her work station every morning and asking a lot of questions about his or her plans the previous evening with a big smile on your face.
 Remember you are not at work to make friends. Punch the clock, do your job, punch the clock again, and go home. Focusing on your job is another way to keep from dwelling on a jerk's behavior. Additionally, if he or she is being rude to you because you aren’t performing well, this should help. It shows you are trying to improve and you take the job seriously.
 There is, almost certainly, no line in your hiring paperwork that says you have to be friends with your coworkers. Interact with unfriendly coworkers when you need to and be pleasant when you are around them. Don’t try to force relationships to get better by regularly sitting next to a particularly unfriendly coworker at lunch. Not everyone will get along, and that is ok.
 A better way to release the tension of dealing with a rude coworker is telling your spouse or friend at home. Do a better job of keeping your unpleasant thoughts out of the workplace than he or she does. Find people you can talk to, but who will also help you move on with your life.
 Remember that old saying, “living well is the best revenge?” The jerk may have problems at home that make him or her need to feel like the alpha dog at work. Though your chosen career should be fulfilling and satisfying, strive for a healthy work-life balance. It is ok to vent on especially bad days, but recognize that your rude coworker may not change. Start to think instead about what you want to do after work on your commute home rather than dwelling on, for example, Bob’s rude comment at lunch.
 The best way to cope with a rude colleague is by minimizing the number of times you let him or her surprise you. This means hearing a rude quip or comment and thinking, for example, ‘well, that’s Bob for you.’ It can be difficult to do, as most people do not repeat themselves word-for-word every day. However, there should be distinct patterns to his or her unfriendliness. Remember that this is a way of brushing off the jerk's rudeness, not validating it.


For example, you might notice that he or she makes a comment or chuckles every time you answer a question wrong in meetings. Though the comment may be different, accept it as today’s rude outburst.
Another pattern of rude behavior might be consistently challenging your suggestions. As long as you don’t let his or her grandstanding get in the way of doing the job well, it might be harmless. Calmly explain your rationale and let other coworkers help you make the right decision.
 It is an unfortunate aspect of human behavior that we don’t like to change – especially when others tell us to. Hopefully the jerk's rudeness will subside with time, but it may not. Remember that your coworkers are not the same as friends or family, and focus on the other aspects of your life. You might need to give up trying to control their behavior. The less you let yourself dwell on their rudeness, the happier you will be.

