 Regardless of the device, it's possible to turn off Wi-Fi. Some devices have a physical switch that turns on or turns off the Wi-Fi, while others just have the ability to toggle Wi-Fi on the software settings. Make sure that the computer does not have the Wi-Fi capability turned off before proceeding.;
, Navigate to your device's settings and open them, and then navigate to the network settings. You can also click on the Wi-Fi icon on a computer's toolbar to open up a dropdown menu, which will list the names of the connections in the area.
 Your broadband network's router should have the default name written on it. The name of a hotspot network will usually show up by default as the name of your cellular device (e.g. "'s iPhone"). Find this name and select it.


Wi-Fi or hotspot names can be changed, but if you've changed the name of your network or hotspot, you probably know what it is. If you weren't the one to change it, or you don't know what the name is, ask the person in charge of the network.
 Some networks are public, but most aren't. If the network you're trying to connect to has a password, you'll be prompted for that password before you can connect to the network. The default password will usually be listed on the router, but if you don't know the password, ask the person in charge of the network.


Some protected public networks may have varying passwords per person. For example, a school may allow students to log on to the network with their student ID number, rather than a single set password.
 It often takes a few seconds for a computer to connect to a wireless source, but if the computer can't establish the connection to the router, it will time out the Wi-Fi connection. In this case, move closer to the source, or disconnect and then reconnect your computer to the Wi-Fi.
 Once you've connected to the internet, open up a page in your web browser and wait for it to load. Since some pages can crash, you may want to load up a reputable website, such as google.com or isup.me to ensure that the website isn't going to be down.
 For some people, the Wi-Fi will connect without a hitch. For others, that's not the case. There are many reasons that a computer may not be able to connect to the wireless connection; most computers have a built-in software that can distinguish what the problem is. A few common problems are listed below:


Some older computers are unable to connect to the internet wirelessly. You may need an ethernet cable to get online.
If the internet is slow or won't connect, you may be out of range of the router or hotspot. Try moving closer to the source.
If the network isn't showing up, you may be out of range, or the network may be down. Try moving closer or rebooting your router.

