 If you want to have the best make out session in the movies, then you should pick a movie that will make you and your kissing partner get that loving feeling. Now, you may kind of both already know that you're just going in there for some lip action, not to see the latest Oscar nominee give a breathtaking performance. You should pick something romantic, or something boring and nondescript, so you have lots of time to kiss without missing out. Just avoid anything too gory, scary, or important. You probably don't want to get caught making out during a movie about hate crimes or civil rights.


Any summer blockbuster, romantic comedy, or action flick is perfect for making out. You don't want your kissing partner to turn you away, saying, "Hang on, I want to see what happens."
You should also be careful not to pick a new movie on the day it comes out, or the theaters will be packed. Try to pick something that has been out in theaters for a while, or something you've never even heard of. This will make it more likely for you to get some privacy.
Additionally, if you're old enough, go see a Rated R or PG-13 movie. You want to minimize the amount of small kids in the audience or it'll be a real buzz kill.;
, Do you want a large popcorn with extra butter — or a long make out session with extra lovin'? Maybe you can get some M&Ms and save them for later, or a large soda to quench your thirst, but you should avoid going all out when it comes to concessions, or they'll get in the way of trying to make out. You don't want to kiss or caress your partner's face if your fingers are covered in nacho cheese or popcorn butter.


If you really can't do without your popcorn, maybe go back for it at half-time, after you've had some time to kiss.
 Though it can be hard to get true privacy in a public place, you can definitely try to sit somewhere more private so you don't get angry stares and so you don't get reprimanded by Grandma. Find two seats that are in the back so people don't see your smooching silhouettes instead of what Denzel Washington is doing. Beyond that, try to sit toward the wall, in a row without any people in it, or which isn't surrounded by people. This will make you feel less shy about making a move.


If you know the theatre won't be packed, try to come in a little late, so you can stake out a private spot without having a family of 8 sit down behind you at the last minute.
 It'll be awkward to try to lock lips before you even really start touching each other. Guys can casually drape their arms over the seat at the start of the movie and then ease the arm over their girl's shoulder as the movie progresses. You can also move close enough that your outer feet or arms are touching, so you can break the touch barrier a bit. If you're in one of those fancy theaters with a movable arm rest, move it up so you'll be sitting even closer to your kissing partner.


Another thing is that movie theaters are always cold. Guys can ask their girls if they're cold, and when they say they are, it's an excuse to cuddle up even closer together.
 Once you've moved closer together, you can start to touch each other a bit. You can hold hands, making sure to caress the fingers from time to time instead of letting your hands sit there like limp fish. You can also gently touch each other's knees or arms as you take it to an even more intimate level.


Just remember to give it some time. You don't have to hold hands the second the movie starts. Make it feel natural instead of rushing into it — unless you feel like the most natural thing to do is to start making out right away.
 Though it can be hard to make eye contact when you're both supposed to be looking ahead, intently watching the movie, it'll also be pretty hard to kiss without actually looking at each other. After you've been touching each other for a while, or even if you're making jokes to each other about the movie, you can slowly turn toward each other and make eye contact. This will let your kissing partner know that you're interested in more than just the movie.


Lock eyes for a second, and look away. Alternately, you can let your eyes linger and let your partner know that it's time for the kissing to begin.
 Now it's time to angle your heads and move closer to each other until your lips almost touch. You can put your arms on your partner's hips, hands, or even his or her face to complete the gesture. If this feels like too much, you can just start with a simple kiss and then use your hands once you turn up the heat. Continue to look into your partner's eyes and get ready for more.


Just keep in mind that, if you and your date haven't really made out yet, the movie theatre may not be the best place to start. Trying to make out with someone you haven't kissed yet in the theatre can catch the person off guard, and it can be a little uncomfortable to get to know someone's kissing style for the first time when you're in the dark.
 Just press your lips together gently and softly, and enjoy the sensation of your partner's lips on yours. You can move one lip above your partner's and the other in between his or her lips, so your lips fit in together instead of being directly on top of one another. You can just linger here for a few seconds without expecting anything more. Don't pucker your lips too much, but relax and enjoy this sweet, simple sensation.
 This is what you've been waiting for all along — and we're not talking about crazy fight sequence in the middle of The Avengers. Once you lock lips, the sky is the limit. Gently slip your tongue into your date's mouth and begin French kissing. At first, take it slowly instead of jamming your tongue into your date's mouth. Once your tongues are in each other's mouths, gently explore the territory.
 You don't have to totally grope your date, but using your hands while you're making out can kick things up a notch. Caress the sides of your partner's face while you're kissing, touch your date's shoulders or arms, and just keep your hands active to keep things interesting. You don't have to go overboard — there's also something to be said for a simple sensual kiss that doesn't require a lot of arm movements.


You can also place a hand on your partner's thigh or caress his or her knee.
Try stroking the side of your date's neck once you're kissing.
Using your hands and exploring your partner's body (in PG areas) can help enhance your make out session, but don't take it too far. You are in public after all, and you don't want to get escorted out of the theatre after your make out session gets X rated.
 You don't have to make out for thirty minutes or for the duration of the movie without stopping. In fact, you'll probably enjoy kissing a lot more if you take breaks and come up for air from time to time. You can slowly pull away from your partner and take a few breaths and make eye contact before you move back in for a kiss. You can also just move away a bit and return your focus to the movie until your next make out session begins. This will build anticipation as you eagerly await the next time you'll kiss.


You can even smile and stroke your date's hair when you take little breaks.
 As the credits roll and you pull away from your partner-in-kissing-crime, you should smile, stroke your date's face, and let him or her know how much you liked it. You can even make a joke about how great the movie was, or say that you wouldn't mind seeing it again to pick up on some of the more subtle scenes. You can also really heat things up next time by making out somewhere a bit more private. But until then, you can eagerly anticipate the next time you head to the big screen.


Squeeze your date's hand as you leave the theatre. Walk fast so the other patrons don't recognize you! And get ready to plan your next sexy trip to the Cineplex.

