 Pour 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of olive oil into a large heavy-bottomed pot, and heat it on medium-high heat. Add 1 medium chopped onion, and cook it until it is tender, which should take approximately 4 to 5 minutes. Stir the veggies frequently to prevent them from sticking.You can substitute canola oil for the olive oil if you prefer.
 After you’ve sauteed the onion, add 1 minced clove of garlic, ¼ teaspoon (½ g) of cayenne pepper, ⅛ teaspoon (¼ g) of ground cloves, and 2 teaspoons (6 g) ground cumin to the pot. Let the mixture cook for another minute.You can add more cayenne pepper if you would like the chili to have more of a spicy kick.
 When you’ve cooked the onion mixture for another minute, add two 4-ounce (113 g) cans of chopped green chilies, 1 ½ teaspoons (3 g) of dried oregano, and 1 finely chopped jalapeno pepper to the pot. Mix well so the ingredients are fully incorporated.You can substitute a serrano pepper for the jalapeno if you prefer.
 After you’ve mixed in the chiles and oregano, stir 3 cups (375 g) of diced, cooked chicken and 3 cups (709 ml) of chicken stock into the pot. Raise the heat to high, and allow the mixture to come to a simmer.If you don’t want to cook your own chicken, you can use a rotisserie chicken from the grocery store. Remove it from the bone and dice or shred it before mixing it in.
 Once the mixture comes to a simmer, reduce the heat to low and place a lid on the pot. Allow the chili to cook for another 5 to 10 minutes or until the chicken is warmed through., When the chili has simmered with the chicken mixed in, add two 15.5-ounce (439 g) cans of white beans that have been drained. Allow the mixture to cook for another 15 minutes.You can leave the lid off the pot when you simmer the chili for the final time.
 After you’ve simmered the beans with the chili, taste it. Add in more salt and pepper if necessary before ladling the chili into bowls. Top the bowls with some shredded Monterey Jack cheese, and serve.You can also top the chili with chopped tomato, chopped scallions, cilantro, guacamole, and/or tortilla chips.
Store any uneaten chili in the refrigerator. It should keep for 3 to 4 days in an airtight container.
You can freeze the chili if you don’t eat all of it. Place it in freezer-safe containers, such as plastic freezer bags, in individual serving sizes after it’s cooled completely. It will usually keep for 4 to 6 months in the freezer.

