 Put the rest of the clarinet in a safe place that is not too hot or too cold. Don't stand it on end, unless you have a clarinet stand (it holds your clarinet upright, and can usually be folded and stored in the bell), since it can fall over.;
, Then, carefully place the cloth back in your case. Don't use any kind of metal polish (unless the clarinet is all metal, ie: silver) or other substance on your instrument, except for key oil and cork grease. Key oil makes the keys move more easily, and cork grease makes assembly go smoother and keeps the corks from drying out.
 You may have to do this several times. Take the pieces apart and dry the tenons (these are the places where the joints of the horn fit together.) Then, let the swab dry before putting it in the case, otherwise your keys will be discolored.
 Grease the corks by rubbing cork grease on them with your fingers. Cork grease comes in many different forms, but the most common looks like lip balm. However, lip balm is not an appropriate substitute for cork grease, and cork grease can be poisonous if ingested, so do not confuse the two. You don't need to do this EACH time you take your clarinet apart, or even very often, as too much cork grease will weaken the corks and make them prone to breaking apart. Just examine your corks regularly and apply cork grease as needed depending upon the dryness or wear in the cork. You may need to grease them more often in the dry winter months. If the instrument is difficult to put together or take apart put cork grease on the corks.
 Then you may, if necessary, take out your dusting stick. Dusting sticks are long, twisted, thin, wire, with a small, broom-like thing at one end, and a little thing that looks like a tooth cleaner at the other end. Gently clean between and under the keys with the mouthpiece-brush end, and brush the dust off with the broom end. Pay close attention to the tone holes that your fingers cover as they often collect gunk and grime from your fingers. You may wish to polish the instrument again after doing this. This would also be a good time to oil the keys, if necessary.
,, Put the case in a safe place. Also, if necessary, take just the mouthpiece itself, and run it under warm tap water then dry thoroughly.
