 Click on the “Join Us” link in the top-right corner of the page. This will take you to the “Create an account” page.;
, You have three different options when it comes to Skype accounts. You can use Facebook, your existing Microsoft account, or you can create an account just for Skype.


If you are logging in with a Microsoft or Facebook account, all you need is your login details for that account and you can start using Skype. If you are creating an account just for Skype, read on.
 In order to create your Skype account, you will need to enter your first and last name, an email address (which remains private), your country, and your language.


Optional information includes your birthday, gender, city, and mobile phone number.
If you're an international traveler, choose the country where you will be using Skype most frequently.
 You can select between business and personal use. This information helps Skype determine how people use their services. This is an optional question.
 This name is displayed to other users, and is one way for people to look you up. This name will be public. You cannot change your Skype Name later, so if you don’t like what you select you will have to create a new account.
 Since Skype will have your friends’ and family’s contact information, it is important to create a password that is strong yet memorable. If your password is too weak, Skype will not let you use it.
 Skype will offer to send you messages about new products and special offers. The boxes are checked by default, but you can uncheck them before you continue if you don’t want to receive sales emails.
 This tells Skype that the account isn’t being created by an automated program. If you can’t read the CAPTCHA, you can click the Refresh button to get a new one, or click the Listen button to hear it read out-loud.
 Make sure that you are OK with how Skype will use and not use your personal information. If you are satisfied, click the green “I agree – Continue” button at the bottom of the page.
 Once your account is created, you can download and begin using Skype. You may see a page asking if you would like to buy Skype credits. You can ignore this for now, or buy credits if you know you are going to use them. Skype credits are used to place phone calls to mobile phones or landlines; calls to other Skype users are always free.

