 Alice was born around the turn of the century and grew up in the Victorian era, turning into a vampire in the early 1920s. She never really wears the same outfit(top, jacket or anything) twice and she is horrified at the thought of wearing anything "off the rack". She is very fashion-conscious. In the books, her style is a cross between punk and chic, with some vintage thrown in for good measure.Alice always keeps an eye on current trends, but she doesn't wear what anyone else would( as we take notice of in The Twilight Saga). But make sure to have your own style and stand out from the crowd. If you truly want the Alice look then sticking to shades of grey,black, purple or white would be a good idea. Alice loves to party and have fun, and she incorporates this funky flavor into her everyday style. In the movie, Alice's style could be described as modern-Victorian: vintage chic, a throwback to her 1920s human life. The Victorian era was all about the minor details, and the color palette consisted of understated, muted tones in rich fabrics. Wear ivory, black, grey, and navy, with lace, silk, or smooth cotton. Wear dark wash jeans in a trouser cut for a more conservative style, or go for her look in the movie with grey skinny jeans. Be sophisticated, yet young and sweet. For everyday, try Alice's knee-length dress with a cropped cardigan, leggings, and flats. For a party look, take her shiny red sequined tank-top (from the Eclipse graduation party) and pair it with tight black pants and high heels. Have fun with your clothes! If you are worried you won't be able to wear those bright clothes, don't be! You can always wear them underneath your dark clothes. Before going on a major shopping spree, look what you have in your wardrobe,. You will be amazed on how much Alice-styled clothes you have!;
, In the movie, Alice wears old-fashioned rings and metal bracelets/bangles. The rings that she wears are subtle, with gems that are not as flashy as a diamond. In the movie, she also wears the Cullen crest, the family's signature "symbol," on a ribbon around her neck. This Twilight trinket is available on the Internet, along with other jewelry pieces from Alice's wardrobe. You might be able to find look-a-likes (or the real thing!) at Boxwish. This site is also useful for finding other pieces from Alice's wardrobe.
 Alice has short, spiked, "pixie-like" hair. It's one of her most outstanding features, and is therefore important. You need black hair, or in the least, dark brown. You could consider dying if you want to, but you don't have to; you could just cut it. Go to your hair cutter and bring a picture of her with her spiky hair and ask them if they will cut it and do it like that for you. Pay a bunch of attention when she's styling it; you will need to know how to do this. Also, you'll need to buy good hairspray and a flat iron.
 Use light colored foundation to achieve the paleness of all Twilight vampires. Use a shade lighter than your natural skin tone if you aren't already pale. Sweep a purple or light black shadow under your eyes to get the "recovering from a broken nose, need to feed" look. Topaz-colored or golden contacts are an option for those with the money and desire to attain the "well-fed vegetarian" look. To help with the pale look, cover up with clothes or sunscreen, or stay out of the sun completely. Take care of your skin. Use moisturizer, keep out of the sun (for paleness and for health reasons), and take care of pimples and breakouts by having a skin-care routine and eating the right foods.
 Since you're not a vampire (yet), eat the right foods! Take care of your body, and don't go for crash diets. Everybody hates diets, but these are the worst! They mess up your body and make it hard for you to stay healthy afterward. Opt instead for balance, and if you really need to lose weight, just eat less and exercise more. Get plenty of rest, drink lots of water, and incorporate some fun exercise into your routine. Try ballet (for Alice's graceful movements) or a more contemporary dance. Karate, running, bicycling, or even baseball (!!) and other sports are great ways to get moving! Why not get a group of friends together for some vampire baseball action?

