 Once you have found a job you like, either from the office locations site or the Teams and Roles page, you’ll need to click on the corresponding job link. There, you’ll find a description of the position, as well as the qualifications and requirements. Click on the “Apply” link at the bottom of the screen, and you’ll be taken to the application screen.
 Before you can proceed, make sure you’ve gone through each of the Google application sections:



Contact information: This section requires your name, address, phone number and other personal details. It’s straightforward and shouldn’t take long to complete.

Resume: Here, you have the option of either pasting your resume directly into a box on the screen, or uploading it from your computer. The better option here is to upload your resume, since there’s a better chance that method will preserve any formatting you may have made while creating it.

Education (optional): You don’t have to include details of your education history, but it couldn’t hurt your chances. Be sure to include as many specifics as possible. You can add another school to the list by clicking the “add a school” link.

Employment (optional): Job history is also not required, but if you’ve held down jobs that have added to your experience as it pertains to the position in question, it would be wise to include those details. To submit an additional prior job, click the “add an employer” link.

Cover letter (optional): It may not be a requirement, but those who choose to submit a cover letter are far more likely to warrant further consideration. Simply cut and paste what you wrote earlier, and you should be set.

How you heard about the job: If you followed this guide, you’ll want to select “Google Jobs Website.”

Gender and race/ethnic group (optional): Click the appropriate boxes.
 Once you finish the application, you’ll be sent to a screen where you’re told your submission has been received and that you should receive an automated email message within 24 hours. The message concludes by saying that you will only hear from Google if the company believes you’re a good fit. Be patient; Google likely receives hundreds of job applications per day on average.

