 Young children are going to study differently than middle school children, who will have different study habits than high school kids. They will all differ from college students, and college students will differ from adult learners.


When teaching someone anything, it is important to consider their age, developmental level, and what they have already learned in order to determine what they need to learn from you.;
, Ask if they have a quiet place where they are able to study and do their homework.


This is especially important to consider for children who live at home with families, because, for example, some families do not have the space for children to have their own rooms. Some homes are quite crowded with other people who live or stay there, and this is not something that the child has control over. You may need to speak with the family about the importance of creating some quiet space for a child who has homework to do.
For college students, adults, and children who have quiet space at home, speak with them about finding and using the quiet spaces that are available to them. Libraries, quiet coffee shops, and parks are nice locations outside of home that college students and adults (as well as older high school students) can use for studying., You may be surprised to learn that many students equate the amount of time spent looking at a book with how “well” they have studied.


You will be able to find out quite a bit about the study habits your students currently have by what they say they think are good study skills.
 Motivation is a very key part to learning. Students who aren’t motivated to learn will have a much more difficult time with it.


There are different types of motivation – the first is outer, or external. This type would include good grades and rewards that may come with getting good grades, such as money, trips, shopping, a new video game or movie, or a college degree. There are many examples of external motivations and rewards.
The second type of motivation is internal. The student wants to succeed to show that they can, or to feel proud of themselves and have others be proud of them. Wanting to do well comes from feelings within them.
Both types of motivation are normal and healthy to have. Discuss with your students what they want to achieve and have them give examples – good grades, rewards that are bought for them, a high school diploma or a college degree, and the feelings of pride that will go along with doing their best., Active reading is an important first step to having good study skills. Active reading is a way to read that makes you interact with the text.


In active reading, you don’t just hear the words in your mind as you go and then they disappear. Active reading is crucial to understanding new material when there is reading assigned. The following steps outline how to teach active reading.
 Students should have a mission when they read. If you are the teacher, tell them what to look for. If you aren’t the teacher, tell them to find out from the teacher what they’re supposed to be looking for or figuring out while reading.


For older students, the purpose may be left up to them to determine. Have them determine what the purpose for the reading is before they begin.
Older students may base their purpose for reading around assessments, such as a paper they have to write or a test. Direct them to look at upcoming assessments to see if they can determine a focused purpose for reading., If they are allowed to (some public schools don’t allow writing in the textbooks), students should highlight or circle and underline phrases and words that stand out to them and write questions and notes in the margins.


A way for students to be able to mark the text without marking up public textbooks are to make photocopies of stories or sections of the text. , This is similar to the strategy in the previewing step. Teach students to make connections between the text and themselves (This reminds me of the time that I…), or the text and another text (This reminds me of this other book…), or between the text and the world (This sounds like what happens when…).


Making connections is extremely important for long-term remembering of what is read in a text. , After reading, students should ask themselves, what’s the gist of what I read? Have them jot down notes of the most important parts of what they read, such as the main idea and some supporting details., Let your students know that it’s really important for them to get their brains ready when they are about to learn something new. There are several important ways to do this:


Scanning. Teach students how to flip through what they are supposed to read and look at headings, pictures, charts, diagrams, and/or emboldened words.
Making predictions. After scanning through some assigned reading material, tell your students to make some predictions about what they will be learning. What is this going to be about?
Connecting what they’re about to learn with things they already know. Even better yet, things that they are interested in. Some students may find a particular subject extremely boring, but if they can somehow connect it with a subject they like, or with a hobby or a TV show/movie, they will be more open to learning the new material., A good student isn’t afraid to ask questions. Questions show that the student is engaged and either wants to know more, or needs some clarification on something that maybe wasn’t clear at first.


Practice asking questions with students. Have them write their own questions down as they read something new in class and ask them to the group.
Be sure that students understand that you always welcome them to ask questions, and that it doesn’t make them look stupid. In fact, you (and most teachers) think it makes them seem smarter and they will actually become smarter from asking questions – as long as they listen to the answers or the discussions that come after the questions.
Ask students to write questions down while they are studying, and to either research the answers on their own or bring the questions into class or back to you to go over.
 Once students have finished actively reading, have them go one step further and reflect on what they read. They should look over their highlights, notes, and the pictures and headings in the text again. They could make flash cards or note cards for the really important ideas, in their own words.


Teaching students to write notes in their own words is very important, both for their comprehension and to avoid plagiarism in papers and on tests., Have students make schedules of what they do each day. What time do they get home from school? What after school activities do they have each week? When could they do homework and study?


Have students fill out a weekly calendar with what they do each week. Some students may have plenty of time left over to study, others may not., If your students have many out of school activities, but are not allowing time to complete their work and do well, discuss this with them. It is important to have extracurricular interests, but depending on the amount of homework they have, they need to schedule enough time for getting work finished. This may mean cutting out one or two extracurricular activities., Be sure students have separate folders for each school subject. This becomes more important in middle school and beyond, though it may also come in handy in their elementary school classes. Let them know that keeping their work for each class together will help them tremendously while studying


In each folder, tell them to keep things they still need to turn in and the directions/assignments on the left side, and completed work that’s already corrected and given back on the right side. They should keep everything from classes to study later on.
If the folder gets too filled up, have a “home” portfolio to keep completed work until the end of the year, and keep this organized by subjects too. They can even staple together certain projects that have many pages and all the work pertaining to a certain topic in each class. For instance, all multiplication work can be paper clipped together, and then all division work in a different pile, in the math folder., The study plan that you create with your student may need to be altered due to scheduling changes, more material that must be assimilated, or other considerations.


Be flexible and as approachable as possible so that students will come to you if their study plan needs changed, rather than having to always confront them.
Watch how well they're doing. If they aren't improving, or are getting worse, talk to them as soon as possible in a private environment so that they won't be embarrassed or teased by peers. For students having what seem to be exceptional difficulties, you may need to involve the families and additional specialists to see if the child would benefit from special education services., Even if things are going smoothly, talk with each student periodically to make sure that scheduling is still working out for them, that they are happy with their progress, and that they aren't too overwhelmed or stressed by your expectations.


Ask for honesty, don't patronize your students, and go at a pace that suits them, even if you have to sacrifice some of your time to make sure that they are learning.
 Losing patience with students, whether you are their teacher, parent, or other caregiver, will cause you to become stressed and may deter the student from studying in the future because she becomes frustrated, stressed, and anxious about schoolwork.


Meditate, exercise, and perform other stress relieving activities (reading, writing, singing, drawing, gardening, etc. – whatever relaxes you) when you are not teaching or around your child in order to maintain sense of calm and well-being.
Remember that all students are different. All students have different strengths, weaknesses, and learning styles. Focus on their strengths in order to keep a positive perspective.

