 You have to meet people in order to become interesting to them. This requires you getting out there, even if doing so is beyond your comfort zone. Join clubs, attend parties, sign up to play on a team, or do anything you can that will introduce you to new people.


Attend these events with a friend, if you are uncomfortable going in not knowing anyone. Having someone familiar there can make the situation less awkward, which can help your most interesting self start to emerge.;
, By delving into activities that appeal to you, you have the opportunity to meet people who like the same thing. You also get to talk about what you love, which can show how interesting you are.


If you like reading, for example, you could start book club or attend one sponsored by your local library.
Keep your values in mind as you spend more time cultivating your interests. If you’re someone who loves to help others, for example, spending time volunteering will feel genuine to who you are. The more authentic you can be in your interactions, the more likely people are to take interest in the real you.
Look online to find local events that pertain to your interests. Meetup.com is a great resource to find people near you., There’s a good chance there is something you believe in. Become involved in it when you realize what it is. Reading about the different causes gives you information you may not have had previously, which can make you more interesting to others.


Joining a cause or movement also connects you with others. Meeting people and learning from them not only makes you more informed about what’s going on, but gives you more to talk about.For example, you may choose to become more active in local politics, women's rights, or animal rights groups in your community or nationally.
 There’s not much that’s interesting about routine. Never going out and exploring something new prevents you from becoming more worldly, and ultimately, more interesting. Find something to do you never have as often as possible. You’ll meet new people and have more to talk about.Travel can expose you to new and exciting experiences beyond your every day life. Seek out new places to broaden your horizons.

