 Let them know immediately that you can't come, so they don't build up an expectation of your attendance and feel more disappointed when you cancel at the last second.;
, Find some time to speak to them in person and explain why you can't attend.


If you can't speak in person — for example, if the friend lives in a different city, or if your schedules don't match up — make a phone call.
 People react to disappointing news in different ways, so there’s no single right answer about how to present your news. Depending on the personality of the person you’re breaking the news to, you’ll want to have a different attitude.


If you think the person will be offended or sad, be as apologetic as possible.
If you think the person will try to pressure or guilt you into attending, be firm.
 If you just tell the host that you don’t “feel” like it, you may hurt their feelings. Giving a specific reason is the best way to go, unless your specific reason is that you don’t like the host! Some examples why you don’t want to attend a specific party might include:


You have a previous engagement at that time
Someone you would like to avoid is attending the party
You have too much work or studying to catch up on

, When you talk too for too long about why you can't attend a party, you give the host more time to try to convince you that you should attend. Keep that part of the conversation short and sweet, then move on.


You might change the topic completely or show that you're still interested in the party by asking about the planning process.
Showing interest demonstrates that you wish you could attend, but that you really can't.
 Even if you can't attend the party yourself, you can still help make it a success by offering to lend a hand with the planning and preparation. This will demonstrate to the host that you value their friendship, and that you would attend the party if you possibly could.
 If you have to miss an event, make plans to catch up with the host when you have more time. Make it as close to the event as possible, so you can show an interest in what you missed. This will make the host feel like you appreciate their efforts in throwing the party, and that you value their friendship.
 The best honest way to get out of spending time at a party is to spend the least possible amount of time at the party. Make sure you say hello to the host, so they know you attended. Try to have a good time while you’re there, but let everyone know that you have to leave early. Even if you can’t stay, people will appreciate that you at least made the effort to drop by.


If you feel uncomfortable announcing that you have to leave, just slip out without saying goodbye. People will likely be having so much fun, they won't even notice you're gone.

