 Being in school teaches you transferable skills to the workplace without you even knowing it. You have to spend time looking for them because teachers don't have time in each class to point out the skills. For example - full time students are often adept at organisation because you are doing sometimes up to six subjects with multiple assignment and you fit them all in and on time. Presto a transferable skill in organisation.;
, This is an excellent supplement to a resume and helps build more transferable skills into the workplace. It demonstrates a well-rounded and grounded individual to a potential employer as well as a hard-worker. There are many opportunities for school students to give back to the community.
 When it comes time to draft the resume and you have completed the opening lines of your personal contact details open the resume with the strongest asset you have. If this is your academic performance in school open with this, if your grades are not so sharp but you have volunteer experience open with this. If you have neither open with a list of skills you can offer. Remember what you put on your resume has to the punch line in your advertisement of yourself. This is no place to leave the best to last.
 A Resume has certain set sections they all contain, and an employer will look for them, such as education, work history, skills, hobbies etc. What do you have that is the most appealing to a potential employer and open with that and then work your way down to the least appealing to close. But ensure you cover them all.
 Make sure you contact these referees first and let them know you are using them. There is nothing worse than a referee caught off guard to ruin your chances. If your still working on sourcing referees or there are privacy concerns initially close with referees available on request. But make sure you have these issues sorted out before any interview.
 Always get a 2nd opinion on a resume before you send it out to business. Ensure spelling and grammar are correct and that you are putting yourself in the best light you can for a potential employer.

