 Is your cat very social? Does it tend to run to the door to greet guests? If so, your cat may enjoy having a lot of people around on its birthday. A more timid cat, however, may not enjoy a party. If your cat hides in the closet when friends are over, consider a party for just the two of you.A more reserved cat may also like having just a few people over. If you have a few friends your cat is particularly attached to, consider inviting just them to the party.;
, It's easy to make a cake for your cat. While your cat may not appreciate a birthday cake loaded with sugar, you can make a cake using meat, treats, and other things cats enjoy.Buy a can of pate-style cat food at the supermarket. Choose a brand and flavor your cat loves, but one that's solid enough to hold a shape. Open the container, turn it upside down, and let it slide onto a plate so it stays in a cake-like shape.
Decorate the cake with other treats your cat likes. You could top it off with some slices of turkey, or you could sprinkle your cat's favorite kibble or treats over the cake.
 Your cat will love having special foods and snacks for its birthday. If you're having people over as well, make sure to provide food and snacks for these guests as well. Think about cute, cat-themed snacks you could offer guests.See if you can find any special treats at a local pet store. You could also put out small amounts of meats like tuna and poultry, which your cat is sure to enjoy.
If you have people over, you can provide small finger foods. Something fun could be a cake shaped like a cat. You can make one yourself, using a specialty cake tray, or order one from a local bakery. You can also make cupcakes decorated with cat whiskers and noses, or make cut-out cookies shaped like cats., If you're having a lot of people over, think about making the event into a charity. If you love your cat, think about other cats in need. You could ask a local shelter what kind of supplies they need donated. Ask guests to bring things like old beds, toys, and other items for cats in need.You could also ask for monetary donations. Keep a shoebox out during the party and ask people to leave a little cash for your local shelter.
 If you decide to have people over, you can send out invitations. It can be fun to include a cute picture of your cat in the invitations. You should also inform people how old your cat is turning this year, if you know.If paper invitations are out of your budget, you can send out electronic invitations that include a picture of your cat. You can also make something like a Facebook event page and include a photo of your cat there.
 Cards may seem like something only a person would enjoy. However, if you make an interactive card a cat can play with, your cat may love receiving a card. Many cats enjoy puzzle games, so a card with a small toy or treat hidden inside could be fun for a more playful cat.You can make a card at home with construction paper. Add decorations your cat can play with, like dangly ribbons and strings. Just make sure not to include anything your cat could potentially swallow.
Tape a toy or treat inside the card for your cat to find. A toy scented with catnip can be particularly fun, if your cat tends to enjoy catnip.
 If you're having guests over, decorations can be fun. However, try to include things your cat can enjoy. You can decorate with things like dangly strings and puffballs, and keep them hanging low enough for your cat to tear off the wall.Make sure any interactive decorations are cat-friendly. Some strings and smaller items could be swallowed and potentially cause damage. Stick to toys and items your cat has played with safely before.
 A homemade toy can be a fun, inexpensive way to show your cat you care. You can set up a temporary fort made with pillows and blankets for your cat to play in on its birthday. You can also sew a toy using scraps of felt and stuffing. You can make something super simple by balling up a piece of tinfoil. Your cat will love chasing this new toy., You can also stop by a local supermarket or pet store and purchase some toys for your cat. Try to find a variety of fun, new toys your cat will enjoy.Think about toys your cat has loved in the past. If your cat loves puzzle games, this can be a nice option. This can be particularly nice if you're gone a lot during the day. A puzzle game can keep your cat from getting bored without you.
You can also encourage guests to bring over new toys, if they feel like doing so. You do not want to pressure anyone into giving a gift, but some guests may want to offer your cat a treat.
 Your cat deserves to be spoiled a little on its birthday. From the beginning of the day to the end, make an extra effort to make your cat feel loved.Put fresh blankets in your cat's bed.
Allow your cat access to a spot you would normally restrict. For example, clear off breakables from a mantel for the day.
Open the curtains near a spot where your cat likes to snuggle. Allow it to sunbathe.
Pet your cat extra throughout the day. Allow it to climb into your lap and cuddle.
 Cats love having perches in your home. A nice birthday surprise would be to provide a new window perch. Try clearing off a shelf or table near the window to allow your cat to gaze outside throughout the day.You can also invest in a kitty condo. They can be a bit pricey, but your cat will love having its own space to lounge. This can be a great birthday treat.
 You want your cat to feel loved on its birthday. Throughout your cat's special day, play with it. Encourage your cat to use any new birthday toys, or play with old favorites. Start off the morning playing with your cat so it feels cared for on its birthday., A birthday party can be fun, but there are some safety concerns to keep in mind. Your cat won't enjoy its birthday if it ends up getting hurt during the festivities.If you're including a pet guest list, only include pets your cat is familiar and comfortable with. Unfamiliar animals during a party can cause unnecessary stress.
Be careful when inviting families with small children. Make sure any children in attendance know how to safely interact with animals.
Keep first aid items on hand, as well as the phone number of a veterinarian.

