


You can only file unpaid item disputes when at least 4 days have passed without receiving payment or within 32 days after the listing has ended.
eBay will allow you to file an unpaid item dispute immediately if the buyer who purchased your item is no longer registered with eBay.;
,


Visit the eBay link that ends with "ContactInfo" provided in the Sources section of this article to contact the buyer. Enter their user ID or the Item number of the item they purchased from you to locate their contact information.
Work with the buyer regarding a solution for the non-payment before you file the dispute; such as accepting a late payment or cancelling the item and re-listing it for sale.



File the dispute with eBay if the buyer will not respond to your contact attempts or if they are unwilling to work with you to resolve the dispute.
Visit the eBay Resolution Center website featured in the Sources section of this article and click on the radio button next to "I haven't received my payment yet" under "I sold an item."
Click on the "Continue" button and provide eBay with the item number you are filing the dispute for, in addition to other details about the dispute requested by eBay.



EBay will give the buyer a period of 4 extra days to pay you for the item after you file the dispute.
The dispute will automatically be closed if the buyer pays within 4 days using an electronic payment method such as a credit card or PayPal.
If a different payment method is used, you will be required to give the item a paid status in your "My eBay" account.



You can only close the case if 4 full days have passed after you filed the dispute.
Log back into the eBay Resolution Center and locate the dispute you filed.
Answer "No" under the section for "Have you received payment from the buyer."
Click on the "Close case" button to notify eBay that the dispute is now closed.



The final value fee is paid to eBay and is a certain percentage of your item's final cost at the time it was purchased by the buyer. The percentage will vary based on the type of item you sell.
You may also be eligible for an insertion fee credit if you re-list the same item on eBay after the dispute has been closed. EBay will honor this credit since you had already paid the insertion fee the first time you listed the item when the buyer did not pay.
You can also request a refund for the final value fee instead of a credit, but only if you do not owe eBay any fees.

