 If someone in your office has experienced loss, you may not want to extend your condolences in person. You or the affected person may not feel comfortable doing this. Instead, you can still show you care by sending them a note or flowers.Don’t go overboard. You can send a small bouquet of flowers or some other small gift, a card, or just an email that says, “I’m sorry for your loss.”

, If your coworker has suffered a significant loss, be available to them. Ask them if there is anything work-related you can help them with or if you can take some of their work while they cope and recover.


You may say, "I am sorry for your loss. I would be willing to help you out around the office until you feel better. Is there anything I can do to help lighten your workload?"

, Sometimes, having someone listen can be the most helpful way you can show support. When you listen to your coworker, don't offer empty words or try to make them feel better. Just let them know you are listening and that you are there for them.


For example, you may want to say, "I am sorry for your loss. I want you to know I am here to listen if you need someone to talk to."
If you have suffered a similar loss, you may want to share that information. Just make sure not to try to one-up or belittle their loss. You may say, "I'm sorry for your loss. I know what you're going through. My mother/daughter/spouse recently died. It is a difficult time. I am here if you need someone to help you through it."

, If your coworker has suffered loss, you should be mindful of what you say around them. It is easy to be flippant and treat the loss too lightly. Though you may not understand what they are going through, try to be understanding.Avoid saying things like, “They’re in a better place” or “You were lucky to have as long as you did.” You also shouldn’t say things like, “At least they lived a long time” or “You are young; you can get married again/have more children.” These can be hurtful statements.
Refrain from passing judgment on the situation. For example, if someone died of lung cancer and smoked, don’t imply that they caused their own death or deserved it.
Don’t tell your coworker to “get back to normal” or “get back to yourself.” The process of grief can take a long time.

