 Talk to your partner beforehand about meeting your dog for the first time. This is especially important if your partner is nervous around dogs, or your dog is skittish or aggressive around other people. Direct your partner not to maintain eye contact with your dog.
Tell your partner not to face the dog directly, walk quickly toward it, or stand over it. Your dog could interpret these behaviors as aggression.
Ask your partner to avoid automatically reaching toward your dog with outstretched hands.
Additionally, inform your partner that the two of you should maintain friendly small talk throughout the interaction so that your dog knows that your partner isn't a threat.
 If your dog becomes stressed, you will be able to tell by its body language. While a little stress during a new situation is okay, allowing your dog to get very stressed could make the situation worse. Go slowly and give your dog time to warm up to your partner. Cut the visit short if your dog starts to show the signs of stress:

An intense stare, with visible signs of white in the eyes
A tightly closed mouth, with lips pulled back
Stiff, tense body movements
Growling
Showing no reaction to its name, favorite toys, or food, as though it is "shut down"

, Especially if your dog is still unsure of your partner, it’s best to hold the first few meetings in neutral locations. Continue to allow the dog to approach your partner first, and have your partner offer treats. Have your partner be more and more involved in games of fetch, and have your partner hold the leash during a walk.Every time your partner approaches you and your dog, say your partner's name in a friendly and excited voice.
 It may take a while for your dog and your partner to fall for one another as much as you have. Don’t worry too much about this. If you have any questions about helping your dog and your partner get along, ask your vet.Definitely notify your vet if your dog seems to experience prolonged stress or behaves aggressively around your partner after the first one or two meetings.

