 Keeping your laptop in a well ventilated area while resting a hard surface to increase airflow to the laptop. If working on your laptop in a bed or on a carpet floor, consider using a small tray to place it onto., Your laptop battery may face higher levels of heat due to the laptop if it faces constant high activity on your CPU, graphics card or hard disk activity. Running one high activity program such as a video game or running several low-power programs will help preserve activity on your laptop.


Playing a graphically intensive video game or even watching a movie off of a DVD or Blu-Ray, will demand more power from your CPU, graphics hardware and hard disk and generate more heat.
You may need to consult your laptop’s user manual or manufacturer’s website for information how to remove the battery if you are not able to remove the battery.
 If the laptop will be run primarily using the AC Adapter, a fully charged battery holds onto more energy that will cause it to wear out faster. To remove the battery locate the battery on your laptop and unlatch the clips holding onto the battery. There may be one or two clips that can be slid to their opposite ends to allow you to pull the battery out.


Certain MacBook laptops feature embedded batteries that cannot be removed normally.
If the battery is unable to hold a charge for its intended charge cycle even after charging the battery to it’s maximum level and leaving it off of the AC adapter, the battery may need to be replaced.
 Leave the battery charged between 20-80% if you plan to not use it for more than six months or your laptop will be left on an AC Adapter for power for long periods of time.Allow the battery to fully charge in the laptop. Remove the AC Adapter until the battery discharges its capacity halfway. Power off your laptop and remove the battery.


A battery that is charged halfway uses less energy which allows it a longer lifespan.
If you require the use of your battery, replace it into your laptop with the AC Adapter plugged in and allow it to charge back up to 100%. Once it’s fully charged you may remove the AC Adapter to allow the laptop to run on the battery’s power.

