 Determine the desired placement of your swing set and temporarily set it in place. Mark the placement of each leg by chipping the ground with a trowel or similar tool.


You do not need to use any concrete for this method, but you do need to make sure that you insert the anchors into solid ground. Packed soils are better than loose soils or sand, and soils containing clay or covered in dense grass are even better.
 Place one ground anchor over each marked position. Slide a rebar through the matching holes at the top of each anchor, then rotate the bar and the anchor in a clockwise motion.Move the swing set away from each marked position before you begin. You'll need clean access to all four anchoring spots when burying them.
For this method, you must anchor all four legs to the ground. Do not anchor only two.
Each ground anchor should look have a drill at the bottom and an open "cup" at the top. Point the drill portion in the direction of the ground. As you rotate the rebar, apply enough downward pressure to spiral this drill into the ground, and continue until the entire drill portion is buried. Remove the rebar when done.
 Place one 4-by-4 leg attachment at the bottom of each swing set leg. Fix this attachment to the leg using two 3/8-inch (9.5-mm) bolts.


Note that this upper portion will look similar to an open cup with a tube at the bottom. The bottom of this "cup" should slip over the top of the previously-placed ground anchor "cup."
You may need to drill the holes with an appropriately sized drill bit before fitting the bolts into the legs, especially when working with metal sets.
 Line up each leg with each ground anchor, then push the leg attachments over the revealed ground anchors.


Match up the screw holes, when applicable. Drill another bolt through each overlapping pair of holes to secure each leg attachment to its corresponding ground anchor.
 Cover the exposed anchors with soil or mulch. For added safety, cover the ground beneath the set with additional mulch.


Apply roughly 9 inches (22.9 cm) of wood mulch or 12 inches (30.5 cm) of fine sand or fine gravel.
After covering the ground, push on each leg. If you anchored the set correctly, the legs should not budge when you apply pressure.

