 Many times, making out happens after a date night. If you've been eating or drinking, be sure you make an effort to assure your breath is fresh.


If you're at your own place or his place, run to the bathroom and make quick use of mouth wash.You can also invest in Altoids, mint gum, or breath strips. You can buy all these products at a drugstore or your local market.;
, A good make out session progresses gradually. As you lean in to kiss, allow things to happen at their own pace. Pay attention to the man's reactions; try to get a sense of what he likes and dislikes. Start off at a slow tempo and then, as things get heavier, move quicker and start using your tongue, hands, and other body parts., Many people enjoy some tongue during making out. If the man you're kissing seems to enjoy tongue, then don't hesitate to use your tongue during the make out session.


If you want to allow the guy to take the lead, try opening your mouth slightly to show him you're interested. See if he initiates using his tongue., Sometimes, some mild teasing can really turn a guy on. In the middle of a kiss, pull back slightly and pull his head away from your face. Pause kissing for a few seconds and then resume. Many men get turned on by mild teasing during making out., Men, like women, have erogenous zones throughout the body. These are areas that respond sexually to physical contact. The neck and ears tend to have a lot of nerve endings. Try gently kissing or sucking a man's ears or neck during making out. This can be a huge turn on., The face is a sensual spot on a man's body. When making out, reach up and touch his face. Gently rub his stubble and rub his cheeks. Many men experience sexual pleasure through scalp massages, so try gently running your fingers through his hair as well., Before you begin making out, keep eye contact steady. This will show a man you're interested and can help turn him on. Smile between kisses. A man will be turned on if he pulls away for a moment and sees you smiling., Don't forget to use your hands when making out. Men will be turned on by gentle touching on the head, back, and arms.


Run your fingers over his back lightly. If he's not wearing a shirt, consider using your nails. Some men enjoy mild scratching.You can also touch his arms, legs, chest, and any other body parts that are easily accessible., Don't just use your face and hands during a make out session. Using your entire body can help turn a man on.


Lean into him as you make out. You can even push yourself on top of him or pull him on top of you.
Try wrapping one of your legs around his or rubbing your foot gently against his thigh.
 The best way for healthy physical contact is to communicate openly. Talk to your partner about what he does and does not enjoy. Being open about your physical desires can lead to more enjoyable, intimate kissing.Many people initially feel uncomfortable when having to communicate about sexual desires. However, keep in mind open communication is an important part of any health sexual relationship.
Try starting a conversation by saying something like, "I really care about you and want you to enjoy our physical intimacy. Is there anything you enjoy when we're kissing I could do more?"

