 If somebody taunts you or tries to act negatively towards you ignore it, or if you cannot ignore it, walk away. Likewise if you are in areas or surrounded by pessimism, anxiety, distrust or negative judgments, it can affect your ability to remain positive.Remove yourself from those places and those people in an effort to maintain your positive attitude.


If it is a work situation or other situation that you cannot walk away from, try to make the interactions as brief as possible., While trying to maintain a positive attitude, you want to make sure you surround yourself with positive people. Our outlooks, mannerisms, and attitudes can affect each other the more time we spend together, so make the time you spend be affected by positivity.Additionally you want to have a positive support group of family and friends as well, to help support you and keep your goal of remaining positive.


Write down a list of the people you spend the most time with.
Consider what you observe to be their primary qualities.
Note if you feel they add to or take away from your positivity, or how you feel after spending time with them.
 A great way to obtain and maintain a positive attitude is to get out into the community and begin doing good deeds for others.Helping others provides you with a longer lasting sense of happiness and positivity.Additionally, it will allow you to see the positive impact you are making on the world.Help someone you know.
Volunteer at a local church serving meals.
Work for a larger non-profit organization.
Engage in advocacy.
 Keeping positive includes allowing yourself time to “recharge your batteries,” which you can do by practicing self care. Self-care is extremely important to remaining positive and can include anything you do with the intention of truly taking care of your physical, mental, and emotional health and needs., Addressing your physical self-care includes:


Eating regularly and eating well.
Getting good quality sleep and enough hours of sleep.
Attending to any medical needs or medical problems you have been having.
Ascetic self care such as pampering yourself with a home spa day.
 Just as your physical health can negatively affect your mental health, your mental health can actually weaken your immune system, cause fatigue, and headaches. Maintaining your mental self-care can include:


Practicing meditation.
Engaging counseling services like individual therapy.
Performing relaxation exercises such as deep breathing.
Using visualization to see yourself succeeding.
 Recharge your batteries by keeping your emotional self healthy.Take the time to recover from any negativity that comes your way, and get yourself back to a place where you can access the positivity you have worked so hard for. Emotional self-care can include:


Participating in fun activities.
Talking with someone you have not seen in a while
Giving yourself something to look forward to like a vacation.
Create a morning ritual that you love., Exercise is one of the simplest way to get an emotional boost. It is recommended to fight common mental health issues such as depression and anxiety, as well as stress from health conditions and more serious mental health concerns.Exercise has also been shown to release chemicals triggering a positive response in your body.Maintaining a positive attitude may include integrating some exercise into your schedule.


Choose whatever exercise and level of exercise works for you. If you do not know of one, consider yoga, which focuses on exercise, but also on principles of happiness and mindfulness, both incredibly useful to maintaining a positive attitude.

