 Use a pair of scissors to cut out four heart-shaped poppy petals from red construction paper. You can also use red paper plates if you want a sturdier flower.If you want layered petals, you can cut four large and four small hearts. Using a template will help keep your hearts uniform.
 If you to create a more advanced poppy petal, you can use two red of construction paper, which you will need to fold and cut in a specific pattern,Fold the first square in quarters, forming a smaller square. Then fold the square in half diagonally, forming a right triangle. Lastly, place the triangle in front of you with the right angle at the bottom left and draw an arch around the very bottom of it, creating a cone shape with a rounded edge. Cut along this line and unfold the paper, revealing four petals.
Do the same with the second square, but draw your arch higher up on the triangle so you are left with a smaller cone. When you unfold your second square, it should look exactly like the first, only smaller.
 The center of your flower can be a simple black or green circle cut out from construction paper, or it can be more elaborate.You can glue beads or sequins to the center of the flower for a bit of sparkle.
You can also use paint markers to draw the poppy flower's pistil.
For a three-dimensional look, you can borrow one of the ideas for creating the center of a crepe paper poppy.
 Use craft glue to assemble the petals first, and then the center of the flower.


If you used hearts, simply arrange them in a circle, overlapping the points in the center.If you chose to use two layers of hearts, arrange the larger hearts first and then place the smaller hearts on top, slightly staggered. If you want to give your poppy some more dimension, you can bend the top layer towards the center slightly.
If you started with two paper squares, place the smaller petals on top of the larger petals, staggering them so the rounded sections of the smaller petals fall between the rounded sections of the larger petals. Attach in the center with a small dab of glue., If you plan on hanging your poppies on the wall, you don't need to add a stem at all. If you want one, cut a thin strip of green construction paper and glue it to the back of your flower.Green construction paper can be used to create small leaves along the stem as well.
If you want to be able to attach the flower to something other than the wall, glue a green pipe cleaner to the back instead of construction paper.

