 It's an orange-and-white traffic cone icon.

To confirm that you have the latest version, you can click Help at the top of the window and then click Check for Updates. If there's an update available, you'll be prompted to install it.
If you haven't yet downloaded VLC, you can do so from http://www.videolan.org/vlc/index.html.
 The CD tray into which you'll place the DVD is usually either on the right side of your computer's housing (laptops), or on the front of the CPU box (desktop computers).

Some Mac computers don't have a built-in CD tray. You can rectify this problem by purchasing an external disk reader for around $80.
You may have to close your computer's default audio program once you begin running the DVD before continuing.
 It's in the top-left corner of the VLC window., You'll see this item close to the top of the Media drop-down menu., It's in the "Disc selection" section of the "Open Media" window.

If your computer has more than one DVD tray, you'll also need to click the "Disc device" box and select the movie's name.
 This option is near the bottom of the page. Doing so will invoke a drop-down menu., It's an item in the drop-down menu here., You can do so by looking in the box to the right of "Profile", which is near the bottom of the screen.

If you don't see "(MP4)" in this box, click it and then select an option that ends with "(MP4)".
 It's near the bottom-right corner of the window., You can select this location from the left side of the window., To do so, type filename.mp4 into this window, where "filename" is the name of the movie., This will save your settings., It's at the bottom of the Convert window. Your DVD will begin to convert to an MP4 format.

This process will take anywhere from a few minutes to a few hours, depending on your computer's speed and the size of the DVD.
The video progress bar at the bottom of VLC Media Player's window will show how much of the video has been converted.
 Doing so should open it in your computer's media player, although you may want to open it specifically in VLC Media Player to ensure that it runs properly.