 Whether you are eating in a restaurant or eating at home, it is important to pay attention to how much food you put on your plate. Even if you select a lower fat option, eating a large portion will still add excess calories.

If you are eating at home, then you can use a measuring cup to ensure that you only consume one serving. Check the pasta package and any sauce you are using to find out what the recommended serving sizes are, and then measure out that amount. For example, if the recommended serving is one cup of pasta and 1/4 cup of sauce, then measure out these amounts.
If you are eating in a restaurant, then you might ask the server how much pasta and sauce comes with an entrée to get an idea of how many servings will be on your plate. Then, you can request a to-go container right when your meal arrives and box up half of the portion before you begin eating. This will help to prevent you from consuming an overly large portion.;
, Take advantage of knowing what dishes will complement your chosen, healthy diet. Doing so can help you avoid making poor health decisions.


Go online, call, or stop in to check out their menu.
Call ahead to find out their daily specials. Daily specials can contain health-conscious proteins, such as seafood prepared with olive oil and vegetables.
 Showing up ravenous to eat can result in making poor choices.Be pleasantly hungry, but don’t starve yourself before you show up to the restaurant.
 Even if it’s just an extra walk to counterbalance your meal, it will help you feel good about going out. Healthy eating, in part, means balancing out the energy you take in with the energy you put out.
 Research suggests that eating with others promotes healthier eating habits.Family and friends can help to support your healthy lifestyle.


You might even consider splitting an entrée with a friend or family member to cut back on the calories. For example, if the entrée has 800 calories, then splitting it with someone would cut the calories down to 400. Then you could each have a side salad with some light dressing for a complete meal that is under 500 calories.
 Pasta is one of the main sources of carbohydrates at an Italian restaurant. If you are trying to limit your consumption of carbohydrates, be sure to avoid it. This will help your meal be more balanced.


Ask for grilled or steamed vegetables instead.
Order high-protein appetizers to reduce hunger.
 Eating bread is a very common way people ruin their appetite for healthier options.Garlic bread, breadsticks, and garlic knots are all filled with unneeded calories, and are pure filler.


Look for bruschetta (tomato, fresh basil, garlic, and olive oil atop pieces of lightly toasted bread).
Try vegetable appetizers, such as roasted peppers and mushrooms, artichokes, or brussel sprouts.
Ask your waiter not to bring out the bread.
 Thin crusts have far less carbohydrates, sugars, and fats.Ordering a thin crust is a way to help balance out the nutrients in your meal.
 These foods tend to lack nutritional value. Look for fresh fruit desserts instead that will provide that little bit of sweetness without going overboard.


Order Macedonia. It’s an Italian fruit salad made with fresh seasonal fruits, mint, and a bit of fresh lemon juice. It’s refreshing, delicious, and won’t weigh you down.Finish your meal with a cool and cleansing Italian ice. It’s made with a bit of sugar, ice, and comes in many different flavors. Ask your server what’s available, and which has the least amount of sugar.
 Sometimes saying no to chocolate ravioli is worse for you than saying yes. Indulge, but not too much, by sharing it with someone you care about.
 Sipping on an espresso after a well-enjoyed meal is a great way to rebound from your dinner. It will help you leave the table feeling invigorated and ready to go about your day.


Don't add sugar.
Add a biscotti on the side. You’ve worked so hard to stay healthy during your meal. Reward yourself with this delicious, crunchy treat. After all, rewarding yourself reinforces positive behaviors., Not only is olive oil an unsaturated fat and better for your heart, it can also help to prevent cancer.Try dipping your bread in olive oil, instead of covering it in butter.
 Grilled octopus or calamari is much lighter, healthier, and far more delicious than fried calamari.If calamari on the menu is fried, ask if the chef can grill it instead.
 Tomatoes, onions, and garlic contain antioxidants, and can be part of a well-balanced diet.


Be careful with white sauce; Cream-based sauces have far more fat than red sauces.
Watch out for pesto. It may be green, but it isn't as healthy as it looks. Pesto is very high in fat, containing not only a lot of olive oil, but also cheese and nuts.
Opt for tomato-based sauces, such as marinara, since these are usually the lowest in fat and calories.
 While cheese in moderate portions can be good for you, containing protein and vitamins, it’s also packed with saturated fat and cholesterol.Going easy on the cheese will help you maintain a healthy balance in your meal.


Avoid adding parmesan to your food at the table as well. This adds fat and calories without adding much flavor.
 Look for grilled or roasted options such as chicken, fish, shellfish, or lean cuts of beef. Selecting a main dish with a protein base, instead of a pasta base, will help you to vary the kinds of macro-nutrients you consume.


Try chicken paillard, a classic Tuscan dish, or chicken caprese.
Avoid Parmigiana and Milanesa dishes.These are breaded and fried.
 Italian restaurants often have a variety of seafood on their menus. Fish, shellfish, squid and octopus are all common, healthy options, provided they are not fried.
 They are high in unhealthy fats, sodium, and cholesterol.Selecting fish or chicken to add to pasta or pizza is a better choice for your health. They are generally not as processed as other Italian meat products. They also contain less fat and cholesterol.
 Eating fresh vegetables is a great way to include fiber in your meal. Vegetables will also help cleanse your palate, and they won’t weigh you down. Dining on healthy foods such as plain salads tend to be low in calories, fat and sodium, and high in fiber.


Split a portion of a caprese salad.
Ask for cheese and croutons on the side. You can add your cheese and croutons as needed.
Ask for your dressing on the side. Many restaurants add far too much dressing.
Choose balsamic vinegar. The tang will bring out the flavor of the vegetables.
 Many Italian soups are low in calories, and are heavy in food such as tomatoes, beans, and garlic.


Minestrone is a cholesterol-free, classic, Italian soup that highlights fiber-rich beans and vegetables.It is delicious, filling, and can help you eat less of your entree, while varying the food in your diet.
Cioppini, a broth based soup featuring fish and shellfish, is also a great, low-fat option.
 While not low in sodium, the variety of flavors and textures will keep you satisfied before you eat., There are many delicious vegetable entrees served at Italian restaurants. Look for stuffed peppers and peperonata (stewed peppers), ratatouille, eggplant parmigiana, or carciofi alla romana (Roman artichokes).
 With the right toppings, a pizza can be a very healthy dining option. Choosing vegetables, instead of meat and cheese, is a great way to make your pizza healthy, interesting, and packed with flavor.


Try tomatoes, artichokes, mushrooms, spinach, broccoli, onion, garlic, olives, jalapenos, or peppers.
Keep in mind that vegetables have a high water content. Putting too many on can result in a soggy pizza.

