 Open Start



 

, click the power icon





, and click Restart.

If your computer is locked, click the lock screen, then click the power icon in the bottom-right corner of the screen and click Restart.
If your computer is already off, press your computer's "On" switch.;
, Once the startup screen appears, you'll have a very limited window in which you can press the setup key.

It's best to start pressing the setup key as soon as the computer begins to restart.
If you see "Press to enter setup" or something similar flash across the bottom of the screen and then disappear, you'll need to restart and try again.
 The key you're prompted to press might also be different; if so, use that key instead.

You'll typically use the "F" keys to access the BIOS. These are at the top of your keyboard, though you may have to locate and hold the Fn key while pressing the proper "F" key.
You can look at your computer model's manual or online support page to confirm your computer's BIOS key.
 After successfully hitting the setup key, the BIOS will load. This should only take a few moments. When the loading is complete, you will be taken to the BIOS settings menu.
 Since BIOS menus don't support mouse input, you'll need to use the arrow keys and other computer-specific keys to navigate the BIOS. You can usually find a list of controls in the bottom-right corner of the BIOS homepage.
 When adjusting settings in your BIOS, be sure that you certain what the settings will affect. Changing settings incorrectly can lead to system or hardware failure.


If you don't know what you want to change coming into the BIOS, you probably shouldn't change anything.
 If you want to change what device to boot from, enter the Boot menu. From here, you can designate which device the computer will attempt to boot from first. This is useful for booting from a disc or flash drive to install or repair an operating system.


You'll typically use the arrow keys to go over to the Boot tab to start this process.
 You can create a password that will lock the computer from booting unless the correct password is entered.
 Your BIOS’s clock will dictate your Windows clock. If you replace your computer's battery, your BIOS clock will most likely be reset.
 These options are for advanced users only. In this menu, you can overclock your CPU, potentially allowing for higher performance. This should be performed only if you are comfortable with your computer’s hardware.
 When you are finished adjusting your settings, you will need to save and exit by using your BIOS' "Save and Exit" key in order for your changes to take effect. When you save and restart, your computer will reboot with the new settings.


Check the BIOS key legend to see which key is the "Save and Exit" key.

