 The key to maintaining vaginal health is a nutritious and well-balanced diet as well maintaining proper hydration. Add the following foods to your diet to promote vaginal hygiene:Cranberry juice may help treat and prevent yeast infections.Yogurt may help maintain vaginal pH balance.Soy products help with vaginal dryness and act as a natural lubricant.Nuts and wheat contain vitamin E that help prevent vaginal dryness while also aiding in keeping your skin healthy.Water helps your body function correctly and is essential for the health of the mucous membranes, such as those in your vagina. These membranes rely on proper hydration so getting enough water is essential.
Drinking 8 glasses of water a day also promotes natural lubrication and a milder vaginal scent., Practicing safe sex helps prevent against harmful bacteria and sexually transmitted diseases and promotes vaginal health.Always use a condom when having sex, especially if you are not in a monogamous relationship.
Make sure to always change condoms when switching from anal or oral sex to vaginal sex. This will help prevent harmful bacteria from entering into the vagina.
Use lubricants when having sex. Lube helps prevent the skin of your labia and vagina from becoming irritated.
Lubrication occurs naturally but some women don’t produce enough. Using an artificial lube can help prevent friction and irritation.
Avoid petroleum jelly or other oil-based products as these can break down the latex in condoms, making them ineffective and can cause infection to the vagina.You may also want to shower after having sex so you can remove bodily fluids and residue from the condom that may otherwise cause irritation or infection.
 In order to maintain good vaginal health it’s important to have regular checkups with your gynecologist.


During a gynecologic exam, your doctor will take a pap smear that can help diagnose diseases (such as cancer) or disorders that can affect the health of your vagina as well as your reproductive system.As you reach the ages of 21, your gynecologist will begin cervical screening. These screenings look for changes in the cervix and are used for diagnosing cancer., Keeping your vagina clean and dry is important to reduce the risk of infection and overgrowth of bacteria. Some fabrics can increase heat and moisture in the vagina so avoid the following:Wear cotton underwear instead of thongs.
Avoid wearing tight-fit clothing.
Change out of wet swimsuits and sweaty workout clothes immediately after you’re done., When you’really having your period, your vagina is constantly moist so changing products regularly is vital. Extra moisture and warmth can lead to infection.Change pads or tampons every 2-8 hours during your period.
When you’re not on your period, avoid wearing pads or panty liners to absorb vaginal discharge. These can lock in moisture, which can promote infection if exposed to bacteria or yeast. If you need to use panty liners, change them regularly.

