 Do you feel like you always do the talking and he is just listening because he has to? Is he skimpy on how much he actually discusses with you? This could be a sign that he’s not really the person he portrays himself to be.


For example, he may only share the bare minimum of what he has to in order to maintain your relationship. He probably isn’t really interested in getting to know you if he doesn’t ask you questions or doesn’t look for your opinion., A guy who is genuinely interested in you wants to know how you’re doing and how your day has been. He wants to hear from you every day, or at least every other day. If he can go a few days or even a week without hearing from you, he may not truthful with how he feels about you., Couples who spend a lot of time at each other’s homes typically leave essential items there. Toothbrushes, hairbrushes, clothing, and other items are usually accepted if the person wants to make room for you in their life. If not, the relationship may be less serious than you want.


Leave something at his place and see how he responds. If he returns it to you the next time he sees you, ask if it’s OK to leave it there. If he says no, he may have other romantic interests in his home all of the time or he isn’t as committed as you are., You can tell a lot about a person by their body language and how they talk. Look at him closely the next time you are asking him a question about the relationship. You may find out a lot just by paying attention.


If he changes his story, looks uncomfortable or nervous, repeats the same question, or is only willing to listen to his side, there’s a chance he is full of it., The way he behaves when you’re feeling under the weather says a lot about how he feels about the relationship. While he may not do the same things you would if he were sick, what he does—or doesn’t—do, can tell you how much he cares.


For instance, if he brings you food or simply just comes over to cuddle with you, there’s a good chance he really cares for you. He may not be invested if he stays away.

