;
, Select "USB Settings" from the list of available options.
 This will turn your Galaxy S into an external hard drive when you connect it to your computer, allowing you to access all of the files on it.


Note: Different versions of the Galaxy S will have different labels for these options, but generally they are all very similar.
 You should see a notification that the drivers for your phone are being installed.
 Tap the "USB Connected" option.
 This will enable your phone to appear on your computer.
 In Windows, press ⊞ Win+E to see all of your connected devices. In OS X, the Samsung Galaxy S should appear on your desktop.
 You can copy, delete, move, and create files just like you would with any folder on your computer.
 There are several places the files you are looking for may be located:


Downloads - Anything you download through your browser or from email attachments should be located in your Downloads folder.
DCIM - Pictures you've taken with your Samsung Galaxy S camera will be located in the DCIM folder.
Music - Any music files that you've copied over using Samsung Kies will be located in the Music folder.
Pictures - Screenshots and other system images will be found in the Pictures folder.
 Some versions of Windows and OS X may not be able to properly connect to the Samsung Galaxy S. If this is the case and you are receiving errors about missing drivers, download and install Samsung Kies. This is the management software for all Samsung devices, and contains all of the necessary drivers for your phone to connect.


You can download Kies for free from samsung.com/kies.
Download version 2.6 for older devices like the original Samsung Galaxy S.
 If you still can't get your Samsung Galaxy S to appear on your computer when it's connected, there are a couple things you can try.


Windows - Update to Windows Media Player 11 or newer. The latest version of Windows Media Player is required in order to successfully connect your phone. To update Windows Media Player, start the program, click Help, select Check for updates, and follow the prompts to update the software.
Mac OS X - Download the Android File Transfer program. This is a tool developed by Android to allow Android devices to connect to Mac computers. You can download it for free from android.com/filetransfer/. Double-click the download DMG file and drag Android File Transfer to the Applications folder. You will need to run it once when you connect your Samsung Galaxy S, and then it will run automatically in the future.

