 Not only is this tasty, if you use fresh vegetables, it’s packing a nutritious punch. If your recipe is too-carb heavy, this might need to be an occasional, rather than regular, snack. However, sweet potato bread is a great way for kids to get a lot of needed nutrients., With the right proportions, you can use this to include some of the trickier vegetables in your kids’ diets. Spinach and kale are pretty easy to include. It’s important to have enough sweet fruits or honey to balance the bitterness of the greens. However, it will be harder to mask veggies with strong flavors such as onions and garlic., A lot of kids struggle with texture as well as flavor. By blending veggies that kids normally don’t like because of texture, you can incorporate it with flavors the kid does like. Sometimes it’s only the texture that’s the problem, and so kids will often eat the vegetable in another form that they won’t touch its raw or unblended form., From smoothies to chips to popcorn and pasta, companies are trying to make traditional snacks healthier. While products that rely on processed or dehydrated vegetables shouldn’t replace fresh vegetables, they can help augment veggie-poor diets. You can even try vegan versions of typically meat or dairy type products, as they often contain a lot of vegetables (check the label, though, because many of these products contain a lot of corn or soy).If you’re struggling to get your kids to eat vegetables, your kids might like veggie burgers. Veggies burgers are often made from rice, black beans, and other healthy vegetables. Check the label to make sure.
Your kids might enjoy fruit and veggie juices, or juice that contains both fruit and vegetables. Check the label to make sure the sugar content is not too high before implementing it regularly into your kids’ diets.
Many chip companies are now producing chips made with other vegetables than potatoes, including broccoli, beans and carrots. These chips are often quite tasty and can be paired with a nutritious veggie dip. Again, check the label to make sure the chips live up to their claims., With meat and cheese dishes it can be easy to slip a vegetable into the mix and the kids be none-the-wiser. For instance, if you’re making a homemade pasta sauce, you can blend vegetables in with the tomatoes. Then your kids will enjoy the pasta and get the vitamins and minerals they need., Sometimes, simply making the veggie look like some other yummy snack can make it more appealing. Whether you disguise cauliflower as mashed potatoes or root vegetables as fries, kids will likely find these versions more appealing than in other forms. And you may find a yummier alternative for yourself as well.