 You should talk with an estate attorney about the tax consequences of leaving assets to the Task Force. Only a qualified attorney can give you tailored advice. The attorney can also draft the necessary estate plan documents for you.


If you don’t have an estate attorney, you can get a referral to one by contacting your local or state bar association.Also see Select an Estate Planning Attorney for more information.
 You can name the Task Force as a beneficiary in your will. You can leave real estate, cash, securities, or other assets. You can also leave a percentage of your estate. No gift is too small.


Include this language in your will: “I hereby give, devise, and bequeath 20% of my property both real and personal to the National LGBTQ Task Force Foundation, which has its principal place of business at 1325 Massachusetts Ave NW, Suite 600, Washington, DC 20005, and whose 501 (c)(3) tax identification number is 52-1624852.”, You can also name the Task Force as the beneficiary to different retirement assets, and they can receive a portion or all of the retirement fund.For example, you can name them as beneficiaries to the following:


401(k)
403(b)
IRA
Qualified Retirement Plan

, The Task Force also accepts life insurance policies. You can name the Task Force as a beneficiary (or contingent beneficiary) of all or part of your life insurance proceeds.A contingent beneficiary receives the life insurance proceeds if your primary beneficiary dies before or at the same time that you do.
For example, you might name your spouse as your primary beneficiary. If they die before you, then the Task Force could step in as the beneficiary.
 With a trust, you transfer ownership of assets to the trust, which is a legal entity run by a trustee. You can leave assets to the Task Force using a trust. While you are alive, you can act as the trustee and manage the assets. Because there are many kinds of trusts, you should discuss your options with your estate attorney.Living trust. A living trust is like a will. You can transfer assets to the trust and name the Task Force as the intended beneficiary. They will receive the assets on your death. A living trust is revocable, meaning you can change your mind.

Charitable remainder trust. With this trust, you transfer assets to the trust and receive income generated by the trust assets. After a certain amount of time, the assets then transfer to the National LGTBQ Task Force. A charitable remainder trust is irrevocable, meaning you can’t back out after you create it.

Charitable lead trust. You transfer assets to the trust and the Task Force receives the income for a period of time. At the end of this period, the assets revert to you or your beneficiaries. A charitable lead trust is an irrevocable trust.

