 You cannot teach what you do not know, so if you haven’t already, set up your own account on the social networking sites that your child is asking permission to use or is already using.


This will help you to get acquainted with how the site works, the kind of content available and the possible interactions among users.
By doing this, you can give better guidance to your child on the do’s and don’t’s when using these sites.;
, There are lots of online articles discussing different issues involving the internet and communications technology, especially as it relates to children and teenagers.


Familiarize yourself with the relevant laws in your area regarding with the rights and protection of minor mobile and internet users.
There are also resources you can view or download such as pamphlets, videos, infographics, and interactive games which you can use to teach proper online behavior at home.
 For example, Google has a family safety channel on Youtube with videos discussing online child safety and other similar issues. The Facebook Family Safety Center page is also loaded with tools that deal with social media etiquette.


NetSmartz has cool interactive and engaging videos for parents, teachers and children of every age, that cover a wide range of topics on online behavior.
Instead of plain old boring lectures, take advantage of these free resources to make learning fun for both you and your kids.
 You may also sign yourself up for online parenting groups and forums that teach proper digital behavior and lots of other modern-day parenting challenges.


Remember that you are not alone in your quest to raise responsible kids both in the real and virtual world. You can always take a cue from strategies used by other parents as to what works and what doesn’t.
Engaging in parenting groups and forums will also give you an idea of what issues you might be faced with, especially if you are just starting to introduce your kids to mobile phones, tablets and computers.
 Ask your internet service provider if they can set up parental controls and content filter on your home router. Also, before giving out electronic gadgets to your kids, ask the tech guy from the store to set up child control features on these devices. This will keep your child protected even when he is connected to wifi or mobile data networks outside your home.


Basically, these controls and filters allow you to block websites or programs that contain inappropriate themes such as mature content, pornography, hate speech, crime, violence, alcohol, tobacco, drugs, and the like.
The features and set-up process are different depending on the brand of your router, device or operating system, so it is best to discuss this option with your seller or provider.
 Impress upon your child the importance of never sharing their passwords with anyone, not even with their most trusted friends.


Look up cases of account hacking on the internet and show your child how things can get really out of hand when another person gets access to their accounts. Identity theft is no laughing matter.
Likewise, teach your kids never to give out information such as the name of their school, home address, and phone number.
Tell them how this seemingly innocent sharing of personal information online can lead to actual stalking, kidnapping and harassment in real life.
 Most netiquette (internet etiquette) resources on the internet summarize the essence of online behavior in this catchy mnemonic: T.H.I.N.K. before you post.


When posting status updates, photos, videos or other content and even when typing in comments or replies, ask these simple questions: Is it True, Helpful, Inspiring, Necessary, and Kind?
These are good guidelines to teach your kids and the helpful acronym T.H.I.N.K. will make them very easy to remember.
 "Don’t talk to strangers,” is something everyone tells their kids when they're little. Now as they start exploring the bounds of the virtual world, remind them that this holds true online as much as anywhere else.


Make it very clear that they should never agree to meet up with someone they just met online. Don’t spare them the gory details of the possible things that could happen to them when trusting someone they do not actually know:
Robbery and extortion, rape, and human trafficking just to name a few. In this particular situation, using scare tactics is the way to go.
 Almost every kid from this generation turns to the internet instead of using books for their homework and other school assignments.


With the vast amount of information available, the internet is indeed a powerful educational medium. However, it is important to teach your kids the importance of giving credit to their sources when citing information or works that they got on the internet.
Copying text or other content and making it appear as your own is nothing more than stealing someone else’s ideas, a.k.a. plagiarism.
 If your kids are ever in doubt about whether something is right or not, teach them the “real-life test”.


Teach them to ask themselves questions like "Is this something I would say to the person face to face?" and "If someone said or did this to me, would I be happy or would I feel hurt?
More importantly, remind your kids that they can always come to you and ask you for advice anytime they are unsure about something online.
 Make it a point to spend some time during the week exploring the internet with your child. Not only will this count as quality bonding time, it will also give you an opportunity to assess first-hand how your child fares in the netiquette department and to give him personal guidance on what he could improve on.
 Finally, remember that your actions speak louder than your words. Never contradict what you have taught your children by displaying poor internet etiquette yourself. Use the internet responsibly and they will surely follow your lead.
 Cyberbullying can go two ways: either your child gets bullied or becomes the bully. Neither one is better than the other. The key to preventing this is to build a strong psychological and emotional foundation for your child in the offline world, even long before you allow them to use electronic devices.


Teach your toddlers and preschoolers how to deal with anger, resentment and other strong negative emotions. Tell them that they should never do or say anything in the heat of the moment, as it could hurt someone else and cause them to regret their actions later.
If your child is able to control his negative emotions in real life and express them in a healthy way, chances are that this behavior will extend to his online interactions as well.
 When they start grade school, most kids will have a better grasp of the concept of bullying in general, as they may have already experienced or witnessed it to some extent in their real-world interactions at school.


Parents can simply extend the concept of bullying and explain how it applies to the online world. Give your child scenarios and ask them how they would react to each, reinforcing their answers where necessary.
For high schoolers, the basic principles remain the same but become more complex as they are exposed to concepts such as sexuality and racism, and as they develop different forms and levels of friendship and enmity, including romantic relationships.
 Be clear when explaining the consequences of cyberbullying: including the psychological, emotional and social impact on the victim and his family, as well as the penalty for the perpetrator, which may include expulsion from school and even criminal prosecution and arrest.


Give a stern reminder to your children, whatever age they may be, that when they receive any form of threats or harassment online, they should never respond to them but instead, report the matter immediately to you.
If your child opens up about someone bullying them online, never dismiss it or take it lightly. Cyberbullying can potentially have long-term negative effects on your child and should therefore be taken seriously.

