 Whether this is an expressive or physical incident, determine if the other person is already remorseful.If the other person is clearly remorseful early on, you may want to pursue a positive, constructive response rather than a traditional guilt trip.
This method is also less likely to garner resentment between you and the other person.
Consider a third-party mediator to discuss the issue between you and the other person.
 In this method, you want to provide a way to fix the situation as immediately as possible, and not let the problem linger. It's best if you do this directly, without a go-between, but whatever method is more efficient is preferable.The nature of this opportunity will vary greatly, it could be a written apology, charity/volunteer work, donations, etc...
Tailor the opportunity to the offense. For example, if the other person shoplifted, have them not only return the object and write an apology, but help to deter others from doing the same things.
 Don't let the other person feel isolated in their guilt.Whatever new behavior the other person is engaging in, try to do some of it yourself and let the other person see this.
For example, if you guilt trip the other person into writing an apology for a false claim on a blog, write positive comments in support yourself.
 Keep track of your responses, written or actionable.


This can help you and the other person track progress towards satisfying the feeling of guilt on their part and injury on yours.
If this is a written response, maybe keep an album of clippings from the written publications or similar.
In the actionable response category, keep copies of schedules, photos, and/or souvenirs from events. For example, if you used the other person's memory of you getting them to their championship soccer game on time to guilt trip them into helping your charity food drive... you can collect photos of them on the cook's line.
 There should be take-away points both you and the other person gain from this experience. Being clear that you both have at least some common ideas about what you went through should be part of the process.In the case of an expressive guilt trip, you can share the other person's mistake and both of your responses as lessons for what not to do and to do in the future. For example, if the other person was guilt tripped into writing a letter to the editor to apologize for an earlier letter that made false claims, and you made supportive comments in your own letter--the two of you can go over etiquette in writing and the subject matter.
An example for a physical event, such as you using the other person's memory of a prank call to guilt trip them into help you move furniture for an elderly neighbor, you can discuss the merits of helping others over immature behaviors.

