 Sometimes people, including your parents and siblings, won’t always ask for your help. Instead, you can keep an eye out to see if they might need it. For example, if your dad comes home with groceries, ask if you can help carry them into the house. Or, if your mom is cooking, ask if she needs you to do anything else that will help get dinner ready.


Your family may tell you they don’t need your help, and that’s okay. The important thing is that you thought to ask, which they will appreciate., Make sure you have all the plates, cups, and utensils you will need to eat your meal. You can also look up proper ways to set the table or fold napkins for something nicer and more creative to look at.After meals are over, you can also be helpful by clearing the table. Get all the dishes and silverware into the sink or dishwasher for cleaning.
 After meals, you need to clean off dishes and make sure they get put away. Nobody likes cleaning the dishes, so you can really help your parents out after they’ve put in a lot of work to make meals.


Start by scraping off all food scraps, which will make the dishes easier to clean. Remember to use warm water and soap to clean off the whole dish. Clean all the dishes, silverware, cups, anything that you used to eat or make food with.
Remember to clean food scraps out of the sink drain when you are finished. Throw them away so they don’t clog the drain.
Empty the dishwasher. If your house has a dishwasher, unload it after it finishes. Just give it a few minutes to cool down first, as dishes can be hot. You don’t want to accidentally burn yourself.
Be careful when handling sharp objects like knives and other utensils. If you aren’t careful, you can cut yourself, so always pick things up by the handle, and watch where you are reaching., Dirt, dust, crumbs, and other things gather on the floor and can attract bugs. Help by sweeping up crumbs into a dustpan and throwing them away. This is especially important after meals, both where you ate, but also where you or your parents made the food.If you are older, and your parents let you, use a vacuum to help give the floors a better clean.
 Taking the garbage bag to a can or bin outside lets someone come and take it away. This is an easy chore, even for young kids. If you notice the trash can getting full, especially in the kitchen or bathroom, take it outside. Just remember to replace it with a new one., These usually come once a day, though there is no mail on Sundays. It can be a quick walk down to your mailbox to grab whatever you got for the day.Don’t hide bad news or bad grades. This is not a chance for you to keep your parents from seeing stuff like that.
 If you make a mess somewhere, or you are trying to do things like cooking or projects on your own, take care of it yourself. This can mean garbage, crumbs, a spill, or dirty dishes. Cleaning up where you were is a good way to show your parents that you are mature and responsible.


There are plenty of other types of messes that can appear around the house. Piles of books, papers, clothes, toys, and dishes can appear at any time. You can be a big help by cleaning them up.
 There will always be plenty of things that need to get done around the house, including stuff you might not think about. Asking for a set of regular chores can be a good way to make sure you are helping things to get done. It will also be easier on your parents because they won’t have to remember to ask you to do something, you will just know to do it.


Doing regular chores is good for you too. It will help give you a sense of responsibility, and prepare you for the things you will need to do when you are older and don’t live you’re your parents anymore.You can help here by giving your parents suggestions of things you would like to do. These can be chores you know you would be good at, or things you would like to get better at doing. In talking with your parents, you may decide that you will have a set list of chores, or maybe you will rotate a list of chores with your siblings.
Create a chore chart. This is a good way to help everyone remember what you are supposed to be doing. The chart should explain what you need to be working on, and how often you should do it. For example, setting the table could be every day, but taking out the garbage would only happen once a week. You can even be creative with the chart, and make something that has fun designs and ways of checking things off. Just remember that it needs to make sense to everyone who uses it.Remember that chores may not always be divided fairly. If your siblings are too young to do something, you will need to do it until they are old enough. The important thing is to not whine about it, and do what needs to be done.

