 The success of this depends on their age: if they're very young, you may just need to set some limits and rules, rather than engaging them in the process. If they're old enough to want to partake in the planning, ask them what they think a regular amount of TV viewing is, and explain your concerns to them. Try to reach a compromise on how much screen time is a good idea - but if you need to, set the limits yourself. You are the parent, after all.;
, Consider mapping out a schedule on a white board or calendar. You might limit their viewing to certain days of the week, or limiting the time they watch, such as ten or twenty minutes.
 It's a good idea for them to do chores or homework, but they can also enjoy playing board games, doing activities outside, and socializing with friends. Try to make the alternatives really fun at first, to help your child transition into watching less TV.


Do not let them watch TV while they are doing or working on homework, chores, etc. If you do that, your child will get distracted, sit down on the couch, and watch.
 Instead of turning the TV off, consider unplugging it instead, because kids can turn on the TV, but some know how to plug back in the TV. Put something to block the way if your child knows how to do this so they can't do it. Consider using a cloth or board to block the actual view of the TV itself, if seeing it there and turned off is disturbing to them., Reading books is one important part of learning. Go to the library with your child and read books over there. Read as many books as possible to stay away from TV as much as possible. Once you're done at the library, take a few books home to read. Pick books your child likes and that are for children, and make sure they are exciting and fun too. Children usually like exciting books.
 After reading a book your child likes, help them get ideas from it so they could write their own story. Writing is almost similar to reading, but means that your child is creative author.
 Kids sometimes love to draw. Give them crayons, paper, and a pencil.
 Get away from the living room and out of the house. Take them out somewhere to have a lot of fun, such as a park or carnival. Let play all the games, eat a meal, ride on the rides, etc. Wherever you go, make this enjoyable for your child.
 If you have something really fun to do with your child, and he/she usually likes it, tell your child about it. They may get surprised, turn off the TV, and start doing the fun thing. Make sure it's a thing your child usually likes. Children usually like to play with fun things and have a good time.
 This is even worse when they watch while doing homework because TV usually keeps your child from doing homework. Whatever reason, do not let your child watch TV. Also no iPods, iPhones, or iPads or any other unnecessary distractions during homework.
 If you can't find the remote or it doesn't have batteries, you won't be able to turn on the TV. And that keeps you from watching it.


Keep batteries away from children, as they may have some kind of rust, and if children touch it, they may get poisoned.

