 Ethylene Oxide (EtO) is used for items that are moisture and heat sensitive, such as devices with plastic or electrical components that cannot withstand high temperatures. EtO helps perform antimicrobial sterilization to protect the instruments from making people sick. Studies prove that EtO is a critical sterilization technology for medical and health care purposes. It is a unique and irreplaceable sterilization method. EtO’s uses include sterilizing certain heat-sensitive and irradiation-sensitive materials, as well as some instruments and devices on-site in hospitals EtO is a chemical solution that kills all microorganisms, leading to the sterilization of the item. , When using ethylene oxide as a cleaning option, the process has three stages, which are the preconditioning stage, sterilizer stage, and degasser stage. In the preconditioning stage, the technician needs to get organisms to grow on the equipment so they can be killed and the tools can be sterilized. This is done by sending the medical equipment through a controlled temperature and humidity environment. , After the preconditioning stage, the long and complicated sterilization process starts. The whole process takes about 60 hours. The temperature control is the most important. If the temperature falls below sterilization level, the process has to start over. The vacuum and pressure of the machine is also important. The machine will not start without the perfect conditions.


Towards the end of this phase, the batch report is produced, which tells the operator if there are any issues with the process.
If the machine was set on the auto mode, the machine will move on to the degasser stage if the report shows no errors.
If there were errors, the machine will automatically stop the process and let the operator fix it before any further sterilization is done. , The final phase is the degasser stage. During this stage, any leftover particles of the EtO are removed from the tools. This is important because EtO gas is extremely flammable and harmful to humans. You must make sure this happens completely so you and any other lab workers are not harmed. This is also completed under temperature control.


Be warned that it is a very dangerous substance. Any operator, personnel, and patients that might come into contact with the gas must have training about the hazards.
It also takes longer than an autoclave.