 Before deciding, call around to get quotes from different dentists. You want to make sure you are getting the best quality care for the best price. Don't stop at dentists, though; periodontists and oral surgeons also offer dental implants. Make sure you have looked at all your available options.


Widen the net for where you get your implants. If you live in a large city, try finding a quality, recommended dentist in a suburb. Many times, dentists in smaller areas will charge less than those in large cities.
Look for new practices. Newly opened practices may charge less as they build their reputation and client lists. Be sure to check references, like where they went to school and where they worked previously, their type of experience and methods they use, along with reviews from people in the community who have been to the new practice.
 A dental implant center specializes in this kind of oral surgery. The center might charge less because dental implants are what they do on a regular basis, while your dentist might charge more because it is a special surgery. These centers also usually strive to provide lower treatment cost by having one surgical team to work on your mouth, instead of different specialists who charge separate fees.
 Many college and universities have dental schools that provide dental care at reduced costs. Most of these dental schools have recently graduated students working alongside experienced dentists and professors.They may even have better medical equipment, such as computers that they use for guided surgery.
 Try health care financing, like CareCredit or Springstone.Some companies offer special financing for health care related costs at no interest or low, fixed interest rates. Usually these financing option require decent credit scores. If your credit score is low, you can get one or two cosigners on the application to get approved.
 Some organizations offer aid to low-income households who need dental care. Some non-profits and dental associations provide aid to certain demographics, such as people with disabilities, women and children, and others.


The American Dental Association provides a list by state of local dental societies that can help you find affordable payment options., If your insurance doesn't pay for implants, there are dental insurance alternative plans that offer implant coverage. These plans usually require you to use dentists in their network.
 Dental tourism has become a popular method for high priced dental work. Dental implants are cheaper in other countries, such as Mexico, Hungary, Italy, Costa Rica, and many Asian countries. Sometimes, the same dental implants can cost half of the price it would in the US.


Dental tourism should be practiced with caution. Different government health standards means that not every dentist will be equal. Research the regulations, licensing standards, procedures, and the dental office carefully before getting work done. Get an international dental referral if at all possible.
Also, you need to make sure that the implant you get is a high quality one because there are many companies on the market and dental implants have also started to be manufactured in China. Another risk you need to consider is that you may end up spending more money if the treatment doesn't go as planned and complications appear.
 If dental implants are something you really want and need, consider making that a top priority. Instead of buying a new car or taking a vacation, use that money to help pay for your dental health.
 Once you have determined how much it will cost to get dental implants, start setting aside a designated amount each week or month until you save the desired amount. Saving in small increments may help the overall cost seem less overwhelming. Calculate how long it will take to save up enough money for your dental implants and schedule your appointment for that time.
 Don't feel like you need to have all of the dental work done at the same time. If you can only afford to have the teeth extracted at this time, then stop there until you can afford the rest. Dental work is often done in stages, so it is feasible that you may need to pay for one stage at a time until you have completed the process. Even if it takes an extended amount of time, you won't be burdened with the whole bill at once.


Dental implants take time to heal in the bone and this process takes at least four to six months. This means you have plenty of time to gather the money for the prosthetic part.
 If you are in serious need of dental implants but still can't raise the money, think about starting a campaign to raise the money. Websites such as Indiegogo and GoFundMe allow you to raise money for health care. After setting up the account, you can share via social media so friends and family members can donate if they are willing.

