 Place a large skillet on the stove, and add 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of sesame oil. Allow the oil to heat on medium until it begins to shimmer.You can substitute peanut oil for the sesame oil if you prefer.
 For the ramen, you’ll need 2 baby bok choy whose ends have been trimmed. Place them on a plate, and rub 1 tablespoon (17 g) miso paste over them so they are evenly coated.Miso paste is a Japanese seasoning made from fermented soybean paste. You can usually find it the refrigerated section at Asian grocery stores and the health food section of general grocery stores.
 After you’ve coated the bok choy with the miso paste, place it in the hot skillet. Allow it to cook for about 3 minutes on each side, or until it’s lightly charred on all sides. Transfer it to a plate and set it aside for the moment., When you’re removed the bok choy, add 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of sesame oil, ¼ cup (58 g) of diced green onion, a 1 inch (2.5-cm) piece of ginger that’s been peeled and minced, ½ sweet onion that’s been cut into strips, and 2 minced garlic cloves. Allow the mixture to saute for 5 minutes.You can substitute scallions for the green onions if you prefer.
Any sweet onion will work for the ramen, but Vidalia, Bermuda, and Maui are good options.
 After you’ve cooked the ginger and garlic mixture for 5 minutes, add 4 cups (946 ml) of vegetable stock. Raise the heat to medium-high, and allow the mixture to come to a full boil, which should take 5 to 7 minutes.It’s a good idea to cover the skillet with a lid while it’s coming to a boil.
 Once the ramen mixture has come to a boil, reduce the heat to medium-low. Let it simmer for another 5 minutes., After you’ve simmered the ramen mixture for another few minutes, mix 2 medium zucchini that have been spiralized into noodles into the broth. Let the zoodles cook for 2 to 4 minutes, depending on how tender you’d like them to be.A vegetable spiralizer is usually the easiest way to turn the zucchini into noodles.
 Once you’ve cooked the zoodles until your desired tenderness, use a pair of tongs to remove them from the broth and divide them between two bowls. Next, ladle the broth over the zoodles.You can also add some crispy tofu to the top of the ramen if you want to mix in some protein.
If you only want a meat-free dish, you can also top the ramen with sliced, soft-boiled egg.
 After you’ve divided the ramen between the bowls, add the bok choy and any veggies left behind in the skillet on top. You can also add some chopped green onion, sesame seeds, and crispy seaweed, or drizzle some Sriracha over them before serving.