 Ataxia itself is always caused by something else. It is crucial that you treat this other condition in order to help your cat recover from its ataxia. Whatever method of treatment your vet recommends, follow it.Ataxia could be caused by a viral infection, meningitis, parasite, spider bites, brain damage, hypoglycemia, ear infection, bone cancer, diabetes-induced nerve damage, tumor, or any other number of underlying diseases.
 Hypoglycemia is when a diabetic cat has low blood sugar and can be a precursor to bouts of ataxia. If your cat has a hypoglycemic event, you will need to encourage your cat to eat some food. If your cat is unable to eat its normal food, try feeding it some honey or corn syrup. If your cat is unconscious, put some honey or corn syrup on its gums and take it to the vet immediately.Some symptoms of hypoglycemia include lethargy, anxiety, difficulty standing, weakness, seizures, muscle twitching, or unconsciousness.
 If your cat has diabetes, this means that it has trouble regulating its insulin levels. You will need to get a diagnosis from your veterinarian and then give your cat daily insulin shots at consistent times each day, with the dosage and frequency determined by your vet.Diabetic cats also need to maintain a healthy weight in order to minimize the effects of their diabetes. You should be cautious about giving your cat too many treats or any human food.
You should also provide your cat with a high-fiber, high-complex carbohydrate diet to help with weight loss and to help control your cat’s blood sugar levels.
 Ear infections can cause symptoms of ataxia in cats. If your cat has an ear infection, it will need to be diagnosed by a veterinarian. Treatment involves cleaning of the ear canals, ear drop ointments (either antibiotics, antifungals, or anti-inflammatory drugs), and possibly surgery – depending on the severity of the case.The main symptoms of feline ear infections include shaking its head, scratching its ears repeatedly, skin wounds around the head and ears, hair loss on ears, discharge from the ear canal, or redness of the inner ear.
 Ataxia can be a symptom of many different underlying issues, and treatment will vary depending on why your cat is ataxic. Be sure to listen to your vet and carefully follow instructions for applying treatment or administering medications.