 You can  purchase the latest version from the Parallels website or any other third-party seller. If you are student, instructor or faculty staff you can purchase Parallels at a discount.
 The installation is straight forward, just like you install any other application on your Mac.


Once you have installed the app on your computer, you can open the application.
 Before your buy any Windows software, you need to make sure it's compatible with your system; otherwise it won't work. If you're not sure which OS X version, processor, memory (RAM) and hard drive space your computer has, then use about system information to find out.
 Check which versions of Windows will work with your Mac., If you have a Windows copy on a DVD, you need to create a disk image. If you have a copy on a flash drive, you just need to to download the ISO disk image from Microsoft. Otherwise, you need to buy full Windows version that come as a disk image file (ISO).

Purchasing a brand new Windows copy is a bit expensive. There are discounts available for students. Make sure you save product key somewhere safe, because you'll need it later.
 This is an easy step; just follow the Windows setup instructions and save the file to your desktop., When you first open Parallels, it's going to give you two options. You can choose the first one: “Install Windows or another OS from a DVD or image file”.
,, If you want Windows and all its programs and applications to appear in one window, choose the second option. However, both options work fine; the only difference is how the files will display on your computer.
, The installation period shouldn’t take longer than 20 minutes.


You can make the Windows a full screen so it looks like it would if you were using a regular Windows PC by choosing full screen mode.
To switch back and forth between Mac and Windows, make sure to share Windows applications with Mac.Since the virtual machine is set up now, you can run any Windows application. Next part we are going to install Microsoft Visual Studio.
 There are several versions of Visual Studio. Choosing which version to download is up to you. Unlike the Parallels and Windows, Visual Studio is free. To download the application check out the official website here and choose the community edition.
 The Visual Studio installation is simple, since the application is now running on its native Windows platform. The installer will automatically finish the installation.
