 To stay healthy, rabbits need lots of exercise. Make sure that your New Zealand rabbit gets at least two hours of exercise every day. To allow your rabbit to run and hop enough to get exercise, you will need to let her out of her cage to at least once per day.Keep your rabbit indoors when you let her out to exercise. You may even want to keep her confined to one room. For example, you could keep her in your bedroom or put up a couple of baby gates to make sure she stays in a specific area of your house.
 New Zealand rabbits will chew on any cords they encounter. This can kill your rabbit and ruin your electronics, so it is important to stop your New Zealand rabbit from doing so.


Try hiding electrical cords with some hard plastic tubing or spiral wrap. Another option is to just keep all of the cords off of the ground so that your rabbit cannot reach them., Make sure that your rabbit does not chew on your walls and furniture. A New Zealand rabbit will chew on any wooden object. This may include wall trim, door edges, chairs, and table legs.


Keep in mind that your New Zealand rabbit might also try to chew on other things such as a rug, some loose carpeting, or a bit of loose wallpaper.If you catch your rabbit chewing on something that he should not be chewing on, don’t get mad or punish him. Just pick him up gently, move him somewhere else and provide him with a cardboard box or a piece of a raw carrot to distract him from the other object.
 Your New Zealand rabbit’s teeth will never stop growing, so she needs to keep chewing on things to wear them down. Otherwise, your rabbit may need a visit to veterinarian to have her teeth trimmed. To avoid the need to trim your rabbit’s teeth, make sure that she has plenty of things to chew on at all times.Try giving your New Zealand rabbit some alfalfa cubes, untreated pine boards, cotton towels, cardboard boxes, or apple branches., To keep your New Zealand rabbit healthy, you will need to take him to see a veterinarian once per year for a checkup. Watch for any problems that your rabbit is sick as well. If you rabbit seems sick, then take her to see your veterinarian. Signs that there might be a problem include:not hopping or not using back legs
excess fur loss
not defecating or having watery diarrhea
dark red urine or no urine
lethargy (extra tired, not moving or reacting normally)
runny eyes and nose
drooling
fever of 105 °F (40.6 °C) or more, Unless you plan to breed your New Zealand rabbit, you should get him or her neutered or spayed. Spaying and neutering your rabbits will prevent unwanted litters and it will also help to keep your rabbit healthy. If you do not spay or neuter your rabbit, then he or she may act out with hormonal behaviors, like fighting or spraying. If you have a female rabbit that is not spayed, then she will have a much higher risk of getting uterine cancer as well.If your rabbits are not spayed and neutered, then make sure that you keep them separated.
 Your New Zealand rabbit will benefit from a once weekly brushing session. Otherwise, you may end up with lots of hair on your furniture, carpet, and clothes. Use a natural bristle brush or a comb to go over her hair once per week.Do not bathe your New Zealand rabbit. Rabbits can become hypothermic if they get wet and they do not enjoy the water either.

