 Cold therapy reduces swelling by causing a decrease in the diameter of blood vessels (vasoconstriction). It can also numb deep pain. Cold therapy can be applied using cold packs, bags of ice, cold rags, or bags of frozen vegetables or fruit.Do not use ice packs or other cold therapy methods on the area for more than 15 to 20 minutes at a time.
Always place a towel between the skin and the cold source.
Refrain from using topical pain relievers at the same time you are applying cold.
Do not use cold therapy if you have poor circulation.;
, Heat therapy increases the diameter of blood vessels (vasodilation), which increases circulation. It also reduces muscle spasms and alters the sensation of pain. Heat therapy can be applied using heat packs, heating pads, or hot water bottles, or soaking a washcloth in warm water and applying to affected area.You can also soak in a hot bath or shower.
Do not use heat therapy for more than 15 to 20 minutes.
Put a cloth between the skin and the heat source.
Do not use topical pain relievers at the same time you are applying heat.
Test the temperature to avoid burns. Avoid hot tubs or spas if you have high blood pressure or heart disease.
 Taking it easy and getting bed rest for a few days can be helpful in some cases of severe pain due to spondylosis; however, any bed rest should be restricted to no more than one to three days, because any longer may prolong recovery.Long-term bed rest also increases an individual’s risk for deep vein thrombosis (DVT), or a blood clot in the lower extremities. A DVT can lead to a pulmonary embolus (PE), or a blood clot in the lungs, which can be life-threatening.
 Regular exercise, even if modified during a painful episode of spondylosis, can help speed recovery. It is recommended to continue normal or near normal activities. Low-impact exercises, such as walking or swimming, are good choices. Yoga is a good form of exercise too. It’s been noted that individuals who walk daily are less likely to experience neck or low back pain.In addition to thirty minutes of cardio exercise three times a week, you should do core exercises, such as pelvic lifts. This helps strengthen the core to support the spine.
You should always talk to your physiotherapist before starting a new exercise. You and your physiotherapist can come up with an exercise routine that will be right for your specific condition.
 Temporary bracing may help relieve the pain of spondylosis. Make sure not to wear it any longer than one week. Bracing allows muscles to rest. Long-term bracing is discouraged since it can weaken muscles and lead to more pain in the neck or low back.You can obtain a soft neck brace from a pharmacy or doctor.
 Sleeping with a firm pillow below the neck or between the legs may help relieve the pain of spondylosis, especially if your pain is in the mid to lower back. Special pillows have been developed for the cervical spine or neck, which offer additional support that may help relieve pain. The pillow changes the direction of your spine, giving it added support and keeping it straighter while you rest.There are special pillows designed for this function, but if you cannot locate one of these pillows, simply use the fullest pillow on your bed.
 Lifestyle modification may be helpful for the spine at any age. Consider less strenuous work if your work entails an overabundance of bending or heavy lifting. If you are overweight or obese, losing weight can reduce stress on the spine. Quitting smoking can improve bone health, especially in the spine.You should also consider your posture. If you slouch while sitting or standing, put more effort into correcting your posture and keeping your back and neck straight.

