 To remove debris from your cat’s paw, you will need a damp washcloth, a towel to wrap your cat in, and a pair of tweezers. If you suspect the debris has punctured your cat’s paw, you will also need a pet-friendly antiseptic.Some pet friendly antiseptics include Betadine (cleanser or solution), Burrow’s Solution, and witch hazel.;
, Gently pick up your cat. Pet your cat to make it feel comfortable. Then carefully wrap your cat in a towel, leaving the paw or paws with the debris outside of the towel. Be careful to not wrap the towel too tightly or it could injure the cat.If your cat does not like being held, you should grab a friend or family member to help you.
Wrapping the cat in a towel will help prevent you from being scratched by the cat.
You can also calm the cat with a treat.
 Using the damp washcloth, gently wipe your cat’s paw or paws. If you are cleaning debris from multiple paws, wipe them one at a time. Gently rub between the pads of your cat’s paws to remove debris like cat litter, gravel, or food. Once you clean a paw, place it back inside the towel.If you are cleaning front and back paws, clean the front paws first. Then gently slide the bottom of the towel up so that you can clean the back paws one at a time.
You can also use your fingers to gently dislodge debris, such as kitty litter, from the cat's paw.
If there is a splinter in the cat's paw, you should avoid this step until after the splinter or other sharp object is removed.
It is also okay to scruff your cat while they are on a surface. However, never pick a cat up by the scruff. To scruff a cat, grab the skin on the back of their neck and hold it firmly.
 Once you have gently cleaned your cat’s paws with a damp washcloth, check to see if there is a splinter or other debris, like glass, lodged in the paw. If you find a splinter or other material lodged in the paw, use the tweezers to gently grasp the splinter. Then slide the splinter out of the cat’s paw at the same angle it entered the skin.Exercise caution when removing the splinter.
 If you remove a splinter or other material lodged in the cat’s paw, you should apply a pet-friendly antiseptic to the area after removing the debris. You should also apply the antiseptic to any scrapes or injuries you locate on the cat’s paws. In general, you should put a few drops on a cotton ball and use the cotton ball to apply the antiseptic.If the debris is stuck on, you may even want to soak the cat’s paw in warm water with a little soap added to it. Try filling a bathtub a few inches with warm water and a little soap and have your cat stand in the water for a few minutes so the paw can soak. You will probably need to hold onto their scruff to keep them there for a few minutes.
 If you find a large splinter, shard of glass, or similar debris lodged in your cat’s paw, you should contact your vet immediately. Large pieces of debris can cause significant puncture wounds that will need to be treated by a veterinary professional. You should also see the vet if you notice blood, pus, or unusual odors in your cat’s paws.