 Take inventory of all of the toiletry items (i.e. toothbrush, hairbrush, contact solution, etc.) that you use on a regular basis.
 Ziploc bags work. Place the toiletries into the largest bag you are taking first: you can leave behind bulkier clothing if they don't fit, but you can't leave behind toiletries.
 They’re good at clearing your skin and taking off your makeup, and they take so much less space than your face wash probably would (and you won’t have to turn it over to the TSA!). Tip: Sometimes buying the refill packages, as long as they’re resealable, is easier than a whole tub–especially to pack.
 You can pack it in a toothbrush case, a plastic bag, or wrapped in a cloth. Bring a mini tube of toothpaste, depending on where you’re staying. If you’re going to a friend’s house for the weekend, chances are s/he isn't going to be mad if you borrow his/her fluoride. However, if you’re going to a remote cabin somewhere, it’s good to take your own!

, You can buy travel-sized bottles of many products in pharmacies, grocery stores, and dollar stores. Consider buying 3-ounce travel bottles that you can reuse from trip to trip. You can mini-bottle your home toiletries, take exactly the amount that you will need, then wash out the bottles afterward to reuse on your next trip.


In the US, TSA will not let you bring more than three ounces of any liquid onto a commercial flight. Plan accordingly.
Try bringing samples instead of fully-packaged products. This can work for prescription creams and lotions, as well as luxuries like perfume. You don’t want to risk bringing and losing an entire tube of your doctor-ordered creams and lotions, but you still want to keep your pores clear. Make a trip to your dermatologist before you leave for your trip, and see if she can give you any samples to bring on your travels.
 If you have a hairstyle that won't keep up with water or sweat, bring hair styling tools in the case that your style is destroyed. Bring travel-sized hair spray. You’ll probably want to stick with your natural texture to save time (who wants to waste time with a flat or curling iron when you have sights to see?), but spray can give you a quick burst of shine and polish without a ton of effort.
 If you want to bring perfume, try to find a sample so you don’t risk all of your favorite scent spilling in your bag.
 Travelling can dry out your skin, especially if you're going by plane. As with other toiletries, try to find a travel-sized version of your moisturizer.
 Bring it if you think you'll need it, but don't bring too much. If you will be going out on the town, meeting people, and taking a lot of photos, then you may want to consider bringing


If your moisturizer is tinted, you can substitute it for foundation. If not, try using a stick foundation that can double as a spot concealer (and that you won’t have to put in the TSA bin). You could also bring a powder compact so you don't look shiny in your Facebook pictures, mascara, and your favorite lip gloss.
If you must have eyeshadow, try to find a versatile palette in a small compact that you can fit in your bag.

