 If you want to make your eyes pop, then you should put concealer below your eyes so your eyes will stand out for their beauty, and not for their dark circles. Remember to use a concealer that is one or two shades lighter than your skin tone, and to use a special concealer for dark eye circles if necessary. Here's how to wear the concealer correctly:









Put a few dots of concealer around the dark circles below your eyes and gently tap the concealer into your skin to blend it in.
Place a dot of concealer on the inside corners of your eyes next. Tap it into the skin.
You can also add a little concealer to your nose or cheeks to cover any blemishes.
Remember to blend the concealer by tapping it with your fingers or using a light brush instead of rubbing it in.;
, Once you've applied the concealer around your eyes, the base coat will help give your face an even tone that will keep people focused on your eyes.









You can use a sponge or a brush to apply the base coat.
You don't have to apply it over every inch of your face. Just focus on the uneven parts.
Check your hairline and jaw lines to make sure that you don't have an obvious foundation line.
 Shimmer is a fun way to add some glamour to a more casual look and to draw more attention to yourself. Use a brush to apply shimmer to your face and only put it on a few parts of your face, like on your cheeks and eyes, or the look will be too intense.








If you want to apply shimmer to your eyes, you can use a thin brush to dab a light cream-to-powder shadow to the inner corners of your eyes. Then you can drag the brush as close to the lower lash line as you can to create a thin line of shimmer over your top lids.
 The trick to making your eyes stand out is by shading them with a color that is opposite the color of your eyes on the color wheel. If your eyes are blue, then the color opposite blue is orange. It may feel silly to use pure orange, but shading your eyes in a color that is similar to orange, such as bronze or copper, can make your blue eyes pop because of the contrast.









Terra-cotta is another great shade that will make your blue eyes stand out.
If you're feeling bold, you really can use orange to make your eyes pop. You can pick a darker or shimmery orange so your look is less startling.
Shade your eyes in shades of purple. While blue eyes can get lost in shades of blue or green, they can pop with the help of a little purple. All shades of purple, from amethyst to royal purple, are great for this.
Some blue eyes get a very washed out look with purple hues. If you have eyes with bright blue / baby blue hues, and perhaps touches of grey, opt for pinks and gold, these colors will not only make your blue eyes the center of attention on your face, but will also take the cold edge your eyes can give off, and will warm them up to look happy and bubbly. (optional: Pair this eye shadow look with a highlight on the inner corner of your eye in a very light skin tone or an off-white color, and line your waterline with a white color on the inner third/half, and the outer third/half with a bronze-y or brown color. Lightly blend the two in the middle. I suggest Wet 'n' Wild's eyeliner in the color Mink Brown.) Create neutral smoky eyes. Instead of having your eyes get lost in a traditional black smoky look, create a neutral smoky look with rich browns, golds, and pinks to make the most of your blue eyes., To apply eyeliner to your waterline, take your finger and put it below your eye. Drag your skin down slightly, then with the other hand, use the brush to apply the liner on the waterline.









Try wearing regular bronze liner during the day, and dress up your look with dark bronze liner at night.
Use a beige liner to brighten your eyes. Avoid white liner or your eyes will look washed out.
If you can't part with the blue makeup, use a turquoise liner paired with a navy mascara to make your eyes stand out., Putting a little more on the sides of your lashes (near your closest ear) makes your eyes look more elongated and larger.









Brown mascara will make the blue in your eyes stand out more. If you're wedded to black mascara, try a very dark brown or even a navy-black color.
 The same rules about using the opposite of the color wheel apply to your clothes. If you want to make your blue eyes stand out, you should wear bronzes and other shades of orange, as well as purple, to make your eyes pop.









You can also wear blue so people will see that your clothes match your eyes. Wearing blue clothes won't wash out your blue eyes like wearing blue eyeshadow would.
If your clothes don't have any blue in them, wear blue necklaces or earrings to bring out the color in your eyes.
If you really want your blue eyes to stand out, make sure that your hair is out of your eyes, and that if you have bangs, that they are pushed to the side.
