 There is no point not knowing why your clothes look like what they do and how fashion changed throughout time. Coco Chanel changed how women dress, so it's worth renting the Lifetime movie about her.;
, This is worth researching, as after all, you want to know what you're talking about. Don't go overboard using words no one's ever heard of. Find a fashion vocabulary online, or from another expert. Make sure you're using the words right though.
 Vogue should be your bible. Read Teen Vogue if appropriate or the Vogue published in your country. Read English or American Vogue if you there isn't a specific edition where you look live.
 If you're not keeping up on at least some trends, to fellow fashion experts you'll seem, well, clueless. Read Vogue, Harper's Bazaar, and Elle to hear what's in. It's important to know which trends work and which don't though; for example, skinny jeans might flatter you whereas harem pants are just plain ugly. It is important to be a trendsetter, but Anna Wintour's words are worth respecting.
 This way, you'll know what's going to be in style next season, as well as this season.
 Shop at the local designer stores; even if you're not that rich, there must be something in there you afford (example: a pair of gloves, sunglasses). Be a devoted client to these boutiques and you will get noticed for your style.
 These will show you what's in fashion right now and the individual quirks of the celebrities.
 Look at online stores too.
, A person never knows what they truly have until they take a good look into their own closet. You may have outfits that can be totally revamped and look the pinnacle of fashionable. A good tailor would be key in this situation to have things refitted for the new style you are trying to achieve. What you are looking for could be right under your nose!

, Cut out clothes or styles that you like and paste them into your fashion journal. Write down a couple of your favorite outfits and say how you feel in them. Draw outfits on people, for different body sizes and shapes. What suits people.
 It's important to splurge on basics, because if you're going to wear something all the time, it better be high-quality and fit well. A cashmere cardigan, trench coat, string of pearls, pant suit, and little black dress will take you from season to season year to year. You could always find something very similar to it for less money, but it might tear or be itchy and uncomfortable.
 Use matching colors and patterns. When you buy your clothes make sure they fit. You don't want them too tight or too baggy. Also make sure they feel good. Don't buy them if they make you itchy or very uncomfortable. Make sure that you feel confident in the clothes. If all the requirements are good then buy it!

, Mix match patterns and colors or maybe try leggings and a long shirt. Whatever it is make sure people would want to follow that trend. But don't make them.
 From beads to earrings or rings to bracelets. You can add color and spunk to any outfit with accessories. Make sure that they match and they don't feel uncomfortable.

