 With your feet in the straps and your toes facing downward, raise your upper body into a pushup position. Your arms and body should be straight. Lift your left arm upward toward the ceiling, looking in that direction as you do. Your feet should also twist slightly to the side you're turning. For one rep, push your hips up in the air, then return to the regular position.Keep your legs straight throughout the exercise.
The straps should be at calf length.
 Face away from the straps, about a foot in front of the anchor point. Slide one leg up and into both of the straps behind you. When you only need one strap for an exercise, you need to put your foot or hand through both handles. The sole of your foot will be angled towards the ceiling, and your knee should be bent. If you need to, have a chair nearby to hold onto for balance. Keeping your upper body straight, slowly bend the knee of your standing leg, and simultaneously extend the suspended foot backwards. The leg on the ground should be at a 90-degree angle, while your other leg should stretch out behind you. Return to standing and repeat.For this exercise, it's best to start with the handles hanging at a thigh height.
 Hold the straps out slightly in front of you with the straps in your hands and your elbows bent. Choose a leg to start with. Center your weight on that leg. The other leg can be on the ground next to your working leg, but most of your weight should be on the leg you're working. Squat down, keeping your torso back. You can use your other leg to help if you find yourself unbalanced, but keep the weight mostly on the leg you're working. Stand back up, and then do the other leg.You can also hold the straps above you if that's easier, but they'll need to be shortened.
Another version of this squat is the pistol squat. Instead of using your other leg to help balance yourself, stand on one leg, lift the other leg straight out in front of you, and then squat with the standing leg.
Place the strap at mid-body length.
 Another exercise you can do with suspension training is a burpee. Start standing up. Put one foot in the foot cradle (your foot will end up sole-up), and that's the leg you'll push through the burpee. The other foot should be touching the ground.Push the leg that's suspended backwards, until the knee is about 2 inches from the ground.
Place your hands flat on the ground, and jump your grounded leg back even with the suspended leg touching the ground with the ball of your foot.
Do a pushup in this position, then jump back into the air by pushing up from the ground with the leg that's grounded.
Make sure the strap is at mid-body before starting this exercise.

