 Here are some possible materials:


Use construction paper, copy paper, paper bags, tissue paper, marbled paper, handmade paper, etc. The paper can be either soft or hard, or a mixture of both.
Use cut-outs from magazines or newsprint. Fashion and news magazines can feature several collage-worthy images. Newsprint can add a fun texture to a collage, as well; just be aware that dyes may run sometimes.
Find old scraps of wallpaper. You might have some leftover in a closet, or you can buy small sample swatches from a wallpaper store.
Make use of different foils or tapes. Use the aluminum foil from the kitchen, or color masking or duct tape.
Use photographs. Cutting images from old photographs can lend your collage a retro feel. Just make sure you're not cutting up the only copy you have of a photo that you might need later.;
, You can use scissors or a craft knife to make different shapes. Alternatively, you can make rough tears on the ends of the paper pieces for more texture or a less controlled look.


Cut out a whole picture, an identifiable part, or just enough to evoke texture, color or feeling.
To make a word, cut out letters from different sources and fonts.
 You might have been assigned a theme, or maybe you came up with one as you collected materials. Either way, build your collage around a central idea or image.
 While not essential, embellishments can take the collage up a notch by adding depth, interest and sparkle. Use ribbons, beads, string, feathers or fabric in the paper collage. Find these items around the house, or purchase them at a craft store.
 You can use a a piece of paper, a large piece of cardstock or part of a cardboard box, for instance. Whatever you choose, make sure it's strong enough to handle several more layers of weight and that it will be easy to display.
 Although optional, it's recommended that you try Once you have everything you want to put on your collage, spread it to design the collage before proceeding. Lay it out on a large surface like a table or floor. Build the items in layers, starting with the background and moving forward. This should give you a good idea of what your end product will look like before you commit to any gluing. If you want to remember it exactly, take a picture of your test run. Ideas for collage designs include:


A landscape or a seascape
A fractal
A person's image, such as a pop star or someone who wears highly identifiable clothes or head wear, such as a tiara
Newspaper people - use the time-old tradition to make newspaper people and then design them into the collage
Animals; for example, use small paper pieces or stamps to form a shape of an animal such as a cat, crocodile or bee. Draw the shape on the paper first and fill in the space by gluing the paper pieces inside the lines
A mosaic or an eclectic jumble; the mosaic can follow a shape or it can simply be a pattern or a jumble
The alphabet; cut letters out of the paper and either make the alphabet or words on the collage
Patterns using only a single shape, such as circles, squares, etc.; repeated patterns are also very effective as a collage.
 Starting with the background and working forward, glue the pieces of the collage onto the base. Use regular white glue, a glue stick or rubber cement, and work with precision.


Try to arrange the collage around one central piece that you think is striking or interesting.
Remember that not every piece has to be glued flat. Try crumpling or folding to achieve a different texture.
 Given that the collage might contain several layers of glue, allow it ample time to dry.


For a small collage, an hour or so should be sufficient.
For a larger piece, you might want to let it sit overnight.

