 Before you begin desensitization training, put a well-fitting halter onto the horse. Attach a long lead that won't tear up your hands if you need to pull it.


If you are trying to desensitize the horse to a halter or bridle, see more specific information on haltering an unruly horse and bridling a horse. The steps below may still provide useful information as well.;
, If the horse is very skittish and afraid of many sounds and outdoor phenomena, start the training indoors so you can focus on just one object or experience. Otherwise, outdoor training may help accustom the horse to objects in the natural conditions it will encounter them.


Once a skittish horse has shown improvement during these desensitization sessions, bring it outside for the next one to help it become accustomed to "real world" situations.
 Horses are social animals that take cues from the reactions and body language of other horses. If you have another horse that is already desensitized and calm, bring it along as an example to help calm the sensitive horse down.
 Horses can pick up on your stress or anger, and this can spook them further. Relax and lower your shoulders, and keep your movements relaxed and controlled. Speak calmly but authoritatively. Do not shout or use an angry tone of voice.


If you are trying to desensitize the horse to loud voices, have an assistant stand nearby and talk loudly. As the trainer, you need to remain calm and reassuring, to show the horse that nothing harmful is happening.
 Horses are most easily spooked from the front or the back. Stand a short distance away from the horse's side, near the front so the horse can see you. Begin at least five feet (1.5 meters) away when starting training.


For small horses and ponies, you may stoop down to their level to calm the horse further. Do not do this if there is any risk of the horse kicking you.
 The goal of desensitization training is to gradually ramp up the level of "pressure" on the horse, waiting until it is comfortable with each stage before moving upward. Start by simply showing the horse the object that spooks it, without using it to make noise or moving it around. Keep the pressure low at first by holding the object below the level of the horse's head.


If the horse is afraid of an experience, such as being given a bath, choose an object that is related, such as a hose or spray bottle.
If the horse is afraid of a large object, such as a horse trailer, lead it near the object, but allow it to stop a short distance away.
 At this point, the horse's head should raise into an alert position, and it may try to shy away. If at any point, the horse shows signs of more violent behavior, such as aggressive rearing or kicking, taking the horse to a professional horse trainer is highly recommended.
 Continue to display the object, speaking calmly and reassuringly, until the horse lowers its head, takes a deep breath, or begins working its jaws. These are signs that the horse has calmed down, and may recognize that the object is not a threat. Praise the horse to reward this behavior.
 Move on to a slightly more stressful situation, such as waving the object around gently or using it to make a quiet noise. Watch the horse return to its alert position, and again praise it for its behavior.


Many trainers put a scary object, such as a plastic bag, on the end of a pole or stick. This allows them to wave the object around near the horse without risking a kick.
If the horse doesn't freak out too much when you approach it with the object, you may be able to hold it near the horse for it to investigate and sniff.
 This may be enough for the first training session, especially if the horse took more than a few minutes to calm down. Desensitizing a horse can take a great deal of patience, so don't try to rush through it in one training session. Instead, end the session right after the horse has shown positive behavior, typically calming down. Remove the scary object, and reward the horse with praise and an edible treat.


When praising a horse, speak quietly with a positive tone of voice. Pet or rub the horse, rather than slapping its sides., A maximum of two short training sessions is recommended. Begin with simply displaying the object each time, until the horse calms down. Continue to gradually increase the pressure on the horse, making louder noises with the object or waving it around more aggressively. Praise the horse each time it calms down, and give it a special treat at the end of the training session.


Once the horse remains calm around the object, try the same process again while the horse is walking. Some horses are more easily spooked while moving.
The final stage of desensitization is often the placement of the object on the horse's body. Start at the back and side, then gradually increase the pressure over several training sessions by moving to the legs, hindquarters, feet, neck, and face.

