 Finger shape normally coincides with the shape of the hand. However, most hands represent a mixture of finger types. This mixture helps to create a diversity of qualities and talents for a person. The shape of the fingernail is also used in trying to determine the type of finger.



Square fingers have square nails and represent a down-to-earth quality in respect to the attributes of the finger.

Pointed fingers often have almond-shaped nails and reveal an artistic nature.

Spade-shaped fingers have square-based nails which broaden at the tip and represent inventiveness.

Cone-shaped fingers have oval nails and represents an imaginative quality.

With mixed fingers, if a person had a square type of ring finger, for example, then they would be artistically inclined. But if the same person had a pointed index finger, then their occupation will commonly not be art-related.

When it comes to nails, naturally long nails show a soft heart; short nails show an unfortunate paranoid and uneasy nature; wide nails show quarrelsome qualities; narrow nails show a conservative and refined nature.;
, The smoothness or knottiness of the fingers and their joints is a good indication of which area of life a person would most likely be active in. It also deals with the instinctive, practical, and intellectual attainment in regards to the fields which each finger represents. The middle finger deals with service (goals, restrictions). The index finger deals with authority (position, wealth, happiness). The ring finger deals with fulfillment (fame, success). Finally, the little finger deals with activity (health, mind, commercial ventures).



If your joints are generally smooth, then you may tend to be passive, letting other control you, but at the same time quite impulsive which may sometimes lead to carelessness.

If your top knuckles are smooth and your middle ones are internally rough, then you are a person whose intellect and practicality work well together. A strong instinctive drive is a characteristic of well-developed knuckles.

The fleshiness of the pads inside the fingers as well as the flatness of those areas show a good development or lack of it in regards to the attributes of each finger.

Well-developed balls on the ends of fingers show a strong intellect and courtesy of the mind. A flatness represents a lack of intellectual insight regarding the attributes of the respective fingers.
 It is also important to note the way fingers are spaced apart. With your hand in a relaxed position, examine how some fingers stand apart from others and how some stick close to the adjacent fingers.



An independent mind is signified when your little finger stands apart from the ring finger, with a great deal of space between them.

An art-related life is shown when the ring finger sticks close to the middle finger. Your fate will also aid in your success.

If your middle finger and the index finger stick close together, it shows that you will gain authority and rank through your own goals and dreams. If they stand apart, then your position will come from other means.
 The build and thickness of a person's fingers can denote the personality type.



Heavy fingers often show a more physical nature, maybe with a tough outlook on things.

Long and slim fingers signify more of an emotional and aggressive type of person, so this person may be very sensitive to insults or very literal to sarcastic remarks.

Short and thick shows that a person is more emotionally comfortable.

If your index finger is longer than the normal length, you tend to be a leader and tell others what to do. But if it is shorter, then you tend to sit back and let others control you.
 The length of your fingers are measured relative to the size of your palm. On average, the longest finger is about seven-eighths the size of your palm, and if it is just as long as your palm, then your fingers are considered long. Short fingers are shorter than seven-eighths of the palm. In relation to the fingers, the thumb is normally higher than the bottom joining of the index finger. The index finger, however, reaches a third of the way up the nail of the middle finger. The ring finger normally reaches just above the nail of the middle finger and the little, or pinkie, finger should reach the top joint of the ring finger.



If your ring finger is longer than the normal length, you may have an artistic talent, as well as a reckless and wild nature.

If your little finger is shorter than the normal length, it shows that you lack the ability to influence others. If it is longer, you tend to be very articulate, and good at writing and selling.

