 Use to-do lists at work and at home. Sometimes, it can be difficult to juggle all the tasks you need to finish. Create lists in order of importance. Get the most difficult or most important tasks done early in the morning, so you’ll have progressively easier tasks throughout the day.Don’t erase completed tasks on your to-do list. Some people scratch out or completely erase finished tasks. Many psychologists agree that you should also have a list of things you’ve completed. Doing so reminds you that you’ve been productive.
 At the end of each day at work, write down what you need to do the next day and thoughts you have about accomplishing those goals efficiently. This way you’ll know you can resume work easily the next morning. You’ll also feel better about leaving tasks unaccomplished.
 This is a very important rule that we tend to overlook or break. Sometimes, your boss may hinder your ability to strictly demarcate work time and home time. Sometimes, you will face deadlines that force you to work at home.


Do your best to abide by this rule. It can be hard and if working at home is part of your job, reduce the amount of time spent at home as much as possible. Limit your at-home work to specific hours of the day or to particular days. So if you designate Monday evenings for work, try not to work on other days of the week.Don’t go home and immediately start working. The first thing you should do when you get home is tend to your family. Ask your significant other about their day. If you have children, sit down with them, play with them, and help them with their homework. Only after you’ve filled the needs of your family should your mind turn back to work.
If you work from home, then you need to find a way of “clocking out”. Have a time when work has to stop. Or designate spaces in your home for work purposes only., Email is a double edge sword. It speeds up communication around a company, but the amount of time you spend checking it might cripple your productivity. Consider only checking your email during designated time periods. Check it once in the morning, once after lunch, and once before you leave for the day. This will allow you to answer critical emails and reply in a timely manner. 