 When you imagine your future career, you likely have some kind of idea as to what area of fashion you want to be in. Once you’ve got a basic idea, determine what kind of education is necessary. While many careers don’t technically require a degree, it is a rarity for people to make it big without the experience that comes with education.Think outside the box. If you’d like to branch into fashion by becoming a hair stylist, you can skip a bachelor’s degree and go straight to a technical school. If editing a magazine sounds like something you’d like, you may want to consider working towards a degree in communications. If opening your own store sounds like your dream job, skip the design classes and trade them for a business degree.If you’re unsure what kind of education is needed, hunt down job postings for your desired career. They will often list prerequisites and required education. Consider also reaching out to mentors within the field and ask what they recommend. Experienced people within the industry will have a better sense of what is appropriate and what to avoid.;
, Fashion schools aren’t located on every city block. The quality ones will often come with a high price tag and be at larger cities. The name of the institution may be worth the extra cost. Less expensive schools may not offer the immediate prestige of a higher profile school. By considering the total cost of your education, you can weigh the pros and cons of attending a high profile school versus a community college.When analyzing the cost of education, ensure that you consider what exactly you are paying for. This includes, but is not limited to, tuition, student fees, books, material costs, and all living expenses such as rent and food., Before enrolling to get a fashion-related degree, determine if the institution is reputable or not. Ask yourself basic questions such as if the school is well-known and respected, and who has previously graduated from it. Also consider if the school is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Art and Design.A good way to check out the respectability of a school is to look at who the alumni are. If you find many of your mentors have come from a certain institution, it is a sure sign that the school is respectable.Picking a reputable school is as important as anything. Going to school may be considerably expensive and lengthy. Wasting your precious time and money on a degree from an awful institution will come back to haunt you.Always ensure that you have put in the groundwork to find an institution worth investing your time and money.
 A portfolio is an investment into your future and should reflect the highest quality that you are able to produce. Protective sleeves should not only conserve the quality of your work but should also allow you to change the content easily. Keep the content neutral as trends change quickly. Your portfolio should evolve with your changing fashion sense.Create a budget for your portfolio and do not present it unless you are absolutely satisfied with your work.
Depending on what type of fashion you want to get into, your portfolio may either have a focus or be neutral. For example, if you want to focus on men’s athletic gear, you won’t include pink bows and lace.
Be mindful that your actual portfolio will be looked at as well as its contents. Fashion is an industry that focuses on style so present your contents in a stylish portfolio or any potential employers may make a snap judgement and not even open it.Focus on your strengths. For example, if you have difficulty spelling, make sure you have someone proofread your work. If you excel at illustrations but do not have an eye for presentation, ask a graphic designer to help you with the layout., Find someone who you would like to emulate in the industry. Whether it’s through a school or just sending emails to a company that you would like to work at, finding a mentor can be difficult so you must put in the time to show your passion. Often a mentor will be very busy and have others asking for her time and advice so make yourself stand out.Do not limit yourself to only one mentor. You may have several people giving you advice on different parts of the fashion industry. Moreover, you may have mentors outside of the industry as you can still gain valuable knowledge and skills that you’re able to translate to the fashion world. For example, you may find a mentor in marketing to help you market yourself to potential employers.
 Fashion is a very competitive industry to break into so you must pair hard work with your creative talent. There may be a lot of applicants for a single job posting so check in daily so that you’re the first to apply.Let your creativity guide your perseverance so that you stand out from the rest of the competition. Showcase your creativity with writing samples, mini-magazines, blogs, or your own fashion site. Be entrepreneurial so that potential employers see both your passion and get a sense of your sensibility., Attend events and read fashion blogs to immerse yourself in the industry and meet people. The more people you know the better chance you have at finding a job that’s suited for you. Give out your contact information with a business card or ask for a business card. Someone more established in the industry is less inclined to reach out to you after only a short chat whereas you will be motivated to seek a more in depth  conversation.It is very important that you look your best and exude your fashion sensibilities when you are attending events. Dress for the occasion and prove that you belong in this world.
 Let your personality shine to show your potential as you may not have the industry experience to get you noticed. For example, if you’ve studied in Milan or are understand how to incorporate ‘’smart’’ technology into garments, showcase what makes you unique. , Prepare yourself by researching potential questions and writing down your answers. Ask your friends or family to test you with these questions by creating a mock interviewer. Much like an exam or presentation for school, you will be less likely to fumble on your words or be nervous if you have rehearsed and studied.For example, if you are applying to a magazine the employer may ask something like, “What was your favourite article of last month’s issue and why? What section do you think you can contribute to this month?” Be prepared to go through scenarios of how you can immediately contribute to the position as well as long term. Employers are not just looking for your individual talent but also how it fits with their brand., Be passionate about the job you are applying for and the company that you are hoping to join. Employers do not want to add individuals who do not have the company's best interest in mind.Get your foot in the door by being open to a variety of positions. If you are passionate about the fashion industry, you will be able to work yourself into the position that you truly want. Be flexible with job offers as you may not see the potential that your employer does. She may see your tenacity and fashion sense eventually moving you up within the company but that you obviously lack the immediate technical skills the employer needs.
 Internships may be unpaid but garner you valuable experience and a chance to expand your network. Work hard and keep a positive attitude. Internships may lead to full-time employment if your employer sees you as a valuable asset. You must be reliable and treat yourself as an indispensable member of the team.