 There you will determine with your team where each player will go. Bunkers are almost always inflated, not solid. There are certain names that refer to each bunker. First is the "Tombstone" bunker; it looks like a tombstone. The next bunker is the "Soda Can" bunker. There are two types of soda can bunkers: Lay Down or Stand Up. The soda can bunker looks like a soda can. A lay down soda can looks like a soda can on its side, a stand up soda can looks like a soda can standing up. Next is the "Dorito" bunker. This bunker looks like a pyramid. There is also a series of bunkers called the "Snake". These are short, long bunkers that form a snake - like shape often having "knuckles" which are made up of either tombstones or bricks. In X-Ball or Millennium there is also a large X or M bunker in the middle of the field. Finally there is the "Car Wash" bunker. These bunkers look like a larger can cut in half.;
, Ten seconds!" The referee will count to ten in his head. Usually, people on your team will be counting down out loud; you can do this if you want to. Those ten seconds are probably the most terrifying seconds of the game. After the ten seconds, the referee will shout "GO, GO, GO!"

, You will definitely want to shoot off the break because everyone is moving and you will have a good chance to hit someone. The start of the game is loud and fast. Don't Panic

, Stick your head and gun out. Since the bunkers are inflatable and flexible, you can press your gun and body into the bunker. Only do short pops unless you know that you're clear.
 When you're moving, put your head down, gun up, shoot and run. This may sound difficult, but with some practice you will get the hang of this. Remember that you only have about 3 seconds or less to get to your next bunker. This if figured by the opponent that you are shooting at will take about 1 second to move back into his bunker, 1 second to figure out where you were shooting at him from, and the last second to "pop" back out. In that 3 seconds you should be in your next bunker and ready to shoot. Bend your knees, not your back; that way you'll be lower but you'll have better sight of the field and where you are shooting. When you "snap" out its all in the waist and mid section. Work on your core and cardio when training to play.
 or if you get hit but don't feel it, the referee may give you a paint check and either call you out or keep you in. Note: Always check yourself for paint before calling yourself out. Sometimes you will get hit and the ball won't break. If that happens, you're still in. Walk off the nearest side of the field after getting out.

