 Before you can write a TIEAC paragraph, it is essential to understand what a TIEAC paragraph is. Think of TIEAC as a structure of academic writing that will help you organize your thoughts. The acronym is as follows:


T - topic sentence
I - introduce evidence
E- evidence
A - analysis
C - conclusion;
, Jot down your ideas and what you are trying to prove: What is your argument? Identify evidence that you will use in your TIEAC Paragraph.
 For example, if you are trying to prove that polar bears are on the brink of extinction, you might write: "Polar bears numbers have been diminishing every by 10 percent since 1998."


Notice how you must make a statement that supports an argument that you will be making in the rest of your paragraph. This sentence should tell your reader what they will be reading in the paragraph.
 Write a sentence that will introduce the evidence that you will be discussing in the next sentence. Essentially, you are leading your reader to the evidence or proof that you will use to support your claim in your topic sentence.


You might write: "According to National Geographic, the ice caps are melting due to global warming, which is forcing polar bears drown." Notice how this sentence is leading your reader to proof or a quotation that will back up the claim that polar bears numbers are diminishing.
 Write a sentence or quotation that backs up your claim and the evidence that you just introduced in the last sentence. You might write: "Polar bear numbers have seen alarming reductions, as much as 100 per day die due to drowning."


Your teacher may want your to cite your source.
 Provide analysis that answers how your evidence proves your claim. You might write: "Since numbers have been diminishing by 100 polar bears a day, it clear that something must be done to prevent this from happening."


Note: Analysis can be more than one sentence.



You might write: "Therefore, in order to prevent this horrific tragedy or risk polar bear extinction, we must stop global warming."
Restate your topic sentence in a different way: "Polar bear numbers are a tragic, yet noticeable trend in the world today."

