 Are you unemployed or did you have an unexpected accident that cost you thousands of dollars you weren’t intending on spending? Sit down and figure out your largest financial burden by looking through all your bills and considering personal experiences or expenses that might be related to your financial woes.Sometimes, identifying the source of your financial troubles can be challenging. For example, if you are emotionally attached to something, such as an expensive car, or you are addicted to shopping. The best way to really decipher the root cause of your problems is to strictly look at the numbers.
Make a spreadsheet of your expenses based on your monthly bills. Order your costs from high to low to establish where the majority of your money is going.
 A savings account is critical to helping you get out of financial troubles. It can often prevent financial issues from ever occurring. It is recommended that you have enough savings to cover six months of living expenses, should financial troubles emerge. The best way to start a savings account is to divert some of your monthly spending into your savings account. Take the $100 you might spend on a concert ticket, and put it in your savings account instead.If you are already in financial troubles without a savings account, start one immediately and prioritize investing in it. It will help you in the long run, so you don’t have to worry too much the next time you run into financial issues., Once you have figured out where your money is going, establish a strict monthly budget for yourself. Your budget will help guide your spending decisions and help you to spend your money in the most efficient way possible.Start by knowing how much money you make on a monthly basis. Then, prioritize your budget by first setting aside money for car, house, student loans, and other necessary monthly payments. Then include other things such as groceries, gas, and entertainment.
Adjust your budget according to inflation rates. For example, gas prices fluctuate and seasonal differences in your groceries should all be taken into account on a monthly basis.
 You probably don’t have the luxury of cutting $500 from one expense. So instead, try reducing 3 or 4 expenditures by $75 or $100. The easiest place to cut spending in small steps are your superfluous expenditures. For example, if you tend to eat out more than cook at home, start buying more groceries and learn to cook! You can save lots of money each month by making small, but meaningful, changes.Cutting your spending in small steps will allow you to gradually become used to a different lifestyle.
 Keep copious records of your spending. Save receipts and make folders in your email for bills and online receipts. Keep a budget worksheet of your expected expenses, and follow up with it each month to see if you are actually keeping to your budget.There are many advantageous smartphone apps to help you keep track of you spending. You can even connect some apps to your credit cards to help you keep track of your spending.