 How will you pass your project without anything to show your teacher? Most teachers take off a chunk of points for late projects. Procrastination is one of the worst things that can happen, especially when it comes to projects. Try getting to work on it the day or the day after it is assigned. Even if all you do is type up the title on the computer, that's still progress. Do a little bit each day, and be sure that you don't overwhelm yourself.;
, Planning ahead will keep you more organized and more focused on what you want to do. For example, say it is October 5th and your project on the history of France is due October 26th. This means that you have three solid weeks of work time. Break up your project into a schedule. Make two columns. Write down each day starting from the day the project is assigned to the day the project is due in the left column, and what you plan to accomplish in the right column. Make sure that you're very consistent with this and follow your schedule, otherwise you will be lost and confused.
 If your teacher gives you specific guidelines for your project that you're required to follow, make sure that you do exactly what it says to do. Try not to overlook anything. Your teacher probably wants it in a specific way so it will be easier for him/her to grade it. Nothing says, "I didn't read the guidelines and I don't really care," like a messy project with half of what you need missing. Even if you do not get everything because you couldn't find something, your teacher will likely give you credit for trying, as long as you can show them you did.
 If you fix yourself up a little more than usual the day you give your presentation, you will feel more confident about yourself. Feeling and looking like you just rolled out of bed late on a Monday morning will just add twice as much stress for you. Fix your hair in a different way. Wear your best outfit. Splash on your favorite perfume/cologne. If you be the best you can be, you will feel at your best.
 A lot of people may not like presenting first, but the thing about being first to present means you get to get it over with as soon as possible. Some teachers even give bonus points to students who are brave enough to present first, because they don't have to choose someone themselves. The day you're supposed to present, volunteer to give your project first. You will definitely feel a lot better after it's over. Think about it. Would you rather let everyone else go before you, with the the thought, "I'm going next! I can't believe I have to present next! I don't want to do this!" floating around in your head? You will just be putting more pressure on yourself. Don't be afraid. Remember, it's just a project.
 How many times have you watched your classmates presentations and noticed how quietly they spoke and/or how their heads were hung low? You may be able to name a few. Avoid doing this. For one thing, major points will likely be taken off. Second of all, you will give off the impression that you're unprepared, which will likely cause the teacher take off even more points. Stand up straight; keep your shoulders back at all times. This will help you to speak louder. Make sure you speak loud enough so the students in the back can hear you. You don't have to yell. Pretend you've given this project dozens of times already. Also, make sure you don't get too nervous and start speaking too quickly. There's no rush, so relax.
 Get into their head. Use the time you spend watching other people present to your advantage. What do you think of the person you're listening to? Are you paying more attention to them or their project? Most likely, it's the project. The audience likely doesn't care how you're dressed or how many times you're messing up. Do you care how many times a classmate messes up or how they are dressed when they present? Most likely, the answer is no. Most people worry that they're judged when they go up in front of a bunch of people. The truth is is that they're not. Do you judge other people when they present? Hopefully not. Just remember, they're not focused on you. Actually, half of them are most likely just zoning out into their own fantasy land. Their eyes are on the project 90% of the time and on you 10% of the time.
 Your project doesn't have to be boring. Get animated and really get into your project. Throw in a joke or two if it's appropriate for your topic. Add in some interesting facts to keep your class (and your teacher) interested. Your teacher will be impressed and you will earn more points.

