 Most florists have a high school diploma or a GED.Take classes that will prepare you to work as a florist such as biology, botany, art, and any design courses offered at your school. Also read as many books and blogs as you can about flowers, plants, and gardening.


Consider taking business and economics classes in high school as well. These are important aspects of the floral industry too.;
, Although it is not required, post-secondary education can provide you with the skills you need to become a florist. Private floral schools, vocational schools, and community colleges offer certificates and/or diplomas.Your training will cover topics such as horticulture, outdoor foliage, indoor floral design, greenhouse maintenance, wedding design, decorating, event planning, and crop care.Look for programs that are approved by the American Institute of Floral Designers (AIFD) or licensed by the state.
Check with the school to see if they will provide you with flowers, containers, and supplies while you are enrolled in the program.Formal training is very helpful if you ever plan on opening your own shop or becoming a supervisor.
A four year degree in horticulture, floriculture, or floral design is an option as well., Whether you receive formal training or not, working with an experienced florist is one of the best ways to develop your skills. This will also give you the opportunity to see what it would be like to work as an actual florist. Many florists begin by working as a cashier or delivery person at a florist shop.Look for opportunities at grocery stores, general merchandise stores, and flower shops.


Also consider a formal apprenticeship. This provides hands-on experience without the cost of school.
Learn as much as you can while you are working under someone else. Pay attention to the techniques of creating arrangements as well as customer service and the business side.Call or visit a local florist shop and let them know that you are interested in becoming a florist. There may be an opportunity for you to work full-time, part-time, or volunteer.
 The American Institute of Floral Designers offers a Certified Floral Designer credential. A certification is not required, but it will demonstrate that you are serious about your craft and have a certain level of proficiency.Certification requires an online test and a hands-on design evaluation.You will score better on the exam if you have formal florist education.
Being certified will also help you stand out when you are looking for a job.

