 Pride makes you self-conscious. As a result, you’re less likely to do anything that will upset your status. You may avoid doing anything that will cause people to judge you, which may involve not taking any risks or trying new things.Identify one thing you would like to learn or do, and make a plan to get started within the next week. Don’t overthink it, just do it.
As you engage in this challenging activity, focus on how you feel to be defying your self-consciousness. Refrain from giving any thought to others’ opinions or judgments. If you make a mistake, embrace it as a part of your development. It ir normal and natural to make mistakes.
 Prideful people rarely seek out feedback. Yet, getting another point-of-view at times is the only way to maintain an accurate perspective of yourself. Make a commitment to start seeking out, and using, constructive criticism.To start, ask a few friends or colleague to give an honest list of three traits they admire about you and then three traits where you might need to do some work. Don’t defend. Say, “Thank you,” and see how you can use their suggestions for your personal growth.
 When you compare, you are searching for some way that you are better than others. As a prideful person, you may tie your self-worth to what you have or what you’ve done. The healthiest form of self-worth, however, is connected to who you are. It’s not reliant on achievements or belongings.Acknowledge your current beliefs but learn to question them. This will help you grow.
 Pride and self-consciousness often delude you into thinking you know all there is to know. And, if you don’t, you wouldn’t dare tell anyone. Overcome pride by admitting that you don’t have all the answers. Be okay with saying “I don’t know.” And, have the courage to ask questions to expand your thinking.For instance, you're in class and the professor asks you a question. Your typical reaction when you don't know something might be to become defensive. Instead you might say, "I'm not sure. Can you help me understand?"

