 Geese attack anything -- or anyone -- that makes them nervous or invades their personal space. They are also aggressive around creatures who show fear, including small children.Do not let babies, toddlers, or young children near geese. They are liable to get too curious and wander to within pecking range of a skittish goose. In the best case scenario, such an encounter may result in a painful nip; more serious damage is a very real possibility.


Children ages 10 and up are the demographic most likely to understand the habits and behavior of geese, and the reasoning behind the many protocols that the act of feeding geese requires. These children should be invited to feed geese with adult supervision when they show interest in doing so.
Children in secondary school may be allowed to feed geese on their own. Take them out to feed geese a few times with parental supervision. After they understand the process and have shown respect for the animals, they can be permitted to feed geese on their own.
While children of a young age should be welcome to watch, do not give them free reign when around geese.;
, Geese should be wandering peacefully across the meadow or field. Look for geese who are relaxed and meandering casually about. If they are alert and active, they might be interested in a snack. Feed geese who approach with a friendly warble and show some interest in your presence.


If the geese are very skittish or alarmed, or are standoffish and do not immediately wander up to you, you might be in a known predator area. In this case, try to move closer to the flock in order to feed geese safely.
 An angry goose will extend its neck and head toward a potential threat. It will open its mouth and hiss threateningly. It may also honk, squawk, flap its wings to look bigger, or run at you. Do not approach a goose that indicates anger or is tending its eggs or young.
 Do not draw geese to you and have them eat directly from your palm, you’re likely to get bitten. If there are several geese in the vicinity and all are clamoring to eat from your hand, they may start to push and attack one another in order to get to the food in your hand, putting you in the center of the conflict. Avoid this by watching them dine from afar.

