 As soon as someone gets caught in an avalanche, try to track their path. Don't take your eyes off them. If the person disappears beneath the snow, note where you last saw them, and continue to watch downhill to see if they resurface.;
, If you're following proper avalanche safety techniques, only one person should be in the danger zone at a time. Make sure the avalanche has completely stopped before others enter the slope.
 Quickly look for any sign of the victim. Sometimes a ski tip or article of clothing will be just above the surface. If the person was carrying an avalanche cord, look for that.
 If the victim is wearing an emergency beacon, you may be able to quickly locate him or her.


Switch emergency beacons into receive mode. All members of the party should switch their beacons to "receive" mode to attempt to locate the buried person.






Proceed to the spot where the victim was last seen.






Search for a signal.






Quickly move in the direction in which the signal is strongest. Walk 10–15 feet (3.0–4.6 m) in one direction. If the signal weakens, quickly go the opposite direction. Follow the signal as long as it keeps getting stronger until you can pinpoint the victim's location.
 If the person is conscious, he or she will probably try to cry out. Periodically stop for just a few seconds and silently listen for faint noises beneath the snow. Depending on the depth of burial, keep in mind that you may not be able to hear them.
 If the victim was wearing a beacon, use avalanche probes to probe the area where the signal is strongest. Otherwise begin probing where you last saw the victim and move downhill from there. Probe areas where the greatest amount of snow was deposited first. If several rescuers are available, fan out logically to maximize efficiency.
 Once the victim is found with a probe, leave the probe in the snow as a guide. Note the depth of burial.
 If the victim is buried fairly deep in the snow, you'll need to dig a large hole to get at him. As a rule, the hole will need to be at least as large as the square of the depth of burial (that is, if the victim is buried 5 feet beneath the surface, the hole would need to be 5 feet wide by 5 feet long). Start digging downhill from the probe, and throw the snow downhill.
 If you have multiple rescuers, don't get in each others' way by all digging at once. Instead, maximize digging speed by taking shifts. Whenever one person starts to tire, he should rest and another person should take his place.
 As soon as you can see the victim, try to free his head. Asphyxiation is the primary cause of death in avalanches, so it's essential to get the person breathing as quickly as possible. Begin CPR, if needed, immediately after uncovering the person's head and chest.
 If the victim cannot move on his own, do not attempt to move him unless absolutely necessary. He may have broken bones and internal injuries.

