 When preparing bento, there are two ways to divide the food. You can stick to a 4:3:2:1 ratio (4 parts of rice, 3 parts of the side dish, 2 parts of vegetables, and 1 part of a serving of pickled vegetables or a dessert) or you can make a 1:1 ratio (1 part rice, 1 part side dishes, where the side dishes themselves contain a 1:2 ratio of meat to vegetables). You can follow one of these traditional layouts, or you can vary the ratio and substitute more familiar ingredients. The objective is to have a nutritionally diverse yet balanced meal.


Alternatives to rice include, but are not limited to, sushi rolls, inari sushi, or onigiri (rice ball). You can also experiment with different kinds of rice (such as Spanish rice) or pasta.
The side dish should be the main source of protein, either beef, chicken, pork, or fish. This can be grilled, fried, breaded, and so on. For vegetarian bento, try beans or tofu.
Shredded cabbage with a light dressing is a popular choice for the vegetables. Sliced vegetables or even potato salad are used as well.;
, You may be able to find a bento box in an Asian food store or online. Keep in mind that in Japan, food portions are smaller than in the West. (This might be a good thing if you're trying to control your portion sizes, or it might be an inconvenience). If you can't find a bento box anywhere, you can improvise by using a square container and dividing the food creatively (e.g. with a dividing wall of baby carrots or saltine crackers). Muffin and cupcake cups also make great compartments.
 The bolder and more solid the color, the greater the visual impact of your bento, and the more nutritional benefits are conferred (at least when it comes to brightly colored vegetables; see the citations below). White rice, whole hard-boiled eggs, and cheese can add a nice contrast to your bento, especially when paired with bright orange, green, and red foods.
 This will prevent the food from shifting within the box.



Rice (or other starch) is nearly half the meal.
Food items that are awkward in terms of shape or arrangement (e.g. a piece of chicken or a large dumpling) might have to go in first.
Food items that are flexible, such as potato salad or cut vegetables go in any large remaining spaces.
Small and sturdy items, like cherry tomatoes or small pudding containers, should fill in the gaps and accent the bento.
 You can also decorate your bento according to a theme. You can also paint using food colouring mixed with Cream Cheese, Butter, Sour Cream, or frosting.


Keep the edges neatly defined. Contrasting colors, textures and shapes should be placed next to each other, but similar ones should be separated. Don't let clashing flavors mingle (e.g. don't put fried rice next to a pastry).
Make animal faces or other shapes with the food. Two slices from a hard-boiled egg with a dot of paprika in the middle of the yolk can make a great pair of eyes.
Sprinkle seasonings and add garnish to emphasize the center of a section of food.
Cut fruit, vegetables, cheese and kamaboko (pureed white fish shaped into a loaf) into shapes like stars, hearts, and diamonds with cookie cutters.
Put sauces or loose snacks into quirky containers. Small refillable sauce bottles made especially for bento can be purchased online.

