 Massage is seen as a complimentary therapy to both medicine and sports. You can arrange the frequency, practitioner and type of massage that will most likely be helpful to your condition.


Massage is not recommended for people suffering from burns, blood clots, some cancers, rheumatoid arthritis, fractures and other joint problems.;
, It differs greatly depending upon the type of benefit you would like to receive. Begin with the more gentle types of massage and move into deeper forms if they prove to be more beneficial.


Swedish massage is perhaps the most commonly known type of massage. It is used for relaxation with long gentle strokes and circular motions. Many couples or people find that they can become adept at self or partner massage with these techniques and use them as needed in the home.
 The sports trainer usually targets the areas most affected by the sport, such as the legs and arms.

Deep tissue massages use kneading and other methods to pull deeply at the muscles and connective tissues. This is often used to break up scar tissue or help sports injuries to heal properly.






Trigger point therapy is a growing type of massage that is similar to acupressure. The therapist uses hand techniques and implements to release tight knots from overused muscles.






Ayurvedic massage is an Indian technique that focuses on developing a plan for treatment for the chakras, or energy points. This massage often includes hot oil used on the ears, face and other areas. It may also include detoxification routines and other medical treatment.






Biofeedback massage is used to help manage stress and change improper ways of moving the body. Light, guided imagery and deep breathing are used to break patterns. This is often used to treat mental as well as physical problems.






Chair massage is not a specific type of massage, but it is often used instead of a table to open up the muscles in the shoulder, neck, and back. The therapist has better access to these points on the body as you lean forward and rest your arms and neck in a specially-designed chair.






Tui Na is a popular type of Chinese massage. It is used widely in China and is gaining popularity in the Western world. Practitioners of this type of massage claim to use over 300 types of manipulation to help the body. They can include gentle strokes, cupping (percussion), pressing, shaking and waving.
 You do not need to have a specific problem to engage in regular massage for health benefits. Many types of massage are found to boost the immune system, calm anxiety, prevent stress, stop depression and more.
 Ask for a doctor's recommendation for a back or neck massage specialist. Improper manipulation of the vertebrae can hurt, rather than help.


Several studies have shown that regular massage is more beneficial to back pain relief than placebos and acupuncture for chronic neck and back pain relief. Results were noticeable soon after the treatment, so regular treatment is recommended.
 After you have found what type of massage is most beneficial to your condition, and this may take some considerate amount of trial, you should return to the same physical therapist. Like a doctor, these masseuses keep charts on your pain, required therapy and results of treatment.
 This can help you to cue in on the most beneficial treatments.
 Although a massage from time to time may be enough, many people find regular intervals of massage are good for preventative medicine, pain management and stress relief. You may need to go more often in the beginning and then make fewer appointments as your stress or pain subsides.
 Self-massage techniques can prove to be excellent stress relievers. A night course can teach you how to perform kneading, rolfing and trigger point therapy.


You can also rent videos that instruct you on how to do self-massage and baby massage. Acupressure and foot massage are especially beneficial for stress relief.

