 While it is important to stay hydrated during a run, if you find your bladder leaks while running, you should look for ways to adjust your fluid intake to reduce your leakage levels.For instance, if drinking water 30 minutes before your run leads to a leaky bladder once you’re running, try drinking water closer to the time you start running. Alternatively, try pushing your last cup of water before your run back to an hour before you lace up.


If you need to pee after a certain amount of time spent jogging — say, every 50 minutes — limit your runs to a period of time during which your bladder will not leak (like 30 minutes). If you want, you could hit the bathroom, then head back out for another run.
Finally, pee before going for a run. This will empty any excess liquid in your bladder and prevent possible leaking.
Avoid drinking caffeinated beverages. These can irritate your bladder. Skip the coffee and soda if you plan on running.;
,


First, find your pelvic floor muscles. These are the muscles you use to stop the stream of pee when you urinate. During urination, try stopping and starting again. Do this each time you urinate until you’re familiar with their location and what it feels like when these muscles specifically are engaged.
Tightening your pelvic floor muscles doesn’t require that you tighten your abs, butt, or thighs. Pay attention to your body to discover the difference between these muscle groups and your pelvic floor muscles.
Once you know where the pelvic floor muscles are, lie down on a carpeted area or mat (a yoga mat works well). Squeeze and hold the muscles tight for at least five seconds. Then, relax the muscles for five seconds (though don’t relax so much that you urinate). Repeat four to five times.
Work your way up to tensing your pelvic muscles for 10 seconds, then relax for 10 seconds.
Try to do these exercises three times daily.
 To lose weight, exercise regularly and eat a healthy diet. You will lose weight when your total caloric intake is less than your total caloric expenditure each day.


A healthy diet is built on a foundation of whole grains, vegetables, and fruits, as well as fat-free or low-fat dairy products and proteins such as poultry, fish, beans, eggs, and nuts. Other healthy foods you might enjoy include strawberries, blueberries, watermelon, broccoli, cauliflower, carrots, nuts, seeds, and soy beans.
Use the National Institute of Health’s body mass index (BMI) at http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/educational/lose_wt/BMI/bmicalc.htm. The calculator will help you figure out what a healthy weight for you is.
Once you’ve reached your target weight, adjust your diet and exercise regimen so that your caloric intake is on par with your caloric expenditure each day. You could do this by reducing your exercise levels or increasing the volume of food you eat.
 Keep in mind that running is just one form of exercise to keep you fit. It is beneficial to mix your exercise schedule up a bit, especially since high-intensity running can exacerbate your leaky bladder. Biking, lifting weights, and swimming can also help you stay healthy and fit, and allow you time to work on strengthening your pelvic muscles.
 To quit smoking or drinking, set an end date no more than two weeks in the future.


One method is to cut down slightly on your alcohol or cigarette consumption every day at a rate proportional to your end date. For instance, if you plan on quitting in two weeks, your cigarette or alcohol consumption should be halved after one week and reduced by 75% after about 10 days.
Using an OTC nicotine replacement therapy, such as nicotine gum and/or a nicotine patch may be an effective method for curbing cigarette cravings.When you decide to quit smoking or drinking, get support from people who love and care about you. Share your decision to adopt a healthy lifestyle with them.
If you’re around people who smoke and drink, you might feel the urge to do so as well. Spend time with friends and family who do not smoke or drink to avoid this urge.

