 Frying works best in small batches, so fry only 4 or 5 at a time, depending on the size of your pot. The cookies should have enough room to float around without touching each other and sticking together.When adding cookies to the oil, the temperature will drop (especially if you froze the Oreos before hand). Keep the oil between 250ºF-325ºF (121ºC-163ºC) while frying.Attempting to fry large batches will not only cause your batter to stick together, it will also lower the temperature of the oil too low and the dough won't get crispy.Be careful when cooking with hot oil. Don't throw battered cookies into the pot--this would cause spattering, splashing, and a dangerous situation.If you're afraid to use your hand to place the cookies in the oil, use tongs instead., The cookies will float on top of the oil and fry quickly--less than 2 minutes. Don't walk away from the pot or they may burn or over cook.Keep the cookies moving as they fry so they don't stick together.
Allow the oil to heat up between batches, back to 375ºF (191ºC). Use tongs or a strainer to remove bits of batter that may be floating in the oil., Oil remains on the outer fried dough and won't reach the inside batter or cookie. Blotting excess grease will make this decadent treat slightly more healthy.The oil provides the flavor and crunch of the cookie, so don't go overboard and soak up every last drop.You can also drain the cookies on a wire rack, but using absorbent paper towel will remove more grease than letting it drip off on a wire rack., You can reuse the oil for deep frying (make sure to strain and remove any bits of batter floating around) or bring the oil to a donation point (often a waste management facility).Never pour oil down the drain. It will block your plumbing.If you can't find anywhere to recycle your cooking oil, make sure the lid is on tight and throw it in the trash or pour it over weeds.If you plan to reuse your oil within the next few weeks, store it in a cold, dark place or the refrigerator so it will last longer.If you don't have a funnel, pour the cooled oil into a paper cup, then pinch the top of the cup so you can easily pour it into the mouth of the sealable bottle or container.
 You can add a dusting of powdered sugar, vanilla ice cream, a drizzle of chocolate or caramel sauce, whipped cream, or any other garnish you'd like.


Allow the cookies a minute or two to cool so your don't burn yourself, but do eat them while they're still warm! Keep finished cookies in an oven on low heat (about 200ºF or 93ºC) if you're doing a large batch so they will stay warm until they are served.