 When people have lots of money – no matter their age – they often feel justified in spending more. Encourage your teen to only carry a small amount of money in their wallet at any given time. That way, if they need money for a large purchase, they’ll have to make a special withdrawal. The time that elapses between the urge to buy and the large cash withdrawal will allow your teen time to think their purchase through., Credit cards are great for making large purchases that you’d otherwise have to make a large cash withdrawal for. But remind your teen that credit card fees – whether for late payments or exceeding their credit limit – can add up fast. If your teen pays using a credit card, encourage them to pay the balance off in full at the end of each month., If your teen goes to the store without a particular object for purchase in mind, they’re likely to buy something (or several somethings) they don’t really need. This could lead to buyer’s remorse – the feeling that they wasted their money – later on.Teens often go to the mall or other retail outlets with friends. If their friends are all buying things, they might feel pressure to conform and buy something, too. Help them find ways to cope constructively with feelings of peer pressure.
For instance, if your teen’s friend asks them, “Hey, do you want to go to the mall?”, encourage your teen to say, “No thanks. Why don’t we go to the park instead?”
Tell your teen to explain to their friends that they’re saving money if their friends encourage them to buy something.
For instance, if your teen’s friends ask, “Aren’t you going to buy something?”, encourage your teen to reply, “No, I’m saving my money.” In this way, your teen can be a positive role model for wise consumption among their friends.
Explain to your teen that occasional splurging is okay, but excessive impulse shopping will ruin their finances.
 Television advertisements have significant influence on buying habits. Almost 25% of each hour of television is devoted to commercials. By discouraging television viewing in your house – and thereby curbing the number of ads your child is exposed to – you can cut your teen’s desire for unnecessary material wants.Most teens should watch less than one hour of television per day.
Encourage your teen to paint or read a book instead of watching TV.
Try an online streaming service if you want to provide ad-free television entertainment for your teen.

