 This method is a simple way to dress up a plain pair of flip flops or dress sandals. Here's a list of what you will need:Flip flops or sandals
1 – 1 ½ inch (2.54 – 3.81 centimeter) wide chiffon/fabric flowers
Felt (matching flower color)
Scissors
Fabric glue

, You can find them in fabric stores, usually in the ribbons and trims section, or on bolts of fabric in the special occasion fabrics section. They will usually come on some fabric netting. You want them to be between 1 – 1 ½ inch (2.54 – 3.81 centimeter) wide. If you have very small shoes or feet, you might want to go for something even smaller. You can also include one or two larger flowers to use as a focal point.

The more delicate your flowers look, the better.
If you aren't certain what color to choose, get a color that already matches your flip flops or sandals. You can also go with a contrasting color.
Do not use fake flowers that come on a stem for this project. Not only will the stem poke you in the foot, but the flowers will look cheap and unprofessional.
 You may notice that the flowers have been stitched onto the netting. You will need to cut them out. This way, you can rearrange them as you like. Try to cut the flowers as close to the base as possible so that, when you look down at the flowers, you do not see any of the netting. Be careful not to cut this thread, or the flowers may fall apart.

If you accidentally snip a thread, then glue it to the back of the flower with a small drop of glue.
 This will allow you to experiment with different designs before you glue them down onto the straps. Once you glue the flowers down, you don't be able to take them off without ruining them (and possibly your shoes too). Whatever design you choose, make sure that it will fit on the straps. Here are some design ideas:

Place the larger flowers towards the center, and the smaller towards the ends.
If you are decorating a flip flop, consider placing the larger flowers on the outside strap and the smaller flowers on the inside strap.
Alternate the flower colors or shades. For example, you can alternate between white and teal. You can also alternate between light pink and dark pink.
If you are decorating a pair of sandals, you may have two straps: an ankle strap and a wide strap that goes across your toes. Consider placing the flowers on the toe strap and leaving the ankle strap untouched.
If you are decorating a sandal that has a T strap, then put the flowers only on the vertical strap; leave the ankle straps untouched.
 You will be using the felt circles later. Try to choose a color that closely matches the color of the flowers. If you are having troubles getting the shape or size right, trace the flowers onto the felt using a pen first, then cut a little bit inside the lines.

If you are gluing flowers to a T strap, consider cutting out a felt rectangle that is just a little bit wider than the vertical strap.
 Put the fabric glue onto the straps first. The flowers are likely going to be a little bit wider than the straps. If you put the glue onto the flowers first, you might end up putting on too much glue., You will be working with one felt circle at a time so that the glue does not dry out., You will be sandwiching the strap between the flower and the felt circle. Use your fingers to press the sides of the circle to the sides of the flower., The felt circles will help hold the flowers to the strap. They will also hide the glue and make the back of the flowers less scratchy., Just because the glue feels dry does not necessarily mean that it is fully cured. If you wear the shoes too soon, they glue may not hold, and the flowers may fall off. Refer to the label on your glue bottle for precise drying and curing times. Every brand of glue is different. Your shoes may be ready to wear in as little as two hours. They may also require a full day to dry.