 Shiba Inu puppies should be curious and unafraid of people. Look, too, for good play interaction between puppies, and avoid considering puppies that are shy and skittish. In general, a puppy with a temperament that is neither too aggressive nor too shy is a good pick.


In particular for the Shiba Inu breed, aggressive, bullying puppies have the potential to become aggressive adults.
 Baby Shiba Inus can look like little teddy bears. However, don't let their appearance distract you from the task of assessing personality.
 Make a mental note of whether he approaches you of his own accord, and how long he then spends with you. This helps you know how friendly he is and how much he enjoys human company.
 What the puppy encounters at this age, he learns to accept, and this makes a well-adjusted, confident puppy. Socialization is critical for any puppy, but more so for Shibas. They have a strong personality and are prone to expressing their own opinion. The last thing you want is a fearful or anxious dog that may use its nervous energy for destruction.


Puppies should have, at minimum, 1.5 hours of human interaction per day.
Ideally, choose a puppy that’s been raised within the home/ house, rather than in a kennel. This is beneficial because the puppies are exposed to the regular sights, sounds, and smells of domestic life from the beginning of their lives.
Puppies raised in outdoor kennels are more isolated from normal life. Given the Shiba Inu's tendency to be independent, the breeder must work hard to make sure the puppies are well socialized.
 Though it's hard to tell how a dog is going to be when it grows up, you can get a little sense of it even at this young age. Offer him a toy to play with, then see how easy or hard it is to take it back. Perhaps try offering him a treat in exchange for the toy. This helps you know how he might respond to training, or whether you'd have a battle on your hands.
 While there's some disagreement about the usefulness of this test, many experts have used it as a predictor of how aggressive the puppy will be as an adult. If the dog growls and tries to fight you off, it's possible he's more likely to become aggressive. If he lays there completely passive, (unlikely in a Shiba!) then he's likely to be overly submissive. A healthy reaction is somewhere in between, where the puppy wriggles trying to right himself but doesn't growl or snap.

