 Additionally, you can count contributions made before filing taxes for that year toward your Roth IRA.


For instance, if you want to make a contribution that counts toward your previous year's contribution limit, you could make it in January, February, March, or early April of the present year (before taxes are due), in addition to making it any time in the previous year.
You might want to use money earned this year toward last year's Roth IRA contribution limit in order to meet last year's limit before starting toward this year's contributions.;
, IRAs allow you to choose from a diverse number of investment options. ETFs, stocks, bonds, index funds, mutual funds, and annuities are just some of the investment options for an IRA.Most people fund their IRA through index funds. These are special types of mutual funds which minimize your risk through diversification of investment.ETFs are "exchange-traded funds." While they are often seen as a type of index fund, there is at least one important difference. ETFs usually trade commission-free while index funds can be costly to trade.Do not invest in tax-exempt mutual bonds. The dividends on these are already tax-exempt, so there is little advantage in putting them in an IRA.
CDs and money markets are also poor choices for IRA investments because they have low interest rates.Financial planning is a highly personalized process. Think about your needs and consult a trained financial advisor for help if you’re unsure of what to invest in.
 Even if you can’t contribute the maximum possible amount, try to set aside some money each month -- say, $200 -- to deposit into the account. Through the magic of compound interest, your investment will grow rapidly.
 Online banking is an easy and convenient way to add funds to your IRA. If the bank or broker you opened your IRA through offers online banking, inquire about IRA access online. By making IRA contributions online, you’ll be able to streamline the process of moving funds into the account.


You can typically set up one-time or recurring payments into your IRA from your bank account.
You’ll also be able to use your phone, tablet, and laptop to conduct online IRA contributions., Deliberately skipping one month of payments can lead to another missed month, then another, and so on. By setting up automated contributions to your IRA through your bank or broker, you can remove not only the hassle of arranging contributions each month, but you also remove the possibility that you will skip contributions.


Talk to your financial institution about the process of setting up automatic payments. They typically need your checking account number, your routing number, and the name of your bank or credit union.
Do not select to automatically add more than you can afford to your IRA each month.

