 There are a variety of different ways to bet on football games. Make sure you know what result you are actually gambling on so you can make the right bet.Point spread. To prevent bettors from backing the favored team, oddsmakers will force you to bet against the spread, the expected margin of victory. If you bet on the favorite, they must win by at least the number of points indicated in the spread. For example, if you bet on Houston as a 4 point favorite (listed as “Houston -4”), you would lose if they only won by 3.
Over/under. Another common way to bet on games is to guess how many points each team will score. For example, in a game with an over/under of 50, the two teams’ scores must add up to 50 or more points for bettors who take “over” to win.
Survivor pool. Another common way for people to gamble on football is through a weekly “survivor,” “suicide,” or “knock out” pool. Each week, you pick one team to win their game. If they lose, you are out of the pool and have to pay up. If they win, you get to pick again the next week. The pool keeps going until there is only one person left.
 Different casinos and odds makers will provide different bets for particular football games. If you don’t like the odds you see for a certain set of games, go to a different source. Make sure you are comfortable with your bet before you make it., Football is played by many teams at a variety of skill levels. Rather than trying to track all of it, you might be more successful developing an expertise about a small group of teams, like a single college conference. That way, you only have to learn the tricks and tendencies of a small group of teams, and learn how they match up with one another. This will give you a leg-up over most other bettors, and give you a better chance of winning more often than not.


This is more likely to work with a smaller collegiate conferences like the MAC or Sun Belt. Most oddsmakers and gamblers don’t pay as much attention to these leagues, meaning you will probably know the likely outcomes better than they do. It probably won’t work as well with very popular leagues like the NFL or SEC., Your money is on the line, so you should do a little research before making a decision about which teams and games to bet on. For example, you don’t want to pick a low-scoring team to blowout their opponent and win by a lot.One thing you can look for is to see how teams perform “against the spread.” Rather than tracking their wins and losses, gamblers study how often the team meets its betting expectations. A team that is consistent with its results (both meeting expectations and failing to meet them) could be one that is undervalued, and a good team to look at for picking.
 Think of your gambling money as “extra” money that you wouldn’t need if you lost it. When gambling, there is always a chance you will lose. You don’t want to get into financial trouble just because some kicker missed a chip-shot field goal.Give yourself a “standard” amount for betting on games. This amount can be flexible, especially if you feel particularly confident about a certain result. Keep in mind, though, that adding more money could put you deeper into a hole.
Avoid playing “catch-up.” If you have a bad day, or bad week, don’t try to win it back all at once with a big bet the next night or week. This is just as likely to put you in a deeper hole.

