 Atheism is the lack of belief in a particular deity or higher spiritual power. Theism denotes belief in a deity — so atheism is literally the absence of that.


Being atheistic commonly (but not always) includes disregarding traditional religious spirituality and practice in favor of a more materialistic, rationalistic, and often humanistic conception of the universe and "being".
Most atheists embrace the idea of materialism, in the philosophical sense: that nothing exists beyond the physical matter that includes your being. Materialists believe that you have this life, and this life alone. Don't mistake it for the colloquial meaning of materialism, which means being preoccupied with acquiring physical things.
Some people mistakenly link atheism with satanism, since they both reject God. This is not true, however, as satanism comes with a whole set of beliefs and rituals. Atheism is, by definition, the lack of any religious beliefs or rituals.;
, If you are a skeptic, it means that you demand evidence before believing something, and that you only believe things when a scientific consensus indicates sufficient evidence. Many atheists and agnostics consider themselves skeptics.
 Gnosticism indicates a state of certainty, while agnosticism is the belief that one cannot know for sure. You may be agnostic if you do not have a yes or no answer to the question of whether God exists. You do not have to write off the possibility of unverified or unverifiable phenomena. You can acknowledge that they are possible without insisting or acting as if they are true, or trying to convince others that they are true.A gnostic theist is completely certain that there is a god or gods.
A gnostic atheist is completely certain that there is no god or gods.
An agnostic theist believes there is a god or gods, but doesn't claim to know it with certainty.
An agnostic atheist believes there is no god, nor gods, but doesn't claim to know it with certainty.
 Some atheists love to advertise their opinions and publicly debate believers, while other atheists prefer to live peaceably within their means. You have the right to live out your atheism in whichever way feels true to yourself—but be aware of the consequences of your actions. Perhaps you will change someone's life and belief system for the better by debating their faith, or perhaps you will come across as intolerant.
 That simple. No prayer, no worship. Consider your stance on the following statements:


Evolution exists, and events occur based on coincidence and happenstance.
No man in the sky dictates your actions or the events around you.
Fate and destiny are myths.
Many atheists are still open to possibilities and acknowledge that there is a lot left to discover. For example, there was a time that we couldn't see germs and science had not even conceived of their existence: that did not mean they didn't exist, only that their existence had not yet been discovered and scientifically validated. Rational atheists are open to new scientific discoveries but reject God as an explanation for things they don't understand.
 With regards to mortality, most religions offer explanations that can be described as metaphysically dualistic: that there exist two distinct spiritual realities, not necessarily conforming to each other's laws of time and space — e.g. Heaven and Earth.


Materialism can leave some people feeling empty and spiritually ungrounded. However, atheism does not have to be such a bleak affair! Thinkers such as Heidegger, Kierkegaard, and Sartre pioneered the Existentialism movement in the early 1900s, readdressing the spiritual void left by atheism and capitalist industrial society. They presented a new way of looking at the human being — as an animal that transcends his/her animality through the capacity for free will.
Consider that the essence of "being" can lie in making your own choices, respecting the choices of others, and avoiding being consumed by unwanted routines and commitments. Purposeful being can consist of transcending, innovating, and breaking the rules. The essence of your existence is the ability to decide who and what you want to be. You are free!

, You probably have a reasonable concept of right and wrong: you know when you've made a mistake. You don't need to ask your deity to forgive you — you can learn from your mistakes and grow as a person.


Consider that you dictate your own morals. Your own practice and skills determine your success. Everything is on you. It's up to you to decide what is immoral, and act appropriately.
Morals may stem from ancient human interactions. The ability to treat others well paves the way for trust between members of a group, and trust allows humans to accomplish complex collaborative tasks. Instead of one person going to hunt for food alone, since he or she cannot trust others, a proven record of trust allows a group to make a hunt far easier.
 You do not have to subscribe to any set of beliefs. Atheism is not dogma — it is a way to practice thinking for yourself. Atheists hold a wide variety of beliefs and outlooks, though the main overarching similarity is a lack of belief in a god or gods.


Many atheists are secular humanists who believe in charity and helping others. On the other hand, many atheists are individualist objectivists who believe in fighting for individual goals. Some atheists are left-wing liberals, and others are right-wing free market advocates. There are many different ways in which you can build your ideology, and atheism is merely one part of it.
The one thing that all atheists have in common is a disbelief in deities. Most atheists believe that the universe is ruled by purely natural laws — that no supernatural force from beyond this plane sets events into motion. Beyond this, you're free to decide which ideas are important and relevant to your life.
 Perhaps you cannot bring yourself to believe in an omnipotent God, but you love listening to uplifting gospel music. Perhaps you do not want to live by a set of religious codes, but you still draw guidance and inspiration from scripture. At the end of the day, you are free to define yourself in any way that feels true. Being an atheist does not necessarily mean rejecting your roots, but rather considering which beliefs, if any, are worth absorbing.


Being an atheist can be tough, depending on where you live. You may deny beliefs which have been passed down through centuries, and with which a majority of population agrees. If you are having trouble reconciling your atheism with your friends, family, and culture, try to find common ground—moral, philosophical, ideological—between yourself and those who share your roots.
It is okay to be uncertain if you do not feel ready to define yourself in such certain terms as "theist" or "atheist". Take the time to think through your questions and come up with answers that bring you peace.
 Let your rationality guide you, but do not let it lead you astray. Following a religion does not make anyone superior, nor does your atheism make you superior to anyone. Atheism has no dogma. Don't be fanatical when discussing your beliefs with others, and try not to be pretentious. It's fine to be passionate about your beliefs, but there is no need to dismiss people for their methods of creating meaning.


An atheist respecting the beliefs of religious people is no different than a Jewish person respecting a Catholic's views. Remember that their views cannot be proved or disproved.
If someone attacks with their opinions, you have every right to defend your decision. Consider, however, whether it will help either of you to argue about your difference in belief. Consider whether either of you is actually going to change his or her stance on the subject.
 Atheism is not a religion, it's the absence of any religion. Trying to proselytize or get people to change their minds about their beliefs makes you just as evangelistic as a religious person. Do not force your beliefs onto anyone. Not only will people be less likely to listen to aggressive, dismissive rhetoric—but you will risk falling into the same pattern of dogmatically-skewed logic that many atheists claim to eschew.If someone is going to lose their religion, they will walk that path in their own time and through their own questioning. Ask yourself whether it is your place or prerogative to move the process along.
 Try to see the similarities, rather than the differences, between yourself and religious people. The world is filled with kind, brilliant theists as well as kind, brilliant atheists. We are all human, and we are all trying to make sense of our existence. Consider your own search for existential meaning—perhaps through your exploration of atheism, and perhaps through other channels—and try to imagine how a religious person may have found similar peace through their own unique search., Learn how to explain why you are atheist, in case people ask. Atheism is often misunderstood, and you may get questions from curious people. Be as polite and informative as possible, and answer their questions as well as you can. Explain that it is not a belief, but a conclusion that you have come to based on the available evidence in the world.


If you are probed further about your atheism, it would be smart to bring up Bertrand Russell's Celestial Teapot idea, and explain that it does not make sense to you to believe in something simply because mankind lacks the evidence to disprove its existence.
Open yourself up to a rational, two-way discussion. Treat other people—religious or otherwise—as intelligent human beings who are worthy of your respect.

