


Visualize yourself exercising or think about how good you will feel after a workout is complete.
Focus on increasing your daily steps rather than focusing on the intensity of the workout. For example, increase your daily steps by 150 per day so that you can add 1,000 new steps each week. This will help you to reach your Volumetrics goal of 10,000 steps per day.
 Evaluate whether you like to work out alone or with others, inside or outside, and in a relaxed way or in an intense way. Dr. Rolls recommends these activities, depending on your exercise personality:


Alone: Home exercise machine, walking, exercise DVD, pool walking
With others: Exercise class, Zumba, water aerobics, mall walking, play with kids or grandkids
Inside: Mall walking, gym workout, treadmill/elliptical or spinning
Outside: Nature walks, gardening, bicycling
Relaxed: Weeding, cleaning, strolling the neighborhood
Intense: Jogging, boot camp, singles tennis

, Everything you do counts, so if you, like many people, find it challenging to face longer workouts, then Dr. Rolls recommends splitting your activities up into more manageable chunks. Instead of setting aside 30 minutes for a walk, take 3 10-minute activity breaks each day.
 Writing down your activities is a major part of the Volumetrics philosophy.


Write your exercise time down on your calendar or on your to-do list. Make exercise as much a commitment as your other appointments.
Record your daily activity. Keeping a journal of your exercise, just as you are keeping a journal of your Volumetrics food intake, will help you to see how you have progressed over time. A journal will also keep you honest about how much exercise you are actually getting.
 As Dr. Rolls points out, many people think that exercise makes you tired or that losing weight requires a significant amount of exercise. In truth, even moderate exercise will energize you as well as help you to manage your appetite.



Buy yourself some comfortable exercise clothing and some new sneakers.
Download some new music to make the session more enjoyable.
Make a Volumetrics-friendly post-exercise snack before you start. For example, prepare a parfait of berries and Greek yogurt. Place the parfait in the refrigerator and then enjoy it when you finish your exercise routine.

