 If your thoughts make you want to hurt yourself right now, you need to seek help from a counselor or suicide hotline. If you call a crisis line, you can speak to someone about what you're feeling and they can help you cope with these feelings and seek additional resources, if necessary.


In America, you can contact the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255. A highly trained crisis counselor can connect you with a source of support in your community.;
, If you persistently deal with depressive and suicidal thoughts, you should alert your physician immediately. Your doctor can help you find resources in your local community to help with the adjustment. Call your doctor's office right away for an appointment to discuss your suicidal thoughts and feelings.


If your thoughts are pressing or intense, then call 911 or go to an emergency room for help and to get an immediate psychiatric evaluation.
Your doctor can refer you to a therapist who can help you to work through your thoughts and feelings. They can also help you to develop new coping skills, adapt to your new way of living, and connect with other people who are blind or visually impaired.
Your doctor may also refer you to a psychiatrist if they think that you may need medication to improve severe depressive symptoms, but medication is usually a last resort., Make an appointment with a therapist who has experience working with blind or visually impaired people. They will help you deal with your feelings and accept your vision loss. They can also help you come up with an action plan for adjusting to your new life.One of the most effective forms of therapy for depression is cognitive-behavioral therapy, which is focused on helping you change the negative or self-defeating thoughts that contribute to your depression.
 Spending time with other people who have similar issues as you gives you the opportunity to talk about your struggles, share solutions, and build a sense of community. You’ll also meet blind or visually impaired people who are living full, satisfying lives, which can inspire you to do the same., Confide in someone you trust about your emotional struggle. Spending time with the people you care about is therapeutic, and sharing your feelings with others will help you cope with them better.Educate your loved ones about vision loss if they don’t understand what the condition means for you. For instance, you might need to fill them in on what you can still do and what you have trouble with.

