 When you first notice symptoms of the stomach virus, you should allow your stomach to settle. Eating food early on could irritate the stomach lining more, worsening your symptoms. For a few hours, avoid solid foods., During the first few hours, you will probably feel thirsty and uncomfortable. Try chewing on ice chips and taking small sips of water to rehydrate.Aim to consume 2 to 4 ounces of water every 30 to 60 minutes. Make sure to take small sips. Chugging water can cause vomiting.
In addition to water, you could also try clear sodas, broths, and non-caffeinated sports drinks. Mild and/or weak tea, such as ginger and chamomile, is also a good option.
 Once the first few hours have passed, do not go straight into eating meals. You should ease back into eating solid foods. Start with small snacks that are easy to digest. Soda crackers, gelatins, toast, rice, bananas, and lean meats like chickens are okay to eat. Eat in small portions at first., When you have the stomach virus, your body loses electrolytes through vomiting and diarrhea. You need to replenish the electrolytes by eating foods and drinking liquids that contain electrolytes.Complex carbohydrates, such as potatoes and whole wheats, contain electrolytes. When it comes to protein, go for lean meat like fish.
Chamomile tea can reduce nausea, too.Any clear broth, such as miso, will replace electrolytes and fluids.Electrolyte replacement solutions are usually sold at drug stores, and you can add these to waters and other fluids. Sports beverages, such as Gatorade, may also replenish lost electrolytes., If you want to feel better faster, bed rest is key. Your body will need lots of rest to fight off the virus. Try to stay on the couch or in your bed as symptoms persist. It's normal to feel weak and tired due to the illness.Try to stay comfortable. Get enough pillows and blankets so you feel cozy.
It may help to do something to distract yourself from the pain. You could watch a movie or read a book. Ask a household member to do something with you, like play a card game, so you do not focus on the stomach virus.
 Antibiotics do not treat viruses, so taking them will not help with your stomach virus. Over-the-counter painkillers, like ibuprofen and acetaminophen, can upset the stomach more. However, medications used to treat nausea can be helpful when you have a stomach virus.For the first 24 hours, let nature take its course. Your body is trying to clear an infection. If you don't have any warning signs, try not to take antidiarrheal meds.
While over-the-counter painkillers should generally be avoided, for your comfort anti-vomiting and antidiarrheal medications can help.
If you choose to take such medications, check with your doctor or pharmacists to make sure these medications are safe for you given your medical history and any current medications.

