 If you're going to be wishing and setting goals, give it everything you've got. Do you want to be a world-class chef? Imagine yourself doing just that, as vividly as you can, and feel like a world-class chef. Visit your favorite foodie place during the day, when it's slow, and talk to the chef. Ask them what it's like, and if they have any suggestions for you. Or maybe you want to get your private pilot certification. Break away from your flight simulator software, and go visit an airport! Listen to the engines, maybe talk to an instructor. Don't be surprised if you find yourself on a test flight!


The key is to be creative, and put yourself in a position to realize your dreams. You will find your goals are a lot easier to accomplish once you begin moving towards them. As they say, "A journey of 1,000 miles (1,600 km) begins with the first step.";
, The word "dream" or "wish" makes us think of clouds and non-existent things, places, and achievements. It has a lofty unattainable-ness about it. Instead of thinking of this as your dream, think about it as a goal. Goals can be worked toward; dreams, on the other hand, are just the byproducts of fantasy and escapism.


Words have a lot of power. You'll find that making your wishes come true is a lot about how you think and how you word things just to yourself. Think of the goals you've already achieved. This one is just one more on the list!

, All of us have dreams or goals that aren't really that. What they are are nice ideas that we'll never ever have the motivation to do because we don't really care that much. Plenty of us want to be famous and be millionaires, but do we actually take steps to make that happen? No. So decipher between those goals that you actually want and those that just sound nice.


Odds are you'll be able to recognize when you're passionate about something. If it's something you find yourself thinking about every day and can't imagine not having in the future, this could be something to hold onto. If not, chuck it out. It's just mental fluff you don't need.
 While there will certainly be others who will help make your wishes come true, it is your decisions and your actions alone that will make things happen. Know you can do whatever you have a mind to do -- even the impossible!


There's science behind this statement -- positive thinking makes us more successful, happier, and can even improve our health.It may sound like you're putting the cart before the horse, but you're really just setting yourself up for success. And you deserve that!

, The world is full of nay-sayers. Wherever you go, there are going to be people who tell you you can't do this or you can't do that. You know why they say that? Because they know they couldn't do it themselves. Luckily, their inability has nothing to do with yours. So don't listen to them.


There will be some people who are going to get real with you and that's good. If you want to be the next big thing in Hollywood and you're currently washing dishes in Oklahoma, well, it's gonna be a long trek uphill. They'll tell you that. That's good. There needs to be an element of reality to your wishes and goals.
 As Les Brown would put it, you gotta be hungry! No goal will come to fruition if you don't actually want it. In fact, that's really most of the battle. A goal that you don't really, really want is just a dream, remember? There should be no way of living without working towards your wishes.


It's important to surround yourself with others who are "hungry," too. In order to maintain that motivation in the face of adversity, you'll need a solid network of people who are practically starving (for their wishes, too). Find a few like-minded folk so you can all get hungry together.
 The right moment won't come when you have enough money. The right moment won't come when you have enough skill. The right moment won't come when you get someone else's approval. The right moment is now. The sooner you start, the better.


Right now isn't about reaching your dreams -- don't put that kind of pressure on yourself. Right now is just about starting. There is absolutely zero reason you can't start right now in some small way.
 In order for your wishes to come true, you must be able to verbalize them. What is it exactly that you want? Your goals may be money, love, or merely a simple, happy life. But what do those words mean to you? Whatever they are, whatever your wishes, make those goals your vision and your mission.


Make them as tangible as possible. A desire "to be famous" isn't really gonna cut it. Do you want to be on film, on the stage, or just on YouTube? The more specific you are, the more clear the path will be to reach them.
 If you truly want to accomplish something, direct all your efforts to making it happen. This should be something you think about when you wake up and something you think about when you go to bed.


For example, if your goal is financial independence and you come across a really great deal on a big-screen TV, consider: Will a cheap TV help you become financially independent? Will putting that amount of money into an interest-bearing savings account instead be more in line with your goal? In a year, your cheap TV will be worth 25% of what you paid for it. That money, invested in a savings account, would be worth over 100% of what it was, initially. If the initial price of the TV was $1,000, you would be over $750 closer to your goal.
 Keep a notebook and every evening, review your notes from the day before, jot down what you did to further your goal today, and what you plan on doing tomorrow. This will help you see your progress and help keep you motivated.


Note the things you do that move you toward your goal. It’s important that you give yourself credit for accomplishments great and small.
Note also the things that moved you away from your goal, and reflect on them honestly. Was it something you could not avoid, like a relative in need, or did you veer off your path, and “buy the TV?” Develop a plan to get back on track.
 While your family, friends, and business associates may not share the same wishes, they can be valuable resources. Talk to them, share with them your dreams and your ideas on how to accomplish them. They may have ideas on things you can do. They may have ideas of their own that gel with yours as well.


When you open up to others, be prepared to listen honestly to what they have to say. It will not always be what you want to hear, but an alternate point of view is invaluable.
Like everything in life, making your wishes come true is a lot harder when you try to do it all by yourself. These are people that can help you in addition to just lending an ear. What's more, they'll hold you accountable! If you stop trying, they'll be on you to get back on the horse.
 If there's a buzz going on around you (even if it's just in your head), nothing will get done. In fact, the mental distractions can be the worst. In addition to clearing your world, clear your head. Whatever you have to do to focus -- whether it's not spreading yourself so thin with friendships, not going shopping, or just turning off the TV -- do it.


Sometimes we have to be in the right place in order for things to fall in line. Whether it's work, relationships, or just life, things won't get in order until we get in order. Any mental demons that you have need to be conquered now. Before you can do anything right, you gotta do yourself right.
 As you go about working toward making these wishes come true, you'll find that some ways you thought might work just don't. If you're not seeing the reward in your work (whatever it may be), drop it. Go for plan B. There's no use repeating behavior that isn't getting you closer to your goal.


Think of your actions as a business plan -- after all, you're really in business for yourself, regardless of what you're doing. Business plans always need tweaking. In that journal that you're keeping, you're noting what works and what doesn't. As you go through it, pinpoint what works and expand on those tactics. It's the only way to succeed.
 Having huge goals isn't for the faint of heart. Not everyone aspires to greatness because doing so is exhausting and often frustrating. Know that it's totally okay to lose focus once in a while -- this is a tough gig. Kudos to you for trying in the first place! Now let yourself take that occasional break. As long as you get back to it more rejuvenated than before it served its purpose.


It's only if you find yourself losing focus constantly that you should reanalyze your desires. If you're just not feeling it half the time, take a cue from yourself. Maybe now's just not the time. Sometimes goals do have to go on the backburner.
 To have your wishes come true will require you to take actions at various points along your path. Take the time to develop the skills you will need to further your goals. It'll make the whole process a lot quicker and easier!


For example, if you want to become wealthy, learn not just how to make money, but how to manage money as well.
If you want to play the rock guitar, by all means, take lessons — but also learn how to build an amplifier or know the difference between a dynamic and condenser microphone.
 A lofty goal that's worthy of you will probably take a long time. If it doesn't come to you as easily as you expected, don't give it up. Saying you'll do so-and-so for six months isn't doing yourself any favors. If you're gonna do it, go big or go home. Put your 120% into it -- not some half-assed version of what you're capable of.


It's really tempting to only do the minimum of what's required so at the end of they day, when you fail, you can say, "Well, I never really tried that hard." For starters, that's crap. That won't get you anywhere. Nothing should be limiting you, much less yourself.
 Part of having your wishes come true is to prepare yourself for when they happen. For example, if you want to meet somebody special, and you're way out of shape, you might meet that certain someone, but they may not be so keen on you. Before you are in a position to have that wish come true, you have to do the ground work:


Get in shape. Yes, it's true, you can't judge a book by its cover. Then again, if the cover is covered in french-fry grease and leftover bits of lettuce, nobody's going to touch it. They'll go for the clean, undamaged copy on the shelf.
Lose the baggage of the past. If you've done the work, got in great shape, and she finally notices you — and then you can't shut up about your ex — all that work will be for nothing. Prepare yourself mentally for success by leaving the past where it belongs: in the past.
 Whatever your goal, be it lofty or simple, there will be setbacks and difficulties along the way. Recognize them for what they are, adapt either your goal or the plan to address the situation, and continue moving forward.


Reality is like a road map. For example, if your goal is to reach your destination by car in 3 hours, and a tree blocks your path, don’t just stop there. You have at least 3 alternatives:

Find an alternate route
Wait till the tree is removed
Go home


While you may not make your destination in 3 hours, you can reset your goal to simply making it to your destination. Getting the job done may involve thinking outside the box.
 Time changes us, and circumstances may shift. Clinging to a goal that no longer makes sense will be counterproductive at best. For example, if your goal is to be a pro NBA player, and an injury makes that impossible, continuing to focus on making that a reality will bring you only frustration or anger — neither of which are worthy goals.


On a similar note, sometimes we change. Remember when you wanted to be a paleontologist when you were 7? Dreams fade. People change. If it's not what you want anymore, be honest with yourself. There is zero shame in abandoning a dream...and then taking up another one!

