 Most people who are looking for a job, or a potential employee, will spend at least a little bit of time on LinkedIn. LinkedIn is a social media platform specifically designed for professional contacts and industry networking. Think of this as your online resume, pictures included.


You can prepare a great profile by including all of your professional accomplishments and various skills. Keep your profile updated; whenever you work on a big project and become proficient in a new skill, put it up on LinkedIn.
Ask your contacts for endorsements. Other users can ‘endorse’ you on LinkedIn; ask your elite contacts to give you a good word, and tell them that you will do the same (make sure you actually follow through with this offer).
 Twitter can be used to connect with people you don’t really know, but that you share common interests with. You can also ‘follow’ someone you find interesting. You can also find job listings on Twitter; companies will often put out a Tweet when they are looking for new employees to hire.


Follow the companies that you would like to work for, and stay up to date on their posts.
You can also use Twitter to create your own online presence; this is particularly helpful if you are trying to go into a field like Marketing or Communications. Post interesting (and appropriate) things and try to earn yourself a following.
 Use status updates to put the word out that you are looking for a new job. You can also use Facebook to post links to your blog, LinkedIn, or other social media platform. You can also ‘Like’ the pages of companies you hope to work for.


If you post a link to your blog, consider writing it in a ‘Note’ rather than posting it as a status; when you create a note, it will stay on your page until you take it down, while statuses can get buried under other posts.
 You can create a website or a blog to act as an online portfolio. Make your website look as professional as possible, and send a link to it when you are applying for jobs (even if they don’t ask you to do so).



Creating a website specifically for the product you make or the thing you create will show potential employers your abilities, while also demonstrating that you are passionate about what you do.
Make sure that your blog or website has your name attached to it so that it comes up if your potential employer runs a search of your name on Google or through another online search engine.

