 Camping is all about enjoying nature and the company of others. Leave the high-tech activities at home.


Wait until night or until it gets really dark out. Take turns telling spooky ghost stories around a flickering fire. Watch in amusement as you scare each other with suspenseful stories.
Bring a guitar or other musical instruments. Singing songs and playing instruments is a great way to bring everyone together in a lighthearted way. The best campfire songs are interactive and involve call and response, like "Sarasponda."Roast marshmallows or make S'mores. Cooking campfire favorites is a great way to enjoy each other's presence, especially for kids.
 Many public camp grounds, like Yellowstone National Park, offer fly fishing.Clean and gut fish that you have caught from the lake. Throw it on a barbecue grill or skewer it and roast it over an open flame.
Take plenty of photos with fish you have caught. Fish don't just make great entrees, they make awesome trophies too!
Public camp grounds sometimes require you to have a state fishing license., Throw on your bathing suits and cool off during hot summer days.


Make sure swimming is allowed. Some places may have dangerous or sensitive wildlife that can become agitated by swimmers.
Make sure you know how deep a lake is before jumping in and swimming. Too deep a lake may not be best for young children, while too shallow a lake won't be as enjoyable for adults.
Be careful when swimming or diving into a lake. Treat the lake with the same level of caution as you would a swimming pool.
It's always best to swim with people who know CPR. In case of an emergency, you will need someone who can swim well and resuscitate someone who has swallowed water, if necessary.
 Hiking is both a steady workout and a great way to appreciate nature.


Bring maps, compasses, and other items for navigating through the wilderness. Carve a symbol on trees you have passed to help you find your way back to camp.
Drink lots of water and remember to take breaks. Hiking can be a physically tasking activity, especially in very steep or hilly areas.
Use binoculars to observe the wildlife. Some spots are known for the specific animals they have to offer. Try Owl watching, butterfly watching, or observing bats at sunset based on where you're located.Schedule a guided tour. If you're a first time camper trying to get the most out of your stay at a national park, guided tours will help you experience a wide variety of activities. Yellowstone National Park, for example, offers a photography safari and swims in thermally heated rivers., Doing something fun and interactive with family, friends, and kids is the surest way to have a memorable camping experience.


Do an alphabet nature hunt. This is a great activity for young children. Have kids try to spot as many things as they can for every letter of the alphabet (like "leaf" or "dirt"). This not only gets kids active and interested, it helps them expand their knowledge of nature.Have a water fight on hot days. Balloon tosses and squirt gun wars are enjoyable for all ages. For a better experience, throw in some swimming and barbecuing in the background.
Play tug-of-war. Use a shovel to dig a shallow hole in the ground and fill it with water. Position people on either ends of a rope and have them try to pull the other team into the water hole.
Play different types of sports. Bring a Frisbee, football, or a baseball bat and baseball. Sports can be especially unique when played on a campsite. Have a low hanging branch be your volleyball net or use trees as bases. Don't be afraid to get creative when playing sports.

