;
,,,:

, The circle in my minds eye is 4 feet (1.2 m) in diameter and we all know how hard it is to sink any 4 foot (1.2 m) put, no matter the situation. However most of the time, given the large amount of space you are visualizing gives you a nice margin for error, just like the huge driver heads of our modern golf equipment era and most of the time you can get the ball within 1 or 2 feet (0.3 or 0.6 m). Don’t get me wrong, this is a simple concept to understand but by no means and easy one to put into practice.
 Here is a typical hole:

, However, if the target is much bigger, it would be more achievable.
 Now this may not be hard for everyone or maybe even most. As I stated in the beginning of this book, most golfers are already visualizing their shots. However, all most of us do is visualize our line. In other words visualize the road or path the ball is going to take. I am asking you to simply pick a point only a few feet in front of you and forget about the line. Instead, focus on the destination (the hole of course), only this time visualize the hole being around 4 feet (1.2 m) in diameter. Once you have a firm visualization in your mind, don’t aim just stroke the ball to the target. I am telling you that if you can get a firm visual in your mind, you will put the ball closer to the hole most of the time.
 I use a visual of a 4 foot (1.2 m) diameter ditch as if it has just been dug out around the cup. I do this for two reasons. I visualize simply having to get the ball into that 4 foot (1.2 m) diameter 2 foot (0.6 m) deep ditch so that it does not roll out the other end. This allows me to give it the pace needed to get it there but not so much that it rolls out the other side. If you just visualize a black hole then it will pretty much fall in at almost any pace and that defeats the purpose. The other reason I use a ditch is because the color contrast helps be clarify the vision. Of course this is the part of the program which is completely unique to you, every bit as much as your swing. Try different visualizations to see which is the easiest and clearest visual for you to focus on.
 However, for the concept to be effective you need to use at least a 4 foot (1.2 m) diameter visual from 15 feet (4.6 m) out or more, (but the diameter is again up to you and creating a visual that works) so sometimes you will leave it 4 or 5 feet (1.2 or 1.5 m) short. In that case, all you do is simply visualize a 1 foot (0.3 m) or smaller diameter, the closer you get to the hole. I can almost guarantee that you might 3 putt once in a while but you will almost never put more than that. Most of the time you will 2 putt and I think we can all live with that!

, I agree it is important but not the most important part for golfers like me who just want to 2 putt on a consistent basis. Like I stated before, we are not trying to get the ball in the hole, we are trying to get it close to the hole which takes the line part of the process out of the picture and an extreme amount of pressure off of our minds. Who cares if the ball is 2 feet (0.6 m) short, left, right or long? It is still 2 feet (0.6 m) away from the cup. Using the bowling approached my dad taught me will take care of the line enough so that you are not completely off the mark. We both know that sometimes it will happen.

