 Children under six will be a handful and you should think seriously if you want to teach a child under four as they won't pick up on things so easily and will forget more easily. Although, with patience, you can teach dining manners even to a toddler (at a more basic level, of course).;
, You should be modeling this behavior as much as possible; children absorb the attitudes and behaviors of the adults around them. Before starting the actual teaching, sit down with the child/ren and tell them you are about to teach them proper dining manners for the next meal. Approach the matter positively (this is easier towards young girls as they see pretty women - i.e. princesses - eating with fine china and tall glasses) and tell them what is supposed to be the outcome. Maybe you can start by taking them on an outing with you and your spouse or perhaps this is directed towards a particular event. Tell them. If they get excited about the prospect of going, they'll most likely pay attention and behave.
 Read a manners book from the local library if necessary. You could also borrow it if the children are old enough to read or if there are plenty of pictures and show them.
 If it is usually a child's job to set the table, teach them all how is it done at fancy events. This is so they can expect where to find their utensils and glasses as there may be a lot of things on the table before they start getting cleared as the meal goes by. See the image and the respective subtitle as a general guide. Tell them where each fork and knife goes and what they should be used for. If they are visual, take a large piece of paper and have them trace around the plates, glasses and utensils, as an aid to remembering.
 This could be a great time to teach them the appearance and positions of the utensils once again so that they can recognise them and tell them apart (for example the fish knife vs. the salad knife). Let them look at things and absorb the overall look of a set table before the meal. Explain which thing is used for what. This could be a good time to brush up on speech manners as well so that your youngsters can make a nice conversation.
 You can even serve play food if you want. Use this meal as a first practical approach and quiz the children. When they do wrong, give a feedback sandwich and when they do right be sure to greet, and reward accordingly to their age. As the meal progresses revise the different contents, that is, when the "fish" is served, have all the children pick up their fish utensils and pretend to eat the fish. This is a good time to revise if their way of picking up, holding the utensil and actually having the food is polite and polished. Adjust your teachings accordingly.
 The younger they are, the more likely it will have tired them to sit still and be nice and polite for a while. Use this time to assess whether you have reached your goals. If your children have met your goals for the desired level of politeness you can call the subject closed and proceed with some confidence. If not, you can try again some other day until they do.
 Depending on how confident you are, this is best done at home during dinner. Before the meal, tell each child that they shouldn't make fun of others' wrong answers but should verbally encourage the others when they get answers right. Sit down for dinner with the whole family and when the food is served, and the children reach for their things, observe: they will most likely be doing it right. If they aren't, kindly correct them, preferably pointing out something they did good at the same time.
 You did a good job.

