 A popular saying that has shown up in many news releases is “you can’t outrun a bad diet.” Scientists have discovered that what you eat has more of an effect on your weight and overall health than caloric restriction and exercise.A diet of lean proteins and vegetables is your best friend, particularly when you’re trying to jumpstart your weight loss.


Eat as many whole foods — for example, raw fruits and veggies, chicken, raw almonds, and rice — as possible.
When you do buy processed foods, look at the nutritional value to ensure that the products are low in sugar, saturated fat and salt, and high in fibre, protein, vitamins and minerals.;
, Consider following this sample diet and variations on it each day for a week. When preparing your meals do not use any sodium. In addition, be sure to drink only water and unsweetened, clear tea!


Breakfast — 1/2 pear, 1/2-cup wild blueberries, coconut milk, hemp heart and flax seed smoothie, plus one rye cracker with almond butter.
Lunch — carrot soup (no sodium) made with carrots, zucchini, fresh ginger, turmeric, onion powder, poultry seasoning, and pepper, plus a fresh greens salad with shredded carrots and beets, topped with pumpkin seeds and a garlic-extra-virgin-olive-oil dressing.
Dinner — kale and red onions fried in extra virgin olive oil, topped with a coconut-milk-tumeric-curry-powder sauce, plus a salad of shredded carrots and beets topped with sunflower seeds, plus one baked 4-oz. chicken breast.
Snack (if needed) — one apple, or 1/2 an apple plus 10 raw almonds, or one pear, or 1/2 a pear plus 10 raw almonds.
 Your body burns more calories digesting protein than when it digests fat and carbs. Try replacing carbs with lean proteins such as lean beef, turkey, fish, chicken (white meat), tofu, nuts, beans, eggs, and low-fat dairy., Contrary to popular belief, carbs are not evil, and can be part of a healthy diet; however, low-carb diets have been proven to help with weight loss, so if you’re trying to lose weight quickly, you’ll want to limit your carb intake.If you do choose to continue eating carbs, stick with whole, unprocessed sources of carbs such as whole grains, vegetables, fruits, and beans.These are a wonderful source of fibre, which is another great weight-loss tool.
 Depending on your age, you mustn’t consume more than 1,500 to (if you’re 51+) 2,300 mg of sodium per day. Too much sodium can cause high blood pressure (leading to heart disease and stroke).It can also cause you to retain water, and look physically larger than you are.
 Researchers have found that getting enough fibre is key to a healthy diet and can help in weight loss. Aim for at least 30 g of fibre each day., Spicy foods contain natural chemicals that can increase your metabolism. Add a tablespoon of chopped red or green chilli peppers to your meals, or even add some chilli flakes. Try adding some cayenne to a home-made soup., Studies have shown that drinking between 375 ml (for women) and 500 ml (for men) of water day before each meal can help you feel more full and result in eating less.If you don’t already drink enough water, you’ll find that it can really help you drop a few pounds quickly.


To figure out how much water you should drink each day, divide your body weight in half: that’s how many ounces you s should drink per day. Example: a 150-pound woman should drink 75 ounces per day of water.
Not drinking enough water can slow your metabolism. Drinking at least 8 glasses of water per day will help keep you burning calories — you’ll burn more than you would if you drank less than 8 glasses per day. Try drinking a glass of water with each snack.Be careful not to drink too much water though, as this can lead to serious health problems., Taken in moderation, these drinks can help boost your energy and your metabolism. You must drink them clear, though — no milk or sugar! And don’t go overboard, as too much caffeine can cause health problems. Aim for 2 to 4 cups of green or oolong tea per day, or 1 to 4 cups of coffee per day, depending on how much caffeine your coffee contains.


A cup of coffee can contain anywhere from 50 mg to 300 mg of caffeine. Limit yourself to 400 mg of caffeine at most per day, unless you’re an adolescent, in which case the maximum drops to 100 mg per day.Be careful that caffeine doesn’t interact with any medications you’re on. If you’re taking weight-loss pills that contain caffeine, you’ll need to be very careful not to exceed 400 mg per day.
Effects of too much caffeine include insomnia, nervousness, restlessness, irritability, stomach upset, fast heartbeat, muscle tremors., Your daily caloric needs depend on your age, gender, height, activity level, and current weight. To lose weight you need to burn more than you consume.


A woman aged 19-30 who is sedentary (with only minimal physical activity each day) should consume anywhere from 1,550 to 1,800 calories per day to maintain her weight, and should restrict herself to between 1,000 and 1,250 calories per day to lose weight.A man aged 19-30 who is sedentary should consume anywhere from 2,050 to 2,200 calories per day to maintain his weight, and should restrict himself to between 1,250 and 1,650 calories per day to lose weight., When you severely restrict calories, your body can begin to think that it’s starving, and it will then hold on to everything you eat — meaning you can actually gain weight. What you eat is really more important than how much you eat. Eating whole foods will help you feel more satisfied with less calories; in addition, pay attention to how you feel while you eat, and stop when you’re satisfied — not full. , Eating two to three large meals per day, with hours in between, will cause your metabolism to slow between meals. By eating a small meal or snack every 3 to 4 hours, you keep your metabolism more steady and will burn more calories over the course of the day., Aim to eat at least 2/3rds of your day’s calories before dinner.Try eating your lightest meal at dinner — for example, a soup and salad with no heavy meat proteins or grains. Eating lighter at night might even help you sleep better — another important aspect of losing weight (being well rested).
 There is little evidence to show that eating at night can actually cause weight gain, but what it can do is cause indigestion as you lie down so soon after eating, or insomnia if you eat something like chocolate, for example.


Science still shows that the calories in/calories out rule applies, and as long as your nighttime snack is part of your caloric intake planned for the day, you should be fine; the problems arise when you don’t snack healthfully before bed, and when it leads to problems sleeping., Often when we feel hungry, we’re actually thirsty. If you’re feeling hungry, try drinking a large glass of water to see if that satisfies you. If after 20 minutes you’re still not feeling satisfied, chances are, you’re hungry!

, It takes roughly 20 minutes for your brain to tell your stomach “I’m full.”If you speed through a large meal in 10 minutes, it’s likely you’ve eaten much more than you actually needed to in order to feel satisfied. Slow down and take time enjoy what you eat. You may find it helpful to set a timer for 20 to 30 minutes to ensure that you don’t eat too quickly.


Some people find it useful to give themselves 2 to 3 minutes between bites.
 Depending on your health and physical abilities, this could be anything from a walk to a run or swim, to going to the gym and lifting weights. The key for weight loss is to get your heart rate up to between 75% and 85% of your maximum heart rate., Increasing your muscle mass will boost your resting metabolism, meaning that you will burn more calories even when sedentary.Lift weights, do yoga, or take up pilates. Any type of strength training will build muscle and help you lose weight.Be sure to give yourself at least a day off between weight-training sessions so that your muscles have time to rest repair themselves.
 High-intensity exercise will keep you burning more calories, longer, than low to moderate intensity workouts. Aim for an intense aerobics class or bursts of jogging or running during your walks., Beyond exercising and building muscle, you can boost your weight loss by simply moving around more every day.


Walk around when you’re talking to a friend on the phone.
Lift weights while watching TV.
Go for a walk with a friend instead of sitting and having a drink.
 Body wraps can temporarily help you shed a pound or two of water weight, resulting in you looking slightly thinner for a short period of time. Note that the results are only temporary, though, and may only last a day or two.Body wraps are commonly offered at spas. Do an online search for reputable, well-reviewed spas near you to see what’s available.
Be sure to ask your spa about the ingredients in the body wrap before-hand. If you have any health conditions and/or are taking medications, consult with your doctor to ensure that none of the ingredients in the body wrap will cause problems for you.If you have sensitive skin, you’re better off using a clay wrap than a wrap with fragrant oils., Fasting involves abstaining from some or all kinds of food and drink; it can help you temporarily lose a few pounds, but generally the weight will come back on once you start eating again. Fasting for a few days won’t hurt most healthy people, as long as they stay hydrated. Fasting for longer periods of time, however, is dangerous.A water fast would be to only drink water for a set period of time — not eating or drinking anything else.
Another type of fast is to only consume liquids — generally fresh fruit and vegetable juices, and broths.
Yet another type of fast is to consume mostly liquids, with one light meal each day — usually comprising vegetables, whole grains, and maybe lean protein.Don’t fast if you have diabetes; it can lead to dangerous drops and rises in blood sugar. You should also not fast if you're pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you suffer from any chronic health conditions. If you’re unsure about whether you can safely fast, ask your doctor., Shapewear is a word for undergarments made from rigid yet flexible fabrics that are specifically designed to smooth out our trouble zones — flattening the stomach and love handles, pulling in the thighs, and lifting the bum. You can purchase shapewear at most department stores, in the section where you would buy underwear.


Corsets can also pull you in at the stomach and waist and help you look much trimmer.
Note that shapewear and corsets — or any extra-tight-fitting clothing — can cause health issues if worn over a prolonged period of time. Health risks include meralgia paresthetica (painful burning and tingling in the thighs); digestion issues, including acid reflux; and an increased risk of blood clots in people who have circulation problems., Your body is capable of retaining up to 5 pounds of water each day.Lowering your sodium intake, increasing your fibre intake, exercising, having your body wrapped, and — perhaps counterintuitively — drinking more water, can all help with shedding water weight.


If you are a woman, you’ll likely retain more water when you're menstruating. If you know that you’ll be menstruating during a trip or special day where you want to look your thinnest, you might consider extending your birth control pill if you take the pill (this can postpone your period). If you’re not on the pill, battle water retention by consuming lots of fibre and water, and avoiding sodium.

