 To play a diverse array of people, you need to know a diverse array of people. When you meet people, do your best to be quiet and listen. Ask them about their lives and stories, note how they talk and any slang they use, and let yourself be a sponge. Reading helps you see these concepts at work. Moreover, reading actually activates the same part of your brain as acting does.


You should also do specific research for your part. If it is based on a specific person or time period, find out as much as you can. These little facts will work their way into your performance, even if only unconsciously., When you're watching someone act, let the scene simply wash over you the first time, watching like you would watch any other movie. Then replay the scene, paying specific attention to each actor separately. What do they do when they aren't talking? How do they deliver their lines? What is their body positioning and posture like? What movements do they use to sell their lines?


Would you read the same lines differently? If so, how?
Classic plays, like Shakespeare, are a great way to see the artistry of acting. YouTube, for example, 5 different actors delivering the same monologue from Hamlet. How do they all differ? What artistic choices is each actor making to make the character unique?, These classes often end in a production or performance, and are a great way to practice acting in a low-pressure environment. Take note not only of the teacher, but the other students. What can you learn from them? How would you improve their line readings, and would you make any different character choices? Make friends with your fellow actors, and talk to them from time to ask them for advice or tips on your performance.


You never know when a fellow actor will make it bi, and could potentially help you get a role. Be kind and friendly to everyone in class-- it will pay dividends later.
 Improvisation is the art of acting in the present, letting your character take over the action and react accordingly. Improv skills will help your characters seem natural, like they are reacting to the events on the screen in real time and not reading off a page. There are many improvisation classes in urban and semi-urban areas, and many acting classes feature a small amount of improv training.Improv games, like acting out suggestions from friends, acting with weird props, or acting short scenes with a friend, are great ways to practice acting anywhere.
 A cold read is when you're handed a script and asked to act it out on the spot. Sometimes you get 1-2 minutes to look it over, and sometimes you need to just launch into it. While this is scary, it is also very easy to practice. Buy a book of monologues, grab passages from a book, or even pick up a dramatic newspaper story and read it out loud. You can also read it once, silently, then take 20-30 seconds to choose a direction for the piece before beginning.


This is also a good warm-up exercise, helping you prepare your mind and body for acting.

