 Before fire shining your shoes, you will need to remove any dirt or debris using a damp cloth or horsehair brush. This will prevent the surface of the shoes from becoming scratched while polishing. Some people will also use a technique known as "stripping" before doing a fire shine, which basically involves removing any previous coatings of polish from the shoes. To strip your shoes:









Apply a few drops of rubbing alcohol to each shoe and work it into the surfaces using a cotton cloth. You should notice previous layers of polish rubbing off onto the cloth.
It may take some time to complete this process and get the surface of the shoes evenly stripped, but it will be worth it for shoes so shiny you'll be able to see your reflection in them!

, Now comes the fun part. Open your can of shoe polish (most regular brands of shoe polish will work fine) and hold it upside down, over a cigarette lighter. Turn on the lighter and allow the surface of the polish to catch fire. Quickly turn it right side up so none of the melting polish drips onto the floor.








Allow the polish to burn for a couple of seconds, then extinguish the flame by blowing it out or carefully replacing the lid.
When you reopen the tin, the surface of the polish should be melted and gooey.
Be extremely careful when using this method of shoe shining. Fire is dangerous and can cause burns. It may be best to wear a glove while doing this, and have a bucket of water close by in case of emergencies.
 Wrap an old t-shirt around your hands and dip it into a cup of warm water until wet but not dripping. Dip this wet cloth into the melted polish and start applying it to the shoes, using small circular motions.









Take your time and try to really work the polish into the shoes in a smooth, even layer. Don't forget to work the polish into any hard-to-reach cracks or crevices.
If you need more polish, or if the cloth becomes too dry, dip it in the water and polish again.
 Depending on the shoes, you may need to add multiple layers of polish to achieve the desired shine. Use the same technique each time, dipping the damp cloth into the melted polish and working it evenly into the shoes.









Remember that it's better to use multiple light layers of polish than one or two thick ones.
Make sure that you let each additional layer of polish dry completely before moving onto the next. Shoe shining requires a lot of patience.
 This step is completely optional, but will really help to add shine to your shoes. Take your lighter (or hairdryer set to high heat) and run the flame over the entire surface of the shoe.









The flame should never actually touch the shoe, but should be close enough to allow the polish to melt.
Never hold the flame over one spot, or it will burn the leather. Keep it moving constantly, as if spray painting. Stop once the polish has melted slightly and the surface of the shoes look wet.Set the shoes aside for 15 to 20 minutes until the melted polish has dried.
 You can now apply one final layer of polish, using the same technique as before. Your shoes should be extremely shiny by now, almost glass-like in appearance. If you want, you can use a chamois or any clean, lint-free cloth to give the shoes one last buff.








