 Contrary to popular opinion, it’s the pleasant people who end up the customer-service winners. This doesn't mean being wimpy. It just means you should be someone whom people want to help.;
, Calling up and rolling off ten things that need quick resolution is a guaranteed way to get people to tune you out. Only one issue can really be addressed at a time, so you're better off making a follow-up call once customer service is on your side and you have a contact person with whom to address other issues.
 Overstating a problem is usually very obvious to customer-service personnel, as they deal with the same issues day after day. Outright lying doesn't get you very far either once they start asking questions. A far better strategy is to express a real sense of urgency: “I’m going out of town." "I really feel helpless in this situation." "I really need your help." Expect an empathetic response in return.
 You want to be someone whom people want to help. The other party does have the resources to help if s/he wants to. An honest, polite, straightforward request for help, when clearly expressed, should bring the result you want. It's really in the other party's long-term interests to give you satisfaction.


Introducing negativity usually doesn't help. Keep things light, friendly and calm. Simply address the issues.
 When a solution has been agreed to, give the other party ample time to implement it, and then call back to verify that it’s been done. If they've honestly and fairly assisted you, they’ll be glad to speak to you again to give you the good news of your problem’s resolution. If that hasn't happened, enter into further discussion for resolution.
 Don't merely assume they know what you want. Sometimes it has to be spelled out. Offer your own solution, or let them describe one. They may understand factors you're not aware of.
 Take note of whom you spoke to and when, and what was discussed. When dealing with more than one representative, this will make things easier for you. Most customer-service personnel will gladly give you their name, phone number, even an e-mail address.
 Communicate in a professional manner. You’ll be treated professionally in return.
 You want positive things to happen in your interaction with customer-service representatives. It’s their job to help, so unless you give them a reason not to, you have every right to expect a positive outcome.
 When following up, give praise and thanks if you feel they're deserved. A simple "thank you" -- like a smile -- goes a long way and costs you nothing. It also encourages the other party to continue helping you.
 There's usually a procedure to follow. Learn about that process, know the time frame, and allow the other party to follow through. Calling back too soon may cause bad feelings and bad results. If a reasonable amount of time has passed without hearing from them, you can follow up with a call to encourage them to redouble their efforts on your behalf.
 Don't ask for a steak dinner to replace your burnt burger. It’s fair to inquire about what’s reasonable and practical. The framework of most companies will accommodate this.
 Avoid "no" people. A "yes" person is someone who has the power and ability -- even the inclination -- to say "yes." A "no" person is someone whose job it is to say "no" and couldn't give a "yes" even if they wanted to.


Simply ask if they have the ability and authority to solve your problem. If not, ask for the person who does.
You’ll find that real "yes" people are the hardest people to reach in any organization. Companies typically have a financial interest in saying "no." Don’t give up. Try to get names and contact information for these "yes" people and learn the best way to reach them.
 If all else fails, go out and watch a sunset and restore some inner peace. A relaxed state of mind goes a long way in resolving problems.

