 You can play the game online within Facebook or on your mobile devices. Launch it, then hit the “Play” button.;
, When the game maps loads, navigate through it until you see “164.” Hit the button for the level to begin.
 Once you’re in, analyze how your board is laid out. Is your first ingredient in the column where it can easily drop straight to the bottom, or is it in the column blocked by a chocolate wheel? Can you easily get special candies, especially a vertically Striped candy, on your first few moves?

, If you don’t like your board, go ahead an exit. You won’t lose a life as long as you haven’t touched any candy., If the ingredient is in the wrong column, meaning it’s in the one blocked by a chocolate wheel at the bottom, maneuver it to get it to the correct column with the arrows on the bottom row. This is important as you don’t want to get your ingredient to the bottom and be blocked at the very last row.
 A Striped candy is a special candy that results from matching four candies in a row. When you use a Striped candy as part of a match, it will clear out a whole row or column from the board. If you can, go for vertically Striped candies. With the proper column placement, you can easily drop an ingredient to the bottom in a single move. Position the Striped candy in the column where the ingredient is before using it.
 A Wrapped candy is a special candy that results from matching at least three vertical and three horizontal candies forming a plus, T-shape, or corner-shape. When you use a Wrapped candy as part of a match, it will first explode and knock out the nine candies surrounding it, and then it will drop and explode again, knocking out another nine candies the same way. Position the Wrapped candy in the areas under the ingredient before using it. You will be able to drop the ingredient quickly with this.
 A Candy Bomb is a special candy that results from matching five candies in a row. It can be difficult to get, but not impossible. You just have to work on getting the right candies in place to swap with to form the five-in-a-row. Color bombs do not need to be matched in order to be used. You can just swap it with another candy, and all similar-colored candies will be removed from the board. Take out candies of the same color that are under the ingredient.


You should also try to combine the Candy Bomb with a vertically Striped candy to multiply the effects of the Striped candy. That will definitely make it easy to drop the ingredient.
 There are six arrow marks at the bottom row where the ingredients should fall. Once you get an ingredient in the right columns, focus on clearing the path to get it to the bottom. Use any of the special candies you made to make it easier.
 You are required to bring down three chestnuts and three cherries. You can only have one ingredient at a time on your board. Once one has been cleared, a new one will appear at the top again. Go ahead and try to get it down by using the same strategy as explained earlier., As early as your second move, the chocolate wheels will spread chocolate starting at the bottom. As long as it doesn’t go to the column where the ingredient is, you should be okay.
 You can break the chocolate by making a match right next to it. Do not let the chocolate spread all over your board, especially towards the column where the ingredient is. It will be very difficult to drop the ingredient if it does. Stop the chocolate early before it spreads all over.
 This isn’t a time-limited level, so you don’t have to hurry. Take a good look before doing a move.

