 Depending on where you bought the PVC pipe, you will need to measure and mark the pipe before you cut it. Most 1½-inch PVC pipe comes in in 5-foot (1.52 m) lengths. With a tape measure and Sharpie, measure and then mark the cuts that you need to make on your PVC pipe.For your convenience, you might also ask the sales associate if they would cut the pipe to your specifications. Whether you cut it yourself or have someone else do it, you will need to make the following pieces:


8 12-inch (30.48 cm) pieces.
2 48-inch (121.92 cm) pieces.
2 5½-inch (13.97 cm) pieces.
2 6 ½-inch (16.51 cm) pieces.
2 15¼-inch (38.74 cm) pieces.;
, Once you have measured and marked your pipe, cut the individual pieces using a pull saw (hacksaw or miter saw) or a circular saw. Using the saw, you will want to cut along the lines that you marked on the pipe until you have 16 individual pieces of PVC pipe. When cutting the pipe, you should place the PVC pipe in a vise or hold it in place with a clamp.When operating a circular saw, you should always wear eye protection and keep your fingers away from the blade.
A miter saw and box may will give you more control over your cut, making it more accurate. You also do not need a clamp or vise since the miter box will hold the pipe in place.
If you use a hacksaw, always secure your pipe within a vise or with a clamp. This will help prevent you from cutting yourself.
 To create a cup where the jump bars will rest, mark a line down the middle of the center tube, stopping when you get to the joint. Then insert a small piece of scrap pipe into one end of the tee joint and clamp the other end to your work surface. Holding the scrap pipe with your free hand, you will cut along the line that you drew. Then turn the tee and cut parallel with the pipe to create the cup. Repeat this step with three more tee joints to make all of the cups.Remember to cut away from yourself when creating the cup.
If making your own cups seems too complicated or dangerous, you can also buy cups online from various pet supply companies.The cup should hold the jump bar in place while allowing it to easily come free. This will keep your dog from being injured.
 Build one side of the jump by putting the pieces together in this order: tee joint, 5½-inch (13.97 cm) pipe, cup tee, 6 ½-inch (16.51 cm) pipe, cup tee, 15 ¼-inch (38.74 cm) pipe, and end cap. Use a block and hammer to fit the pieces together securely. Repeat this process to create the other side.You will know that the pieces are connected when the pipe rests firmly against the inside shoulder of the connector.
 Take one of your side pieces and insert a 12-inch (30.48 cm) pipe through the open tee joint on the bottom. Put a cap on one end and another tee joint on the other. Finally, put two 12-inch (30.48 cm) pipes with end caps into each end of the open tee joint to make it steadier. Repeat this process to create the base for the other side.Once completed, the bases should stand on their own.
 Wrap a few strips of tape around the bars and the sides of the jump to make it more visible to your dog. Then place the sides parallel with the cups facing each other. Finally, connect the two sides by resting a 48-inch (121.92 cm) piece between them.Depending on your dog’s agility, you may only need the lower bar at first and then work up to two bars as your dog gets better at jumping.

