 This is an oldy-but-a-goody. When your sister isn't looking, sneak a few dashes of salt onto her morning cereal and be prepared to watch her confusion as she takes her first sleepy bite!


If your sister is more cautious (maybe she's on to your pranking ways?) and guards her bowl, you can always premix the salt into the cereal, but you risk wasting an entire box or accidentally having one of your parents get to it first.
 Here's a twist on the cereal surprise: fix a bowl of your sister's favorite cereal at night after she's gone to bed. Be sure to place the spoon in the bowl, and then place the bowl in the freezer. Be sure to get to the kitchen before her in the morning and set out her cereal for her.


Watch her struggle to figure out what's going on as she grabs the spoon and picks up the entire bowl!
You can also freeze her orange juice at the same time.
 Your sis will think you're such a sweetheart when you bring her a soda. Little does she know that you gave it a few good shakes on the way to her room.


Yes, this one is a classic too, but it's remained a classic prank for a reason! Nothing beats a surprise syrupy spray in the face!

, Does your sister hoard her favorite soda or sparkling water? If so, this simple prank will be right up your alley: just rotate the pull tab on her soda cans 180° and watch with glee as she tries to figure out why her can won't open.You can step this one up by actually prying off all of her soda tabs and then watching her discover that every one of her precious drinks is “defective”.
 Does your sister have a sweet-tooth? If so, she won't be able to resist the bowl of candy you leave out: buy bags of Skittles, M&Ms and Reese's Pieces and mix them all together. These colorful candies are all great on their own, but mixed together? Yuck!This is a great one to keep in your back pocket for when your sister has a slumber party but won't let you hang out. You can prank both her and her friends at the same time!

, This is also a good prank to play when your sister is having friends sleep over. Buy a dozen cream-filled donuts and use a large syringe to suck out the cream (go ahead and save it for yourself—you deserve it!). Then, replace the cream with mayonnaise.When your sister and her friends come down for breakfast in the morning, they'll think that your parents left them a special treat. Have your camera ready to snap pics of their first (and only!) bites!
You can buy jelly-filled donuts instead and replace the jelly with barbecue sauce: disgusting!

, This prank is great for Halloween: Your sister won't be able to resist the tray of caramel “apples” you leave out on the counter. This prank takes a little bit of preparation but is not too hard:


Peel a few raw onions (making only one will probably look suspicious) and place a popsicle stick in the end of each one.
Take a 14oz bag of individually wrapped caramel candies and unwrap them.
Place the candies in a microwave-safe bowl with 2 tablespoons of milk and microwave until melted (about two minutes, stirring once or twice).
Dip the onions into the caramel, making sure they are fully coated, and then place in the refrigerator until they firm up.

