 The ACLU's national website, at aclu.org, provides information about your civil rights and liberties, as well as the opportunity to support the organization.Read about the work the ACLU is currently doing, as well as any news alerts issued from the organization.
The website itself is relatively easy to navigate. Click on the various tabs at the top of the home page to learn more about the organization and how your support will help.
 When you enter the donations section of the ACLU's website, you will be given an opportunity to make a one-time or monthly donation online, and to set the donation amount you prefer.No specific donation amount is required to become a member of the ACLU.
Keep in mind that donations to the ACLU are not tax-deductible, because they go to support legislative advocacy, or lobbying, and contributing money to support political activity is not charitable giving under the U.S. tax code.
 You have the option of making a single donation, or setting up a recurring monthly donation. Either is sufficient for membership in the ACLU.If you choose a monthly donation, your credit card will be billed on the 15th of each month until you cancel.
If you make a one-time donation, your membership will be active for one year. You'll have to give a donation each year to renew your membership.
A monthly donation will automatically renew your ACLU membership every year, provided you don't cancel the donation.
 To make a donation online, you must make your payment using a credit card. The ACLU accepts Visa, MasterCard, and American Express.Note the fields that are marked with a red asterisk. You must provide this information. For example, you must include a complete name, street address, and email address.
You may want to consider setting up a separate email address for your political activity and charitable giving – especially if you plan to donate to more than one organization. That way you can receive news updates from the organizations without worrying that they'll clog up your inbox.
You also can set up donations using direct debit from your checking account. However, you can't set up a direct debit online. You'll have to call (212) 549-2543 or email guardians@aclu.org.
 Once you've completed the form, click "Donate" to send the ACLU your donation. If you chose to make monthly donations and later decide you want to cancel those donations, you can do so by calling (212) 549-2543, or by sending an email to guardians@aclu.org.You will receive an email confirmation from the ACLU, which you should keep for your records, even though the donation is not tax-deductible.
You also may receive membership information in the mail within a few weeks after you submit your donation.

