 Fast-draining soil that is sandy or gritty is essential to properly grow agave plants. Avoid loamy or clay soil, as your plant will likely develop root rot and die due to too much moisture in the soil.;
, Construct a 1 to 1 ½ foot high raised bed and fill it with sandy soil to ensure your plant grows properly.The sides of the raised bed can be constructed with landscape timber made of naturally rot resistant wood like red wood. Do not use wood that has been treated with creosote or pentachlorophenol as both of these substances are toxic to people and plants. Landscape timbers should be nailed together or held in place with a stake at each corner.
If you use rocks to construct the raised bed, put mortar between the rocks to hold them in place.
 The soil should be a cactus mix made of mostly sand and perlite, with a little organic matter and soil for nutrients.


You can find sandy soil mix at your local garden center.
 You can test the soil’s pH with a soil test kit, which you can find at your local garden center. Take the soil sample from a depth of 4 inches as the surface soil may have a slightly different pH and the roots of the agave will be at least 4 inches deep.If your agave plant is already growing and healthy, the pH is probably fine. If its leaves have become pale, the pH may be off or wrong. Test the soil again and adjust the pH until it is within an acceptable range.
Add elemental sulfur to the soil to bring it down if the pH is above 6.8 or add lime to bring it up if it is below 6.6.
Use 12 ounces of lime to raise the pH of 25 square feet of soil by .5, or from 6.1 to 6.6, or about 2 ounces of aluminum sulfate to lower the pH by .5, or from 7.2 to 6.7. Mix the lime or aluminum sulfate into the top few inches of soil. Then, water it in thoroughly to adjust the pH before planting the agave.
 Full sun exposure is a very important for the proper growth of your agave plant. These plants need at least six hours of direct sunlight every day and will thrive in direct sunlight all day long.


Agave plants that do not get enough sunlight will grow very slowly or not at all and their leaves will become pale.
 Give the plant about 3 gallons (11.4 L) or 1 inch of water each time you water it using a soaker hose, a watering can or a garden hose. Reduce the amount of water you give your plant if it rains or during a rainy season.If you use a watering can, pour the water slowly so it soaks into the soil instead of running off the top without soaking in.
You can gauge the amount of water delivered with a soaker hose by putting a 1-inch deep can right next to the agave. A tuna can or small cat food can works well. When the can is full, shut off the soaker hose.
 Agaves are extremely drought tolerant and rarely require any supplemental water after they have been growing for two years.As well, overwatering your plant will cause root rot so do not water the plant during winter.
 Sprinkle 1 to 2 ounces of a balanced fertilizer with a ratio of 10-10-10 or 8-8-8 over the soil around the agave, being careful not to get it on the plant. Wash the fertilizer into the soil with a few gallons of water.


If any fertilizer gets on the leaves of the agave, it will burn them. So wash off the fertilizer on the leaves right away with clean water.
 The drain holes will allow oxygen to reach the roots and ensure the soil does not stay wet for too long.
 Plant your plant in a mix made of mostly sand and perlite, with a little organic matter and soil for nutrients. You can find cactus mix at your local garden center.
 Agave plants flourish in continuous direct sunlight so find a spot that gets a lot of direct sunlight for six hours or longer.


You can keep your plant outdoors in the summer and spring when there is no danger of frost or cold temperatures. Bring your contained plant indoors when temperatures begin to drop below 50 °F (10 °C)., Pour the water evenly over the soil until it runs out of the bottom of the container. Empty the saucer underneath the container so the water does not soak back up into the soil and make the soil too wet.
 Use a fertilizer with a ratio of 10-10-10 or 8-8-8.Only give your plant fertilizer after a regular watering. Giving an agave plant fertilizer when its soil is dry could burn the roots.


You can also use water-soluble, houseplant fertilizer diluted at a rate of about ¼ teaspoon per gallon of water.
Do not give your plant fertilizer during the winter. As well, during the winter, you should reduce watering of the plant to only once a month.
 When the container becomes full of roots, blocking the soil and water, it has become pot-bound.Repot the agave once it becomes pot-bound in a new pot that is no more than 1 inch larger than the old pot or container.
 Weevils are the most common pests of agave plants. Adult agave weevils are brown and about 1/2 inch long. Female weevils lay their eggs in the base of agave plants and the white grubs then hatch and feed on the plant tissue. If an agave is attacked by weevils, the only solution is to remove the plant and throw it away.


Healthy Agaves are much less susceptible to weevil attacks than agaves that are stressed by a less-than-ideal growing environment and improper care, so always maintain your agave to ensure they do not acquire these pests.
 These insects attach to agave leaves and suck the juices out of the leaves.You can remove them by scraping them off the plant with your thumbnail or by putting some isopropyl rubbing alcohol on a cotton swab or cotton ball and wiping them off with the ball or swab.
 You can do this by hand or by catching them in a tuna can filled with beer, where they will drown. Slugs and snails are actually attracted to beer so you can sink a tuna can of beer into the soil around your agave plant until the top edge of the can is at ground level and the slugs and snails will leave your plant and head into the can instead.Check the can in the early afternoon two or three times a week and throw away any caught slugs and snails before re-filling the can with beer.
 Yellowing, shrivelled leaves that are easy to break off is a sure sign of root rot.If your plant displays these symptoms, use a shovel to dig up the agave and check its roots. Healthy roots will be white and firm. Rotted roots will appear gray or black and mushy.


If your plant still has a healthy set of roots, try replanting it and watering it less.
If your plant’s roots are all mushy, remove and replace your agave plant with a new one.
 The thick part at the base of the plant, considered the heart of the agave, can actually be baked and eaten.As well, the fresh, young leaves, seeds and even the flower stalks of the agave can be roasted and eaten.


The most commonly grown species of agave, known as a century plant or Agave Americana, is not safe to eat, as it contains multiple compounds that can make you sick.Several other agave species can be toxic when eaten, as the sap can burn or irritate the skin and mouth, cause swelling in the throat and difficulty breathing. Eating certain species of agave can also cause vomiting and diarrhea.
Desert agave, also known as Agave deserti,Parry’s agave, also known as Agave parryi, and Utah agave, also known as Agave utahensis,are a few agave species that are safe to eat.
 The sap of the agave plant can be used in poultices to treat skin infections and inflammation, and you can rub the juice of the plant on cuts or wounds as an antiseptic to help heal them.Agave is a close relative to Aloe Vera and the two plants can be used interchangeably for medicinal purposes., Fibers from agave leaves can be used as thread and the thorns of the agave can be turned into needles. In fact, the fiber of agave leaves were traditionally used to weave fishing nets, hammocks, and baskets., Agave is currently sold as a sugar alternative because it contains 90% fructose and has a low glycemic index.Though its use as an effective alternative to refined sugar for individuals with diabetes or those looking to cut down on their sugar intake is disputable, agave is currently sold as a sweetener., These alcohols are made by distilling the fermented juice of the agave plants. By Mexican law, tequila can be made from only one particular type of agave, blue agave, and can only be produced in designated geographical areas, primarily the state of Jalisco in west-central Mexico.Mezcal is made from the fermented juice of other species of agave and is produced throughout the majority of Mexico.

