 Discard them.;
, On one side, draw an oval shape design that is wide enough to accommodate your fingers when holding the bag. This hole should be about 2.5cm/1 inch down from the top of the box.
, There are three main possible approaches:

1. Cut the paper into triangles or squares






2. Simply rip the paper (provided this works well for the paper type)






3. Use whole sheets of paper.
 With this method, create neat geometric shapes from the paper.

Paint the back of each piece of paper with glue.






Stick the paper to the box. Smooth it out from the center to the edges of the paper to remove air bubbles.






Cover the whole box (including the base underneath). Overlap as you add the pieces, to ensure that the whole box is covered.






Paint the Mod Podge over the completed design. This seals it in place. Drying time will take about 20-30 minutes, or longer if it's really humid.
 Repeat the process outlined for the cut pieces. Take care that the ripped edges overlap neatly.
 This method requires a bit more precision but is still very easy to do.

Measure all sides of the box and the base.






Use these measurements to cut the pieces of paper to the same size.






Glue the paper to the edges as per the sizes cut. Gently smooth out from the center to the paper edges as you add it, checking constantly that the fit is precise.






Use ribbon to cover all the joints where the paper pieces meet. This will save having to meet the edges perfectly and adds a special pretty touch to the gift bag.






Paint with the Mod Podge to seal. Allow for at least 30 minutes drying time







, Push the tip into the side and score it down the middle of the bag.
, For example, tie some curly ribbon fronds to one of the handle holes or stick on a photo of a special occasion, favorite pet, etc. to the front of the gift bag. You might also consider adding glued-on paper letters to spell out a name or best wishes message.
 Slip the gift inside the gift bag and a card too.

