 Your brain is like a muscle and requires challenges and novelty in order to more fully develop. Once you determine that a certain area of study or mental activity is outside your comfort zone, push yourself to attempt it anyway. A good rule is that comfort is not good for your brain. Aim for unsteadiness and uncertainty in learning.For example, if math is difficult for you, then you might want to spend some more time working on it. This may be better for your brain than moving on to a more comfortable subject.;
, Instead of just jumping into the first book that catches your eye, think about what subjects interest you and seek out books in those areas. Begin your reading at the ground level and work your way up to master works. This is one way to achieve a degree of mastery in a subject. You’ll also find that your vocabulary and ability to explain difficult concepts will improve as well.For example, if you are curious about physics you might want to start with an introductory college textbook and then move on to more specialized books by famous physicists.
 Enroll in a local college course. Work with a tutor on a weekly basis. Or, purchase online language software and teach yourself. When you work on a new language it activates parts of your brain that remain generally dormant otherwise. Once you get comfortable with one language, move on to the next and so on., Take a lesson with a private tutor. Enroll in a local college course. Or, find an online or digital instructor who offers introductory to advanced lessons. Mastering an instrument can also give you a confidence boost.Even listening to music can have a positive effect on your brain. Your IQ may experience a temporary boost after listening to songs by Mozart or other artists and composers., Get out a game console and play at least 15 minutes each day. Working your way through video games can actually increase the number of cells in the left side of your brain. It can also improve your reaction time and hand-to-eye coordination.In contrast, watching television may overload your brain with useless information, which can cause mental slowdowns. Long hours of t.v. watching has been linked to ADHD, too.
Video games, such as Minecraft, can help people to develop social connections that extend outside of the gaming sphere. Instead of becoming the antisocial stereotype, part-time gamers can develop prosocial attitudes., Buy a chess set and challenge friends and family to a game. Go online and join a chess club. Look up the crossword or Sudoku puzzle in your local newspaper. Or, find an online puzzle site and subscribe to regular emails. Puzzling and strategy games teach your brain to remain calm under pressure and to come up with creative solutions to problems.