 Once you have settled into your new place, you should knock on the doors of your neighbors' homes. Introduce yourself as the new resident. You can tell them where you just came from and what you’re doing in your new town. Be sure to ask questions about the local area. If a conversation begins, you may even want to invite them over for dinner sometime.


You can say, “Hi there. I’m your new neighbor. I wanted to introduce myself. I’m new around here, and any advice you could give me would be appreciated.”
If you are a high school student, you can ask your parents to scout out who has children your age. If you can figure out which of your neighbors are your age, you can go to their house and introduce yourself. You can say, “Hi, I’m the new kid here. I was wondering if you could tell me what’s fun to do around here.”
If you’re in college, your dorm mates may be in the same situation as you. Knock on the doors of the rooms around yours.After you introduce yourself, tell them that you are inviting a group out, and ask them if they want to come. Say, “I think some of us here are going out to the dining hall together tonight. Do you want to join us?”

, A new town means new opportunities. If you have a hobby, interest, or skill, you can find people who are interested in the same activities. Keeping busy will help you adjust to your new place while letting you find friends with ease. Some fun activities include:Going to a local festival
Watching sports at a bar or stadium
Attending a concert
Completing a 5K
Volunteering at a local charity

, Clubs, societies, and other organizations are great places to meet people with similar beliefs and interests. There are many ways to become involved in such organizations. You can research groups online at your town’s website, or read flyers at local shops for more information.


If you are in high school or university, you can ask your school’s administration for a list of clubs and organizations. Some fun clubs include band, movie appreciation society, honors society, dance club, debate club, or knitting club.
If you are religious, try to find a house of worship near you. Introduce yourself as a new member on the first day. You may find that the other members are happy to welcome you.
If you are an adult in a new city, try taking classes for new or old hobbies. These include gym classes, courses at a community college, or a crafting night at an art store., Your classmates, neighbors, or workmates may invite you out to welcome you to their community. You should try to accept as many of these invitations as possible. Jumping straight into your new social life will help you adjust much quicker to your new place. If they do not invite you out, take the initiative, and ask them to do something.You can say:


“Hey, I was thinking of getting lunch. Can you show me some good places around here? Would you like to come?”
“Do you want to hang out after class sometime?”
“What is there to do around here?” When they answer, say, “Oh, that sounds fun. Do you want to do that sometime?”

, Loneliness can be part of moving away from your friends. It may take a while to get used to your surroundings and make some new friends. As you make this transition, it is important to find healthy ways of coping with your loneliness. Some things you might try include:


Hanging out in public spaces, such as a coffee shop, library, or sports events. Even if you are alone in these places, you may feel less lonely because you will be connecting with the community. Getting out will also give you an opportunity to make friends.
Looking for opportunities to be part of a group or team.Try joining a club at your new school or get involved with a sport. Being part of a group will help you to make friends and feel more connected to your community.

