 Drug tests are designed to locate specific chemical compositions in the bodies blood, urine or saliva that are thought to associated with a narcotic substance. Each of these tests is unique and is designed to screen for a specific drug or drug combination. For example, when being tested for marijuana laboratories will look specifically for the chemical THC.The more residual chemistry that you can flush from your system, the better your chances of avoiding a positive result.
The length of time a drug remains in your system depends mainly on the drug itself.
Detoxifying and flushing agents claim to wash your system free of the chemicals that will trigger a positive result, but since drug tests are constantly evolving and becoming more advanced--looking for different chemical compositions in the body--these products remain unreliable.
 Knowing how long a drug may remain in your system is absolutely crucial to reducing the chances of testing positive.


Marijuana can remain in your system for as long as eight-weeks, stored in your fat and hair cells.Cocaine, on the other hand, is typically flushed from the body within four days.Identify any drugs that you may have taken in the past six months.
 The best way to pass a drug test is to allow sufficient time for any narcotic to be fully flushed from your system. But this can only happen if you abstain and give your body the proper amount of time that it needs to flush.
 Do your best to re-schedule or avoid being drug tested for as long as needed. Although this is more than likely not a possibility, it may be the only (legal) chance that you have to avoid a positive result.
 While detoxifying and flushing agents are not against the law, there are several other methods and products that have recently come to market that require performing an illegal act. These products include:


Chemical spikes, which are sold legally in small vials, are added to the urine sample at the time of testing.Owning or purchasing the spike is not illegal, but adding it to your urine during your examination may violate local or state laws.
Prosthetic penises are now available and are designed to not only store a clean urine sample, but also fool the watchful eye of any observer.Urine that is not your own.

