 As you eat, the stretch receptors in the stomach are activated. However, it takes time for these signals to reach your brain. Eating more slowly allows more time for your brain to receive these signals and you will, therefore, feel fuller after eating less.Plan on spending 15 to 30 minutes per meal., If you do not feel hungry, it doesn’t always mean that you’re not full. It takes about 20 minutes for the brain register that the stomach is full. In this time, the body produces leptin, a hormone that help you realize you are full.If you have just consumed a healthy portion of food but still do not feel full, it could be because your leptin production is still working to catch up to your stomach.
Distract yourself for a bit. Once you’ve eaten what you believe is (or should be) enough to make you feel full, get up and go do something else. Do the dishes, read a book, or call a friend. When you start doing something else, you will allow time for your leptin production to ramp up to the appropriate level.
 If you haven’t eaten at regularly spaced intervals throughout the day, you’ll likely have a harder time knowing when you are full when you finally do get around to eating. To avoid this, consume a hearty breakfast of fruit, vegetables, and whole grains with a small amount of lean protein like soy, seeds, or nuts. When you get hungry again, consume another meal (lunch) toward the middle of the day. Finally, consume dinner in the evening when you get hungry again.If your schedule makes it difficult to eat regular meals, pack a light snack like a banana or a bag of granola so you have something to stave off your hunger and somewhat correct your caloric deficit.
 If you believe you should be full but don’t quite feel truly full, it might be because you can’t get the lingering flavor of a great meal out of your mouth. This could confuse you into eating more. To avoid this, take a bite of something sweet (like mango or raspberries) or pop a peppermint. Replacing the flavor of your meal with a new flavor will interrupt your cravings for a second helping., Research suggests that if you don’t get enough sleep, you might not be able to accurately detect feelings of fullness. Aim for six to eight hours of sleep per night. Less than that could lead to overeating.