 Most HSA administrators give you the option of setting up an online account. This allows you to track your balance and transaction history in real time, as well as make changes quickly.Online access is particularly important if you need to use your account in the short-term to pay your medical expenses.
You also typically have the ability to learn more about your account, find a health care provider, or file claims.
 Your HSA administrator should have a list of the types of expenses that you can pay out of your HSA without any penalty. If you are unsure, check the website or call the customer service number to make sure.You also can find a list of qualified expenses on the IRS website. Keep in mind that if you use money from your HSA to pay for anything other than qualified medical expenses, you must pay income tax on that money as well as a 20 percent penalty if you are under the age of 65.
Many expenses you probably wouldn't expect, such as travel to receive medical care, are considered qualified expenses for which you can use HSA funds.Your HSA administrator also may have a preferred network of health care providers. Using a health care provider within the network can save you money, because in-network providers typically offer discounts.
 Particularly if you're using your HSA on a regular basis to cover your health care expenses, review your statements at least once a month and stay on top of how much money is in your account.Online access typically enables you to check your balance and transaction history in real time. This can be particularly valuable if your HSA comes with a debit card that you use to pay for health care.
 You may be called upon by the IRS to demonstrate that you only spent money from your HSA for qualified medical expenses. Whenever you use your HSA to pay for something, make sure you have proof of how that money was used.For this reason, even if you have a debit card attached to your HSA, it's generally a good idea to avoid taking out cash at an ATM, because that money may be more difficult to account for.
Make sure the receipt or invoice describes your purchase with sufficient specificity that an IRS agent could determine whether the purchase is a qualified medical expense.

