 The person you are searching for may be wanted in a different county or state than where he or she lives now. Different jurisdictions operate independent warrant databases, so you will need to consult the database in the jurisdiction where the offense was committed. Search places where the person has lived or visited often.


Federal offenses are handled by federal district courts, which are different from state courts, as state courts handle violations of state law. To find out about a federal warrant, you must call the federal court clerk. There is no searchable federal warrant database.;
, Go to the state, county, or city website for the jurisdiction where you suspect a warrant might have been issued for the person's arrest. You can usually search by the person's first and last name. Some sites let you also search with additional specific information, such as nicknames, date of birth, or other attributes.Look for a warrant search page within the website. It may be contained in the "Legal" or "Health and Safety" sections.
Otherwise, try typing "arrest warrant" into the search bar on the site's home page. You can also just search for "Placer County arrest warrant search" in your favorite search engine.
If your county's website does not offer an online search option, call the local sheriff or police department for warrant information.
 If your county website does not have a searchable warrant database, or if you need information about a federal arrest warrant, you will have to call the court clerk directly. The clerk may ask you for the name and birth date of the person you want to look up. If you know the case number, give it to the clerk as well.In sensitive cases, such as domestic violence, juvenile offenses, and family law matters, the clerk may not be able to give you very much information about the case. This is to protect the privacy and safety of the people involved in the case. However, if a warrant has been issued, the clerk may still be able to give you that information, because criminal matters are typically in the public record.
 The NCIC maintains a large index of criminal justice information used by federal, state, and local law enforcement, which includes arrest warrants. NCIC's telephone hours are 9:00 am to 5:00 pm, EST. The number is (304) 625-2000.Ask the operator to search the warrant database for your name.
 Your local courthouse should have computers available for public use where you can look up warrant information. Ask the clerk for assistance if you need help signing in or finding the correct search tools on the computer.
 There are non-government websites that offer to perform warrant searches for you. Some are free, like http://www.gotwarrants.org/, but most others charge a fee.These third-party services are fast and simple, but they may not provide you all of the information you are seeking. For instance, they might be able to locate records for property ownership or birth records, but miss a person's criminal history. For this reason, third-party services should be your last resort., If you suspect that you are wanted by the police, and you are ready to turn yourself it, simply ask a police officer. The police can access a warrant database and check if there is an outstanding warrant for your arrest. If there is a warrant out for you, the officer is very likely to take you into custody., People can be completely unaware that there is a warrant out for their arrest. Finding out when the warrant was issued is the first step in learning the details about the underlying charge..


There are often fines related to the charge that have continued to accumulate since the court issued the warrant. Any outstanding fines should be listed along with the other warrant information. Ignoring the warrant will only allow the fines to continue to grow.
 The wanted person will need to know the name and details of the charge against him or her, the date of the offense, and the type of case (such a felony, misdemeanor, or traffic ticket matter). The wanted person will need these details in order to prepare a response, and should consider meeting with an attorney if the charges are serious.


In some cases, the wanted person can voluntarily pay a fine to avoid being arrested.
 Higher bail amounts are typically given in more serious cases. The bail amount is the amount of money the wanted person will need to pay to get out of jail while awaiting trial. If there is a warrant out in your name, bring the bail amount with you, or someone who can post bail for you, when you turn yourself in.

