 Exfoliate your lips. You can use a lip scrub to do this. Basically, you are removing the skin that makes your lips rough and chapped.


You can use a store-bought lip scrub or make your own. To make your own lip scrub, mix a tablespoon of brown sugar with just enough honey or olive oil to get it to stick together.
Once a week (twice at the very max) rub the scrub onto your lips, vigorously enough to loosen the dead skin. Let it sit for one minute, and then wipe off with a damp washcloth.;
, Take a clean toothbrush and brush the flat part of the bristles back and forth on the lips, much as you would brush your teeth.Do this for 30 or so seconds per lip, and stop if they start to hurt. Flaky lips are dry lips. The “flakiness” is dead skin. It needs to be exfoliated off.
Rinse your brush and your lips with water. You could also use a washcloth to exfoliate lips.
 Using small crystallized sugar molecules, you can softly scrub away the dry flaky skin around and on your lips.


Apply like a facial scrub and enjoy the immediate removal of any dead skin on your lips.
Be careful not to eat or swallow the mixture because petroleum jelly is not edible.
 You’ll notice that your lips will feel softer and look better too. You could use a Q-tip or your finger.Some lip balms leave your lips moist and soft temporarily or leave a layer of product on the lips, giving the illusion that the lips are moisturized. Petroleum jelly penetrates the lips to actually moisturize them. It also leaves them with a shine.Apply about triple the amount of a normal application. Your lips will look and feel greasy, but don't smother it on. It shouldn't look like you have a paste on your lips.
You should be able to rub your lips together comfortably. Let this sit for around 3-5 minutes, until the dead skin is soft. Petroleum jelly helps you get rid of flaky lips just as long as you use it constantly! It’s a byproduct from the production of petroleum, which means it's very cheap. It seals your lips like a barrier, letting nothing in (including cold air or environmental toxins).
 The next morning, the flakiness will peel away along with the petroleum jelly. Continue to hydrate yourself, and apply lip balm to prevent your lips from drying out again.


The petroleum jelly treatment is recommended to be done about 3 times a week in the winter and once a week in the summer (or when it is a rainy season). Your lips might look pinker as petroleum jelly can reduce dark patches on lips.Depending on how you sleep, you may wake up with the crusty remains of the jelly around or on your lips. This can easily be removed by wetting a soft washcloth and rubbing softly off.
 You should drink plenty of water and keep yourself hydrated as much as possible. Sometimes chapped lips are the result of a poor diet. People sometimes forget how important water is to the body.


Lips often get chapped, cracked, dry and unsightly because of how little we care for them. Like the rest of our skin, lips require moisture to stay healthy and beautiful. In fact, because the skin on our lips is so thin, we need to keep them moisturized even more than the rest of our skin.
The key to smooth lips is hydration. You need to drink plenty of water or other healthy fluids to keep your skin healthy, and even more so your lips.
 Apply it regularly in addition to using the jelly now and then.


A good rule of thumb is to apply the lip balm once every 3 to 4 hours or so. Over usage could lead to dark patches on the lips.
Lip balms with ingredients such as mint, peppermint or eucalyptus can be used and a variety of brands are available at supermarkets or pharmacies.
 Some people are concerned about the environmental and health consequences of constantly using petroleum jelly. A substitute could be natural oils.


Coconut oil is a great option. It's good for the hair, the skin and the lips too. Simply apply it as you would have applied the jelly. Olive oil can work too.
The Vaseline lip therapy line could be a replacement for any lip products you already use. It has a small range of colors also.
 Don't lick your lips. The saliva will dry them out and chap them.


Don't touch your lips a lot with your hands. Biting your lips also can lead to dryness and sore lips.
Applying sunscreen to your lips is a good idea to protect them in the summer from the rays of the sun.