 It is fairly quick and painless, and most of all, it is free.;
,, From designing a motherboard to designing your kitchen; designing your dream muscle car to your very own town. This website gives you the digital key to your desires.


These are just a few of the many uses that you can get out of the software/site.
 It will take you step by step through the basics.
 You can't break anything!

, From top to bottom, they are as follows:


Select (Esc). Use to select any particular part of your model.
Draw (D). Use to draw lines to increase the number of spots where you can 'push n pull' or 'manipulate'.
Rectangle (R). Used to make squares/rectangles wherever you need them.
Circle (C). Used to make circles/ellipses wherever you need them.
Arc (A). This can be used to create wheels, dormers, cupolas...anything that might be round or circular or have some arc to it.
Push n Pull (P). This tool is a lot of fun. You push in, or pull out any of the shapes or particular parts of the model that you choose.
Manipulate (M). You can do some mind numbing things with this tool. It can take a totally square image and skew the heck out of it. All kinds of potential here.

Paint (X). Here is where your 'inner artist' shines. Use the drop down window to find all kinds of textures and colors to paint your model with. Use the 'Paint' functionality to give your model some 'color'.
Eraser (E). The always valuable eraser. Learn it, know it, own it.
 They are as follows from left to right:


Use the 'Search 3dvia' to find different models.
Publish. You can publish your model to 3dvia.com.
Undo (Ctrl Z). The usual
Redo (Ctrl Y). To redo the undo.
Ambiance (F4). Use this to change the sunlit shadow and also to add or remove the lines in the model.
Help (F1). The ever, popular Help button.
Pan. Pan your image to put it in different locations in your screen.

Click and drag
Arrow keys


Rotate. your image to see from different angles. Takes lots of practice to get it right.

Click and drag around
Use Alt +


Zoom. Get up close and personal with your model.

Click and drag up or down
Roll the mouse wheel (scroll)
Use the + or - keys


Reframe (Home). A very helpful key. Helps you to reframe your shot if you get lost somewhere else on the screen or the Rotate button has thrown you off.
Grid Options (O). Change your grid orientation. This helps if you want to start a different model at a different angle.
 This is also used to give your windows and doors required depth.

