 Part of the reason why certain comments that your mean friend makes may bother you so much is because he or she is commenting on things that you are self-conscious about. One of the easiest ways to defend yourself against these types of remarks is to deepen your acceptance of yourself. Learning to love yourself (even your imperfections) is not easy and it will take time, but working on your relationship with yourself can help to protect you against mean comments and behavior. Accept yourself for who you are. Take time each day to appreciate the person you are. Acknowledge your strengths and triumphs (even the small ones.) Forgive yourself when you make a mistake. Don’t beat yourself up if you make a mistake, just forgive yourself and move on. Treat yourself well. Don’t do things that make you feel uncomfortable or allow others to pressure you into doing things that you don’t really want to do. Do things that make you feel happy and fulfilled. Learn to say no. Don’t say yes every time someone asks for a favor or wants you to do something with them. , If your friend says something mean to you, let him or her know that those comments were hurtful and that you’d like them to lay off. At first, respond with a casual comment to let your friend know that his or her comments are hurtful. Try saying something like, “Ouch! That was kind of mean. Could you not say things like that to me, please?” If the meanness continues, let him or her know that you are serious by saying something like, “I’m not joking. You are being unnecessarily mean. Knock it off.” Practice delivering these requests until they sound natural. Be firm when you speak and use direct eye contact so that the person sees that you are confident and serious. Be persistent. Don’t stop defending yourself just because the behavior continues. The more you practice this type of self-defense, the more your friend will get the idea that their words are hurtful and that you will not tolerate them. , If your friend yells at you, he or she probably expects you to yell back. And if you do yell back, he or she will yell back louder, and so on. Instead of retaliating in like manner to your friend’s anger or meanness, respond calmly and kindly. This unexpected approach will confuse and redirect the behavior. For example, if your friend yells at you for a mistake you made, don’t yell back. Respond in a calm, kind voice. Say something like, “I am sorry that what I did upset you, but I don’t think it was such a big deal that we can’t discuss it reasonably.”

, If your mean friend tends to belittle or speak to you in a condescending tone, respond to this type of behavior by calling him or her out on this behavior. This technique works especially well when others are present who will support your condemnation of this type of negative communication. For example, if your friend says something to insult you (or someone else), try responding with something like, “Come on Jimmy, making remarks like that is beneath you. Show everyone that you are better than that.”

, If this person is constantly beating you down and refuses to change after you have confronted him or her, your best option is to get out of the relationship. Don’t hope in vain for things to change because it is more likely that they will become worse the longer you are attached to the person. If the person is someone you have to see on a regular basis because you go to school together, work together, or something else, try to engage with the person as little as possible. 