 If your business operates in physical buildings you own, you can pursue a green certification from the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC), which runs the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) program. LEED certification works for all types of projects including homes, corporate headquarters, and retail shops. In addition, if a building has already been constructed, you can update that building in order to achieve LEED certification (i.e., you do not need to construct a building from scratch).Projects pursuing LEED certification must generally comply with environmental laws, be a permanent building, use a reasonable site boundary, comply with minimum floor area and occupancy requirements, and commit to sharing certain energy and water usage data.;
, If you think you qualify, visit the LEED website and select the most applicable rating system based on the type of project you are starting. The rating systems are based on the type of construction you are undertaking (i.e., complete constructions, core and shell constructions, interior constructions, or existing buildings improvement work) and the expected use of the building (i.e., schools, healthcare, retail, commercial, or residential).


If multiple rating systems are appropriate for your project based on the type of construction you are undertaking, choose the rating system based on the expected use of your building.
If multiple rating systems seem applicable, make a choice based on which rating system will fit your needs best., Visit the LEED Online website to start the registration process. You will need to create an account account by clicking on the "Create an Account" button.You should create an account and begin the registration process as early as possible - ideally during the design or planning phase of your construction.


Once you create an account, you will register by providing LEED with information about your project.LEED will walk you through the process as soon as you create your account.
Be sure you have a certification goal in mind at this point. LEED offers different levels of certification, which range from "Certified" to "Platinum". Each certification level is reached by getting various credits. The lowest level of certification requires you to get 40 points while the highest level of certification requires at least 70 points.
 Your project team will be responsible for taking on certain roles during each stage of your project. The three most important members of your project team are the owner, agent, and project administrator.


The owner holds the property associated with your project. He or she will be responsible for accepting the certification agreement. In other words, the owner has the ultimate control over the LEED certification application.
The agent is a person given authority by the owner to do the things the owner would otherwise do (e.g., sign documents, make agreements, bind the owner). Most projects have agents because owners are often busy doing other things.
The project administrator oversees the project's progress and delegates tasks to ensure the project is completed., LEED certification is based on a points system in which you are awarded certain amounts of points for pursuing and accomplishing certain LEED credits. Working with your project team, identify LEED credits you would like to pursue and assign those credits to members of your team. Your team will be responsible for collecting information about the credit, performing calculations and analysis, and preparing documentation demonstrating how you have achieved the prerequisites for each particular credit.


Available credits include, but are not limited to, integrative process, sensitive land protection, access to quality transit, bike facilities, open space, rainwater management, light pollution reduction, water use reduction, renewable energy production, collection of recyclables, air quality, clean construction, and local food production.Your application will consist of all the required documentation evidencing your ability to successfully get enough credits to become LEED certified. Different levels of LEED certification will require you to get different amounts of credits., Before you submit your application, be sure you double-check all of your work to make sure everything is in order. Once a thorough review of your application has been conducted, submit your application online through the LEED Online system. When you submit your application you will be required to pay review fees.The fees you have to pay are dependent on the type and size of your project. In general, fees are thousands of dollars and can easily exceed $50,000 depending on the type of project you have., Once you submit your application, Green Business Certification Inc., (GBCI) will review your application. The review process you take part in will depend on the type of project you undertook. In most cases, your project will first need to pass a preliminary review. Here, GBCI will check your application for completeness and compliance with your chosen rating system and credits. The preliminary process will usually take between 20 and 25 business days. You will be able to accept the preliminary review if you are satisfied, or you will have the opportunity to amend your application and try again.


Once you are pleased with your preliminary review results you will submit your application for final review. Your final review application is simply the application you submitted for the preliminary review plus any amendments. GBCI will review your final application and get back to you within 20 to 25 business days.
At this point, if you are happy with the results, your review process is complete. However, if you are unhappy with the results you will need to file an appeal. During your appeal you will be given one final chance to submit an amended application., Once the review process is complete, GBCI will inform you of your certification. If you were successful, your project will be closed out and you will receive a certification based on the number of credits you earned. The different certification levels are as follows:LEED Certified: 40-49 points
LEED Silver: 50-59 points
LEED Gold: 60-69 points
LEED Platinum: 70+ points

