 For hundreds of years, men have been trying to add volume to their hair through folk remedies. Much of the evidence for success with these remedies is anecdotal and the impact of the following remedies remains unproven by medical science.
 According to anecdotal evidence, this combination can help add volume to thinning hair and help hair grow faster. Combine the ingredients together, and then apply liberally to the hair, rubbing the mixture into the scalp. Leave the vinegar and mayo mixture in place for at least 20 minutes before washing it out and shampooing as usual.









The effects of this tactic occur gradually, so be patient and repeat the process monthly.
It can also be beneficial to wrap your head in cellophane after this treatment and cover your head with a towel.
 Protein plays a large role in contributing to the volume of hair. One folk remedy is to crack one to two eggs (depending on the length of your hair) into a bowl, whisk the eggs up into a well beaten mix and then apply the mix to your wet hair. Allow the eggs to sit in your hair for at least 30 minutes before washing it out with lukewarm water. Use this method once or twice a week.


It can take up to several months to see a noticeable difference in volume when using eggs to increase the thickness of your hair.
 Certain oils, usually associated with cooking, have been said to add the appearance of volume to your hair. Both olive oil and castor oil have shown some ability to add the appearance of volume. When trying this method, rub the oil liberally throughout your hair and massage the oil down to the scalp. Let it sit for 30 to 45 minutes and wash the oil out with a mild shampoo. The process should be repeated bi-weekly.


Like other home remedies, the impact of this treatment occurs gradually. It can take up to two or three months to notice a difference in the volume of your hair.
 Avocados have been shown to contain vitamin E, which can increase the appearance of volume in your hair. When trying to increase volume with natural food products, blend together one whole avocado, one mashed banana, and a tablespoon of olive oil. Massage the mixture gently into your scalp and let it sit for 30 minutes before washing it out with a mild shampoo.

