 Firefox resembles a blue globe with an orange fox wrapped about it., It's in the top-right corner of the Firefox browser window., This button has a gear icon above it.

On Mac, click Preferences.
 It's on the left side of the page (PC) or at the top of the window (Mac)., This link is below the "History" heading in the middle of the page.

If you're using custom settings for your Firefox history, you won't have the remove individual cookies option; instead, click the Show Cookies button on the right side of the page.
 It's at the bottom of the Cookies window. Doing so will automatically delete your Firefox cookies., It's the blue globe with an orange fox icon., This option is in either the bottom-center of the screen (iPhone) or the top-right corner of the screen (Android)., It's on the right side of the pop-up menu., This option is in the "Privacy" group of settings., If it isn't, tap the switch or tap the box to include cookies when the private data is deleted.

You can disable every other type of data on this page if you only want to clear cookies.
 It's at the bottom of the screen. On Android, tapping this option will immediately clear your on-device cookies and other website data., If you're using an iPhone, this last step will remove all of your cookies from Firefox., It's a blue globe with an orange fox icon., It's in the top-right corner of the Firefox browser window., This button has a gear icon above it.

On Mac, click Preferences.
 It's on the left side of the page (PC) or at the top of the window (Mac)., Doing so will open a window., It's at the top of the window. This setting will turn on Do Not Track for your Firefox browser., This saves your settings and closes the Do Not Track window., Both uBlock Origin and Adblock are available for most desktop browsers, and both of these options will block tracking cookies as well as ads that slow down your browser., It's a blue globe with an orange fox icon., This icon is in the top-right corner of the screen., It's near the bottom of the drop-down menu., This option is on the left side of the page., It's near the top of the page. Doing so will enable Do Not Track requests in Firefox.

If there's already a checkmark in the "Do Not Track" box, your Firefox browser is sending Do Not Track requests.

