 Open up the sample file SamplePic.jpg." If you've done the previous tutorials, and have saved your work in progress, you may have a couple text fields. Under the Layers tab on the right (or if not there, select Layers from the Windows menu), click on the eyeball icon for all layers but the actual image layer. After the text layers are deselected, click on the image layer so that it's active.
 The clone stamp lets you pick up part of the image, and copy it to another part of the image.



Select a brush. At the top of the window, to the right of the Clone Stamp icon, is the brush palette. Click on that, and select a brush as shown.





Using the Size slider, set the brush size to 50.

Set the clone source. Before you can clone the image, you need to select what you're actually copying. We're going to hide the white boat in the middle with water. Holding down the Option (Alt) key, and click on the image about where the water changes texture, as shown by the red target:





When you to this, the cursor will be the image of the source. Move the cursor next to the white boat, and match the break in the water texture as close as you can. It won't be perfect, but it's close enough. Your cursor and placement should look something like show here (enlarged):





Click and hold the mouse button, and paint over the boat as much as you can. You may start to see repetitive patterns, but we'll show you how to minimize those, next. Here's what your screen might look like after brushing out the boat:





Soften the edges of the cloned area. To do this, click on the brush palette at the top again, and this time set the Hardness to 0%. This will fade out the edges of the tool gradually. Select about the same clone source, then go over the outer edges of your cloned area. Click different parts of the water as you go, to minimize repeated patterns. When you're done, it should look something like this:





If you want a real challenge, try to clone out the mast. Use smaller brushes, and clone sources very near the mast itself.
Also in the Clone Stamp menu is the Pattern Stamp. Like the Clone Stamp, this paints over your image, but instead of using part of the image, it uses a pattern.





To create a pattern of your own, select part of the image using the rectangular Marquee Tool, then from the Edit menu, select Define Pattern... Name your new pattern, select the Pattern Stamp tool, then click on the Pattern palette (see above image). Paint over your picture, and the pattern will be "stamped" onto it:





Checking the "Aligned" checkbox will result in evenly-tiled patterns, like a checkerboard, even with multiple passes with the brush.
Unchecking the "Aligned" checkbox will restart the tile with every click of the mouse, which can result in a more natural looking pattern.
Checking "Impressionist" will give you random dots of color taken from the pattern. The dot size is determined by the brush size.
 The History Brush takes you back to previous versions of your image, but unlike simply saving a copy along the way, then reopening it, the History Brush lets you paint in prior versions.


Scroll to the top of the History tab. If it's not showing, select History from the Window menu. At the top of the History window, you'll see a thumbnail of the image. Click the checkbox next to that: that's going to be what we'll paint in.





Remember that white sailboat you Clone Stamped out of existence? We're going to bring it back! With your History Brush selected, use the Brush palette and set your brush size to 100, and the hardness to 100%.
Click and hold the mouse where the white sailboat used to be, and start painting. Your boat is painted back in!





Use the History Brush to paint the image back to the original.
 Similar to the Clone Stamp, the Spot Healing Brush will paint over your image with another part of the image. In this case, however, it works from the area around where you are painting. It can deliver amazingly natural results.


With the Spot Healing Brush selected, set your brush to a round brush, 50 pixels round, and 50% Hardness.
Locate the tan house on the hill, in the middle of the image. Starting on the right side of the house, make small strokes from the trees into the house. You will start to see the house disappear beneath the pine trees!





Continue painting away the house, until it's gone from view. You can work the edges to make the hillside look more natural. When you're done, it should look something like this:






, Dodging and burning have their roots in the days when photographers developed their films in a darkroom. Masking (dodging) parts of the photograph blocked the light getting to the photograph, effectively lightening the masked area; burning, or letting more light through, darkened the burned area. Photoshop's Dodge and Burn tools do the same thing, only far more reliably than a piece of cardboard with a hole punched in it!


With the Dodge Tool selected, set your brush size to 50 and Hardness to 50%. To the right of the brush palette, set Range to "Highlights," and Exposure to 50%.
We'll add some light to the sailboat on the bottom right. Paint the boat starting around the words "The Saint." Notice how it's much brighter now. Also, notice that if you slip and paint over the wooden cabin, it doesn't change nearly as much: we've selectively lightening only the whiter tones. That little bit of sunlight to the rear of the cabin will also lighten up considerably.





Switch to the Burn Tool by pressing Shift-O. The brush palette and Exposure settings can stay the same, but change the Range to Shadows. Dodge the water around the boats. Notice how the water becomes much darker, but the bright boats are hardly affected at all. With judicious use of the Dodge and Burn tools, you can really make an image pop.





Switch to the Sponge Tool by pressing Shift-O. The Sponge Tool lets you selectively desaturate (remove color), or saturate (enrich color) an image. With the Sponge Tool selected, set the Mode at the top to "Desaturate." Desaturate the back of the boat until it's effectively black and white. Then switch the Mode menu to "Saturate." Paint the bow of the boat to saturate the colors. At first it just is a little richer, but will quickly become cartoony. Leave the middle of the boat untouched, for comparison.






