


No cost: Improvise a hanger from nails and/or a rope you have laying around. This method is not recommended, however, as it probably won't last long.



 



About a dollar: Get a utility hook and cover it with a piece of rubber to protect your bike. If you buy plastic-coated, screw-in hooks, you must get at least two if you want to hang your bike from the ceiling.







A few dollars: Buy a simple bicycle hanger from your local hardware or bike shop.





;
,


On or near the floor: This is easiest way to hang and take down your bike, but it won't free up as much floor space as other choices. If lifting your bike is a strain, this is the best height for you.







Somewhere between the floor and the ceiling: Hanging the bike higher on the wall will let you sweep under the bike without having to move it, but you will still have to walk around it. It won't be as hard to hang or retrieve as it will from the ceiling, but will be more difficult than hanging it near the floor.







From the ceiling or eaves: This option will free up the most space but also requires great effort when hanging and retrieving the bike. If your ceiling is tall enough, you may be able to walk under your bike once it's hanging from the ceiling. But you must be tall enough to reach the bike frame or you won't be able to pull it down.


Consider how you use the space and where you will probably stand to hang and retrieve your bike.

Frame parallel to the wall: This option lets your bike stay close to the wall, taking up usable wall space. This may be a good choice if you are only hanging one or two bikes. If you hang your bike parallel to the wall at ground level, the wheels should face downwards because there there is no reason (and it would be a pain) to turn the bike over every time.







Frame perpendicular to the wall: This takes up less wall space but more space in the room. It also requires more clearance from the wall. If you want to hang your bike in a corner next to a water heater or refrigerator, this may be the best choice. This is also an efficient way to hang multiple bikes.






Note: If you hang your bike perpendicularly to the wall, the wheels should face the wall and the frame should be vertical. This orientation will allow you to roll the bike up the wall and hook the front wheel by turning the handlebar, if you place the mounting hook correctly.

From the ceiling: If you hang your bike from the ceiling, the wheels should face upwards because otherwise it would be very difficult for you to hold the wheel rims to get the frame off of its hook(s).



If the wall is plaster or drywall: This means you will need to use a stud finder in determining where to hang your bike.







If the wall is wooden: This means you can drill your bike hook directly into the wall.







If the wall is stone: You may need a special drill attachment to make a hole in the stone for your hook.







