 Be detailed and don't hold back. Draw literal or metaphorical representations of scenarios that indicate the sources of your stress. Creating a visual equivalent of what you’re facing is a powerful way to affect your feelings, and even help conceptualize solutions.Destroy the representation of your stress. Scribble all over it, or tear the page into tiny pieces. Use your hands to make the act of destruction especially satisfying.
Throw it all away! Just the act of metaphorically throwing your stressors away can be powerfully therapeutic.
 Without intending to draw anything in particular, simply apply your drawing utensil to a blank sheet of paper. Close your eyes. Focus on whatever emotions you’re feeling and would like to get rid of.Once you’re focused on an emotion, allow it to pass through your arm and hand onto the sheet of paper. Allow your emotion, not your mind, to dictate the movement of the pen or pencil. Whatever comes out on the page is simply an expression of what you’re feeling.
Since visual art is nonverbal, you don’t have to struggle to try to express yourself with words. Evoking feelings through creative expression can literally help you release emotions you’re holding in.Recognize that the illustration itself is insignificant. Focus purely on the act of drawing. By doing this, you’ll be more mindful of the present moment. This allows your mind to clear itself and calmly begin to recalibrate your emotions., You can conceptualize the journal in a certain way, or as a catch-all for your drawings. You may want to focus on drawing everything you feel positively about in life. Alternatively, you may simply want to draw everything that frustrates you. Or you can simply attempt to draw things that you find aesthetically pleasing. Keep a specific version of an illustrated journal in which you draw about feelings or ideas that come to you in specific contexts. For instance, keep a dream diary by your bed and attempt to draw what your imagination conjures in your dreams.

