 These can give you rough ideas on what you would like your bedroom to look like. You may even find the perfect design, if you don't mind copying someone's layout.;
, Think about what kind of mood you're going for, and importantly, how a certain color makes you feel. Colors can bring out different moods in different people, but it's ultimately your mood that matters. Calm colors usually seem more sophisticated.
 There are hundreds of themes that you can apply to the color you would like. They range from contemporary to oriental to rustic or anything you would like.
 Avoid bedding that is all one color or out of place with the rest of the room. Your bed should incorporate the colors of your room. Solid colors are usually a good choice as opposed to bedding with pictures on it.
 If you're going for a sophisticated look, you should avoid things like band or movie posters, and go for things that make you seem educated and fit your room's theme.
 It's nice to have a spot within your personal room that isn't a bed. It can also make your room look more sophisticated and functional.
 Avoid putting in furniture that you will never use, as it clutters up the room and can be replaced with something you can use. Also be conscious of space; if a dresser's drawers hit the bed, you may want to rethink your design plans.
 You can add to the look of a dresser with a strip of cloth that is as wide as the top of the dresser, letting the edges hang down the sides. Trays are great for candles and pretty stones, while looking stylish and sophisticated in itself. Personal pictures are good for a standing picture frame and will give your room a personal touch.
 Look around the room and ask for opinions from those around you. Find areas that are lacking and improve upon them. Make sure the colors are balanced and things are arranged in a space-friendly way that is still appealing to the eye.
 Not only is it great to just relax in a clean room, it contributes to the sophistication of it. Messy rooms make you look like a lazy slob, so make sure everything is tucked away where it belongs and all of the surfaces in your room are nice and polished.

