 Containers for caterpillars can be found in hobby and pet shops, on the Internet, or you can fashion one from items around the home. Preferably this should be one made from wire mesh, to give the caterpillar something to cling to. An aquarium or a one-gallon jar can work, too, provided it's lined with a screen or cheesecloth tightened with a rubber band at the top.


Don't use jar lids with holes in them, however, as these don't provide adequate ventilation and can also cut the delicate caterpillars with sharp edges around the holes.
Put a two inch layer of dirt and grass on the bottom of every container if you think your caterpillar may pupate below ground. If not, a layer of paper towels or newspaper will do fine.;
, Instead of spraying or squishing the caterpillar, identify it (see Warnings) and capture it to grow into a butterfly. Butterfly season is from late spring to summer, depending on your region. If you don't know of a spot that caterpillars like to frequent, consult a local field guide to determine which plants are preferred "host" plants for butterflies, like the Peterson First Guide to Caterpillars, Caterpillars of Eastern Forests, or on the Internet. Make sure you're not capturing an endangered species, which could be illegal. Different types of butterflies prefer different hosts. Some common host plants include:


Milkweed - Monarch Butterfly
Spice bush - Spice bush Swallowtail
Paw-Paw - Tiger Swallowtail
Thistle - Painted Lady
Parsley, dill and fennel - Black Swallowtail
Cherry - Cecropia Moth, Viceroy, Red-Spotted Purple
If it's not caterpillar season, or you simply don't have time to go caterpillar searching, consider buying them from a caterpillar supplier. We'll discuss that in the last section.
 Use a twig (preferably from the same host plant) or similar object. Handle them very gently because they can die if dropped even from a short distance.


Don't pick it up with your hands, for three reasons: it'll make it more difficult to put them in their new home (they cling tightly to surfaces they're walking on, and scraping them off your hand can hurt them); bacteria on your hands can give them infections; and some caterpillars are poisonous (see Warnings).
Place the stick with the caterpillar on it in the container. The stick is important, as it will provide the resting place for the chrysalis.
 Cut a small branch with some leaves. More than likely, it is the host plant (caterpillar's food). Be sure you know the caterpillar's preferred food before trying to feed it. Some caterpillars, like the Monarch Caterpillar will only eat one kind of plant (Milkweed). Other caterpillars will eat a from a variety of plants. However, they will starve to death before eating a strange food.


If you're not sure, however, consult a field guide and go out and get leaves from its host plant; even caterpillars like choices., Inspect it for insects and spiders before putting it into the container, because these insects can injure and kill a caterpillar. Be sure to replace the leaves daily, because caterpillars won't feed on old or dry leaves. To keep the food even fresher, put it in floral tubes (available for very cheap at most florist shops) with water. Don't use a dish, jar or vase to hold the food, however, because caterpillars can fall in them and drown.


If the caterpillar is on the food you're trying to replace, don't try to pull it off because they cling tightly and their legs could rip. Instead, put in the new branch, let them make their way to it themselves, and then take out the old branch.
 Place it in a hidden, sheltered area that is protected from intense heat or cold and away from pets or humans who might disturb the gestation. If you live in a dry environment, it may be wise to mist the cage occasionally, since caterpillars prefer a humid habitat. But misting too much can promote mold growth.


If you'd like to make their environment more humid, put some sort of clear plastic or cellophane around their home. This seals in the heat, increasing humidity. It's especially good for admirals and viceroys., Clean up after their waste, called frass, and any mold growth. Resist the urge to handle them, especially when they're lethargic or are changing color, because they might be starting to transform. Give it fresh food and watch for the caterpillar to change. It will soon turn into a chrysalis (butterfly) or cocoon (moth).


Leave the chrysalis untouched. At this point they will not need food or water, only the occasional misting to create a humid environment.
Caterpillars poop a lot. You may wish to put some newspaper in your caterpillar condo to catch the frass and make it easy to dispose of. It's very important to get rid of – if frass stays in their refuge, they could get sick and die., If you start to notice that your caterpillar is changing color or seems lethargic, he's likely about to molt or form their pupa. They are very vulnerable during this period, so do not touch them or otherwise mess with their environment. You'll notice them start curling, too.


The alternative to this is that they may be sick. If your caterpillar dies, dispose of it automatically as to not infect the other healthy caterpillars.
 Make sure that the chrysalis is hanging in an area of the container where, once it emerges, it will have enough room for its wings to fully expand without touching the ground or the sides of the container. They need enough space for their wings to develop properly and dry so that they can fly when they emerge, or else the butterfly may fall to the ground and not survive.


If necessary, move the branch or object that the chrysalis is hanging on gently to accommodate their emergence. But again, be very, very gentle. Move slowly. You do not want it to drop, hurting the to-be butterfly.
If the chrysalis falls off, attach the tip to a piece of paper with hot glue that is slightly cooled and wait until the glue hardens. Then pin the paper to cardboard or cork and place it in the container.
 The length of time it takes for a butterfly or moth to emerge depends on the species. If you are very keen and can identify the colors and other markings of the caterpillar well, try researching this information in books on butterflies or on the Internet. Some butterflies, Monarchs for example, emerge from the chrysalis in 9-14 days. Other butterflies will remain in the chrysalis stage through a Winter and emerge in the Spring.


The only thing to do during this period is to mist their container as normal. They don't need food or water, just a consistent environment.
You'll like see the chrysalis changing colors. When it becomes clear, the time is imminent. It can happen in the blink of an eye, so if you want to see it, don't go anywhere. It'll then hang for a few hours, letting its wing spread and fully form.
If the pupa becomes dark, it may be dead. Try to bend it – if it stays bent, it's likely dead., Your butterfly will not eat for several hours. It needs to pump fluid into its crumpled wings and let them dry. After you set the butterfly free, it will feed in your garden if you provide it nectar flowers. Sometimes they will drink from hummingbird feeders. Some butterflies like very ripe fruit as their food, too. Make sure your garden is ready.


Don't be dismayed if you end up raising moths instead of butterflies. Moths have markings just like a butterfly; while they will be a lot less colorful, the markings are still likely to be intricate and amazing. Even the varying shades of monotone colors are beautiful to behold in nature.
 When its wings are dry, you can put your finger under its legs and it should hop on your finger. Walk outside and set it on a flower for some great photos. If you have done your research, you may know the lifespan of your butterfly – some live as short as a day, so be mindful of this when giving it its freedom.


Butterflies need to be free to truly thrive. It's only possible to contain them if you have a large garden they can stay in. What's more, many species migrate – they can only stay with you so long if you want them to live.
 Some butterflies will live for a matter of days, some will stay a matter of days and then migrate, and others will stay for weeks. Either way, be glad you raised your butterfly successfully and watch for future generations.


If you wound up with the Luna Moth, Cecropia Moth, or Polyphemus Moth, don't worry about feeding them. These curious creatures don't have digestive systems., Most wild-caught females have already mated and are capable of laying eggs.If you catch one, you could coax her to lay eggs.


For butterflies, set them up in a cage with a water bottle and host clippings next to the light source (preferably sunlight). This will encourage her to oviposit. You may also want to keep her in a dark, cool area for a couple of days to help her acclimate to her new surroundings.Moths are much easier than butterflies. If you catch an adult female moth, you can simply place her in a large paper bag, fold it up, and leave her there for a couple of days. She'll likely deposit eggs on the inside of the bag. Tear the bag, removing the eggs without touching them, and place them into a more suitable container., Since monarch butterflies are so popular, there are Monarch farms where you can order monarch caterpillars, like from Monarch Watch.They can ship the little critters to you unharmed.


The only drawback to this is that you still have to find their food, the Milkweed. If it's not in your area, you'll have to order or grow it to successfully raise the Monarch.
 If you cannot find caterpillars in your yard or it's just the wrong time of year (it varies by locale), there are "caterpillar suppliers" for just this reason. Most companies have a wide variety of species to choose from and you know just what you'll end up with. Painted Ladies are probably the easiest, as you can just by growth medium for them to feast on.


However, this is a little less exciting then finding then on your own and knowing what they really like to eat. If you can, spend some time scoping out your garden. Exhaust all possibilities before you turn the the caterpillar farm.

