 A lot of times, the need to talk is a reaction from being so overly stimulated by things you find on Twitter, a viral video on YouTube, a snap from Snapchat, etc. Spend some time away from those distractions and reconnect with yourself.


Find joy in by unplugging and replace mindless distraction with something constructive like arts and crafts projects. Use your hands and draw something.Practice the art of not having a reaction to any and everything that is brought to your attention. Harness that energy and focus it on cutting and pasting things with your hands from scratch.;
, Learn to express yourself while maintaining self restraint in how you impose your thoughts on others.


If you’re having trouble trying to find where to begin, keep in mind that journaling meant to be a free flow of thoughts – whatever that is to you. It doesn’t have to make sense or have a rhyme or reason, etc. Google journaling prompts online to help act as a starting point if need be.
Journal in the traditional way with a paper and pen or write your thoughts in an empty document on your PC.
 Take five to ten minutes out of your day to use meditation as a tool to become more aware of your thoughts and appreciative the art of being quiet.


If being in absolute silence intimidates you, meditate in other ways and in other areas. Meditate in the shower and center yourself in your thoughts there or allow music to act as soundtrack in those moments.
The more you practice, the more at ease with yourself you will become and you will start to realize that you don’t have to beg people to notice you through talking. You will realize your power is in your presence and the overcompensation will lessen dramatically.
 Often the key to being quiet in an organic way is to insert yourself in situations that demand your attention in a healthy way. The best way to accomplish this is to be one with the things that surround you everyday.


Take ten to fifteen minutes of your day to go outside and admire the way the sun feels on your skin or the breeze through your hair.Admire the clouds in the sky, their shapes and sizes.
Take a walk down a busy street and pay attention to all of the sights and sounds as they pass you by. After a while, see if you can isolate which sounds come from where: a car honk in the distance, a baby crying right next to you, a text message alert, etc.
 Hearing is strictly an auditory process. Listening is whole, involving not only the ears, but also the heart, mind, soul, and body.Find genuine interest in being present with people you’re speaking with. Give attention, show concern, and prepare yourself to learn something from people you interact with.
Put yourself on the back burner and listen without expectation or need to fill space with talks about yourself.



Good listening is 80% being patient and listening to the other person without interruption and 20% reflecting and following up for more information.Be fully present in those moments, without thinking about the past, future, or your intentions, focus solely on the person speaking to you.
 Adapt to those changes accordingly as you listen.


If the speaker, your friend, has tension in their voice, face, or body language suddenly, it’s up to you to appear non-confrontational and relaxed to mellow out the situation.If the speaker, or your friend, seems emotionally charged and is raising his or her voice suddenly, nod your head in concern or cross your arms to make the person feel like they have support in their emotions.
 When you listen to someone without being judgmental in your responses, you prevent them from shutting down and help them feel a sense of freedom and acceptance. You also gain acceptance from them too.Show respect to the other person and contribute to the conversation instead of rebuking them for beliefs you might not ordinarily agree with. Keep in mind that facial expressions like a visible wince, eye rolls, or body language that shows tension speaks as loudly as any verbal judgmental response would.
Accepting someone’s ideas does not necessarily mean you agree with them. Keep in mind that understanding through listening does not mean your opinions become mutual in sync with one another.
 Rationally decide when it is okay to listen and when it is okay to respond and ask follow-up questions. Timing and restraint is everything.Think of the outcome of talking, will it affect the conversation and relationship positively or negatively? Never let your desire to impress ruin how you relate to people.
Use the following question as a guideline to help you talk less: “Am I wanting to talk to add true content or am I just trying to fill up space?”

, Close the book you’re reading or put down your phone.


Make sure your body language reads fully engaged. Lean forward slightly and maintain eye contact as they speak to you.Smile softly if the tone of the conversation calls for it and give an occasional nod to show that you’re listening without talking to interrupt.To show that you understand what’s being said, talk your summary of what was said to you by paraphrasing., Always try as much as possible to think twice before you speak. Listen to others, understand the topic, and be sure of what you want to contribute.Avoid saying way more than you have to be by taking a moment to reflect after the speaker asks you for your opinion.
Pause for a beat, even say aloud the words “Give me a minute to think about it”. Reflect, exercise restraint, and then add your two cents to the conversation., Interrupting looks like talking over someone or putting your thoughts into the conversation before it was your turn. Let the person talk, you will get your turn to contribute and avoid making the other person feel invalidated in the process.If you're trying to interrupt someone while they're talking, try bookmarking it as a mental note until they're done. If you'd rather have something tangible, use a notepad or your phone to jot down your thoughts and talk about them when it's your turn to speak.Try to catch yourself in moments where you interrupt the other person. Look at them for facial cues, like an eye roll or a glance to the side, to keep you alert about your actions. Once you catch yourself, just say, "Oh, I'm sorry, go on." or "My bad, go ahead.", Try to stay on topic. Discuss what makes sense and try to stay away from examples that may seem irrelevant, unreasonable, and ambiguous. Give simple facts and clear logic that will help the listener to gain some sense.


Use natural breaks of silence in conversation and the context of the conversation as guidelines of when to talk. If someone is venting to you, it’s probably not a great time to talk about a rave you have been trying to attend for weeks.
If you don’t know what you want to say, ask more investigative questions, such as what does this mean? Who can we hold responsible, how and why? This encourages the person to speak more.