 Very few people grew up the son or daughter of a great doctor and spent their formative years in Africa curing blind tigers. If your life seems boring on paper, consider that "challenge extended." You are not any more boring than the next 100 people you meet on the street; you're just not looking in the right places. However daunting this may seem, don't lie. Your readers deserve better. And so do you, quite frankly.When we recall things, we often recall how we felt when we recalled the memory than how we felt when the memory actually went down. Make sense? So don't necessarily trust your memory -- ask others about the outplay of events. You'll want as unbiased a view as possible -- after all, you have the power of the pen; don't abuse it.
It is always satisfying to read a writer who sharply and deftly attacks the hypocrisies and delusions of the world around him, but we trust that writer more completely when he also attacks himself, when he does not hold himself to a different standard, or protect himself from scrutiny.Be honest about the outplay of events, but also take an honest look at yourself.
If the reader senses the writer is lying even to himself, or using the essay as a piece of propaganda, a forwarding of his own personal mythology in too clumsy or transparent a way, she will react against it.As long as it feels honest, you're good to go.
 That is, have a straight up, no fuss, no muss, beginning and end before you start writing your story. If your twin sister stole your Judy Jetson thermos on March 14th, 1989 and you finally visited her children in September of 2010, there it is. There's your story. Now you just have to fill in the gaps.


Remember: The story is all yours. Whatever happened can be as insane or as mundane as you see fit; if you write it compellingly, your readers will care (in a good way) either way.
 After all, a memoir is based on truth. Dates, times, names, people, sequences of events, even the tiniest of details are important. The last thing you want is for something to come to light proving you fudged the truth. You may want to change names of people or places to avoid the mess, but put a disclaimer at the beginning if you do so.


Validate what can be validated and imagine what can only be imagined. It's at this time that you get to reinvent who you are. The state you're in at the time of recall will affect the memory to the point where when you go to recall it again, it will have been adjusted. So take the gray area that is your brain and run with it. Your mind exists outside of time.

