 Beat the egg whites until they turn stiff, then set them aside. You will eventually be folding them into the batter. You can also make pancake batter from a mix instead.

If you choose to make your pancake batter from a box instead, use less water and/or milk than required. This will give you a thicker batter that is easier to work with., Beat together the yolks, sugar, and salt first until everything is smooth and consistent and not streaks remain. Stir in the baking powder until just combined., Keep whisking until the batter is smooth. It will be a little lumpy, which is fine. Don't try to beat these out or you will over-mix the batter. This could lead to tough and chewy pancakes., Use a rubber spatula to scrape the beaten egg whites into the bowl. Gently fold them in, scraping the bottom and sides of the bowl often. Keep folding until the color is consistent and no streaks remain., During this time, you can start preparing the bacon. By the time the bacon is ready and cooled, the batter should be ready too., Wipe the excess grease from the pan when you are done. This way, you won't have to re-grease the pan for the pancakes.If you don't have a griddle, you can use a skillet instead. Keep in mind that you will have to make the pancakes in smaller batches later on., This will help soak up the excess grease and make the bacon even crispier.Once the extra grease has been soaked up, you are ready to continue., Leave about 2 inches (5 centimeters) of space between the each slice of bacon.If you turned the heat off on the griddle, turn it back to medium-high., Use a soup or sauce ladle to scoop up the batter and pour it over the bacon strips. The batter will ooze over the sizes of the bacon and give you rectangular pancakes., After 1 to 2 minutes, check the underside of the pancake. If it's golden brown, slide a spatula under it, flip it over, and continue cooking it. The pancakes are ready when they are golden brown on both sides., As you finish making the pancakes, slide them off of the griddle and onto a plate. Depending on the size of your griddle or skillet, you may have to work in batches., You can serve them as they are, or garnish them with some softened butter and/or warm maple syrup..