 Write the history of your life, thinking of your major milestones and accomplishments. If you feel comfortable, add some of the difficulties you have faced as well. Contemplate how the different phases and parts of your life are connected. Understanding your own life as a historical story will get you thinking like a historian and make the subject more approachable.Try keeping a diary or a journal. This may help you develop a new appreciation for history. You will also be creating a great historical document for future generations.
What things in your life are you the most proud of?
Have you ever won an award for your talents?
Have you ever gone to or participated in a major event?
What adversity have you faced in your life?;
, Figure out the personal histories of your parents and grandparents. Talk to members of your family about your ancestors, or do some genealogical investigating of your own. Learning about your family’s history, and the things that they experienced, may make history more relatable and a little more interesting.When did your parents meet? How old were they? What were they like as kids?
What did your grandparents do for a living? What were their lives like as young people? What were their parents like?
Did your ancestors immigrate from somewhere else, or have they always lived there?
Read through old newspapers or visit a local archive to see if you can find any materials about your family.
 We are all members of different kinds of communities. These can be small things like a local club or a team. They can also be large groups that are associated with things like your gender, racial identity or class background. Each community has its own unique history that, in some way, is relevant to your experience. Determine which communities you belong to and learn more about their history.For example, if you identify as a woman, look into the women’s history of where you live. Who were some major feminist figures? When did women obtain the right to vote?

, Look it the history of your hometown or the place that you currently live. Each place has its own unique history that is tied to larger national and global narratives. Learn about the major industries of your city or its social history. Learning local history will help you get excited about history in general, and make you feel a little closer to the places you cherish.Local archives are a great place to go to learn about local history. Your city may have a historical society, which will also be a great resource.
 The easiest way to enjoy learning about history is to figure out how historical events have impacted you personally. Think about world events that have happened in your life and how they have impacted you. Once you start researching, you may be surprised how quickly you start learning about the recent past.What world or local events have touched your life?
Staying up to date on the news will help you learn about the wider world.

