 Some mental health providers use text messages to communicate with patients or track their moods. Instead of downloading an app, the patient gets a text message asking them to rate their mood. They then text back the response.Examples of this technology include Mood 24/7 and HealthySMS.
Texting offers a technology option to patients without smartphones or without the skills to use an app.
Some text message mood trackers allow an option to give permission to other people, like doctors, to view the data logged online.
Data is collected online via secure websites, which allows user to print out mood charts and have access to other features an app may not allow.
 Some websites allow you to track and log your mood based on your voice. The technology allows you to record a message, then the website analyzes it and determines your mood.An example of this technology is the website Beyond Verbal.
Speech patterns and vocal sounds can help determine if you are stressed, angry, depressed, or happy., Another way to help track, and manage, your mood disorders is to get a coaching app. There are apps that help with PTSD, schizophrenia, anxiety, depression, and bipolar.These apps allow you to track your symptoms.
Coaching apps give tips on how to manage the disorder, provides access to real-life coaches who can help, and helps with techniques like cognitive behavioral therapy.
Examples of these apps include Lantern, PTSD Coach, and Ginger.io.
 There are a variety of mood disorder apps available for you to use. These apps can help you manage your moods as you track them. There are apps that provide breathing techniques to help with anxiety, panic, and depression.Some apps are mood disorder specific, like for dealing with anxiety or bipolar. The apps give you self-help options to manage your moods.
There are apps that help focus on positive thinking and changing negative thought patterns.
Examples of these apps include Breathe2Relax, Self-help Anxiety Management, and Depression CBT Self-Help Guide.

