 These stimulant substances may increase the frequency of panic attacks. Instead of drinking something that increases anxiety and can produce panic, try drinking chamomile tea.
If you are used to drinking coffee or other caffeinated beverages on a daily basis, you can slowly taper your use of caffeine over time instead of quitting cold-turkey.
 Substance use disorders are very common in individuals with anxiety or depression.While using substances may seem to relieve your anxiety symptoms in the short term, it does not help to reduce panic attacks in the long term. In fact, some studies suggest that abstinence from alcohol can reduce anxiety.If you have a problem with alcohol or drug use, speak to your doctor. Make sure you discuss the specific drug you use and ask about the possible risks or withdrawal symptoms associated with cutting down your use. Some drugs can be very difficult or deadly to quit (including alcohol, benzodiazepine, and opiates), but a medical professional can prescribe you medication or help you through the detoxification process., Consistent aerobic exercise can reduce symptoms of panic.Exercise is one of the best ways to reduce anxiety because it releases endorphins in your brain which make you feel happy.If aerobic exercise is not your thing, try other cardiovascular workouts such as dance, running, swimming, or jumping rope.


Yoga combines stretching, stationary poses and deep breathing exercise. This practice aims to create balance in your body, and is believed to be relaxing and stress-reducing.
 Sleep issues and insomnia commonly occur in individuals who suffer from panic attacks.Being excessively tired can increase anxiety because you need the adrenaline to keep you awake during the day. Additionally, sleep deprivation is associated with high blood pressure.Set a time to go to bed at night and a time to wake up. Make sure you are sleeping a minimum of 8 hours per night. If you have trouble falling asleep, try the relaxation techniques and breathing exercises detailed above.

