 If you need to remember a set of facts for the test, write them on the top of the test as soon as you get them. That way, you know you won't forget them while taking the test., The directions may tell you how long your answers need to be or even how many questions you need to answer. It's important to read the directions carefully, or you may lose easy points.
 Make sure you have enough time for all parts of the test. Take a moment at the beginning to look through the test and see what you have ahead. If you have essay questions, make sure you don't spend so much time on other parts of the test that you don't have time for the essay question. Keep an eye on your time throughout the test., If you know you're best at short answer, start with those questions first. That way, you know you will have answered the questions that you are best at, giving you the most points., Sometimes your teacher will word questions in a particularly confusing way. Make sure you know exactly what the question is asking before answering. In other words, you don't want to jump to an answer after having only read a few words of the question., On some tests, you just don't get the points if you answer incorrectly. On other tests, you don't get the points if you skip the question, but if you answer incorrectly, you get extra points taken off. In the first case, guessing on multiple choice does you no harm and may help you. In the second case, you may lose more points than you gain by guessing., Multiple choice questions can make it easier for you to answer the question. You don't actually need to supply the answer, as the answer is already there as one of the choices. However, sometimes they can be difficult because two answers seem too similar.Once you've read through the question, decide on what you would answer before looking at the answer choices. That way, you won't be swayed by other answers before coming to a conclusion. If your answer is there, pick it, and move on. If isn't, reread the question to see if you read it wrong.If you're having trouble deciding, eliminate the silly or ridiculous choices. Often, one or two of the answers will be obviously wrong. Put a line through those so you don't have to consider them anymore.If you still can't decide between the other answers, pick one and move on, as long as you're not penalized for guessing., If you need to answer an essay question, make a quick outline first. Just make sure you know what main ideas are going into your essay and how you're going to organize them. It will make your writing go more smoothly., If you have time at the end, go back through, and check your work. If you're taking a math exam, look over your work to make sure you didn't make a silly mistake. Also, check to make sure you didn't miss any questions, as that's an easy way to lose points.