 Head to your local nail or beauty salon and get a professional pedicure. They range in price from anywhere between $20 to well over $100, so make sure you shop around and see which location offers something in your price range.


Different salons might use different products or offer different services. Do your homework and decide which salon offers what you’re looking for. Luxury day spas might over more extravagant pedicures, while your local nail salon might be a little less lavish, but still get the job done.
Wherever you decide to get your pedicure, make sure the salon appears to be clean and safe. Make sure the technician is certified or licensed, and uses sterilized tools.Don’t hesitate to ask your technician to focus on your heels while doing your pedicure. Let them know you have trouble with dry heels, and they will spend more time filing and smoothing them for you.
 If your dry heels are causing more concern than just irritation, you might want to seek out the advice of a dermatologist or podiatrist. A dermatologist can address skin-related concerns, while a podiatrist focuses specifically on foot health.


If you begin to have trouble walking without pain, have trouble standing on your feet for too long at time, or your at-home remedies are no longer working or effective, you might need to seek the advice of a doctor.People with certain medical conditions, like diabetes, can suffer from foot health problems. If you have diabetes or any kind of medical condition that affects your nerves, you will want to take extra caution and stay under the care of a doctor when tending to your heels., There are a great number of options for you to choose from when it comes to specialty creams, balms, and scrubs for your feet. The personal care aisle at your local drug store is the best place to check.


Read the labels of each cream. See which cream or balm best addresses your specific needs. Some foot creams are made specifically for dry or cracked heels, and will only be applied to this area.If you have sought the care or advice of a doctor, they might prescribe you a medicated cream. Apply any prescription cream or balm according to your doctor’s instructions.

