 This may involve a one-time purchase fee and/or a yearly fee, depending where you are buying the domain.


When you are ready to go live, you will need to push your domain name to the web hosting site, so that they can identify the domain with your website.;
, The web hosting site, blogging platform/CRM (WordPress) and domain name are all parts of the website puzzle that will need to be pulled together in order to have an active, live website.


Some web hosting sites are specifically designed to easily install WordPress. If you are a beginner, you may want to consider using Site5, WebHostingHub, HostGator, BlueHost or InMotion Hosting.
 You will need to pay a fee to gain access to website email, storage, customization and more. Use your credit card to sign up for the package that best fits your website's needs.
 Some web hosts post their own specialized instructions, or give the option of an assisted installation, instead of a manual installation.


Keep in mind that every web hosting site is a little bit different, so manual installation will vary for each site.
 Download the program onto your computer, so that you can easily transfer files from your computer and connect them to your web host.


Your web hosting program may come with a FTP client. If so, you can use this to upload your WordPress files.
,, Double click the zip file to decompress it.
 Keep this memorized or close at hand so that you can easily sign in to access email or your website.


Check that your web host does not provide a simple WordPress upload tool, such as Fantastico, Softaculous or SimpleScripts. Use this upload tool to select the files and upload a new WordPress database, if you are a beginner or intermediate user and you have the option.
 Look for an option that says "Database." Click on it when you find it.
 Click on the option that you see.
 Add any other password or user details that are necessary with your web hosting program.


Memorize your database name, if you plan to have more than 1 database. If you name it using a phrase, it may insert an underscore between the names.
 Find the document called "wp-config-sample.php."

, You will want to use a notepad program, rather than a word processing program, because you do not want to add any formatting.
 You will need to change the top 3 lines of code under "My SQL Database."


Put the name of your database, as written on your web hosting database section in the first line of code. You should replace the text that says "Put Your Name Here." Only replace the text, not the symbols, such as parenthesis.
You will need basic coding skills. If you cannot do any coding, you may want to ask a web programmer or friend to help you finish the WordPress installation.
Put your username, taken from your hosting site, in the second line of code. Replace the text "usernamehere."
Put your database password, taken from the hosting site, in the third line of code. Replace the text "yourpasswordhere."

, Once you remove the word "sample" it will be used as your database's configuration information.
 If it is through your web hosting program, navigate to the FTP portion of your web hosting site.
 You may choose to add a subfolder dedicated to this database.
 Select all the files.
 Wait for the files to upload to your FTP.
 You will type the domain, then add "/wp-admin/install.php" at the end. Click "Enter."

, Agree to the terms and conditions.


, Click "Log in."

, WordPress is installed on your site.

