 Generally speaking before you even consider fundraising you’re already going to have a cause, but you should ask yourself if your cause or campaign will be able to generate large public interest. You must have a cause that you believe people will want to raise funds for. Some examples include:


A non-profit organization such as a cultural exchange program, food drive, or charity.
A political campaign.
A legal defense fund.
Local projects for youth such as a sports league.;
, It is important that you utilize every bit of space on your profile properly to market yourself. You need to make sure that people will understand who you are and what your cause is or what you’re trying to accomplish. A flashy banner or slogan and a great username is needed to catch more potential followers.


You can change your username on Twitter without losing your followers through the Settings. Make sure you create a username that refers somehow to your fundraising campaign. Let’s say you’ve chosen to fundraise for ABC Student Exchange Program. An effective Twitter username would be something like @abcexchangefund.
Utilize your bio effectively. When another user clicks on your account, this is the second thing they’re going to read, after your username. Explain your cause in as few words as possible to quickly garner the interest. Your Twitter bio is limited to 160 characters, so you really want to make the most of them. You want to inform users about who you are, what you’re all about, and any exciting information. ABC Student Exchange Program’s Twitter bio could be, “Student Exchange | Changing Lives | Fundraiser | 50 Years of Exchanges | Over 12 Countries | Experience Culture.”

, To be able to effectively fundraise, you’re going to need to get your tweets in front of as many users as possible. This means you need to generate followers. Some strategies include:


Following people; simply following other people often get you a follow back. Try to follow the right people, people who you think might be willing to help generate funds for your cause or campaign.
Try to make sure that you’re not following or getting followed by bots that are a waste of your time. It isn’t the amount of followers you have, but rather the amount of quality followers that you have.
Participate in conversations using popular hashtags that are relevant to your cause. The more participation you’re involved in, the more people will see your user name and will click on your profile.
 You will need a website so that you can draw traffic from Twitter to your website and hopefully to a donation. Perform an internet search to create a website. Several free examples include:


websitebuilder.com
wix.com
sitebuilder.com
weebly.com

, When you create a website from the list above you will be given a web address such as “yoursitename.wix.com.” While this sort of address gets the job done, it doesn’t look as professional as having your own domain. You might instead want to buy “yoursitename.com / yoursitename.org.” A few examples of domain registrars (companies you can buy your web address from) are:


iwantmyname.com
godaddy.com
register.hostgator.com

, The Top Level Domain is what comes at the end of your website address. The most common are .com, .net, and .org. A list of Top Level Domains are tightly regulated by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority.In recent years many more Top Level Domains have been opened up for registration. A good Top Level Domain for ABC Student Exchange Program would could be abc.exchange. Some other good ideas for a fundraiser include:


.fund
.charity
.care
.community
.gives
.foundation

, Go to PayPal.com and create an account designated for your fundraising campaign. Make sure that the email you provide also has a name that is relevant to the campaign, like abcexchange@gmail.com, so that those wishing to donate can easily remember the name. This way they can share it with friends, colleagues and family members. Word of mouth is a powerful thing.
 In a world of 140 character text mini-blogs, a well-placed infographic related to your cause catches a lot of attention. Here is a list of sites that can help you with this task:


canva.com
infogr.am
piktochart.com

, After generating sufficient followers that will hopefully spread your message, you need to come up with a catchy hashtag. Make sure that it is relevant to your cause.
 Send out tweets using your graphics and hashtags. You likely are not going to be able to tweet “too much.” In fact most people do not tweet enough because they fear being a nuisance, especially when they’re asking people to donate. It is important that you have a variety of donation asks and infographics continuing throughout the day. Keep in mind that if you represent a non-profit organization, people are going to be willing to tolerate a lot more from you. It is better to over-tweet than to be underexposed due to a lack of presence., When people start using your hashtag you should involve yourself in conversations to keep the trend going. Post your infographics and stories. Talk about why people should support the campaign and why it is important.

