 You’ll be lying straight out, so make sure you have the room to stretch the full length of your body on the ground. You don’t want to twist your body any way, or else the exercise won’t work properly.


The ground needs to be level as well. An incline will impact the way your muscles work, and either not give you the full benefits of the exercise, or could lead to injury.If you have a yoga mat, laying it out should show if you have enough space.;
, Stretch your body out with your head facing down. Your torso, thighs, and feet should be firmly planted on the floor with the tops of your feet facing downward.


Make sure your toes are pointed straight out. They should stay this way for the whole exercise, which will help strengthen your spine.You do not need to warm up before doing this exercise. Just get to the ground and start.
 You will be using your arms for support when you lift upward. Pull your arms in close to your ribs, and keep your shoulder blades pulled back and down slightly.Bend your elbows to pull your arms up against your body.
Put your hands under your shoulders.
 Once you are in the proper position, focus yourself by slowly inhaling. Close your eyes while you do this. This will help you focus your mind and body before the exercise.As you breathe, feel the stability in your body as it rests on the ground. Think about your pelvis, thighs, and the tops of your feet, imagining them rooted to the ground to help you keep your legs contracted and pulled close together with your glutes squeezed. This can help you keep your feet in place as you raise your upper body.
Exhale gradually and slowly open your eyes.
 This is the key movement in the exercise. Lift your chest off the floor while keeping your neck elongated and the crown of your head lifted. Raise your head and shoulders upward as far as you can go, looking like a cobra ready to strike.

Inhale as you raise your body upward.Focus on using your back muscles to lift your torso off the floor and just use your arms for support.Position the rest of your body properly. Make sure your glutes are firm, but not hardened. Puff your side ribs forward by firming your shoulder blades against your back., Stay up for 15 to 30 seconds, not letting yourself sag or fall back down. Keep yourself elevated and facing forward to keep the muscles contracted and working.Make sure your shoulder blades are pulled back, which will make your chest stick out.Breath slowly while holding yourself up. Taking two to three slow deep breaths, depending on how you feel, will provide a good range of time for staying up., Return your upper body to the floor, bending your elbows and returning to your original position. Move slowly, as you don’t want to strain yourself by flopping back to the floor. A controlled motion is part of the exercise.

Exhale as you lower yourself back to the floor., You don’t need to do this every day, but it is one you can do several times a week.A really good time to do this exercise is after you’ve been sitting for a while. Sitting hurts the natural “S” curve in your back, and the Cobra forces you into this position.

