 It is advisable for anyone embarking on a diet to talk with a doctor or registered dietitian first, because making sudden lifestyle changes, even good ones, can harm an unprepared body.


Teens especially should consult with a professional, because their growing bodies have particular nutritional needs, and because teens often have unrealistic views of what constitutes a healthy weight.
To repeat, weight loss should never be undertaken alone, without any guidance, especially for teens. A sensible plan, tailored to your specific needs, in combination with the right support network, will increase the odds of weight loss success and reduce the possibility of negative health impacts.;
, Due to the types of peer pressure common in high school settings, as well as unrealistic, “airbrushed” body image ideals promoted in popular culture, many teens who are sure they need to shed pounds are actually already at a healthy weight.


Sadly, in a culture where millions of teens would benefit from losing weight, many who don’t need to lose weight end up endangering their health and well-being by attempting to do so.
This, again, is why it is important to consult with a healthcare professional first. You need to establish whether you need to lose weight, and if so, set up realistic, healthy goals for your weight loss regimen. It is unwise and possibly harmful to try to do this on your own.Determining your Body Mass Index (BMI) is one way to gauge your goal for weight loss (or weight gain, for that matter). BMI calculators are available online, specifically calibrated for teen girls, for instance.. A BMI calculation is not a substitute for medical advice from a professional, however, which will factor in details like your overall health and medical and family histories.
 Teens should only undertake a weight loss regimen in order to improve their health, and, in combination with this, their mental/emotional well-being.Being overweight can cause undue stress, negative self-image, and possibly problems like depression or even a desire to harm oneself. Under the proper guidance, and with the right emotional support network — perhaps including professional assistance — a healthy weight loss plan can help resolve such issues.
Don’t try to lose weight to make your boyfriend happy, or to look like that model in the magazine ad. Do it for you — for your health, and your happiness.
 Yes, this article promises help in losing weight “fast,” but “fast” in this case needs to be a relative, and realistic, term.


Generally speaking, unless you are under the specific guidance of a physician, any regimen that averages more than two pounds lost per week is not considered safe or healthy.“Quick fix” plans and fad diets can be bad for your health in and of themselves, and are unlikely to address the root causes of why you are overweight. Thus, they make it more likely that your weight will rebound back up after a short-term loss, which can have negative physical and psychological effects.Think of it in terms of the old story of the tortoise and the hare. We all want to shed the excess pounds quickly, but “slow and steady” tends to win the battle against obesity.
 It cannot be stated often enough, especially for teens. Lose weight only to improve your health, and don’t endanger your health by losing weight.


Skip the diet pills that can have unknown and damaging side effects, and the starvation diets (anything under 1600 calories for the average teen) that can lead to ongoing health problems.Losing weight is about changing your life for the better, not risking long-term damage for some temporary satisfaction. Teens can have trouble thinking in the long term, which is why the right support network, including family, friends, and experts, is of such importance.

