 Instead of intentionally or unintentionally reinforcing the notion that a largely-unrealistic body type is the key to health, wealth, and happiness, help your child to see that happiness truly does come from within. A “perfect” body does not cure all ills, but a positive self image makes a huge difference in overall happiness.Don’t set a target weight for your child, or make fitting into “that” dress or suit the priority. Instead, talk about how making healthier food and lifestyle choices can improve energy and mood, and “practice what you preach” in your own life.
Talk about the problems your child thinks a better body or look will “fix.” Building up your child’s self esteem by paying attention and offering encouragement will be far more beneficial than superficial changes.;
, As a parent, it’s easy to assume that the “don’t punish your kids” advice you hear or read about must come from “experts” who don’t actually have kids. This advice doesn’t mean letting your kids run wild and get away with anything, though; it means creating conditions that encourage good behavior and choices instead of using shame (the basis for all punishment) to “correct” poor choices.Body shaming through words or actions in an attempt to “correct” your child’s food or lifestyle choices is likely to backfire. It creates a self-fulfilling prophecy that causes many kids to “give up” or accept that an “inferior” body image and low self-worth is their fate.
Instead of punishing your child for eating a whole box of cookies, or sitting on the couch all afternoon, create inducements for other choices. Whip up some simple but healthy snacks. Offer to play soccer or go for a bike ride with your child.
 Saying things like “Oh, it looks like you’ve lost weight” or “That outfit is very flattering on you” may seem like nice compliments to give, but they also send the message that something about the child needed to be “fixed” or concealed. Even calling someone “beautiful on the inside” indicates that the same is not true on the outside. Always choose your words carefully, and be strictly supportive.Strip your compliments of any “backhanded” elements and just say “You look so beautiful” or “You are such a wonderful young person.”

, Many teens, and even younger children, feel a great deal of pressure to look a certain way. As such, they can be very sensitive to any comments that can be perceived as proof that they don’t measure up. The safest route as a parent is to limit any comments about your child’s body size or type, or those of other kids.It may never even occur to you that saying “My, you’ve really filled out” can be interpreted by a child as a harsh body critique. Be wary of using words like “big,” “curvy,” “full,” “stocky,” “stout,” and so on. Stick to commenting on how your kid is “growing up so fast.”
Complimenting another child’s appearance in front of your kid can also be perceived as veiled criticism. If you say “Boy, isn’t she lovely” or “What a handsome young man” about one of your child’s friends, your kid may assume that you are comparing him or her negatively to this “superior” example.
Remember that you can also unintentionally body shame by commenting that a child “needs to put some meat on those bones,” is “skinny as a rail,” and so on., Sometimes just an absence of compliments can be interpreted as body shaming. If you are always talking about how thin or good-looking your child is, he or she may notice if you go awhile without saying so (even without any intent on your part). Try to make sure that the majority of your compliments are about more than looks and focus on all the other wonderful qualities of your child.Try saying things like “I’m so proud of the wonderful person you’re becoming,” or “I’m so glad that your hard work is paying off in math class.”
If you child is in the process of trying to lose weight, don’t say “Oh, I think you look a bit thinner” — say “You seem so much happier and full of energy since you started this exercise program.”

, As your child grows up, he or she is sure to pick out and put on clothes that you deem inappropriate because they are too revealing, ill-fitting, etc. Unfortunately, your criticisms may unintentionally play into a form of body shaming known as “slut shaming”. Don’t make your child feel like something less because he or she can’t “pull off” a certain look.


You may also want to focus on teaching your child about appropriate clothing choices for different situations. For example, you could explain the difference between clothes that are appropriate for school or work and clothes that are appropriate for spending time with friends.
Focus on practicality: “I don’t think those shorts will be very comfortable to wear all day — especially during marching band practice after school.” Or, “I don’t think those clothes are allowed by your school’s dress code.”
Despite good intentions, remove the words “flattering” and “slimming” from your vocabulary when talking about clothes. They are too easily interpreted as code for “hides how overweight / unattractive you are.”, Some foods are healthier than others, and children should be encouraged to eat healthy foods. However, labeling foods as either “good” or “bad” also transfers that judgment to the person who chooses to eat the food. Making a child feel “bad” because he or she ate a “bad” food is more likely to reinforce body insecurities than it is to cause a change in eating patterns.Emphasize the positive benefits of choosing healthier foods — the added energy and focus, the improved mood, and so on. Also talk about how unhealthy foods, like those full of fat and sugar, may provide a temporary good feeling when eaten, but make us tired, lethargic, moody, cranky, etc. in the long run. It’s not inherently “bad” to eat these foods, it simply makes more sense to choose them less often.
 If your child does need to lose (or gain) weight for health reasons, don’t single him or her out for a special diet and exercise program. Talk about how the whole family will feel better and be healthier if some positive adjustments are made. Don’t make the child feel ashamed because his or her “failures” are “punishing” the entire family.Sometimes, you can simply make small but steady changes that may go virtually unnoticed. Start buying fewer snack foods and sodas and stock more fruits, vegetables, and water bottles. Set aside additional time for family physical activities, like pickup basketball games or volunteering to do regular yard work for an elderly neighbor.
 Making a child feel like a failure — whether it’s for striking out with the game on the line, doing poorly on a test, or eating all the potato chips — rarely spurs positive change. Instead, it usually causes either a negative backlash or an internalization of inadequacy. Whenever such situations arise, use them as opportunities to talk, share, and learn together.Work to direct your child’s snacking habits towards healthy alternatives by stocking and offering nutritious options. Also consider whether an excessive snacking habit is being caused by stress, anxiety, or issues other than hunger. Talk to your child, and involve his or her doctor or a professional counselor as needed.
 Even as they become teens and act as though they want nothing to do with you, kids learn and model behaviors based upon your example as a parent. If you constantly denigrate your own appearance, your child will internalize this as a normal behavior.In the advertising and media landscape that surrounds all of us, there already exists a dominant narrative that “thin” equals “good” and “happy.” If you support this narrative by the way in which you respond to your own body, you will further ingrain it into your children., We’ve all made or at least laughed at a “fat joke” at some point, and judged an overweight stranger’s food choices at a restaurant. Even if you would never intentionally body shame your own child, he or she will “connect the dots” and assume that you judge his or her perceived appearance shortcomings in the same way.Make it clear from the start that it is never acceptable to denigrate another person based upon his or her appearance, whether to the person’s face or anonymously online. Emphasize that all people are worthy of respect and appreciation. Use the inevitable “slip-ups” as learning opportunities. Ask your child to put himself or herself in that other person’s shoes., Diets don’t work in the long run; changing behaviors and habits can, however. If you go on recurring diets, you create a sense that there is something wrong that needs to be fixed. Instead, emphasize the benefits of making positive changes in areas like diet and activity levels.Learn to be happy in your own skin, while striving to be the best, healthiest “you” possible. Share this view with your child through your actions and your words.

