 Meringue is made by beating air into egg whites, causing them to gain volume and become light and fluffy. The texture of meringue is best when the air is dry, because the presence of water can weigh it down. On rainy or humid days, the air contains higher water content. That's why meringue is easier to make and gains the right volume and texture when you make it on a dry day, rather than a rainy one.


On rainy days, try beating the meringue longer so it's less likely to collapse.;
, Bowls made from plastic are harder to clean, and they often have traces of oil and other materials that can affect the quality of the meringue. Use clean, dry stainless steel or glass bowls and utensils to make meringue.


Even a drop or two of water can ruin a meringue, so make extra sure the bowl is dry.
 The texture of egg whites changes as the eggs age, becoming thinner. Eggs that are 3 or 4 days old whip up better than those that are extremely fresh. If you get your eggs from the supermarket, chances are they're already a few days old by the time you buy them, so they're probably fine. If you shop at the farmer's market, ask after the eggs' age so you know when to use them., You can use an egg separator or do it by hand. Meringue doesn't require egg yolks, so set those aside and use them to custard or ice cream. The quickest way to separate eggs is to do the following:


Hold an egg over a clean stainless steel or glass bowl.

Crack the egg on the rim of the bowl, letting the white fall into the bowl.
Carefully separate the egg halves and pass the yolk from half to half, letting the white drop down. Continue until the white is in the bowl and all you have left is the yolk.
If you still need practice with this technique, separate each egg into a small container and pour the white into the larger mixing bowl you're using. That way you won't ruin a whole batch of egg whites by accidentally dropping in the yolk of the last egg you crack.
 Room temperature egg whites will get bigger and more voluminous when you whip them. Let them come to room temperature for a few minutes instead of beating them while they're still cold from the refrigerator.
 Use an electric mixer to start beating the egg whites in the mixing bowl. Keep beating them for several minutes, until they foam up and gain volume. Keep going until the whites have formed into soft, floppy peaks that will hold their shape but are in no way stiff.


The egg whites should be in a large, tall bowl and the mixer set to medium-high speed.Beating egg whites by hand is possible, but it takes much, much longer than using a mixer, and it's impossible to achieve the same texture.
If you're making meringue cookies, you'll need to add cream of tartar and other flavorings at this point in the process.
 Keeping the mixer running, add the sugar a few teaspoons at a time. It will slowly dissolve in the egg whites, causing them to become stiff and glossy. Keep adding the sugar until you've used as much as you want, and keep beating until it's dissolved.


Most meringue recipes call for 1/4 cup of sugar for every egg white.
If you want a softer meringue, add less sugar. You can add as little as 2 tablespoons per egg white. For a stiffer meringue, add more sugar. It will give the meringue structure and gloss.
 Eventually the egg whites will stiffen and take on a glossy sheen. Rub a bit of meringue between your fingers; if it's grainy, that means you need to keep beating for a few more minutes to let the sugar finish dissolving. If it's smooth, the meringue is ready to be baked.


Another way to tell if meringue is ready is to dip a spoon in the mixture and hold it upside down; if it slips off the spoon, keep beating. If it sticks, it's probably ready.
 This gives it a little time to set before you top the pie, which will help it stick during the baking process. Here are a few delicious recipes for pies that call for a meringue topping:


Lemon meringue pie
Coconut cream pie
Raspberry meringue pie
Lemon cream pie

, Have the pie crust filled with hot filling ready for the meringue. Spoon it onto the filling and spread it evenly. Keep going until you have a great heap of meringue on top of the pie.


Make sure the meringue completely covers the filling, all the way to the edge of the crust. This helps ensure it won't slide off as it bakes.
Many bakers mound the meringue so that it forms a hill in the middle of the pie. This has a pretty effect when you cut the pie.
 Use the back of a spoon to dip into the meringue and lift it up, allowing it to form curls and peaks. This is a popular way to make the meringue look more decorative.
 Every pie recipe is a little different, but most will tell you to bake the meringue at about 325ʡF (163ʡC) for 20 or 30 minutes, so it has time to bake and set without burning. It's ready when a cooking thermometer reads 160 degrees.

