 Alicia's hair is glossy, long, and dark. While you don't have to create a perfect imitation of it, using a hairstyle inspired by hers will help you feel in touch with the character.


Take good care of your hair. Use deep conditioner to make it look look smooth. Using cold water instead of hot will make it shiny and seals the hair cuticle. Avoid heat styling when possible, and use a heat protector if you do.
Wear your hair long. Grow your hair about a inch above your elbows or 2 inches (5.1 cm) under your shoulder.
Be sure to get a shampoo and conditioner for your hair type. For example if you have dry hair get a shampoo and conditioner for that. If your hair is fine then consider getting a thickening shampoo and conditioner. In the Clique book Revenge of The Wannabes. It is said Alicia uses shampoo and conditioner from the brand Glisten.
Wear your hair wavy. Try washing your hair in warm water (cold makes your hair straight). Once it is dry, curl it with a 1 inch (2.5 cm) curling iron. This will help your hair feel soft and voluminous.;
,


Take good care of your skin. Wash your face twice a day, use oil-free cosmetics, and put on facial sunscreen each morning after you wash your face. (Sunscreen will protect your skin and make your makeup base look better.) If you're having acne trouble, consider going to a dermatologist.
 Always brush your teeth, and if you can use a teeth whitening kit. Pluck your eyebrows; it will make you look richer. Michelle Phan has some good eyebrow tutorials on YouTube. Give yourself a manicure and pedicure at least once a week. Moisturize all over your body after the shower, and also shave your legs and wax your under your arms. You don't want to wear a skirt, dress, shorts etc with hairy legs or have hairy underarms. That is gross!


Try wearing a little mascara, lipgloss, and blush.
 You'll want fashionable clothing that compliments your colors and personality.


Shop at designer stores. While Alicia's favorite designer is Ralph Lauren, you can also try Aeropostale, Hollister, Forever 21, H&M, and other trendy stores.
Try wearing V-neck sweaters, cargo pants, and dark jeans.
If you have money, try a purse by Coach, Michael Kors, Louis Vuitton, Prada, etc. If you don't have a lot of money, Juicy Couture has good purses at a good price. In your purse should be a cellphone, some lotion, perfume (Alica likes Angel by Victoria Secret), a nail file, makeup, an organizer, a flat iron (depends how your hair is looking that day), a magazine , lip gloss, a pen, and sunglasses.
Alicia avoids "cutesy" layers and always uses her own style.
 Alicia loves white nail tips.


If you bite your nails, try to stop. Find something else to do with your hands or mouth, and picture how beautiful your nails will look when they're neat!

, Alicia's favorite brand is Ralph Lauren, so be sure to purchase a couple cashmere sweaters, coats, jackets, and tops from Ralph Lauren. For jeans, purchase True Religions, Sevens, or Citizens of Humanity. Don't wear jeans everyday, wear jeans one day, a skirt the next, and maybe a cute dress the day after that. For lazy days, Juicy Couture sweatsuits are good. One suggestion is to read the Clique books and pay attention the outfits Alicia wears in the books. Watch the movie to get a visual idea, and google "Alicia Rivera Inspired Outfits" to know exactly what to buy. Alicia has big boobs but if your boobs aren't that big DO NOT STUFF your bra with tissue or anything. If anyone finds out you stuff, you are gonna look ridiculous, and who wants itchy tissue paper in their bra? But if you do have big boobs, then flaunt it. Also have a signature scent. Alicia's is the Angel perfume by Thierry Mugler. But you can choose any scent you would like.
 Be quick and snappy, and prepare a few good whiplash fast bite backs if someone dares to violate you. Say words like Point, I Heart __, Eh-Ma-Gawd, and Given.
 Don't forget that Alicia cannot run!


Alicia loves to dance, so consider signing up for a local dance class.
 That means don't copy a hair style from your Alpha, accessories, or outfit, even if it's to DIE for (unless she insists you need to). Another thing is if your alpha is thinking up a scheme, don't ask her "Are you done yet? Are you done yet? Are you done yet?" like the ah-nnoying kid in the back of the car going, "Are we there yet? Are we there yet? Are we there yet?" In other words don't be the cause of her anger.
 Maintain a network of friendships so you can stay on top of news.


Know the difference between telling news and gossiping. Never spread hurtful information about another person, and don't let your friends do so either.
A good guideline is to imagine the person whom the news is about. Would they be pleased or okay with your sharing it, or would they feel hurt? If it would upset them, don't do it.

