 In your pan or pans (this recipe is quite large -- but pound cakes are perfect for a double-layer masterpiece), line them with cooking spray or butter; this prevents sticking. You could also sprinkle with flour (on top of the butter) or line with parchment paper.;
, Doing this all beforehand will make the baking process go much more smoothly. It also creates less of a mess!

, Make sure that each one is good and does not have blood in the yolks. Get out pieces of shell if necessary.
 Work or smash it with a wooden spoon until soft and of a creamy consistency -- hence the term. This step is very important; if you skip it, you may not get the consistency your batter needs to be. Gradually add sugar and continue to mix until thick and creamy.


This will be easiest if your butter isn't straight out of the fridge. Don't heat it up -- but do give it a few minutes to start nearing room temperature.
 If you don't like the taste of brandy, substitute it for some vanilla or alternate flavoring.


Mace is not pepper spray -- though that would make for an interesting pound cake. On the contrary, it comes from the shell of nutmeg; if you don't have it, nutmeg can substitute (but mace has a more intense flavor).
Add in the flour slowly. All at once and you'll be climbing (err, mixing your way to) an uphill battle. Add it in bit by bit.
 However, this is an estimate -- if you sense you're about to overbeat the mixture, stop. This is a fine line and if passed, your cake may not rise adequately.


If you're using an electric mixer, use the slow setting -- you want the air to circulate throughout the batter.
 Cook for 75 minutes, checking periodically. Some ovens cook unevenly or quickly -- if this describes yours, keep an eye on it.


If to be used for fancy ornamented cakes, bake 30 to 35 minutes in a dripping-pan.
Insert a skewer or toothpick to see if it's finished. If it comes out dry, it is. Lay it upside-down on a wire rack for it to cool and come out easily.
 Though it's delicious now, it's also great with a light dusting of powdered sugar and/or topped with strawberries or raspberry syrup. Anything slightly sweet will do the job nicely.


Another great way to eat pound cake is with your morning coffee or eaten with ice cream and chocolate syrup for a delicious desert.

