 Before you can connect to the hidden network, you must have the name and password of the network. It works as sort of a username and password, instead of just a password that you usually enter when connecting to wireless networks. You will need to ask the owner of the network for this information before continuing.;
, Press and hold the Windows key, then press R. This should open a small box in the lower left-hand corner of your screen. Inside the given field, type or copy in Control netconnections. This should open the network connections page in a new window.
 From the given list of connection types, look for “Wi-Fi” in Windows 8 and 8.1, or “Wireless Network Connection” in Windows 7. Right-click this connection, and select “Connect/Disconnect” from the submenu. This should open the wireless network connections list, listing all the wireless networks within your range.


In Windows 7, the resulting page will be a small box in the lower right-hand corner of your screen.
In Windows 8 and 8.1, a gray box will slide onto your screen from the right-hand side. This box should go all the way from the top to the bottom of your page.
 Inside the wireless connections box there should be a list of wireless networks within your range. When you are viewing this list, the hidden networks should be listed at the very bottom.


In Windows 7, the wireless connection you are looking for should be listed as Other Networks.

In Windows 8, the wireless connection you are looking for should be listed as Hidden Networks.
 Once you have the name of the network in hand, scroll down the list and select the the “Hidden Network” or “Other Network” option. The connection listing should expand a bit and give you a “Connect” button in the lower right-hand corner. Click on this.


If you want to automatically connect to the same hidden network in the future, you can click the checkbox next to the “Connect Automatically” option at the bottom.
 The wireless connection page will change and ask you for the name of the network, also called the SSID. Enter the name of the hidden network here then click “OK” or “Next” to continue.
 The following wireless connection page will request that you enter the network password. This may also appear as the “Security key.” Enter the password and click “OK” or “Next” to continue.
 For Windows 7 users, the process should be complete. Go ahead and test your Internet connection by opening a web browser and trying to visit a website.


Windows 8 and 8.1 users will be asked if they would like to automatically find PCs, devices, and content on the wireless network, as well as automatically detect printers and TVs. Click “Yes” or “No,” whichever you prefer, to finish connecting to the hidden network, and then test your connection by opening a web browser and visiting a website.

