 Lemon balm is an herb that is thought to have anti-anxiety properties and may help you get better sleep. Lemon balm can be found in many herbal teas as well as essential oils. Get dried lemon balm to add to make into a tea.


You can also buy 100% pure lemon balm essential oils as well.
Talk to your doctor if you have thyroid issues or are pregnant before using lemon balm. It can have an adverse effect.
Lemon balm tea is safe for children. For any child three years and older, make a watered down version of your tea by adding half a cup of water to half a cup of normally steeped tea., Chamomile is a popular herbal tea that is thought to induce relaxation and help lower anxiety levels. There are two types of chamomile, German and Roman, which can be used in teas. Either is safe to drink.


Children can also have chamomile tea, but add half a cup of water to each half a cup of tea you brew.
Tell your doctor you are drinking chamomile if you are taking any prescription medications. They have some possible drug interactions., Kava kava is an herb, sometimes known as just kava, that has been use in traditional Polynesian medicine to lower anxiety levels. Although there has been some negative research associated with this supplement, the dried herb should be safe to drink in tea.


Before you use kava kava (or any supplement), talk to your doctor to ensure that it doesn't react to any medication you are taking.
This herb has not be safety rated for women who are pregnant, those who are nursing, or any person under the age of 18. , Passionflower is a South American remedy that helps lower your anxiety levels. The herb has been used historically as far back as the Aztecs and is known for its agreeable taste.


It may be safe for children, but it has not been tested. Talk to your pediatrician for possible healthy doses for your children.
The herb has a tendency to lower blood pressure, so consult your doctor before you take it if you are on blood pressure medication.
Pregnant women should not take passionflower. It may cause contractions of the uterus., Ashwaganda is a herb used in India to help you sleep. The herb can be stirred into tea or milk to help you sleep at night. For children, give them half a normal adult dose of ashwaganda in milk.Ask your doctor before using it if you are diabetic or have high blood pressure since it can interact with medications that treat these conditions.
 Valerian root can help you sleep because it has the same qualities as a sedative. In addition to helping you fall asleep, it can also help you sleep longer. Valerian is generally made into tea, but it can be quite cloying, so add some lemon, honey, cloves, or cinnamon to your tea to help hide the strange taste.


Valerian root is not safe for anyone three years old or younger.
Ask your doctor before taking valerian root if you are on medications. It can cause interactions, especially with medications for anxiety and depression., If you don't want to try herbal tea, you can smell the herbs to get the relaxing qualities from some of them. Get a small cloth pillowcase or bag. Add ½ a cup of any one of these herbs to the bag, then tie the end. Place it next to your pillow or on your bedside table. These herbs include:


Hops
Lemon balm
Lavender flowers
Chamomile flowers, Another good way to use herbs to relax is by using essential oils in a footbath. Fill a small tub with warm water. Add one to two drops of lavender or chamomile essential oils to the water.


Ensure that the water isn't too hot. You don't want to burn your feet., If you would rather use a topical remedy, you can make a balm. Get some shea butter or caster oil and add one ounce to a small dish. Stir in one to two drops of lavender or chamomile oil into it. Once it's mixed, rub it onto your temples.


This method is safe for children. 