 If you can't think of what to draw, just put pen to paper and make it move. Draw lines, simple shapes, scribbles, cartoon characters, stick people, or anything else that comes out. The physical act of moving your hands to create can reenergize you. Doodling allows you to think and create in a non-judgmental, almost subconscious way., These are the bread and butter of life drawing, but you can use them in other situations as well. Set a timer for one minute and try to draw the entirety of a figure or object. You will have work quickly, forcing you to capture just the essence of your subject. Do several of these drawings in a five or ten minute period.


You can even use online images as subjects for gesture drawings., Photographs can be great as the basis of drawings, especially when you’re out of ideas. If there's nothing around to draw, go looking for photographs that might be interesting or fresh to draw. Tell yourself that you will draw whatever you find on page three of a magazine, for instance, no matter what it is., If you’re stuck and don’t know what to draw, you can always copy what someone else has already done! Trying to recreate the work of a previous artist not only solves the problem of what to draw, it can also be a great opportunity to learn.Consider copying the work of the Old Masters like Raphael or Rembrandt, as well as new ones like Frieda Kahlo or Francis Bacon.
Many museums allow you to sketch on site. Grab your sketchpad and a pencil, and draw a work that inspires you.
 Reading a book about drawing might seem like the path to boredom rather than creativity, but if you’re stuck, one of these can be a lifeline. Even if you’re an experienced artist, looking at the fundamentals and trying basic drawing exercises can be refreshing and lead to great ideas. Some classic books on drawing include:



Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain (Betty Edwards),

Drawing for the Absolute and Utter Beginner (Claire Watson Garcia)

Elements of Drawing (John Ruskin)

The Practice and Science of Drawing (Harold Speed),

Human Anatomy for Artists: The Elements of Form (Eliot Goldfinger)

What to Draw and How to Draw It (E.G. Lutz)