 To apply for a state driver's license or identification card, you can download an application online and fill it out at home, or go to your nearest DMV and ask for an application.To find the DMV service center nearest you, go to http://wisconsindot.gov/Pages/online-srvcs/find-dmv/default.aspx. Find your city in the list on that page, or click "Find my DMV" and enter your information.;
, When you get a driver's license in Wisconsin, or renew an old one, you can become an organ donor by checking a box on the driver's license application. This constitutes legal authorization for organ donation.If your license is not yet up for renewal, you can still fill out an application to get a duplicate license and change the donor statement.
 Once you've completed your application, pay the fee and take any required tests to receive your license or identification card. You must go to your nearest DMV service center to submit your application, even if you're only applying for a duplicate license.When you submit your application, you will receive a temporary license or ID card. You'll receive your official card in the mail, typically within 10 business days., For your donor status to be valid, you must sign and date the authorization on the back of your license or identification card. There also are boxes you can check to specify which organs or body parts you're willing to donate.Also check for the orange circle on the front of your license or identification card. This identifies you as an organ donor.
 If you need to renew your license and want to continue being an organ donor, you must continue to check the "yes" box on your renewal application.If you fail to check either box, you will not be listed as an organ donor on your license anymore. However, this won't change your status as an organ donor anywhere else. For example, if you registered with the Wisconsin Donor Registry, you would still be listed there as a donor.
You can simply fill out the donor information on the back of your card if you previously declined to be an organ donor or left the space blank. However, you won't have an orange "donor" circle on the front of your card.

