 There are a number of fitness programs out there offering licenses, certifications and franchises to potential instructors. Some teach you the basics in a one day class, and then it's up to you to learn all the steps, the routines and the music to build a class. It is a tedious, labor intensive and stressful process that requires the new instructor to spend days, weeks and even months to build a repertoire that allows them to teach that one hour class. If you want to avoid this process, Step Director is a good choice for an alternative approach.;
, All the music, the choreography, the steps and the routines are pre-packaged and can legally be used by the registered instructor without any other licenses. No need to select music, discover new steps or choreograph each song. It's already there for you.
 The venue you are going to teach in either has its own sound system, or the instructor needs to provide their own. If they have one, make sure you test it out with Step Director to be sure both the sound system and Step Director are doing what they are supposed to do. Go during off hours and test it. The last thing you want is to get in front of a class and have a non-functioning sound system.


If you need to buy one, see what other Instructors are using, If you like something they have, find out where you can get it. Also, you can go online and look up "dance instructor sound systems" or "portable sound systems" for example and see what's out there. Expect to spend about $200-300 to get something that is of decent quality and portable. Remember, you may be using this system for a long time to come so make it a quality purchase.
Consider the size of the room(s) you will be teaching in. If it is in a small dance studio you may not need a powerful sound system. However, if you start out in a small studio and then get to teach in a large studio, gym or other larger venue that doesn't have a sound system, make sure yours is powerful enough to be heard. Again, select a system that can handle multiple venues.
 The complete package comes with a wireless earpiece and charger, a black box with charger, a custom interface cable, a DVD and a CD. Also included are detailed setup instructions as well as tips on getting started.


Earpiece - The earpiece is the only piece worn by the instructor. The instructor alone will hear both the music and the steps as they are needed in the song. It fits comfortably around the ear using a specially designed padded comfortable earpiece which holds the earpiece firmly in place during active routines. The included charger will keep the earpiece charged as needed.
Black Box - The black box is used to interface with the earpiece. It connects to the custom interface cable and is synchronized wirelessly to the earpiece. It stays with the cable and the sound system and is not attached to the instructor in any way except through the wireless connection.
The Custom Interface Cable - This is the glue that connects together the hardware. It is specially designed just for Step Director. It is long enough to satisfy most requirements, 12 feet (3.7 m). The long end connects to the sound system and the short ends to the black box and your DVD player or Media Player such as an Apple iPod. It is marked so you can easily see where each part is connected. This also has no direct connection to the instructor.
DVD - The DVD contains the music and video for each song. When playback starts, the instructor will hear the music and the steps as they are required. This is all done automatically. The video will display the moves along with key information about the actual steps.
CD - The CD contains the same music and steps as the DVD, except it can be used in the car, put on another media player for actual classes, used on a plane, boat or wherever an instructor wants to learn as they are spending their day. This is really fun because you never forget a step in a routine because you hear what it is. Just go back to the DVD if you are still learning the actual steps to see how it is done in the song.
 You can change the ear hook to work on either ear. The buttons will allow you to perform the synchronization and to set the volume.
 That's when the magic happens. You will hear the steps needed to be performed when they are needed in the earpiece and watch the video to follow the steps. The copyrighted video shows steps in what is called a "multi-modal" learning environment that creates a multi-sensory experience.
 Don't get overwhelmed! Easy to say, right? Getting started is always the hardest part of learning anything new. Set up a schedule that will allow you to spend some quality time learning the videos. Although it can be tough with families, kids and other distractions, if you don't put in the time, you won't get the results. Depending upon how fast you want to start your business will determine how fast you learn the routines. It's up to you.


Remember that the CD has everything except the video so you can download to your phone, media device or anywhere else and always have it available. Play it in the supermarket, the hairdresser, nail salon, lunch hour at work, in the car, in the bath ... you get the idea! That is the best, and secret, way to get in more practice and learn quickly.
 Using the new technology, new instructors can learn everything they need to know in 2 weeks. That's because this new technology tells you step by step what to do in real-time as it is happening.


Start with the first song on the DVD and watch it a few times until you feel you know the song and the step changes fairly well. Don't waste your time memorizing it. Step Director will always be there when you need it.
Practice dancing to the first song. The voice will lead you along and before you know it, you will learn the entire routine.
Continue on to the next song. Now you will find it is easier because you know what to expect.
Learn the rest of the songs and routines.
Practice the complete session by going through the entire DVD.
Get some friends and lead some classes.
 If you do some homework as you are learning Step Director, you might have already lined up a class to teach. If not, then a marketing plan is needed. Go to houses of worship, gyms, home owner associations, private, charter, and public schools, etc. and let them know that you want to teach there.


Make up flyers and give them out everywhere.
Tell your friends and family your are ready. Lot of networking there.
Go to master classes and special events and put flyers on cars (please, nothing in someone else's classes).
There are many places you can go to find a class. It's amazing how many businesses are looking for people like you. Be aggressive in you sales pitch but not over-bearing.
 How much can you make? This has the usual response, "... as much as you put into it". Instructors in the U.S. can make $200 and much more in a single class if they have enough students and charge a fair price. Most instructors charge anywhere from $3 - 15 per class. Just depends on your location and student population. Start low! You want people to get to know you. The Latin Dance Fitness community is small in the sense that instructors know each other and students generally follow instructors.
 Yes, will be quite nervous. That's normal and actually makes you more alert. Step Director's multi-modal teaching method and technology creates an environment of confidence right from the start. In a short time you will start remembering the entire session without realizing it. So it's ok to be nervous. As your confidence grows your nervousness will get less.
 There has been much discussion as to whether an Instructor should face the students or not. Let's be very clear here that when starting out it is much more difficult to face the class. It can confuse you watching the students using different hands and feet then you. So think about starting out with you back to the students first then change later when you are more confident. Also, it is easier to follow an Instructor while watching their back then when they are facing you, because there is a mirror image effect that can be confusing.
 No need to be nervous. When you go in front of the class, you will be hearing every step in every routine for every song as you need it and as it is happening. You will hear it, but the students will not.
 An instructor needs to be ready for anything. When starting out, don't expect to know everything. Just know your routines! The instructor sets the pace in the class. Smiling, happy, excited, motivated and most of all competent make for a fun class. It's ok to make mistakes .. everybody does. Step Director however, gets you back on track immediately, no matter where you are in the song.
 As you learn, you’ll become more confident and may rely on the Step Director CD less. In the meantime, it’s your choice: the CD can be used during the actual class session, or during the learning process. It can be used in the car to practice, or at home or on a plane.
 Your bad days still need to be good days to the students. After all, they are paying to be with you, Always have fun. Your students will love you for it - and you'll have an opportunity to start you own business and make a full time or part time income as an instructor, according to your desires.

