 Place a few ice cubes in a plastic bag and then put this on your tongue until the pain is lessened. You can also wrap the bag in a moist hand towel for additional comfort. Suck on a popsicle or drink cold liquids for relief, but nothing that is acidic.


This will stop the bleeding if your cut reopens and it will reduce your pain during the healing process.
 You can purchase aloe vera gel at the drug store. Or, you can cut an aloe vera leaf and squeeze out some of the jelly from the inside. Apply this substance to your wound a maximum of 3 times a day. For best results, apply after rinsing your mouth and before you go to sleep at night.Aloe vera is a natural plant-based remedy that has been shown to improve blood circulation. It also combats certain types of harmful bacteria. Just be careful not to swallow the gel directly.You can also apply the gel to a piece of sterile gauze and keep it on the wound. This may provide a longer lasting effect by preventing your saliva from diluting the gel.
 Purchase a numbing and antiseptic gel from your local pharmacy. Orajel, for example, comes in a small tube for easy application. Simply squeeze a bead of the gel onto a clean cotton swab and apply to the wound area. Repeat this application 2-4 times a day until healed.
 This works similarly to the mouth gels. Take a bead of the paste, put it on a swab, and apply it to the wound site. Repeat this method up to 4 times a day until healed. You can also apply the paste directly with your finger.
 Mix a teaspoon of baking soda with water until it forms a smooth consistency. Dip a cotton swab into the mixture and apply it to the bitten area. Baking soda lessens the produce of acids and bacteria. It is helpful in reducing swelling and inflammatory pain., Fill a teaspoon up with honey, lick the it off or drip it onto the wound area. Repeat this process twice a day. The honey will coat your mouth and prevent the accumulation of harmful bacteria. For even better results, add a dash of turmeric to the honey. Turmeric is antibacterial and will help in the bacteria fight, which will promote healing when it is combined with bee propolis., Dip a cotton swab into a bottle of milk of magnesia. Apply the medicine to the wound area. You can do this three to four times a day. It is even more effective when used after a rinse. Milk of magnesia is an active antacid. It will make the environment of your mouth more hospitable for good bacteria.