 These events are specifically planned out for the purpose of bringing her together with her fans. If you want to meet her in a setting that will allow you to talk to her for a few minutes, this might be your best option.


You can check on currently scheduled events by visiting the “Events” or “Tour” section of her official website.
While these events are often listed on her website, other sources (Disney, various radio stations, etc.) may sponsor such events as well.;
, The most common way to see Selena Gomez in person is to go to one of her concerts when her tour stops in a nearby city. While there is no guarantee that you will be able to meet her face-to-face, there might be a brief period after the concert ends during which she can meet a few fans from the audience.


The odds are against you when you attempt this method. If you go to one of her concerts, do so with the primary objective of attending the concert and watching her perform. Meeting her can be a secondary goal but you should not count on it.
A list of her current tour dates can be found under the “Events” page of her website.
 Radio stations that play her music may occasionally sponsor contests that would allow the winner to meet her. Make sure that you're listening to radio stations that play her music. Stations that play a different genre of music will not offer such contests because they would not appeal to their general audience.


Listen to the contest rules before you call in. Some contests require contestants to be 18 years of age or older. If you are not 18 years old you may need an adult to enter on your behalf.
 Every so often the Disney Channel will announce a contest through which you can meet one of your favorite affiliated stars. Given the rarity and unpredictability of these contests, it could take a long time before there is a contest that would allow you to meet Selena Gomez.


You can also monitor current Disney Channel events by following its social media accounts.

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DisneyChannel

Twitter: https://twitter.com/Disneychannel




