 If you have an extreme closure or pinhole phimosis, that means your foreskin ring is extremely tight and small. This is generally the case when you cannot insert fingers inside the foreskin. You will need to stretch the hole wider. Pull your foreskin backwards over the head of the penis as much as possible without any pain. Hold for 30 to 40 seconds, then relax. Repeat around 10 times.Avoid pulling the foreskin ring over the head or using extreme force because this could cause injuries. If the ring slides behind the head, it can get stuck.
Pulling the ring against an erect head may help stretch the foreskin. Doing this in the shower may also help loosen the skin.;
, If you have an open ring but the foreskin is still too tight to place your fingers inside, stretch the skin by holding onto the edges. Use your thumb and index finger to grab the edges of your foreskin on both sides. Apply gentle pressure to spread the foreskin. Hold for around 30 to 60 seconds, and then repeat.Try this for 10 to 20 minutes.
 Once you can fit your fingers inside the foreskin, you are close to having your foreskin stretched an appropriate amount! To keep stretching the foreskin ring, use two fingers to stretch the foreskin. Place your fingers back to back on either side of the inside of your foreskin. Press the backs of your fingers against one another as you gently stretch the skin by pulling in opposite directions. Then relax the foreskin and repeat.Make sure your fingers are clean.
Use your smallest fingers if possible.
 If the foreskin is not long enough, you may need to stretch the frenulum. Take the foreskin where it connects to the frenulum just under the head of the penis between your index finger and thumb. Pull the skin down away from the head of the penis. Hold for 30 seconds.You can stretch this every time you urinate, or you can set aside time during each day.
 Sometimes, stretching your foreskin can be painful and difficult. You may find that using warm water can help make your foreskin easier to stretch. Try soaking in warm bath water or taking a steamy, hot shower. Not only will it help relax you, but the warm water and humidity may help loosen the skin and help it stretch., You may find that you need a little help stretching your foreskin. Flesh tunnels are silicone devices that you can stick into your foreskin and leave. The tunnel helps keep your foreskin stretched for a few hours at a time. Once you can get at least one finger inside your foreskin, you can try a flesh tunnel.You can find these devices online.
 If your foreskin does not move behind the head, don’t force it back. This can cause the foreskin to get stuck behind the head. If this occurs, you should go to the hospital immediately.