 If you are using silicone cupcake liners, place them on a baking sheet instead.;
, You can do this using a stand mixer, a handheld mixer, or even a food processor fitted with whisks. This will take about 2 minutes. To make beating a little easier, cut the butter into cubes first.
 Keep beating it until the yolk is broken and evenly mixed into the butter mixture. There should be no streaks or swirls of egg yolk visible.
 For best results, use cake flour. Many bakers find that this is the secret to the ideal cupcake texture., The oil will help add extra moisture to the cupcakes and prevent them from turning out too dry. Be sure to use a flavorless oil, such as canola or vegetable., Beat in a little bit of the flour mixture into the blended butter, then beat in some of the milk mixture. Keep alternating and beating until everything is blended together.


Ideally, you should add in the flour mixture three times, and the milk mixture two times., Do this by hand using a spatula and not with a mixer. Keep folding in the mini chocolate chips until they are spread evenly throughout the batter.
 For easy, even measuring, use an ice cream scoop to pour in the batter. There is enough batter to fill about 20 cupcake liners.
 Start checking them at 15 minutes for doneness. They are ready when the domes spring back when lightly touched.Another way to check whether or not the cupcakes are done is to insert a toothpick into the middle of one. If the toothpick comes out clean, the cupcakes are done.
 If they aren't, the frosting will melt.
 Sift them first to get rid of any clumps, them mix them briskly using a fork or whisk., Keep beating until everything is smooth and evenly mixed together. Do not add all of the heavy cream and sugar mixture; you will be adding both in a little bit at a time., Keep adding the cocoa-sugar and heavy cream, beating after each addition, until you have nothing left., The frosting should be stiff enough to spread or pipe onto a cupcake. If it is too thin, add more confectioner's sugar. If it is too thick, add more heavy cream. Be sure to beat the frosting after each addition.


If the frosting is too sweet for you, you can also add a pinch of salt. This will help cut the sweetness.
 You can spread the frosting onto the cupcakes using a butter knife or spatula. You can also fill a piping bag with the frosting and pipe it on instead; use a star-shaped decorator's tip for this.


If you'd like, you can garnish the cupcakes with a sprinkle of mini chocolate chips.
 Cover and store any leftover cupcakes in the fridge.

