 Also try reading children's literature, such as the Winnie-the-Pooh series by A. A. Milne, and The Little Prince by Antoine de Saint-Exupery. Read anything by Dr. Seuss!;
,, Even if you don't feel like smiling, do it. If you can, be silly - jump up and down, or spin around and around until you feel sick. Act like a kid! But whatever you do, even if there isn't anyone around, SMILE! This can help cheer you up even in the worst of moods. (However, it is also important to keep in mind that young children always honour their emotions - don't force yourself to feel something you truly do not.)

, Even though you won't ever be one again, spending time with them can make you smile more. If you have children of your own, great! Spend lots of time with them. If you have relatives, friends, or neighbors with kids, offer to babysit or take care of their children when needed. If you don't know anyone with kids, try volunteering with an organization like Big Brothers Big Sisters - the experience will be rewarding for both you and the child!

, When you are sad, decide that you're going to be happy.
 Then, try to remember how old your parents were. If you're not as old as they were when you were 8, then, for a second, you will get the feeling that you are 8 again and that's how your parents felt when you were that age (even if they didn't, you still will get the feeling and memory of that time).
 Try to be very nice to them. Do not spoil them too much, though. Just bring them joy and let them love you.
 Then, seal the letter in envelope and put it somewhere you won't forget. Open it up in 5 years. Write down what has changed, but don't erase the old sentence. Seal it again and repeat this every 5 years until 15 years have elapsed. Then, look at very first thing that you wrote down. This will make you feel like a kid again. Try to do (for at least one day) whatever you estimated you would be doing.
 Try to remember what you were doing when the photo was taken. Then, visit your childhood friends and talk about photos with them.
 You probably can't completely ignore the future as that seems to be part of growing up, but at least for a few minutes or hours, live completely in the now.

