 Your child should be able to read, write, compare, and convert between the following forms:


Integers. Integers include counting numbers (1, 2, 3, etc., which are positive integers), whole numbers (0, 1, 2, 3, etc.), and their negative value counterparts (additive inverses, -1, -2, -3, etc.).
Fractions. Fractions are written as one number (the numerator) over another (the denominator), separated by a line, such as 1/2. Your child should understand and identify proper fractions (which have a numerator smaller than the denominator, such as 2/3), improper fractions (which have a numerator as large or larger than the denominator, such as 3/2), and mixed numerals (which combine an integer with a fraction, such as 1 1/2).
Decimals. Decimals are another way to express fractional values using a decimal point instead of a fraction bar. Your child should be able to understand decimal place value (that 0.5 is larger than 0.05 because 5 tenths is more than 5 hundredths) and be able to convert decimals to fractions and vice versa.
Percents. Percents are an expression of numeric values as parts of 100 ("per cent"). Your child should be able to convert between percent and decimal values for the same number.
Exponents. Exponents are superscripted (raised) numbers used to represent how many times a base number is used as a factor in multiplication. They are sometimes referred to as "powers." Exponents can also be written as normal digits after a caret (^) when superscripting isn't possible. Your child should be able to convert numbers raised to powers to their equivalent values, such as 4 ^ 2 = 16 and 10 ^ 3 = 1000.
Scientific notation. Scientific notation is writing a large numeric value as a decimal multiplied by 10 raised to a power. The number 1,600,000 would be written in scientific notation as 1.6 x 10 ^ 6.
 Your child should be able to add, subtract, multiply, and divide integers, fractions, decimals, percents, and in scientific notation, with some of the following related skills:


When adding or subtracting fractions, your child should be able to convert fractions into equivalent forms so that both terms have the same denominator. When multiplying fractions, your child should be able to multiply the numerators together and the denominators together and reduce the result to lowest terms.
When multiplying decimals together, your child should be able to place the decimal point correctly in the product. When dividing one decimal by another, your child should be able to correctly place the decimal point in the quotient by moving the decimal points in the dividend and divisor the same number of places to the right to make the divisor an integer.
 Factoring is the ability to identify a number as the product of 2 or more smaller numbers (factors). Your child should be able to identify factors for any given number and identify prime numbers, which are divisible only by 1 and themselves. In addition, your child should be able to understand and perform the following:


Greatest common factor (GCF). This is the largest number that can be divided evenly into 2 or more different numbers; for example, the greatest common factor of 12 and 20 is 4 (3 x 4 = 12, 5 x 4 = 20).
Least (or lowest) common multiple (LCM). This is the smallest number that is a multiple of 2 or more different numbers; for example, the least common multiple of 6 and 9 is 18 (3 x 6 = 18, 2 x 9 = 18).
Prime factoring. This is being able to express a given number as a product of prime numbers. For example, the prime factoring of 60 is 2 x 2 x 3 x 5.
 "Ratio" is the comparison of 2 quantities to each other, while "proportion" refers to the amount of an item against a whole. In a bowl of fruit with 3 apples and 5 oranges, the ratio of apples to oranges is 3:5 (also writable as 3/5), while the proportion of apples to all fruit is 3:8 (or 3/8). "Rate" is a ratio of 2 measurements, usually of different types, such as miles per hour, heartbeats per minute, or cycles per second.


Related to ratios and proportions are the concepts of odds and probabilities. Probability is a ratio of the desired outcome to all possible outcomes; the probability of getting heads on a coin flip is 1:2 (1/2), since a coin can come up either heads or tails. "Odds" is the ratio of the desired outcome to unwanted outcomes; the odds of getting heads on a coin toss are 1:1.
 These skills are somewhat more of a prerequisite for geometry classes than for algebra, but they relate to the ability to recognize patterns in number sequences and other areas.
 Your child should be able to use a ruler, compass, and protractor and should be able to find the following:


Perimeter: The total length of all the edges of a 2-dimensional object.
Area: The amount of space a 2-dimensional object takes up.
Volume: The amount of space a 3-dimensional object takes up.
Surface area: The total area of each surface of a 3-dimensional object.
 The Pythagorean theorem states that the square of the length of the hypotenuse of a right triangle (the side opposite the right angle) equals the sum of the squares of the length of the other 2 sides. This skill helps prepare your child not just for algebra and geometry, but trigonometry as well. Your child should be able to use this relationship to find the length of any side of a right triangle when the other 2 lengths are known and also identify whether a triangle is a right triangle if the lengths of all 3 sides are given.


Because finding the length of an unknown side involves calculating square roots, this is an opportunity for your child to develop skills using a calculator.
 Your child should have a rudimentary understanding of statistics (mean, median, mode, and range) and be able to read and create bar graphs, line graphs, and pie charts, as well as be able to plot points on a 2-dimensional grid.
 Patterns that show constant ranges of change (such as 2, 4, 6, 8, etc.) relate to both algebra and geometry. Your child should be able to recognize the nature of a pattern and project what the next number in a numeric sequence will be.
 Variables are unknown or varying quantities in equations represented in algebra by letters. This concept is often introduced several years before elementary algebra by using boxes or blanks to represent the unknown quantities. Your child should be able to understand the concept of variables in this format and be able to find the value of the unknown quantity.
 A function is the relationship between an input number and a single, resulting output number. (If a function were defined as adding 7 to each number, 1 would be an input and 8 its corresponding output.) Your child should be able to calculate the output number for a given input number and function, build a table of input and output values for a given function, and construct a line graph from a table of input and output values.

