 The basic building blocks of any story are character, plot (what the character wants and what stands in their way), setting, and theme. You can start with any of these, but a common place to begin is character. Look around you. Do you see anyone interesting? Can you picture an interesting person in your mind? Let that be your main character.You may try to think of anyone you know with extraordinary features.
Do you know anyone who is extraordinarily beautiful? Extraordinarily brave? Extraordinarily strange?
Allow these people to inspire your character.
 At the center of every story is desire. In order for you to start formulating your plot, you have to figure out what your character wants. You may begin by asking yourself what you want. Can you make a list of five things you wish for? Do you think any of these resonate with your main character?Another question to ask yourself is why does your character need this thing right now? A sense of urgency makes for a strong story.
 If the center of every story is a character who wants something, the driving force of the story is what stands in the character’s way. What is preventing your character from getting what they want? What is stopping them from achieving their goal? Make this something concrete and immediate (unless it is not meant to be realistic)., The setting of a story includes the place and time that your story takes place in, as well as any details that occur in that place. To get at your setting, ask yourself the following questions: What city are they in? What year? What does it look like there? How is the weather? How are the people dressed?It may help to think about places you have been, or places you wish you could go.
You may even think about places that have appeared in your dreams.
 Behind a character’s goal and their quest to overcome a series of obstacles, is an overall message or theme. You may begin you hunt for the theme of your story by asking yourself to list four things that are important to you. Next, list four things that you believe. These things may be big or small. Then, look over your lists. Chances are, embedded in there will be a theme you can latch on to. For example, your list of things that are important to you might include your family, recycling, eating a healthy diet, and watching good films.
Some themes embedded in this list are: family is the center of a happy life, saving the earth is essential to human survival, you are what you eat, and watching the stories of others helps us understand our own lives.

