 Your hamster will need daily playtime outside of his cage.To make this an enjoyable experience for him, you will need make sure that his play area is safe. For example, you will need to remove or hide any electrical cords that he could nibble on. You should also block any possible areas where your hamster could squeeze or hide in, such as under furniture or between couch cushions.


If you have other pets, they should not be allowed in your hamster’s play area.
A clean bathroom is a good area for your hamster to play in. Make sure that the toilet lid is closed so that he does not accidentally fall in the toilet.
 An exercise ball is a great way for your hamster to exercise. Exercise balls are available at your local pet store in different varieties. Because hamsters do not see very well, make sure that the exercise ball you choose is made of clear plastic.After you gently place your hamster in the ball, put a piece of tape over the ball’s door so that it does not open while your hamster is in the ball.Place the ball in a carpeted area, which will give the ball extra traction.Supervise your hamster closely when he is in the ball so that he does not run into any furniture or get too close to a set of stairs.
Keep him in the ball for no longer than 20 minutes and provide him with food and water when you place him back in his cage.
 A playpen is another way that your hamster can play outside of his cage. Ideally, the playpen should be larger than his regular cage. To make the playpen fun for him, place some of his toys inside of it. Supervise him closely so that he does not climb out of his playpen and escape.









Playpens are available at your local pet store.
 You can also let your hamster explore the hamster-proofed area without being in an exercise ball or playpen. If you are in the bathroom, you could place him in the tub and let him run around. Place some of his toys in the open area and create some obstacle courses to keep him interested.








The obstacle course can be made of common household items, such as empty cardboard boxes and toilet paper rolls.
 Despite your best efforts to hamster-proof the area and keep a close eye on your hamster, he may still find a way to escape and hide. If you cannot find him when playtime is over, check the places where he would be most likely to hide: behind or underneath furniture, between seat cushions, inside of drawers or boxes, etc.


If you have searched all of these places with no luck, consider placing food near or inside of his cage to encourage him to come back to his cage.

