 These cards allow you to make purchases for a year or so before interest kicks in. If you are able to apply for a 0-percent credit card, you may be able to transfer a balance from your existing credit card that you are having a difficult time paying off. This will give you a year to pay off the amount without incurring interest. Just make sure you can pay the amount off during the 0-percent interest period.


Check for unexpected costs like balance transfer fees or annual fees before getting a 0-percent interest credit card., Surprisingly, credit card companies are generally willing to drop late fees if you call and ask. If you miss one payment on accident or due to an unexpected life event, try calling and asking the company to waive the late fee. However, don't expect this tactic to work every month.Try saying,"I can easily make the payment today if you'll waive the late fee."
In many cases, the representative may offer to waive the fee even before you ask.
 You may be able to negotiate a lower payment amount or a full payoff at a reduced rate with your credit card company. In a recent study, two-thirds of people who asked for a reduced interest rate received it. So pick up the phone and call if you want a reduced rate. You may have better chances of getting your wish if you have been a reliable customer in the past.For example, try saying, "My strong payment history indicates that I will easily be able to pay off my balance in full in a few months. However, this would be easier if you could please lower my interest rate."

, Consider applying for a line of credit instead of a credit card if you have an emergency expense or need to borrow credit. You can apply for a home equity line of credit (HELOC) if you are a homeowner with substantial equity in your home. A line of credit offers a lower interest rate. This can be a great option if you have a large amount of debt to pay off and want to consolidate it. However, this only works if you are capable of paying it off in a reasonable amount of time.


Take out a HELOC by visiting your bank or another lender in your area.The interest paid on a HELOC is deductible from taxes like mortgage interest.


There are also personal lines of credit available through banks that are not taken out against the value of your home.

