 Most kinds of colanders will work, including enameled metal, pottery and stainless steel. Choose a colander that has a base if possible (if it does not have a base, ensure that it sits flat and sturdily) and that is fairly wide across. The colander can be small or large but you'll obviously have less space for lettuces in a smaller colander than a larger one.;
, Turn the colander upside down on the thin cardboard sheet. Trace around the colander circle. Remove the colander. Finish the template by drawing another circle a little way in from the first circle, about 2 to 4cm (3/4 to 1 1/2 inches) smaller than the first circle, depending on the colander size.
 For a smaller colander, quarters is best, while a larger colander may divide into either sixths or eighths. Remember that the lettuce needs sufficient space to grow, so don't make the divisions too small. Mark the divisions in place.
 Cut out the shapes from the inner circle and set them aside. It is the inner circle shapes that you'll use to make the divisions once the soil is in the colander.
 Push the hanging basket lining into the colander to cover all of the holes. Trim around the top so that it is flush with the top of the colander all the way around.
 Add a little compost suitable for container mixes. Fill to almost the top but not quite, then shake a little to help the soil settle evenly.
 Do this generously as it is going to form the basis for not watering directly over the coming days because the seeds will obtain sufficient moisture from this watering.
 This is the variety that can handle being cut several times and will regrow after each harvesting.
 Put all of the templates in place, then remove one and plant the first seeds. Replace that template, then remove the next one and plant the next seeds, this time choosing the alternative color to the one you've just planted. Continue in this manner, alternating lettuce colors, until all of the segments have been planted with the lettuce seeds. The alternation is important because it provides a very colorful and clearly divided display once the lettuces start to grow.
 Gently level the top to leave it even.
 Spray mist the soil for the first few days. The initial soil watering should be sufficient for the seeds to start germinating. Once the seedlings appear, water regularly but not too much––aim to keep the soil moist but not waterlogged.
 Too many seedlings can make it too crowded for good results.
 Use a vegetable-suitable light liquid feed.
 When the lettuces have all grown together to form a tight-knit and abundant array of leaves, harvest as needed. Follow the directions specified for the variety of lettuce you have chosen, to ensure that the lettuce will regrow several times.

