 This includes bottled, boiled, or treated water. In the event of an emergency, it is likely that your national, state/provincial, regional, local, or tribal health department will make specific recommendations for boiling or treating water in your area.;
, It is vital that you don't try to eat food items that are not safe - the emergency services will probably already be stretched to their limits and you can do without having sick family members during an emergency. It is important to:


Throw away food that may have come in contact with flood or storm water.
Throw away food that has an unusual odor, color, or texture.
Throw away perishable foods (including meat, poultry, fish, eggs and leftovers) that have been above 40ºF/4.4ºC for 2 hours or more.

Note that thawed food that contains ice crystals or is 40ºF/4.4ºC or below can be refrozen or cooked.


Throw away canned foods that are bulging, opened, or damaged.
 Floodwater is contaminated water and can infect food:


Food containers with screw-caps, snap-lids, crimped caps (soda pop bottles), twist caps, flip tops, snap-open, and home canned foods should be discarded if they have come into contact with floodwater because they cannot be disinfected.
If cans have come into contact with floodwater or storm water, remove the labels, wash the cans, and dip them in a solution of 1 cup of bleach in 5 gallons/3.7 liters of water. Relabel the cans with a marker. Include the expiration date.
, While the power is out, keep the refrigerator and freezer doors closed as much as possible. Add block ice or dry ice to your refrigerator if the electricity is expected to be off for longer than 4 hours. Wear heavy gloves when handling ice.



Breastfed infants should continue breastfeeding. For formula-fed infants, use ready-to-feed formula if possible. If using ready-to-feed formula is not possible, it is best to use bottled water to prepare powdered or concentrated formula. If bottled water is not available, use boiled water. Use treated water to prepare formula only if you do not have bottled or boiled water.
If you prepare formula with boiled water, let the formula cool sufficiently before giving it to an infant.
Clean feeding bottles and nipples with bottled, boiled, or treated water before each use.
Wash your hands before preparing formula and before feeding an infant. You can use alcohol-based hand sanitizer for washing your hands if the water supply is limited

, The US CDC recommends discarding wooden cutting boards, baby bottle nipples, and pacifiers. These items cannot be properly sanitized if they have come into contact with contaminated flood waters. Clean and sanitize food-contact surfaces in a four-step process:


Wash with soap and warm, clean water.
Rinse with clean water.
Sanitize by immersing for 1 minute in a solution of 1 teaspoon of chlorine bleach (5.25%, unscented) per gallon of clean water.
Allow to air dry.

