 In order to help your cat age well, you should be on the lookout for common signs of illness. This will allow you to get veterinary treatment started quickly. Some common signs of illness that you should look for include:Weight loss
Lack of appetite
Increased water consumption
Lack of usual grooming or self care
Lumps, bumps, or swellings
Coughing
Difficulty breathing
Bouts of weakness
Difficulty moving
Disorientation
Vomiting
Diarrhea
Changes to urination;
, As your cat ages, it should have veterinary exams more often because it is more vulnerable to illness. It is recommended that a senior cat (over 10 years) be seen every six months, instead of every year.This allows your veterinarian to catch diseases and injuries quickly and to start treatment for any developing problems immediately.When you get your cat regular veterinary exams it also assures that your cat's vaccinations are always up to date.
Your vet may want to run tests, such as a complete blood count (CBC), a biochemistry profile, a urinalysis, and thyroid hormone testing to see how well your cat is doing., Your cat is likely to have more dental problems as it ages but you can prevent many problems with regular dental checks and dental cleanings. Look at your cat's teeth regularly to spot signs of decay or injuries. Also, brushing your cat's teeth at least a few times a week can remove plaque and tartar buildup, which can prevent dental decay.Proper dental care is key for preventing the need for tooth extraction or other dental procedures in old age.
If you are having your cat get regular veterinary exams, the veterinarian should also be assessing your cat's teeth and giving you recommendations for proper dental care.
 As your cat ages, it's important to get injuries and diseases treated quickly. Your cat's ability to fight off illnesses decreases as it ages, so getting veterinary care as soon as possible will increase your cat's likelihood of recovering from a health problem.


If you think that your cat might be sick but you're not sure, give your veterinary office a call. Describe the cat's symptoms and ask if they think you should bring it in.

