 Overwatering is a very common mistake people make with indoor plants. Make sure to read an almanac or ask someone at a local greenhouse about the precise amount of water you plants need. If you notice your soil appears water logged, you are overwatering and should reduce the amount of water your plant is receiving.Overwatering can be confusing, as the symptoms can mimic those of under watering. The plant may look wilted and yellow. In extreme cases, the plant may collapse.
If you've been watering your plant daily, and the soil is noticeably moist, the issue is probably over watering and not under watering.
How often a plant needs to be watered depends on the humidity of your home and how much sun it's getting. Only water herbs when the soil surrounding them is dry to the touch., You should not select just any soil for an herb garden, and it's not always best to take soil from outdoors. Instead, purchase a high quality potting mix from a local greenhouse.Make sure to select a mix that is specifically used for potted plants. Mixes designed for outdoor plants will be too heavy and will dry out too easily.
With the right soil, monitoring things like pH levels is unnecessary. A quality potting soil should already have the right nutrients and the label should provide suggestions for things like fertilizers.
With parsley, be careful of getting soil on your leaves themselves. Outdoors, parsley frequently gets muddied with soil during heavy rainfall. When planting parsley in new soil, be careful not to get soil on the leaves. Gently wipe off any soil that gets on your parsley., Not all herbs will work in certain situations. Some herbs may not thrive indoors as well as others. Review the herbs you're using and be honest with yourself about whether they work for your specific situation.If you can't provide more than 2 to 4 hours a day of natural sunlight, this limits the types of plants you can grow. Luckily, mint, cilantro, parsley, wasabi, and wild garlic can thrive in the shade.If you have access to a lot of natural light year round, you should be able to grow most herbs indoors without a problem.
 Chlorosis is a common problem people encounter when growing herbs indoors. It can be spotted if the leaves turn yellow while the veins of the plant remain green. Usually, this is due to poor drainage. You can spot poor drainage if your soil looks like sludge.Install another drainage hole in your pot if you notice poor drainage. You also may need to water less if your plant is displaying signs of being overwatered.
If you've ruled out poor drainage, your soil may have an iron deficiency. This can be solved by purchasing chelated iron at a local greenhouse. Follow the instructions on the package for use.
 Burnt tips are when the tips of your plant look brown or black. This is usually an indication you're over-fertilizing. If you notice burnt tips, cut back on your fertilizer.Usually, the salt in fertilizer is the culprit with burnt tips. To return the soil to a better state, water the pot until water begins flowing quickly from drainage holes.

