 After you’ve been hurt by those close to you it is important to recognize that other people out there do have positive, good traits. Take a moment and think about times that people have been there for you. Maybe write these down and revisit them to start to restore trust in people. Then, look for friends who share your common interests and who will support you in achieving your life goals.It is okay to tell your friends, after you get to know them a bit, that you are wary about trusting people. And, if your friends or significant other ask to meet your relatives you might just say, “I’m not sure if that is a good idea and when we have more time I will tell you why.”
If you live at home with family, make plans to meet your friends elsewhere. This will keep some distance between the two groups as well. Or, you can always just chat with your friends online and blow off some steam that way too.;
, Go have fun doing new activities as a group. These experiences will bond you all together and will give you more things to talk about in your down time. If your friends are busy, feel free to go out to dinner or a movie yourself. Enjoying one’s own company is important as well.


If you came from a large family and are used to being surrounded by people it may be a good idea to force yourself to do some activities solo. This will build your confidence and demonstrate that you can handle almost anything on your own.
Plan some one-on-one or small-group activities as well, such as meeting a friend for coffee or going for a walk together. These activities are quieter and more focused on conversation. This can help build and strengthen relationships by promoting sharing and helping you assess if this is someone you can trust.
 If a friend asks you to do an activity or take a class with them, just say yes. Showing that you are available for the good times will make them more likely to confide in you when situations are difficult as well. Also, saying yes will help you stay on their radar as someone to call when they want to hang out or do something fun. Reinforce them reaching out to you by saying yes. If you can't make it, be sure to reschedule the activity (or another activity) in the same conversation to let them know you mean it. And, this means that you may be able to rely on them as a confidante and emotional resource as well.Be sure to reciprocate. If you are invited out, try to find some way that you can issue an invitation to that person as well. Maybe invite them to try out a new restaurant with you. Or, perhaps go on a shopping adventure together. Staying busy will keep your mind off of your family situation.
 If you live with your family and are in school, participating in clubs will give you an excuse to spend some positive time away from home. And, once you are out of school, it is up to you to find ways to socialize and expand your social circle beyond your family. Look online for groups of people in your area who get together to pursue common interests or hobbies.For example, if you love horses, consider joining a riding group at a local stable. Or, contact your local recreation center to ask about adult intramural sports teams. These types of activities can occupy those evening and weekend hours outside of work.
You can also join a local church group for extra support. This has the added benefit of providing a safe space for personal contemplation as well.
 It has long been known that performing a new task keeps your brain lively and engaged. However, it also benefits your emotional well-being by boosting your confidence and problem-solving abilities. Look online for various adult or senior classes being offered in your area. Or, if you are a young adult, consider taking rec classes specifically offered for teens or youths.Enrolling in an athletic class, such as yoga, also has the added benefit of helping your body to stay fit and active. Asking for help from more experienced class members is yet another way to expand your social circle beyond family.
If you don’t think your family will support your new adventures, don’t tell them. You are quite vulnerable when trying something new and you need to hear positive, uplifting comments.
If you are young and currently live with your family, you may need to get a part-time job to cover the cost of some of these extra social experiences. This can actually be a good thing. A job can help to give you some space and time away from your family, and you can make friends with your coworkers!

, This will help you to see that everyone, at one time or another, faces difficult circumstances. You may also find a new passion while volunteering, such as cooking or painting. For volunteer opportunities in your area search online and then contact the agencies directly for additional information.Be aware that volunteering with certain groups, such as persons affected by family violence, may hit too close to home for you at this point. Instead, look for a volunteering activity that will uplift your mood while also allowing you to help.

