 There will probably be people who are able to comprehend certain things easier than you. Everyone is talented in their own way and are good and bad at different things. If you expect to be the smartest person everywhere you go, you will probably end up being disappointed. Get over your need to always be the brightest and best.;
, Each person has skills, experiences and talents that make them unique—including you. Focus on what you are good at and not what you lack.You may not be able to discuss quantum physics but you can probably do things that the people you think are smarter than you can’t, such as paint a mural, write a book, diagnose engine trouble, make people laugh or sing soprano. Recognize where your strengths are because self-confidence makes you more resistant to negative thoughts.
 Doing this is going to make you feel bad, especially if you already suffer from low self-esteem or self-confidence. Realize that even smart people are just people, and you are the one that decides who is better at something than you are. You may see a certain behavior or hear some responses and then make judgement calls, but you don’t really know whether this person rehearses what they say privately or if they also feel as insecure as you do.


Realize that you are not less than these smart people, and treat yourself fairly.
It will take some time and practice to get rid of old habits and ways of thinking, so be patient with yourself. In time, you will be able to see yourself as you truly are—brilliant in your own way., When smart people threaten your ego daily, you need to pay some extra attention to yourself. Do something just for you that you really enjoy, such as swimming, yoga, reading a book, taking a hot bath or taking a drive through the mountains. Exercise can also really boost your mood—if you can get past the fact that you will probably not be the most fit person at the gym right away., When you feel good about yourself, you won’t be as worried that the people around you might be smarter than you are. After spending time with smart people, do something you are really good at. Don’t be afraid to admire yourself for it, and show it off to friends and family members for validation. When you are content with your own capabilities, you will be less threatened by smart people.
 Some people may be genetically wired to be able to retain and comprehend information more efficiently than you. However, you can be as prepared as possible by studying the material you will be discussing beforehand or really stand out from the crowd by working harder than anyone else.Additionally, you may not be able to control what smart people do or say but you can always control how you react.
 Being in a room full of smart people can be annoying but consider what it would be like to be in a room of people who are the opposite of that. If you had to work or go to school with people who have less experience, ambition or intelligence than you, then it could get boring or frustrating quickly. By dealing with smart people regularly, you will also become smarter.

