 If you're experiencing serious problems with your MacBook such as constant crashing or freezing, persistent sluggish performance, or errors around every corner, wiping and reinstalling may be the quickest way to get up and running again.


When you reset your MacBook, you will be deleting the data on your computer and reinstalling the operating system. This means you will lose everything that you had saved on your hard drive. Back up everything you want to keep, either by copying select files to an external drive or DVD, or by using the Time Machine program to back up all of your files.
You will need to reinstall any programs you use after the reset process is complete.;
, This will load the Recovery function.
 This is the portion of the hard drive reserved for the recovery function.
 Click the Continue button. When Disk Utility loads, you will be shown a list of your hard disks.



For some users, their primary disk may have been renamed and may not be called Macintosh HD. Select whichever disk is your primary hard disk.
 This is the format required to install the OS X operating system.
 The erase process may take a few minutes.
 You will be returned to the Recovery menu.
 You will need a working internet connection in order to download and install OS X.
 This will begin the installation process for OS X.


If you need to install Snow Leopard or earlier, check out this guide


, Once the installation has started, you will be asked to read and agree to the Terms and Conditions. Once you have accepted them, you will need to specify the hard drive that you want to install OS X to. By default, the drive you just erased should be selected.
 This could take between 30-60 minutes, depending on your computer. You may be asked to enter your Apple ID to verify the purchase of OS X if you've upgraded after originally purchasing the computer. Once the installation is complete, your computer will be factory reset, and will act as if you had just taken it out of the box.You will need to reinstall your old programs and restore your backed up files to where you want them on your fresh system.

