 If the hamster has a discharge from his eyes or nose, if he sneezes, or if he is hunched up and breathing using his stomach muscles, then he may have respiratory disease. There are certain things you can do to help with this.


Make sure his bedding is clean at all times. Bedding soiled with urine gives off ammonia, which is extremely irritating to the respiratory system. Use a spoon or a scoop to spot clean any wet bedding, and make sure the cage smells clean. If you can smell urine or ammonia, then the effect is a thousand times worse for the hamster.
Spot clean every day, but try to do this in such a way that it does not disturb your hamster too much and add to his stress.
Check that the room temperature is within the recommended range and make adjustments accordingly.
If the hamster has a sticky nose, try and wipe it clean with a damp cotton ball. This helps to keep the airway clear, which makes it more comfortable for the hamster to breath., Teeth problems can make your hamster feel unwell. A clear or milky discharge from the eyes can be a sign of overgrown teeth roots. Check to see if your hamster is eating properly. If he isn't, then a vet check is advisable to make sure there isn't a problem with overgrown teeth. If there is a problem with this, the vet can trim them back. If this is the case and the teeth are not trimmed, the hamster may progressively starve because he is unable to eat.


Another sign of dental problems is a wet chin or neck. This happens when spurs of teeth dig into the cheek or tongue, making it painful to swallow.
Prevention is easier than a cure. This means you should give your hamster suitable items to chew on in order to keep his teeth short.
Avoid giving too many soft foods, such as strawberries or bananas, to your hamster because they don't need much chewing. Instead, give him dry pelleted food and a block of wood for him to gnaw on. Also give him cardboard tubes or boxes, which will keep his teeth healthy. Plus, he will love to demolish them., If your hamster has a wet tail, he will have a wet bottom and will be slower and crankier. Act immediately because this can be deadly. Wet tails come from dirty cages, so you should keep his cage very clean. To treat this issue, get a broad spectrum antibiotic immediately from your vet.


If your hamster has diarrhea, stop feeding him fruits and vegetables until he is better. This condition is usually caused by intestinal or stomach blockage. The best way to avoid this is to provide some alfalfa as part of his diet.
Constipation is caused by lack of water in his diet. Make sure fresh water is available for him at all times. If your hamster does become constipated, give him some carrots or other fresh fruits or vegetables as well as more water., There are levels of breakage that can either be deadly or be healed. If your hamster breaks a leg where you can see bones sticking out, he must visit the vet. If it isn’t too bad, the vet may dress it and bandage the wound. If it is a really bad fracture with broken skin, he may need to be humanely euthanized.


If the leg is at an odd angle but the bones are not exposed and he is eating and otherwise looks healthy, restrict him to one part of the cage for 4 weeks and take away his wheel. This forces him to rest so he doesn't use the leg. This gives the bones the best chance of knitting together. You may also take him to the vet and let him bandage his leg, though he will likely also recommend limiting your hamster’s movements in his cage.
Never give pain relief to your hamster unless prescribed for the hamster by the vet. His small size makes overdose extremely likely.