 Use a paper towel to clean up the urine spot. If the spot is dry, then wet it with clean water and dab the area with a paper towel., Green dish detergents are recommended for spot cleaning recent pet urine accidents. Put a dollop of green dish detergent on a wet paper towel. Blot the area with the soapy towel to clean up the urine., While the carpet is still wet, pour a layer of baking soda over it. The baking soda may get damp, but that is okay., The baking soda and soap will need several hours to work. If you’re working on a small spot, cover it with paper towels while it treats., Don’t remove the baking soda. It’s normal for the area to foam as the baking soda and vinegar react to each other. This reaction between the two substances helps remove the bad smell.You can also clean the area with a mixture of water, white vinegar, and baking soda. Simply mix one cup (237 milliliters) of water, one cup (237 milliliters) of vinegar, and two tablespoons (30 milliliters) of baking soda into an empty spray bottle. This cleaner has a shelf life of 2-3 months.If the smell still lingers, hydrogen peroxide can be applied to the urine spot; however, you should test it on your carpet in a hidden area first as it can discolor carpet.
Products that use enzymes to break down the smell are commercially available and require no extra cleanup.
 Monitor the vinegar as it treats the carpet. Make sure that your pets and/or children are kept away from it.If you’re using hydrogen peroxide, it should sit for 10-15 minutes., Wipe away the remaining baking soda and blot the area dry. Once it’s dry, smell the carpet to determine if the smell remains. If it does, then you may have to use a carpet steam cleaner.If your carpet pad is soaked with urine, then you may have to replace it to get rid of the smell.
 If you have a lot of set-in pet odors, you may need to treat the entire carpet with a carpet cleaner, such as a Green Machine or a Rug Doctor. You can use a commercial odor removing cleaner, or you can mix your own cleaner with white vinegar and water. Run the cleaner over the entire carpet and then let it dry. You may need to make several passes to get out the odor.


If you have set in odors, an enzymatic cleaner can help deactivate the odor-causing bacteria. You simply soak the carpet in your cleaning and let it dry, so they’re easy to use.

