 Thermodynamic systems in nature are divided into two types. One is systems that are at equilibrium state with the environment and the other is systems that are in a state of nonequilibrium with the surroundings. On Earth, nature has a preference for systems that are at an equilibrium state with the surrounding. This is so due to the principle of minimum energy that every object in the universe aspires to have. All systems in the world with few exceptions tend toward minimizing their content of energy.


Examples of such systems are chemical reactions in the laboratory which usually reach a state of thermodynamic equilibrium that is favored thermodynamically.;
, Thermodynamics plays here a major factor in determining whether a given system will be at equilibrium or non-equilibrium states. Examples of systems in nature that are in a state of non-equilibrium are the light phenomenon and gas and liquid systems that have gradients in their concentrations and gradients in temperature.


These systems are controlled by the phenomenon of diffusion that drives the system that is under nonequilibrium state into a state of equilibrium. Chemical gases and chemical liquids form part of these systems under nonequilibrium state. Diffusion and heat conduction of chemical systems are two classes of nonequilibrium states that are driven thermodynamically into a state of thermodynamic equilibrium. In the case of nonequilibrium, the systems restore their thermodynamic stability after a short time.
Another example of a nonequilibrium process occurs in the biologic process that is known as osmosis. This biologic process can occur for example across the cellular membrane of all cells in the body. The tendency of this process to occur is driven by a thermodynamic force which tends to give the system a state of minimum energy. Also another biologic process which is also a nonequilibrium state is the active transport of ions across the cellular membrane of neurons and muscle cells in the body. In this case a state of thermodynamic nonequilibrium is maintained across the cellular membrane by the effect of ion channels and enzymes that catalyze the process of active transport. By virtue of its being in a nonequilibrium state this process is thermodynamically not favored so that it requires expenditure of energy in order to be maintained. The processes of osmosis and active transport across the cellular membranes are typical of living systems that are usually in a state of nonequilibrium with the environment. This state of nonequilibrium is only broken when the individual dies so that all systems of the body stop working. At this stage the molecules inside the body begin to analyzed by the bacteria into small molecules that can be used by the microorganisms for their nutritional processes.
 Light is another system that is existent in a state of nonequilibrium with the environment. Its continuous motion in a high speed as much as the light speed c is a cause of thermodynamic instability for this system that violates the the rules of nature that says: all systems in the world tend to release their energy content in favor of reaching a state of minimum energy and reach a state of thermodynamic stability. This process is never reached with light according to the theory of relativity, which assumes that light travels all the time at the same speed of c. This assumption was shown previously to be not correct; light is in essence a system that tends toward equilibrium state by slowing down its velocity.


The nature of this unique entity has yet to be explored in details after the finding that it does not have a constant velocity but rather a variable velocity that depends on the force the acts on it. One postulate about this entity is that it can have a certain form of life that is analogous to other systems that are under a state of nonequilibrium, such as living humans and animals.
The so far known information about this entity is that it can have wave as well as particle properties.
 This can be shown to be the case by solving the force equations for a photon system by substituting F =mdv/dt and equate it to F1(c/v) or Mdv/dt=F1(c/v). By solving this equation, one can get a value for the mass of the photon.


One of the results of applying this equation to photon systems is the obtaining of complex valued wavelength according to the traditional equation of photon energy that is expressed in term of the force F.
 It still remains to verify the existence of the hypothetical mass that is associated with the photon experimentally.

