 Find a close friend or family member who you trust, and who you can call whenever the urge to shop strikes you. Tell them in advance that you are trying to stop shopping and ask for their assistance. Make sure that you choose someone who is able to talk you down from your shopping impulses.When asking for help, you might say, “I’ve been struggling with buying things I really don’t need. Do you mind if I call you when I get a shopping urge? Are you willing to help talk me out of it?”

, Pick out a shopping buddy and plan monthly shopping excursions that you can look forward to. Make sure that you choose someone who is careful with their spending and who operates on a defined budget. Then, select an exact dollar amount that you are capable of spending on your trip and let your friend know that amount.
 You can find a financial advisor near you by entering your location and “financial advisor” into a search engine. Look for someone who has good online reviews. You also want a person who does not cost too much per visit. Then, sit down and talk with them about your spending habits and the changes that you can make.If you cannot afford counseling, talk to the advisor about any free services that they offer. They may provide free financial sessions or group meetings.
 Locate a therapist near you by searching “shopping addiction therapist” and your location in a search engine. Then, choose a therapist that fits your budget and schedule. In therapy, you may work on changing your shopping energies in new directions. You may also learn how to be more mindful of those purchases that you do make.Your therapist, working with your doctor, may also suggest that you take a medication to counter your shopping impulses. Anti-depressants are sometimes prescribed to compulsive shoppers., Look for a group in your area that meets to discuss shopping and other addictions. Debtors Anonymous has chapters in the United States and similar organizations exist around the world. Make sure to attend regularly and speak honestly to get the most out of your sessions.