 Hamstrings stretches are an example of static stretching, which is great for increasing flexibility while the body is cooling down after a workout. To perform a hamstring stretch, sit down on the ground and extend your left leg straight in front of you. Bend your right leg so that that the sole of your right foot rests against your left knee. Bend forward while attempting to grasp your left ankle with both hands. Hold the stretch for approximately ten seconds, then repeat on the other leg.








Once your flexibility increases, you can intensify this stretch by attempting to lock your fingers around the sole of your foot, rather than grabbing your ankle.
 To perform a calf stretch, stand with your feet shoulder-width apart, facing a wall. Place both palms flat against the wall, at shoulder height. Bend your right knee and slowly move your left leg backwards, until you feel a stretch in your calf muscle. The heel of your left foot should remain firmly against the ground and the leg should be completely straight. Hold the stretch for about ten seconds, then repeat with the other leg.









Remember to keep your spine straight and your hips squarely facing the wall while doing this exercise, otherwise you won't get the full benefit of the stretch., This exercise stretches the groin area and the inner thighs. To perform it correctly, sit on the ground and bend your legs so that the soles of your feet rest against each other. Your knees should be pointing up and out to the sides. Hold an ankle in each hand and rest your elbows on your knees. Using your elbows, exert a downward pressure on your knees, until you feel the stretch in your groin and inner thighs. Hold this position for approximately ten seconds. Repeat, if desired.As your flexibility increases, you will eventually be able to touch your knees to the ground - though this may take some time.
 To perform this stretch, extend one leg in front of your torso and the other leg behind, placing a hand either side of your body for support. Slowly lower yourself as far into the stretch as you can go. You should feel a significant stretch, but it should not be painful. Hold the position for ten to thirty seconds. Repeat with the opposite leg in front, to stretch both sides equally.









Although you will probably be unable to achieve a full front splits until your flexibility increases dramatically, practicing the movement helps to stretch the hamstring and iliopsoas muscles and is a great way to work on your flexibility, while seeing measurable results., To get into position for this stretch, lie down facing the ground, then prop yourself up on your toes and elbows. Your elbows should be directly under your shoulders and the palms of your hands should be flat on the ground, pointing straight ahead. Make sure your spine is straight, forming a line from your head down.To do the stretch:









Lift your right arm off the ground and point it straight ahead, until you feel the stretch in your core. Hold the stretch for ten seconds, then return to your starting position. Repeat with your left arm.When you have finished with your arms, lift your right leg off the ground and stretch it out directly behind you, toes pointing towards the ground. Hold for ten seconds, then repeat with the opposite leg.Next, simultaneously lift your right arm and leg off the ground and stretch them both together. Hold the stretch for ten seconds before returning to the starting position. Repeat with the left arm and leg., To perform this stretch, place your feet slightly more than shoulder-width apart and bend your knees slightly. Interlock your fingers, palms facing outward, and stretch your arms out in front of your chest at shoulder-height. You are performing the exercise correctly if you can feel a slight stretch between your shoulder blades. Hold for ten to fifteen seconds.








Allow your upper back to relax, in order to really get the full benefit of this stretch.
