 Movement is one of the best ways to manage osteoarthritis pain and physical therapy can help to get you moving.Physical therapy teaches you how to move properly and is beneficial for anyone who is feeling stuck and unsure of how to move without causing additional pain.
Doing everyday activities without excessive difficulty, is one of the primary goals of physical therapy.If you are using assistive devices, physical therapy can also teach you how to use them properly.
Physical therapy may be the best option for you if you'd like someone to initially show you how to do exercises and increase movement. If you've recently begun using assistive devices, this may be another reason to choose physical therapy.;
, Increased function and mobility are some of the benefits of assistive devices, but they aren't necessary for everyone who has osteoarthritis.Devices include everything from scooters to walkers and splints and can be found at most pharmacies or large retail stores such as Walmart. For more specialized products such as custom braces, you will need to speak with your doctor in order to purchase them.
It's important to always consult your doctor before purchasing or using an assistive device. If not worn or used properly, such devices can do more harm than good.
Assistive devices may be a good option for you if your activities and movement have been limited by osteoarthritis. They can be used in correspondence with both physical therapy and medication.
 There are a wide variety of medications, which can be used to manage osteoarthritis pain. Options range from pills and syrups, to lotions and injectables.


Osteoarthritis medications typically fall into one of four categories:

Analgesics. These are pain relievers, which can be found over the counter. Acetaminophen, and opioids (narcotics) are two fairly common analgesics.Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). While analgesics help with pain relief, NSAIDs help to manage inflammation. Aspirin and ibuprofen are two common NSAIDs and can be found over the counter.
Corticosteroids. These powerful anti-inflammatory medicines are either taken orally or, with a doctor's assistance, are injected directly into a joint.Hyaluronic acid. Another type of injection administered at a doctor’s office is hyaluronic acid, which acts as a shock absorber and lubricant.Always consult a doctor before using one of these treatments, even if it’s something that can be found over the counter.
You should choose medications based on the severity of your pain and how much it affects your day to day life. For example, mild to moderate pain may be treatable with an over the counter medicine, while severe pain may only be treatable with an injectable medicine.
 If you'd prefer to focus on in-home treatments, consider using bath salts. It has been determined that high levels of salt can be beneficial to managing inflammation associated with osteoarthritis.One of the biggest benefits to epsom salt is the lack of side effects.
To use epsom salt at home, you'll need to first purchase some from a local pharmacy. Read the instructions on the back for further details, but typically you need to dissolve about two cups of salt with warm water before adding it your bath. You can also soak a towel in the mixture and can wear it as a compress.
This may be the best course of treatment for those who prefer natural remedies to using medications.
 To learn more about osteoarthritis, consider joining a support group. You’ll not only have access to information, but will meet people who are in a similar situation.


One of the easiest ways to start taking control of your osteoarthritis is by getting involved in a support group.
There are many ways in which you can benefit from an osteoarthritis support group. From an educational standpoint, you’ll learn more about osteoarthritis. Physically, you’ll be encouraged to get moving and to stay active. Emotionally, members are less likely to be depressed and experience greater self-confidence., Although it may hurt to even think about it, staying active is crucial to managing osteoarthritis.


To help ease any burden on your joints and to reduce pain you should strengthen your muscles through frequent exercise.Go for a walk around the block or do some yard work. Remember that it’s important to stay active without overdoing it.
If high impact land exercises are too painful, consider swimming. Swimming helps to alleviate the stress on joints, which may be affected by osteoarthritis.Simple exercises you can do at home include:

Arm circles - Stretch your arms out to your sides. Keeping them straight, make small circles for as quickly and as long as you can.
Half squats - Start by standing up straight. Next, squat down about halfway between a standing position and a seated position with your legs at a 90-degree angle. Hold that position for 30 seconds or as long as you can manage., Maintaining a healthy diet is important to your overall health and your waistline.


Losing weight can play an important role in managing osteoarthritis pain, as excess weight adds stress to your joints and other affected areas.Some foods to stock up on include fish, which contains omega-3 fatty acids, as well as red and purple fruits such as cherries.When you’re cooking try substituting olive oil for butter. Olive oil is not only better for your heart, but contains anti-inflammatory properties.In general, substituting junk food with healthy alternatives (think cauliflower for mashed potatoes) will help you to improve your diet, while making it easier to keep the weight off.
 To help manage stiffness in your joints, don’t forget to include stretching in your daily routine. Slow, gentle movements are beneficial in improving flexibility and stiffness as well as reducing pain.Try a yoga or tai chi class. Tai chi focuses on slow movement, breathing and meditation, while yoga helps to ease pain through certain poses such as the downward facing dog.

To do the downward facing dog, start on your hands and knees, with your hands slightly in front of your shoulders. Pressing back, raise your knees away from the floor and lift your tailbone up toward the ceiling.


One of the stretches you may want to include in your daily routine is the cat stretch. This stretch is easy to do from home and will help to improve flexibility. Kneel with your arms on the floor in front of you shoulder width apart. Push your spine to the ceiling and hold, then push your spine down and lift your head.
 If you have the ability to relocate, you may want to consider moving to a warm, dry climate. Some people have found that living in a warmer climate helps to relieve symptoms associated with osteoarthritis.Before you make the choice to move, consider what you'll be leaving behind. Family support should be a factor in your decision, as should having to find a new doctor.
Know that even if you move to a warmer climate, there's no guarantee you'll experience less pain.
This may be an appropriate choice for you if you've recently retired and were already considering relocating to a warmer spot.

