 Take note of the cow's body temperature, stress level, thirstiness, and degree of being stuck.

If it's summertime and the cow is overheating, focus on getting water into it soon.;
, Find 3 or 4 people who are knowledgable with cows and have them help you. It's possible to free the cow by yourself but it'll be a lot more difficult.

You probably won't need to call a vet, but keep the vet's number handy just in case.
 Below is what to use to free the cow:

Shovels
Hand trowel
Buckets of water for refilling the spritzer
Clean water spritzer
Hair conditioner for lubricating the cow's neck
Cow treats or grass

, Talk to it quietly and if it's a tame cow, pet it to reassure it., If it's summertime and the cow's been stuck for awhile, you need to make cooling it down a priority.

Take the water spritzer and start spraying the cow's body, starting from the hooves and working your way up the body. Do this every few minutes so the cow won't overheat.
Use the water spritzer to spray water into the cow's mouth. This may take awhile but the cow will probably be glad for the water and hydration is important.
 Pour some water over the area around where it's stuck, and then pour conditioner over that. Don't put your fingers in between the cow and the fence unless you want to maybe lose your fingers.,, This may take awhile, so it's best if you can have other people calming the cow and cooling the cow while you work.

Starting with the shovels, dig up as much dirt around and under the cow's head as you can while being careful to not hit the cow.
Take the hand trowel and continue digging all around the cows head, all under the cow's head, and under the cow's throat area. Work fast but try to stay safe.
If you get to a spot where the hand trowel won't fit, use your fingers to dig. As much as possible, try to avoid putting your hands in places where the cow could easily hurt them.



Once the cow is free, keep an eye on it for 30 minutes or so to make sure that it's alright. Make sure the cow has easy access to food and water and call your vet if anything's worrying you.

