 Your product may be a protein powder designed to assist in the muscle development of weight lifters. Or it may be fitness equipment that can be used by teenagers and adults.


Pinpoint the market segment. Focus on the characteristics of the groups who will benefit most from your product. Identify their age, geographic location, gender, education level, health needs and all other classifiable characteristics.;
, Write a short and clear description of your product, its main features and most significant benefits for consumers. The description should be easily understood by your target audience.
 Based on the characteristics of your target audience, locate message boards that are frequented by potential consumers. For example, if you are selling a diet book, find message boards that discuss dieting or weight loss strategies.


Look for related message boards. Based on your market research, you might find that active dieters fall into a specific age group, for example, college students or stay-at-home mothers. Search for health sections on these forums and participate in the discussions.
 Avoid simply posting a product advertisement on a health message board. Establish credibility with forum members by interacting, sharing your knowledge on discussion topics and demonstrating your expertise.
 When it seems clear that your product offers a solution or meets a specific health need on a message board where you have already established yourself as a respected member, share a link to your product along with a brief description.
 Return several times per day to the message board(s) where you have posted your product link to answer any questions or to observe discussions about your product.
 You will know when your marketing strategy is successful because forum members will thank you for sharing your product link and will purchase your product. Others will post your link to their social networks. Forum members may ask you to elaborate on your product's features.
 If no one uses the forum link to visit your product web page and/or if you receive little to no acknowledgment for posting the link, your marketing approach needs revision.


Reexamine your product description. Ensure that it clearly communicates value to the consumer.
Reevaluate your choice of health message boards. Determine if you are focused on the appropriate sites and people for your product.
Consider how much time you have spent on the board. It is possible that you have not invested enough time on the particular message board or have not shared enough about your expertise for people to know you and trust your recommendations.

