 Your investment decisions will be driven by how much income you need for retirement. For example, you’ll want to cover as many basic living expenses with predictable income, so calculate how much you need to pay the bills.Calculate the following:


housing costs
monthly utilities (heat, electricity, gas, water, phone, etc.)
insurance, including health insurance
food and clothing
transportation
any debts you’ll have to pay

, Many calculators are available online that you can use to get an estimate of how much you’ll need for retirement. You can find them online by typing “retirement calculator” and searching through the results.


The typical calculator will ask for your current age and retirement age. Plug in the amount you have saved and your current income.These calculators make different assumptions which may not be correct. For example, they might assume you only need a certain percentage of your current income to live on.
However, calculators are a good rough guide. For more precise calculations, you should meet with your financial advisor.
 You might want an amount more than is necessary to pay your bills. In that case, estimate how much you want. For example, you might want to use your retirement to travel or start a small business.


Add this amount to your basic living expenses. If you intend to do a lot of travelling, then you’ll need to make much more than your basic living expenses.
 Your advisor is your key source of information and advice. If you have an employee-sponsored retirement plan, then there should be financial advisors you can meet with. Call your plan administrator and ask. If you don’t have an advisor, then get referrals from family and friends or another professional, like an accountant. Talk about the following with your advisor:


Your financial goals for retirement. It’s easier to come up with an investment strategy if you know your goals.By knowing your goal, your advisor can figure out the rate of return you will need.
How long your retirement might last. People are living longer and longer. As of 2010, the average retirement was 25 years.Whether you should consolidate your savings to make the withdrawal process easier.
Your tolerance for risk. You should come up with an investment strategy you are comfortable with. You also shouldn’t plan on being riskier than you need to be in order to reach your investment goals.
 There are tax considerations involved with each investment decision. You want to fully understand those consequences before investing or withdrawing from an investment.


Find an accountant or other tax professional and schedule an appointment. You can find an accountant by looking in the phone book or by asking someone you know. You can also find a certified public accountant by obtaining a referral from your state’s Society of Certified Public Accountants.
Also meet with an estate attorney. If you want to reduce your tax obligation in retirement, then you may need to shelter assets in a trust or other vehicle. You’ll want a lawyer to describe your options to you and draw up the legal documents.
If you don’t have an estate attorney, then you can find one by contacting your state or local bar association.Ask for a referral.

