 Our bodies respond to light. Sunlight and brightness signal that it is time for us to be up and active. Night and darkness, on the other hand, indicate that it is time for us to rest. One way to help your toddlers adjust to daylight savings time is to adjust the lights accordingly.It may be still be light outside at your toddlers’ bedtime in the spring. Try dimming the lights and closing the curtains at bedtime when daylight savings time is beginning.
Try turning the lights on or trying a brighter light in the mornings, when it may still be dark outside.
During the fall, when daylight savings time is ending, you may want to leave the lights on bright in the early evening.
When daylight savings time is ending you may also want to invest in some blackout curtains or shades to keep the morning sun out.
 Providing your toddler with nutritious foods that support their varying levels of activity and rest during the day is one way to help them adjust to daylight savings time.During the day, especially in the morning, you want your toddler to have energy and focus. Meals and snacks that promote their active day time lifestyle is a great way to help them maintain their energy throughout the day. At night, try to give your toddlers foods that promote sleep.


Give your toddler unrefined grains and foods with unprocessed sugar, like fruit, for breakfast. For example, you might prepare oatmeal topped with blueberries and strawberries.
Avoid sugars and spicy foods at night. Sweets, soft drinks, and spicy chips may have your toddler fighting sleep well after bedtime.
Try complex carbohydrates or meats that contain tryptophan to help children feel tired. For example, you might have roasted chicken for dinner.
 Playing and interacting with their environment is how toddlers learn. Sometimes extra activity at the right time can use up just enough energy to get toddlers ready to relax. Some sources, suggest, however, that extra activity before bedtime can actually make young children too tired to go to bed.Instead, they may become cranky, fidgety, or even get a burst of energy.


During the daylight savings time changes, make sure your toddler is getting enough activity during the day to engage and tire them, but provide them quiet activities in the evening so they can calm down.
As daylight savings time approaches, you may want to end high-energy activities earlier in the evening and start calming and relaxing activities earlier.
As daylight savings time comes to an end, consider extending moderate-energy activities a little later into the night. For example, physical activity like practicing martial arts forms, yoga, or a leisurely stroll might be good activities.
You may not want to do high-energy activities early in the evening like playing outside. Toddlers may become too tired to stay up the extra few minutes.

