 Before applying any makeup, make sure that your face is clean and clear of any makeup you may have been wearing previously. This will ensure that you are starting with a blank canvas. A clean, fresh face will help the makeup to apply smoothly.;
, Primer is the base for the rest of your makeup. It helps the eyeshadow and liner to adhere to the eyelid without smudging or fading away. It will make your eye makeup last much longer than if you were not to use primer.Makeup primer can be purchased at drug stores and beauty stores. Primer can range in price but you can find quality products at an affordable price, such as Nyx Cosmetics.Primer can be applied with the fingers and a little goes a long way. Squirt a pea-sized amount onto the tip of your finger, rub together with your other finger, and apply to both eyelids.
 Concealer will hide any veins, discolorations, or uneven coloring of the eyelid and will provide a nice, neutral base to work with. Dab a pea-sized amount onto the tip of your finger and apply to the lid. Repeat on the other side. Make sure to blend it until it is absorbed into the eyelid.
 The best type of eyeliner to use to create a graphic eye look is liquid liner. You can also use an angled eyeliner brush and some dark powder to trace where you want your eyeliner to go, but ultimately, you will be using liquid liner to create the look. The best type of liquid liner to use is a brush or a fine-tipped felt pen. These will give you the most precise application.Kat Von D’s Tattoo Liner in Trooper is a popular eyeliner to use that is extremely precise, yet easy to use., Starting at the outer corner of the eye, slowly and carefully draw a line where the eyeliner wing should be. Generally speaking, you will want the wing to extend in the same direction as your lower eyelid. In other words, create a flick that looks as if it is extending straight out from the outer corner of your eye, rather than one that flicks upward or downward too much.


You can use a piece of clear tape to use as a guide and to ensure that the line is straight. This will help you to achieve a more precise line.
Use a concealer brush to fix mistakes. Dab your brush into your concealer and use it to gently cover up any mistakes. If you accidentally drew the line a bit crooked, the concealer will help you disguise the error.
 Now that you have your line, connect it to the top line of your eyelid, along the lash line, creating a cat-eye style eyeliner look. Carefully and slowly finish lining your upper eyelid, taking care not to blink and smudge your liner. It can be helpful to be looking down into a lighted makeup mirror, which can be purchased at grocery or beauty stores, for this part.
 In the same manner as you did the top lid, draw a line on the lower lid that is parallel to, but not touching, the wing on the upper lid. The flick will be going outward from the outer corner of the eye. This will guide you on where the eyeliner should go and what angle it should flick out at.
 The line along the bottom eyelid should gently follow the curve of the lower lash line. It should not be applied to the waterline; rather, it should be applied just below the bottom lashes. Carefully line the bottom lid, making sure the liner is less thick than on the upper lid. Connect to the flick that you drew, creating a smooth, uninterrupted line from one corner of the eye to the other. Repeat on the other side., Use eyeliner to line the top of your upper lash line. The liner will need to be thick enough for you to erase a small section of eyeliner and use the empty space to create a triangle. Creating an eyeliner wing is optional; however, it will add drama to the look.


If you would like to create a wing, draw a straight line starting from the outer corner of your eye to guide where you will want your eyeliner to wing out. Connect the line back to the upper lash line. Finish lining the rest of your upper lash line. When you are finished, you will have a line from one corner of your eye to the other corner, with a wing at the end.
 Hold up a Q-Tip and drape a makeup removing wipe around the tip. The purpose of this is to precisely remove a small section of eyeliner. The Q-Tip will allow you to be more precise than if you just used the tip of your finger with the wipe. Holding the makeup removing wipe on top of the Q-Tip, begin rubbing away a small section of the liner, no wider than the eraser of a pencil, in the middle of the lid.
 After erasing a section of the eyeliner, you will have two sides: a left side and a right side. Starting at the top of line on each side, draw a line at a 45 degree angle going down toward the lash line, meeting in the center of the empty space. This should create a triangle shape. Since this method uses negative space (i.e. your eyelid) to create the triangle, you do not need to fill it in. , Using small and precise motions, line the upper lash line with black eyeliner. Draw the line from one corner of the eye to the other. You can choose to add a wing or not, depending on what you prefer and enjoy doing.
 To add a bit of drama and art to your eyeliner, add a second line, which will be drawn on above the black eyeliner. This will give your eyes a pop of color and will add some flair to your overall look. A thinner eyeliner applicator or brush will help with preciseness.
 Starting from the inner corner of the eye, draw the colored line right above the black line. Using small flicks, draw the line until you have reached the end of the first line. Drawing this line can require a lot of precision, so as not to draw an uneven line that will cover up the black line. It can also be a bit easier because you will be using the first line as a guide.
 When you are finished with your graphic eyeliner look, apply a layer or two of mascara to your eyelashes. Hold the wand at the base of the lashes and gently wiggle it. Then draw the wand upward and outward along the lashes. For a second layer, start at the base of the lashes and move the wand up and outward again.

