 Ask him if he fancies any of them and why. Of course, act natural, as if this is just a conversation to get him to talk about his favorite pastime!


Take note of what he says. If it's not something likely to stick in your head, quickly write down the names of the things he's mentioned so that you can search for them later online or in stores.;
, Look at what your dad has by way of gadgets, apps, tools and resources. Notice where there are gaps or where things could do with updating. For example, maybe he loves iPods and downloading podcasts, music, etc. but he has an older iPod. You could invest in the latest iPod for him. Or perhaps he needs a case for it, or a groovy gadget for wrapping up the cord.
 If you're concerned that your dad already "has it all covered" in his techie interest, consider introducing him to other techie related things that he might enjoy but doesn't yet know much about. Some examples include:


A pen that is able to read and make a record of handwritten notes––this might be ideal for the dad who is techie and loves to travel, spend time outdoors, etc. and totes along a notebook.
A compact disc mixer, so dad can mix his music for fun. Or, give him a portable electronic keyboard so that he can modernize his music playing skills wherever he goes.
A portable light for his laptop, especially if he's always carting it around the house to find some peace!
A slimline travel charger for his iPod or phone that runs on a battery rather than electricity; great if your dad is out and about a lot or travels often.
A new game for his favorite gaming device.
Buy him some cloud computing space to upload his photos, files and other digital goodies.
 Is your dad old-fashioned techie, still playing Atari and using a version of Word you've never heard of? Explain to him that his loyalty to old times is admirable but that he's also missing out on a lot by not moving forward. Be careful though––old-fashioned techies love the way that old things were easily hacked, so the new item may be left gathering dust or it might just find itself inserted into the older technology!

, A book about his favorite techie toys, such as a biography on the inventor of the gadget, a swashbuckling tale featuring techie themes, an insider's guide to pulling apart his techie gadget, etc. Then there are the deeper books about where the internet is taking us as a species, what it means to set information free or to repress it, and so forth, to encourage some deep thinking for dad.
 Look for clothes with symbols, techie phrases or images that you know your dad will love. There are plenty of clothes available through online stores that feature techie or geek symbols, just do a quick online search. Or, consider making your own tee shirt design and printing it yourself.
 Techie dads are just as likely to love DIY hacks that can make his life easier. For example, if you resolve the mess of cords coming off his desk in his home office by coming up with a DIY solution, he'll love it. Here are just a few cool ideas for making your own hacks for dad's gift:



Use bulldog clips to tidy dad's cords under his desk.

Boost dad's wi fi using a beer can. This is great if he likes both beer and all things techie!

Make a multi-purpose hand tool for the dad who likes tinkering.

Turn an old TV into a fish tank. Your dad will be amazed and entertained.

Knit him an iPod cozy, sew him an iPod carrying case or build him a stand for his laptop or iPod. Or, make a laptop bag for him to carry his laptop in style.

Make a duct tape cellphone case for the dad who likes duct tape.

Bake him a cake in the shape of his favorite gadget. There are plenty of photos of cakes in the shapes of iPhones, iPods, computers, keyboards, etc. available online for you to be inspired by. Do a search using an image search engine or check out Pinterest and see what looks possible for your baking and decorating skills.
 If dad loves downloading apps, give him a gift card that covers this pastime to a certain amount. He'll be thrilled to be able to download apps without worrying about being frivolous; it's a gift, so he can try anything out!


You might even like to make suggestions for apps that dad can try out. Write or print these suggestions onto a card that accompanies the gift card. This is a nice way to show that you did more than just grab the card at the store.
 If you're looking for a really big gift, why not find a techie conference that you just know your dad would love to attend? You could cover the flight/travel costs, plus conference entrance and accommodation. Just be sure to check he'll be free for the dates and then make the arrangements. This is a gift sure to floor him.


This might need the help of a friend of your dad's who is willing to go with him or to help with details. Alternatively, consider accompanying him if the conference interests you too.
 Perhaps you could both reverse engineer a gadget that has been annoying you both for a while and see if you can fix it. Or maybe build something new and wonderful together, or at least start the plans for it. Giving dad time with you might be the most enjoyable gift of all.


If you're the organizing type, offer your digital spring cleaning services to dad. Explain to him and show him how to better manage his emails, files and folders and all the digital goodies he is amassing on his computer, cellphone and other electronic devices. If you've always been known as the tidy one in your family, dad will relish this opportunity!

