


Before you can submit your IDP hours online, you must create a record through the National Council of Architectural Registration Board. Most educational architectural programs will require you to create this online record before you start completing intern hours.
If you have not created a record, do so by visiting www.ncarb.org. On the top right hand corner of the page is a link titled "My NCARB Record." Click on this link to go to a login for new members. Be prepared to provide a wealth of information, including your address, birthday, educational training, work experience, and so on.;
,


Once you have created the online record, it is important to orient yourself to it. At your home page, you should see a listing of your general information, as well as several links on both the sides and the bottom of the page.
One of the links on the bottom of the page will be entitled "New-e-EVR," which stands for New e-Experience Verification Reporting System. This is the link through which you will report all of your IDP hours.



While at the "New-e-EVR" page, you will need to enter the name and contact information of the institution through which you are completing your IDP hours. You must do this before you actually enter any of the hours themselves.
You can do this by clicking the "My Employers" tab on the "New-e-EVR" page, and filling out the appropriate information. Be aware that the most important pieces to fill out on this page are your direct supervisor and his or her email address, as he or she will be contacted to confirm the hours which you have listed.



Now that your internship information is complete, you can submit your IDP hours. Do this by clicking on the tab labeled "My Experience." At this point, a new button will appear, titled "Add New Experience." Click on this button to go to the web page where you can enter your IDP hours.
At this page, you will be required to enter the dates during which the IDP hours were completed. In addition, you must be prepared to convert your actual hours of work into IDP hours. Remember that 8 hours of work equals 1 IDP unit.



After all of the IDP units are entered, click on the button labeled "Submit" at the bottom of the page. This will enter all of the claimed hours to the National Council of Architectural Registration Board.
Once you have submitted your claimed hours, the supervisor you listed for your ID will receive an email to confirm or deny your claims.

