 Unlike abandonment, which can potentially be cured simply by re-applying for a trademark or beginning to use it again, if your trademark rights were lost because of improper licensing/assignment or because the mark has become generic, you will likely need to go to court and have a judge decide whether or not your trademark is still protected. The driving force behind trademark law is to protect the word, symbol, phrase, etc. that identifies the owner or producer of a particular good or service in the eyes of the public. Therefore, if your trademark no longer serves as a method for the public to associate your goods or services uniquely with you, you will likely need to look for a new trademark.


If you license or assign your trademark to a third party without controlling how that third party will use your trademark (i.e., not overseeing the type or quality of the goods/services offered under your assigned/licensed trademark), it is possible to lose the rights to your trademark.If your trademark becomes generic—for example, the public uses your trademarked term to refer to all types of similar products instead of the ones that are uniquely yours—you can also lose the rights to your trademark. Some examples of this are the terms "escalator" and "cellophane." These used to be trademarked, but after consumers began to use these terms generically to refer to similar products, these trademarks were no longer protected for the exclusive use of their original manufacturers., The central question in these types of cases is whether or not the public associates a particular trademark with the source or origin of the trademark goods or services.If you are facing a legal challenge to your trademark rights, you will have to present this evidence to prove that you should continue to possess exclusive rights to your mark.


The best way to do this is to conduct a consumer survey. However, since the survey must be specifically designed to prove your trademark is still valid as a means of identifying your product or service in the minds of consumers, and must survey the right type of consumer, it is best to consult with a lawyer for how to design and conduct the survey so that it will be useful in legal proceedings., If your trademark rights are challenged or lost due to improper licensing or because your trademark is used generically, you will need a judge to rule that you still retain exclusive rights to the mark. Therefore, if this is your situation, you will need to consult with a lawyer specializing in trademark litigation and present your case in court. The law governing trademarks is not as well-defined as other areas of law, and the judge will need to examine the very specific facts surrounding your case in order to make a ruling. Having a trained lawyer to help you through this process is by far the best way to protect your trademark rights.

