 Get into the habit of finding activities you enjoy doing. Any type of physical activity that gets your blood pumping is ideal. Try activities like walking, jogging, running or aerobics to get you moving. Walking at a mall may be convenient., Especially if you are working in an office, or sitting in the same position for long periods at a time, taking a stretch break every hour of so can help to increase blood flow. Whether it's touching your toes with your hands, or getting up to take a quick walk and just moving your body, moving your muscles will encourage the blood to flow faster through the tissues, which will in turn help you to feel more energized and alive.
 If you find that you have poor circulation to the extremities (and many people find that their lower legs and feet are most significantly affected), try elevating your legs above the level of your heart. Try putting your legs up on an ottoman or another chair that is higher as the one you are sitting on. You can use a couple of pillows to ensure that your legs are high enough.
 In this case, ask your doctor whether he or she recommends "compression stockings," and ask about where you can get them. They help to return the blood from your extremities back to your heart, which can contribute to improved blood flow.
 Massage can help not only to increase blood flow in the areas being massaged, but also to clear out any toxins that may be lingering from having had insufficient blood flow to that area. You can also ask your massage therapist about essential oils such as rosemary that may help to improve blood circulation.


If you cannot see a professional massage therapist, try doing it yourself. Massage areas of your body that are tight or tense. Inflammation from these muscles can block the pathways that oxygen uses to travel within the body. This often interferes with blood circulation and blood flow. By massaging these muscles, you will release natural occurring toxins within the body and achieve better blood circulation.You can also try using a foam roller as a form of self-massage. Use a foam roller by placing it on the ground and then pressing any sore muscles against it and "rolling." For instance, if a certain part of your leg is tight or sore, such as your IT band or your hamstrings, rest this part of your leg over the foam roller and then roll back and forth to provide a massage to that particular muscle. This can help to stimulate increased blood flow to the area being "massaged" with the foam roller.

