 Brush or comb your hair into two to three sections on each side. This will make it easier to wrap in foil after you apply the bleach and the dye. Tie an elastic band on each segment to mark the tips of your hair. How many inches or centimeters you want to color is up to you.
 This step is a must if you have dark hair. If you skip this step, you probably won’t get the look you wanted. Using an applicator brush, apply the bleach in gentle downward strokes.


If you have blonde or light red hair and are dyeing your hair darker colors, you can skip this step.
 You’ll need several pieces of foil for this step. Wrap each separated section. Allow the bleach to process for at least 10 minutes. Unfold one piece of oil to check the progress. If you want your hair to be lighter, let the bleach set longer.


Your processing time could take up to 45 minutes, depending on how light you want your hair to be., Gently unwrap each piece of foil. Give them a good rinse to remove the bleach. Toss them in the recycling bin.
 Use a hydrating shampoo and conditioner. This will remove the bleach from your hair. Blow dry your hair. Otherwise, it won’t absorb the dye.
 Pour the dye into an old container. If the dye is separated into powder and liquid, mix the ingredients until you don’t see any powder particles. Make sure every last bit of powder gets stirred into the mixture.
 Use the enclosed applicator brush. Paint the dye in slow downward strokes on the entire bleached section of your hair.
 Repeat the steps you took with the first color. Use a separate container for this dye mixture. You will also need a separate applicator brush, if it is not included in the kit.
 Paint the bottom half of the bleached area. In this step, you’ll cover part of the first color. Blend the colors at their meeting point by giving each lock a gently twist., Follow the instructions on the box. Set a timer for the recommended amount of time. This is usually about an hour., Mix one part apple cider vinegar and three parts water in a spray bottle. Spritz the dyed part of your hair. Make sure the spray covers the entire colored section. This helps the color to last longer.Use the rinse every time you wash your hair.

