 To get a proper diagnosis for your dog, you need to take him to the vet. The vet will perform an examination of both eyes to determine which eye is the problem, what is wrong with it, and how inflamed or sore it may be. The vet will probably also examine the eyelids and eyelashes to look for rubbing on the surface of the cornea, such as an inturned eyelash.As well as treating the ulcer, it is important to correct any underlying health problems, such as dry eye or underactive thyroid glands, to prevent the problem recurring. Your vet may perform a full examination to determine if your dog has any other problems related to the ulcer.
 Your vet needs to inspect the eye and record the size, shape, and depth of the ulcer. If the ulcer is superficial and only affecting the epithelial layer, such as a minor scratch, then all that may be needed is a drop to keep the surface of the eye moist so that healing can take place.For ulcers affecting the stroma, an antibiotic drop is prescribed to prevent infection and keep the eye moist. However the antibiotic is only effective for a few hours at a time and so needs to be reapplied every four to six hours, or as advised by your veterinarian. #*Most ulcers heal within five to seven days, and slower healing than this can be indicative of a problem.
Sometimes the vet fits a special 'bandage' contact lens in the affected eye. This aids healing as it keeps moisture in and dust out, and can speed up the recovery time.
 One complication that prevents an ulcer healing is if a rim of damaged epithelia clings to the edge of the ulcer. The cornea heals by sending in new cells from the side, and epithelia tags act as a barrier through which the healing cells cannot pass. If the vet diagnoses this complication, he or she will use a cotton tip to gently rub the surface of the eye and abrade away the unwanted cells. This should then let healing continue.On some occasions, ulcers can be problematic to heal, especially those in Boxers where there is an underlying anatomical problem with the glue holding the layers together. In these cases, the vet may put drops of local anesthetic into the eye and then perform a minor procedure call a grid keratotomy. This involves making tiny partial thickness puncture holes with a hypodermic needle, through the layers of the cornea. This then provides a key for the healing cells to cling onto to allow healing to take place.
On rare occasions, the ulcer is so deep that Descemet's membrane is the last line of defence and it bulges outward. This is potentially very serious because if the membrane ruptures the eye will perforate. This requires a specialist procedure whereby a surgeon grafts a flap of cornea from another part of the eye to cover and repair the hole.

