 Judge whether the skin is oily, dry, combination of both or sensitive. You'll want to buy products specifically for that type.
 Think if you have any skin-related issue like wrinkles, marks, pimples, blackheads, or acne, you can buy products to help with that. Certain products may also cause burning or itching, or aggravate sensitive skin, so you want to be particularly careful if your skin is already sensitive., Read the ingredients of the skin products to avoid any issues., The price of skin care products varies a lot between brands. You don't necessarily have to spend a lot to get good results., If you have specific skin issues and aren't sure how best to help them, talk to a dermatologist., At first, buy a smaller amount, and don't directly apply on face. Try on other area of your skin to see how you react to it. If you don't suffer any bad reactions, you're fine to use it more broadly. Then if you like the product, you can always buy more., Exfoliation is one of the mainstays of improving your skin’s youthfulness by using the human body’s own amazing healing power. The two primary products for exfoliating are microdermabrasion creams and glycolic acid cleansers.


Both serve to remove the outer layer of dull, dead skin cells in your skin. This process has a two fold benefit: not only is younger, fresher skin revealed, but the exfoliation process also stimulates the production of new skin cells. People with dry skin will want to use the microdermabrasion cream. Those with oily or combination skin do best using glycolic acid.
One of several Alpha Hydroxyl Acids available, glycolic acid is the most effective due to its small molecule size, which allows it to penetrate into the skin. When you purchase your glycolic acid, be sure to buy one with a concentration no greater than 10% - anything stronger should be administered by a licensed esthetician or dermatologist. However, a 10% solution can safely be used at home on a daily basis.
As for your microdermabrasion cream, you should buy one with the same mineral crystals used by the professionals – this would be aluminum oxide. Because of the abrasive nature of the microdermabrasion cream, be sure you purchase one that also contains soothing oils such as Jojoba or Shea Butter. Note that after any exfoliation procedure, it is important to use a good quality sunblock or avoid sun exposure for up to a week afterwards.
 There are no magic pills or topical creams that can replace your skin’s collagen.


Fortunately, there is a clever way to accelerate your body’s production of this important skin component: Peptides.
When collagen breaks down, certain peptides are released. These signal your skin that it has been damaged and needs to manufacture new collagen.
The direct application of peptides to your skin will make it think it has recently lost collagen and has to make more.
The most frequently used “signal” peptide for skin care in this function is palmitoyl pentapeptide (Matrixyl). Regular use of peptides can turn back the clock of time by many years. No adverse side effects have ever been reported in the use of peptides.
 While this is the last place you want to use “bargain” products, as stated earlier, be sure you are not paying for fancy packaging and heavy advertising budgets and above all, read the label carefully.


The ingredients are listed in order of concentration, so if the active ingredient is way down the list, the product only contains a token amount.
Without question, the most effective skin hydrating ingredient you can find is Hyaluronic Acid. This amazing compound holds 1,000 times its weight in moisture. Hyaluronic Acid is often touted for its ability to "reverse" or stop aging and has been called the "key to the fountain of youth."
This is because the substance occurs naturally (and quite abundantly) in humans and animals, and is found in young skin, neonatal tissues, and joint fluid. HA is a component of the body's connective tissues, and is known to cushion and lubricate.
As you age, however, the forces of nature destroy this vital skin substance and it needs to be replenished.
 Once you have your arsenal of skin care products on hand, following a careful regimen will give you the younger looking, radiant, smooth skin you desire. Here is the process you need to use. Follow it faithfully and you will see amazing results within a few weeks.


Morning: wash your face with a quality skin cleanser, apply a moisturizer containing hyaluronic acid, then a UVA/UVB sunblock and finally, your makeup.
Evening: depending on your skin type, exfoliate daily with 10% glycolic acid or 2-3 times a week with microdermabrasion cream. Rinse well with clear water, then apply a multi-peptide cream before bedtime.

