 Carve out a niche and pick a catchy title that captures the essence of your blog. Remember that a blog, like your clothes, is an extension of you. For most people, your blog site may be the only thing they identify you with and you want to be sure that who you are on the inside is reflected in your blog.;
, Some claim that posting at least once every day is best. Some also say that three quick posts a day are far more effective than one long post every three days. Yet others still claim that, when they update a blog every other day, they get more readers than when updating two or three entries in a single day. Write whenever you want – it's the content that matters! Whatever you do, remember that, for most bloggers, it's all about reading, and many of them would prefer quality over quantity. Once you get started, you'll find that you attract a certain readership, and you may have to adjust how you work your journal to appease and keep the readers you've obtained.
 Some recommend putting together about a month's worth of material before you tell anyone about your blog. It is recommended that you just start writing and fame will come in time. Feel free to go back and rewrite entries to make everything just the way you want before or after you "go public." You can edit any entry at any time with most blog sites. Writing a popular blog doesn't happen overnight. The essence of the blog stems from making journals which means the blog is FOR YOU. Work it how you feel is most appropriate.
 Often, if you use it as another way to network with people around you, you'll get a better response. If you push it too hard, don't be surprised if they ignore your blog, because they may feel you're fishing for compliments and attention...remember, blogging is about you, and the more attention you put into yourself, the more people are going to notice.
 Read and post to them religiously. Leave a note that actually has something to do with their site so that they know you actually took the time to pay attention to the material posted. Do not expect anything back in return. Just commenting will cause others to be more likely to visit your blog and do the same. Often, when you make comments to sites, a link to your own personal site will already be included with your comment, unless you are posting from one hosting site to the next. If you're at ITW and you read a blog on Myspace, then it would be appropriate to include such a link.
 On most blogger sites, a link to your own blog will be automatically included in your comment. So the more blogs you post on, the more people will be driven to visit your blog. Of course, don't just go on and post one-word spam, because that might keep people away.
 IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THEIR TERMS OF USE, DO NOT USE THE SITE.

