 Start rolling the paper from the bottom left corner towards the upper right corner. When you are halfway across the sheet of paper, pause, and coat the edges of the paper with glue. You don't have to do this, but it will make the wand sturdier.Liquid glue will work the best, but a glue stick or double-sided tape may also work.
If you don't have time to roll paper into a wand, you can use a paper straw for the wand base instead., Coat the upper right corner of the paper with more glue, then smooth the corner down onto the wand. Secure the corner with tape or a clip until the glue dries. Once the glue dries, remove the tape/clip.You can also secure the corner with a strip of double-sided tape instead.
 Use a sharp pair of scissors to do this. If the scissors crush the wand, you can push it back into shape by poking a skewer or knitting needle into it., You don't have to do this, but it will make your wand look more interesting. You can paint it with acrylic paint or with spray paint. Paint one side first, let it dry, then paint the other side.To make the paint last longer, consider coating the want with sealer. You can use the spray-on or the brush-on kind.
 Place a drop of glue at the end of the ribbon, then press the ribbon against the tip of the wand. Wrap the ribbon tightly around the wand in a spiral, like on a candy cane. When you reach the end of the wand, cut off the excess ribbon, then glue the end down.You can make the stripes as far apart or as close together as you want.

Your ribbon can be as thick or as thin as you want it to be. Something between ¼ and ½ inch (6 and 13 millimeters) wide would work the best.You can also use colored or patterned washi tape instead of ribbon.For something different, decorate the handle with glitter glue inside. Let the glue dry before moving on.
 You don't have to do this, but it will give your wand a nice touch. It will also help cover the hole at the bottom of the wand. If you don't have any rhinestones, you can use a pretty button, charm, or glass gem instead. Choose a small one that is the same width as the bottom of the wand., Cut several strips of thin ribbon that are at least half the length of your wand. Something between ⅛ and ¼ inch (3.5 and 6 millimeters) wide would work the best. Line the ribbons up along a strip of tape, then wrap the tape around the tip of your wand. Make sure that the ribbons are hanging down the length of the wand and not sticking out of the top.

Try sheer and/or metallic ribbon for a magical touch.
Avoid making the ribbons longer than your wand, or they may get tangled.
You can use curling ribbon. Be sure to curl them with scissors first.
 Use a cookie cutter or a stencil to trace two identical shapes onto a sheet of cardstock. Cut the shapes out with a sharp pair of scissors when you are done. Hearts and stars are great choices, but you can use another shape too.

If you can't find any cardstock, you can use poster paper, a folder, or even thin cardboard.
If you are using thin cardboard, use a craft blade to cut the shapes out instead.
 Unless you already like the color of your cardstock, you will need to paint it. You can use acrylic paint, poster paint, or even spray paint. You only need to paint one side of each shape. The other side will eventually be on the inside of the wand.

To make the wand last longer, seal the shapes with a clear sealer.
 Here is where you can let your imagination run wild. Outline the shapes with glitter glue. Hot glue a pretty rhinestone in the middle of the shape. Add some sequins in the corners. The possibilities are endless! You can decorate your shapes as much or as little as possible.

You can make them match or you can make them different.
Go with a theme. For a mermaid wand, add some seashells!

, Turn the first shape so that the back, plain side is facing you. Draw a vertical line of glue down the center, starting from the middle and finishing at the bottom. Press the tip of the wand into the glue. The wand needs to be halfway inside the shape., Coat the tip of the dowel with more glue. Next, draw a thin line of glue around the edges of the first shape. Quickly press the second shape on top. Make sure that the decorated part is sticking out, and the edges line up with the first shape., Use paper clips, clothespins, or binder clips to hold the edges of the shapes together. If any glue leaks out from under the shapes, quickly wipe it away with a damp cloth. Once the glue dries, you can pull the clips off.You don't need to secure the shapes in the middle where the dowel is. Doing so may create an unsightly bump.

