 Find a shampoo that works well for your hair. Brush it every morning when you wake up and every night before you go to bed. Don't straighten or curl it every day without using some sort of heat treatment.;
, Find a good cleanser to wash your face with. Every morning and night, spend four minutes massaging your face with it. Get around your nose and right up to the hairline of your forehead. Rinse your face with warm water, then with cold water to close your now-clean pores. Pat your face, and apply pimple cream as needed. Always moisturize after to keep your skin soft and smooth!

, Everyday, file your nails so they don't get scraggly. Clean them once a week with a nail scrubber. As needed, clip them. If you want to, you may polish your nails or go to a nail salon. This goes for toenails, too!

, Instead of filling up on junk food, eat fruits and vegetables. Eat three square meals a day, with some healthy snacks in between. Never skip breakfast! Skipping the most important meal of the day results in a slower metabolism, which causes faster weight gain. Try to make your meal last at least 20 minutes. Eating slower tells you when you're full and need to stop. Try to not eat when watching TV, unless it's healthy. Bring a bottle of water everywhere with you. It keeps you hydrated and flushes toxins out of your body.
 Try to get 60 minutes of physical exercise per day. Switch it up! Don't do the same boring routine each day. Your body will get tired of it and you won't be doing anything but being bored. So try jumping rope one day and swimming the next.
 Don't just stand under the water! Lather your body with a body wash. Wash your hair once every other day with a shampoo that's designed for your type of hair. Keep the conditioner in for a while. If you need to shave, spread a layer of shaving cream or body wash on the desired area and shave gently and slowly. Don't use soap to shave, because it dries out your skin. Apply lotion after you get out.


Don't shave your under arms everyday. This can cause redness and irritation, and be very uncomfortable. Shave every 2-3 days to avoid this.
 Brushing your teeth is important for good dental health. Skipping out on brushing could leave you with smelly breath, and maybe yellow teeth, and eventually lead to dental problems. Brush two times a day for two minutes each. Also, use a tongue scraper to get rid of bad breath and to keep your tongue clean. And don't forget about the mouthwash and floss!

