 You can buy a pre-started basil plant, or you can start a seed from scratch. Start seeds indoors four to six weeks before the last frost of the winter. Basil needs warm air and sun to do well, so it's often easiest to start the seeds indoors instead of risking that they'll get damaged by frost. If you live in a hot climate, you can start the seeds outside instead.
 Fill flats or individual seed containers with a mixture of equal parts perlite, vermiculite, and peat. Press the mixture slightly to eliminate air pockets. Dampen the mixture with water so it's ready to provide the right environment for the basil seeds to germinate.
 Drop one to two seeds into each container. Cover them lightly with soil. Cover containers with clear plastic kitchen wrap, so they stay moist. Leave the containers in a sunny window. Water them twice daily.


If you are using containers that are wrapped in plastic, then you only need to water them every 3-4 days. To do so, remove the plastic, add the water, and then re-wrap the plant. Once the first leaves emerge, remove the plastic wrap.
 Once two sets of leaves have formed, you're ready to plant your basil into your garden or into permanent containers. Basil does not tolerate frost, so don't plant too early. It's best to put basil in well-drained soil, where it will get a good deal of sunshine.To plant the basil in the garden, dig holes spaced at least six inches (15.2 cm) apart. Place the roots in the holes and place soil around the stems. Pat down soil around the plants to eliminate air pockets.
If you want to plant the basil in a container, make sure it's large enough to accommodate the number of plants you're growing. Basil grows quite large, as herbs go, so plant your starts at least six inches (15.2 cm) apart.
 Basil does best in well-drained soil, and it won't grow well in standing water. Water the mature basil plants once a day or twice a week, depending on how damp the soil feels.


Water your plants in the morning so that the water has time to soak in and evaporate rather than sitting on the plants overnight.
 When you see flower buds, pinch them off, along with the two pairs of leaves beneath them. Blooming flowers spark a hormone change which dramatically reduces the flavor and quantity of new leaves. This is called "bolting," and is more likely to happen when there's extra sunshine.


If you leave the flowers, the plant will become tall and lean, and the leaves won't be as full or tasty.
 As the plant matures, pinch off the top two pairs of leaves once a stalk reaches a reasonable height. If you look closely, at the base of every leaf are two tiny little leaves that will grow outwards if the stem growing between them is cut off. Cut close to those tiny leaves, but be sure not to damage them.Pinching encourages the plant's energy to be directed into its stronger stems and leaves. This helps the plants grow thick and healthy.
Don't pinch on the lower part of the stem, or the basil plants will grow tall and reedy. You want them to get bushy – so pinch from the top.

