 IMAP refers to Internet Message Access Protocol, which is a protocol email clients use to retrieve messages. Begin by signing into your Gmail account and clicking on Mail. Then select Settings, which can be found in the upper, left-hand corner of your window., This should be the sixth option to the right.
 Finish by clicking on Save Changes and finally closing your browser. This will allow your Gmail messages to be retrieved by another email client.
 You'll find this option at the top of your window to the left., This should be third option from the top.
 This is the second option after General, and it's where you'll be able to manage any email accounts you have with Apple Mail.
 You'll see this near the bottom of the lefthand column.
 You'll need to type in your Full Name, Email Address and Password to the appropriate fields. Use your Gmail information for the requested email and password.


This will cover all the information needed if you're using an @gmail.com account. However, if you're using a Google Apps account, you'll be prompted for some additional information upon clicking Continue.
Google Apps users must enter additional information on the next screen. Select IMAP as your Account Type, enter a brief description of the account (e.g. Gmail) and type imap.gmail.com into the text box. Then click Continue.
Google Apps users should then enter another description on the next screen, type smtp.gmail.com into the field for Outgoing Mail Server, check the box for Use Authentication and click Continue. Click Continue on the next screen as well before proceeding to the next step.
 This screen will appear once Apple Mail has verified the account information you entered. It should say Gmail IMAP next to Account type.


You'll also be given the option to check boxes for setting up Notes, Calendars & Reminders and Messages. This is your call and simply depends on the extent to which you want to integrate your Gmail functions with Mail.
Once you press Create, you'll be taken back to the preferences screen.
 Leave the box under Junk checked while unchecking the boxes for Drafts, Sent and Trash mail. This will reduce the amount of unnecessary clutter on your server.
 A prompt will appear asking if you wish to save your changes, and you should select Save.
 To ensure Gmail is now linked to your Apple Mail client, check for welcome email from Gmail.

