 Before you dispose your tree, you have to remove all decorations and trappings on the tree. This includes any tree skirts, ornaments, lights, garland, tinsel, and ornament hooks.Once your tree is back to its natural state, consider putting a large tree bag over the tree to keep everything contained until you figure out how you’re going to dispose it.


It’s better to not let your tree get too dry before you dispose it. That’s because dry trees are fire hazards, since they burn so quickly.Dry trees are also more of a hassle to clean up since dead pine needles fall off more readily.;
, Some communities provide specific yard waste pickup services along with normal garbage pickup services. If you live in a community that provides this yard waste service, call or check online to find out the details about their Christmas tree pickup service., Some waste management units will offer Christmas tree pickup services during normal collection schedules or a couple weeks following the Christmas season.Call or search online to contact your local waste management unit and ask about their practices and policies regarding Christmas tree collection.


Oftentimes, curbside pickup is available, where all you have to do is leave your tree on your curb, or where your garbage is collected. When trees are collected, they are often chopped down and chipped into mulch.This mulch sometimes goes to enhance public areas, but it’s a possibility that you may be able to pick up some mulch for your own gardening needs.
 Most recycling centers offer Christmas tree drop off services, where you can bring and leave your tree to be recycled.This is similar to the services your local waste management unit may provide, but not all communities have that waste management pickup option. To see services provided by local recycling centers, simply call or search online for further details.


Most times, Christmas trees will be chipped into mulch (which again, you can most likely take home with you) that is normally used for public outdoor areas, parks, or erosion barriers for various water shorelines., Search online and call some local non-profit organizations to inquire about any Christmas tree collecting initiatives. Some common organizations that hold collection programs are home department stores and certain boy and girl scouts chapters, but more options can be found online.Usually these services are free, but even though these are non-profit organizations, a small donation may sometimes be encouraged., There are some companies that specialize in delivering Christmas trees for the holiday season, but there are also some companies that can pick up your tree once you’re finished with it.Search the internet for local companies that can stop by and take your tree away for you. Sometimes, the companies that deliver the Christmas trees also have a pickup service.


The pickup fee is usually based on the size of the tree., In some areas, local fire stations accept dropped off Christmas trees after the holiday season.The drop off period can extend a few weeks into the New Year. Normally, the trees accepted get sent to be mulched and recycled.Any trees that are dropped off, need to be in their original state without decorations and ornaments.

