 This is a basic spell that requires no exotic ingredients or astrological charts. This spell is meant to attract more friends and to enhance your sexual attraction if you're looking for more than friends. If you have a particular individual in mind, plan to focus on him or her during this ritual as a way to draw that person to you or to strengthen the bond that already exists between the two of you.


Thoroughly clean your bathroom. We're not talking about a psychic cleansing here; do a true cleaning with cleanser and anti-bacterial products. Cover your mirrors with white or pink towels or sheets.






Draw a bath and add a handful of sea salt or other salt to the water while saying: "Negativity is washed away. I am renewed as of today! Many heads will turn my way, the ones I chose will wish to stay."






If you don't have a bathtub, tie the salt up in a washcloth while saying the above words, and use it in the shower.


Light three white votive candles or place three floating candles in the bathtub. Relax and focus on your body as you anticipate entering the water--think and feel how sensual it is and how beautiful you are. Focus on what you like about yourself. If you're casting this spell for a certain person, begin focusing on him or her now.






Turn off the lights and turn on your favorite music if possible. Choose music that's in line with your desired end result.






If you're looking for wild romance and hot love, pick something that makes you feel reckless and sexy. If you desire a soulmate and someone who makes you feel safe, choose music that makes you feel calm and peaceful. For general attraction, you may want a happy, mellow song.


Enter the bath and relax. Make sure every part of your body is immersed in the water at least once. Shampoo and condition your hair; shave if appropriate. Cleansing is an important part of this ritual.






When you're finished, repeat the words of the incantation you spoke before you entered the bath. This time, add the following line to close the spell: "I am blessed, I am loving, I am loved and love myself! I am love!"






Follow your intuition and add any other elements that feel right to you. These could include incense, bath oils made with herbal extracts or essential oils, your favorite perfume or cologne, a cup of herbal tea or a bath towel purchased specifically for this ritual.
 If you had love but lost it through circumstances, personal difficulties or outside interference, you can use this spell to try to reunite with your lost love.


Purchase six candles. You'll need one candle in each of the following colors: red, green, yellow and blue You'll also need two pink candles.






Place the candles at the appropriate compass points. Place the red candle in the southern corner of your space, green in the northern, yellow in the eastern and blue in the western.






Light all six candles. Hold the two pink candles in your hands and face the red candle. Chant the following until you feel satisfied: "Beautiful Goddess, powerful God, hear my prayer! Lords of fire, burn my desire, times three. If it is meant to be, Bring (insert name) back to me."







, It's best not to blow out candles used in a spell; allow them to burn down on their own.
 This spell is meant to draw to you a partner who's suited for you at this time in your life. Before you cast this spell, be sure you're ready for this level of commitment. You shouldn't undertake this if you're simply curious about the one who is "meant" for you. You must be prepared to take responsibility for any results and consequences.


You'll need to do a little preparation before beginning this spell. Get some special paper, whatever that means to you--real parchment paper, paper made of cotton or hemp or a sheet of decorative paper. You'll also need a ritual writing instrument. Again, you decide if that's a quill pen, fountain pen, favorite ballpoint or calligraphy marker. It shouldn't be something you use daily to jot down the grocery list. Finally, pick up moon incense and charcoal and a small heart-shaped box or box decorated with hearts.






Pick the perfect time. Ideally this spell should be cast after dark; if you can do it during the waxing moon, all the better. You will have the power of the moon incense working for you, so you can be a little flexible with your time without diminished results.






Reinforce your aura through meditation and/or cleansing. Using your ritual pen and paper, write words of power that will call the most perfect partner to you at this time. Do not include specific names and avoid thinking of a specific person. You may or may not have even met your soul mate yet, so leave everything open to possibilities.






If you can't quite come up with what feel like the right words, use the following: "If there be a perfect match, this work tonight will surely catch. the perfect one who is meant to be, shall find His/Her way home to me. In perfect love and perfect trust, I send this out, but not from lust. This spell will guide us to unite, free will remains with us tonight."


When you're are finished, read over what you wrote and make sure you've said everything you wanted to say, and nothing's been left out. Then spend some time meditating on your goal while you light your ritual fire or the charcoal.






Continue your meditation until you feel that everything is right, your will is focused and your sense of certainty is secure. When the fire has become coals or the charcoal is glowing, read what you've written aloud three times. As you read or when you come to the end of each repetition, sprinkle about a tablespoon of the moon incense on the fire.

If you have never used moon incense with a ritual fire, you should practice a few times. Flames will leap up along the dust trail of this incense powder, so you must be extremely careful. There will be sparks of incense outside of this trail of flames as well--also dangerous. Toss in the incense all at once; don't trail the dust or sprinkle it. Do not wear gauzy or loose clothing or sleeves that trail. Be very careful.


Fold the paper and place it in your heart box; this is your spell box. Put it in a safe place with positive energy. Now forget about it. Let nature, fate and the spirits do their work to bring your soulmate to you.







