 Carefully read the assignment prompt from your professor or whatever instructions you have for your writing project. Make sure you clearly understand the requirements of the assignment and what the expected outcome is. This will give you clues as to what kind of research you should do, what kind of question your thesis should answer, and what the paper should accomplish.;
, Once you have picked a subject, practice a brainstorming activity in which you write down everything you know about the topic. This will help you make connections about what you already know and figure out where there are existing gaps in your knowledge. True brainstorming involves simply writing down everything you know about a topic without much care given to the organization, time spent, or outcome. But there are several more structured methods of brainstorming that include:



Freewriting. Freewriting is an exercise that involves giving yourself a time limit (usually 5-10 minutes) and writing continuously until that time is up. Don’t worry about grammar, punctuation, sounding academic, or anything like that. The most important thing is that you don’t quit writing at any point. At the end of the exercise, hopefully you’ll be able to see that you know more than you thought you did and start making connections between your existing ideas.Clustering or mapping. This technique involves making a kind of map by jotting down some of your ideas and then visually (by color coding or drawing lines between connected items) linking items that share some similar traits. This will help you see connections more clearly., Do some preliminary research about your topic. Choose reliable, reputable sources and focus specifically on areas that you already know less about.Reputable sources for papers include scholarly books and articles that you can find in the library, in online academic databases (like Academic Search Complete, JSTOR, World Cat, etc.), or in Google Scholar.
Avoid sources like Wikipedia, personal blogs, or other non-academic websites. A good way to tell if a source is reliable is to look at the credentials of the author. If the person who wrote the source has a PhD in a related field, they are an expert, whereas a journalist or blogger might have less strict requirements for fact-checking their information., A good thesis statement should be many things, and interesting is one of them. A topic you find boring will be boring to your readers as well. Try to think of something that you are genuinely interested in understanding because that will help you create a paper that is more engaging for your audience.
 Your introduction paragraph, and your thesis statement in particular, is like a preview of your entire paper. It should tell the reader what your main idea is and why it matters. The reader should be able to understand the position you will take in the paper simply by reading the thesis statement.Look, for example, at this thesis statement: “Because certain herbal supplements promote rapid weight loss that results in the loss of lean body mass and muscle, they pose a potential danger to customers.” This thesis idea tells the reader what your main idea is (assessing the risks of herbal supplements), what side of the argument your opinions fall on (that these supplements can be dangerous), and gives a piece of evidence (loss of muscle and lean body mass) that grounds your claim in fact.
 One of the main goals of a thesis statement is to tell the reader where this paper will take them. The reader should have a clear understanding of your main idea, where the paper will start, and, in general, what conclusions you will draw at the end., It is important to show your reader that you are making claims based on facts, not just your opinions or whims. Provide some (but not all) of your evidence in your thesis statement to prove that you have done your research and that your paper will be a fair accounting of the topic.
 It is okay to change your thesis as you get further into your research project. As you discover new evidence, your ideas about the topic will change. So, you should expect to end with a different version of your thesis than you started with., A thesis statement should be an arguable idea, meaning that someone could potentially hold and argue the opposing view. For example, the following thesis statement is weak because it just states a fact: “Exercising is good for you.” It is a proven fact that exercise is good for you and no one would legitimately argue against that. This kind of thesis statement leads to an uninteresting, underdeveloped paper.
 Writing a thesis is tricky business. You must give enough background information to guide your reader, but not overshare and provide too much material in your introduction. A broad thesis statement makes claims that are ambiguous, vague, or overreaching. They attempt to address too many topics for the assignment and don’t have a clear focus. A narrow thesis statement is too single-minded or specific to use in crafting a well-developed essay.Example broad thesis statement: “Sigmund Freud is one of the greatest psychologists in medical history.” This thesis statement is too broad because it is too general/vague and could discuss almost anything. It doesn’t tell you where the paper will go, what the main idea is, or any support for this claim.
Example narrow thesis statement: “Sigmund Freud’s theories on dream interpretation single-handedly changed the evolution of psychoanalysis.” This thesis statement is too narrow because it only allows for one viewpoint (that Freud was the only influence on psychoanalysis), which will lead to an essay that ignores a lot of evidence (other influences on psychoanalysis).
 Generalizing, especially in thesis statements, is dangerous because it attempts to summarize all of the paper’s content into one lump sum idea while omitting any of the supporting details. Statements that generalize tend to start with a phrase like “What it all boils down to is…” or “What this adds up to is…” These kinds of statements are weak because they make a claim that is not backed up by evidence., Some people prefer to write their thesis statement first (and most thesis guidelines are intended for that kind of writing), but others prefer to write the body of their paper first and figure out their argument/claim along the way. Sometimes you don’t know what you’re going to say until you’ve already said it. Give yourself the freedom to change your mind as you discover new information during your research process and amend your thesis idea accordingly.
 What works for one person, might not be the best course of action for you. Don’t get caught up in rules and regulations for writing that might be counterproductive for the way that you work best.
 Once you have finished the process of writing the entire paper, take some time away from the project. In a couple days, review your work and you will see it with fresh eyes. This will allow you more clarity to revise, to see if your argument works, and to determine if your thesis is an accurate representation of the claim you are trying to make. Things to look for include:


That the thesis is supported throughout the paper. In other words, you should not discuss topics in the paper that don’t fit with your thesis idea. Staying on topic is important for clarity in your paper.
That the thesis statement is reflected in the concluding ideas of the paper.

