 Come up with a rough outline showing how you would like each day to play out. List out the activities that you plan to do and how you will move from location to location.Try to create a balance between packing too much into your days and keeping your time too free. Kids don’t do well with boredom, but they also need time to relax and unwind.
 It is inevitable that some part of your plans will go awry. When this happens, give yourself a few minutes to regroup and to think of other options. Keep a calm face, otherwise you might worry your kids. You might even take the opportunity to be spontaneous and ask your children what they would like to do instead.


For example, you might say, "Our tour just got cancelled, but there are other options. Would you all like to visit this nearby park or wait for the next tour time?"

, Keep an eye out for restrooms as you take tours or explore the area. This knowledge will come in handy if one of your children needs to take a quick restroom break. If you don't know where one is, don't be shy about asking locals for help.
 Talk to your hotel concierge, or the front desk, about things to do in the area. If you encounter friendly people at a restaurant or activity, do the same. You can also go online to sites, like TripAdvisor, and learn from what other people have experienced.For example, you might say, “We have time for a quick breakfast before our tour, is there a kid-friendly restaurant in walking distance?"

, Make a deal with your children that they will stow away all technology once you reach your destination. In exchange, agree to buy them a few cool travel items, such as kid-friendly binoculars or a butterfly catcher., Weeks before you start your trip, purchase a language CD or DVD and begin working with your children to learn a few phrases in the local language. Start with things like “hello” and “my name is” and go from there. Of course, don’t push them too hard to learn or they may resent the trip as a result., If you take a tour, make sure to find a guide that is open to customizing a trip to suit the needs of children. This may mean more frequent restroom breaks and/or less taxing walking terrain. Look up online reviews of any guide that you are considering to see what other parents have said.