 It is also important to expand your vocabulary. Do this by keeping a dictionary close by when reading in-case you run into any words you are not familiar with. When ever you have the time, look up synonyms for different words and practice grammar, sentence structure, and other forms of writing skills such as nominalization, descriptive paragraphs, etc. This will help broaden your knowledge of English and you will find your writing more fluent.;
, If the plot is unclear you may find clashing ideas later on in the story so be sure to have a good idea of it before you begin. Be sure to stay away from common ideas and try to create your own unique story line. For example, the story line of the rogue sorceress conquering the world is incredibly clichéd and over used. Think up your own unique story.
 If you are finding this is a problem you could always try basing your characters on someone you know in real life; give them a similar personality, similar physical traits, or a similar name. By doing this you will be able to form a clear image of the character in you head. Be sure to ask permission if you plan on basing your character completely on someone you know. Obviously you can write a decent novel about events that actual occurred, such as the novel, A Captain's Story by Richard Phillips or Touching the Void by Joe Simpson. If your decent novel is about something that really happened, you don't have to create characters.
 Choose where your characters will live; what town, what country, maybe even what world? If you are thinking of writing a fantasy novel it may be difficult to come up with a scene. Open your mind and consider every possibility. It is a good idea to carry a notebook and pen with you wherever you go, as you may see something that inspires a great scene for your novel. If your story is not fantasy / sci-fi, consider using real town names and cities (but be sure to do your research on the town first).
 Another good way to clear your mind is by exercising. Activities such as walking, going to the beach, yoga and meditation can really open up your mind, so give them a go. If none of these methods work for you, there are other ways to open your mind. Try the brainstorming method, write down all the words that come to mind until you feel like your mind has 'expanded'.
 Now would be the time to search for inspiration. Inspiration can be found in the smallest things; music, art work, poems, even the night sky. Watch the world around you, there are many potential stories just waiting to happen. To make sure no potential story goes to waste, always carry a small notebook and pen in your bag and write down ideas that arise. Also, consider your dreams as a potential novel. Yes, dreams may be abstract, but they are also stories just waiting to happen!

, Pretend you are there, inside your story, living the life of your characters. This will give you a sense of how real your story feels. By doing this you can also get a feel of the emotions your characters should be portraying in your novel. Put yourself in the shoes of the character to create real emotions and reactions.
 Reading books daily can expand your mind and English capabilities. Readers gain many benefits from reading, as well as new ideological beliefs and an open mind. If you prefer to stick to mainly one particular genre, try to expand your horizons and read many genres. For example, if you only read fantasy novels, try to begin reading a mystery novel. It is always good to approach life with a ready mind that is open to new ideas.
 If a child is telling you an anecdote be sure to listen carefully, or if you come across children playing a game observe for a little while, (of course you won't want to come off as 'creepy', remember this is all in good nature). If you have children of your own or if you have younger siblings you can look towards them for inspiration. True, at first some anecdotes told by children can seem far fetched, but when done correctly these anecdotes or 'child games' can turn into a brilliant idea for a story.
 You can use their sentences or paragraphs as an outline to help you get started.
 If this is the case, don't be disheartened, but persevere. Writing should be an enjoyable experience and you will know you have done a good job once you are feeling content towards your novel.

