 Mowing the lawn is essential, but mowing too often or cutting the grass too low can dry out an otherwise healthy lawn. Using the same pattern to mow your lawn can also cause stress to the grass from the repeated wheel tracks that follow the same direction week after week.Try changing the direction(s) you mow in every time you cut the grass. It will help cut down on stress to the lawn, and may also prevent divots from forming in your pattern.Set your mower's wheels to the proper height. There is some variance of recommended heights depending on the type of grass in your yard. Tall Fescue grass, for example, should be kept no shorter than two and a half to three inches, while Bermuda grass should be kept between ¾ of an inch and 1½ inches.;
, If you have an automatic irrigation system, you may want to consider getting a smart clock or smart irrigation controller. These devices regulate how much water is put out by your sprinkler system and typically have some type of rain sensor, which automatically shuts off your sprinklers when it starts to rain.Some state or regional authorities offer rebates or tax incentives for water consumers who install smart irrigation systems. Check with your local water authority to see if you would qualify for such a program., Frequent fertilization of your yard may dry out the lawn. Using too much fertilizer or fertilizing too often will increase the need to water your lawn more frequently and in greater quantities.In late spring and early fall, use a fertilizer that is three parts nitrogen, one part phosphorus, and two parts potassium. This is ideal for maintaining a healthy lawn without needing to over water the grass.Opt for either slow-release fertilizer or a mixture of quick- and slow-release fertilizers for your lawn. Quick-release fertilizer releases all of the nitrogen rapidly, which will require more frequent applications over time.Follow the instructions and recommendations on your fertilizer's packaging label, or read online about how and when to properly apply fertilizer to your lawn., Watering your lawn serves a number of purposes. In addition to keeping the grass at its optimum health, it also reduces airborne dust and helps regulate the temperature of the soil. But if there are parts of your yard that do not get a lot of foot traffic or do not serve an aesthetic purpose (parts of the backyard or side yard, for example), consider reducing how much and how often you water those areas. You can still water them regularly to prevent withering, but they may not need as much water as the rest of the yard.In addition to cutting back on which parts of the lawn you water, you can also reduce evaporation around certain plants or flowerbeds by laying down a layer of organic mulch over the topsoil. This will help conserve water, and may reduce how often you need to water these parts of your yard.
 If you're watering your grass and not a vegetable or fruit garden, you may want to consider recycling water. Rainwater is safe to use, as it is the same water that would otherwise naturally irrigate your yard, though there may be restrictions on how rainwater is collected and harvested depending on where you live.Grey water, the gently-used and non-hazardous water from showers, dish sinks, and washing machine runoff, is not safe to drink but is generally considered safe to use for watering your lawn.If harvesting grey water, be sure to use environmentally-safe soaps and detergents. Try to use products that are considered "plant friendly," meaning they are free from salt, boron, and chlorine bleach.Try collecting rainwater. It's safe to use on any part of your lawn (including vegetable gardens), and it helps cut down on municipal water consumption. Some states in the U.S. have their own laws about the collection and use of rainwater. To find out any requirements or restrictions on collecting and using rainwater in your state, check the American Rainwater Catchment Systems Association website, click the Resources tab, and read the section titled Laws, Rules & Codes.An easy way to get started collecting rainwater is to simply arrange buckets or barrels under the downspout coming off your gutter. If you decide that collecting rainwater is something you'd like to pursue more actively, there are more advanced collection methods, like rain barrels.
 Broken or leaky sprinklers waste a substantial amount of water, and may actually be overwatering parts of your lawn. To cut back on your water bill and conserve water during times of drought, it's important to check your sprinkler system and water faucets and fix or replace any leaky or broken hardware.

