 Sometimes, no news really is good news. Local and cable news networks often focus on bad news, and studies show this constant stream of bad world news has negative effects on health. Try limiting how much you watch the news, especially breaking news stories that don’t provide in depth analysis or investigation.You can still stay informed about current events without overexposing yourself to the daily headlines. Choose your favorite reputable news source that provides long-form, analytical journalism. Set aside time once every week or two to read thoughtful investigative pieces instead watching televised news every day., Everyone has those friends on social media who fill up newsfeeds with hot-button or hyper-partisan stories. Try to limit the amount of time you spend on social media and reduce your exposure to controversial, biased, or negative topics. Consider deleting those apps from your mobile device and designating time for social media to avoid constantly refreshing your feed., Bad news is featured more, but there is still plenty of good news in the world. Spend time regularly reading stories about people doing good and making a difference to balance out the bad news.Check out the Good News Network for journalism that disseminates positive global news: http://www.goodnewsnetwork.org/.
Find scientific and evidence-based media that puts positive news at the fore on the Greater Good online magazine: http://greatergood.berkeley.edu/


, Constant bad news can lead to compassion fatigue, which drains the capacity to be empathetic and makes us feel like we can’t do anything to make a difference.Try to eliminate the feelings of futility caused by constant bad news by finding active ways of improving your community.


Consider volunteering with an organization that’s important to you. If you love animals, contact your local shelter and ask about volunteer opportunities and duties. Offer your time at a soup kitchen, homeless shelter, tutoring, or pursuing some other cause you hold dear.

