 Sizing is not always consistent with different brands, but if you try to measure yourself, you can get a general idea of what size you should wear. First, use a measuring tape and measure snugly (but not super tightly) just below your bust. Make sure that the measure doesn't droop or get higher on your back. This is your band size. If this comes out to an odd number, then add one more. Now, use the tape measure to measure around the fullest part of your bust. Subtract your measurement below your bust from the number. (For example, 31- 28). If this number is 1- 1.9, your cup is an A. If it's 2-2.9, you're a B. 3-3.9, et cetera.;
, Choose the right store. You don't have to go to Victoria's Secret (although they do have a wide selection), but choose a store with a good choice of good quality bras. Try Macy's, Kohl's, Gap Body, or a similar store. Victoria's Secret Pink is a great substitute for Victoria's Secret (you might spend $20 rather than $50 on a similar bra) Try to avoid Walmart or Target. While their items are inexpensive, they are often made of poor quality, uncomfortable materials. While you might not want to spend a lot, keep in mind that a bra is an essential and should not be skimped upon. Use your size that you measured and pick out a bunch of bras in lots of styles to try on. Also grab a few in a size bigger or smaller than yours to try as well (you never know, you might like these better). Choose at least 15, maybe more.
, Now it's time to really test them out. Do whatever you can.First though, adjust the straps. The straps should be snug to your skin, but not cutting into you. They should prevent the bra from slipping down, but not pull it so that it rides up in the back.
 The correct band size is the smallest you can comfortably wear.It needs to be tight enough that the bra is still fairly supportive without weighing down heavily on the shoulder straps. You should be able to run your fingers around the inside of the band, but not much more. A good rule of thumb is that you should be able to fit no more than a fist under the back of the bra.It should fit on the biggest or middle adjustment, but will probably be too tight if you try to fasten it on the smallest size. Bras are designed to fit like this so that you can tighten the band as the elastic starts to wear out. If the band is roomy enough for you to be able to comfortably fasten it on the tightest adjustment, try a smaller band. (For example, go from a 34 to a 32. keep in mind this MAY alter the cup size. So you likely need a cup size that is one letter bigger. If you can only just fasten the bra and the band is painfully tight, even on the biggest adjustment, then go up a band size, for example if a 32D is too tight, try a 34. (This will probably change your letter cup size to a C).
 The correct cup size is the biggest you can completely fill out with no wrinkling of the fabric or space in the cups. You should fill out the cups, but not bulge out anywhere, even in low cut or pushup bras. Check around the cups for any bulging, not only along the top edges but also at the sides under your arms. Make sure the underwire encloses your whole breast and lies flat against your rib cage. Also, make sure that the center piece is flat against your chest. If it's not, you need a bigger cup size. If the cups are too big (i.e. the cups gape open a little), go down a cup size. If they are too small, (i.e. they pinch, or your bust bulges out )try on a bigger cup size. It's a lot easier to tell if they are too big than too small.
 Do the underwires or the edges of the cups dig in to your breasts? If your breasts are bulging out of the sides or over the top of the cups, then you need a bigger cup size. Does the middle of the bra sit flat against your chest? The center of the bra, between the cups, should be against your body. If it is being pushed away from you, then you need a bigger cup size. Bend over. If your breasts are falling out, then the bra doesn't fit. Either the cups are too small, or the band is too big, or both. Put your arms above your head. The bra should neither ride up nor pinch at this point. If the band slips, try a smaller size. If it cuts in, it's too tight. Twist left to right at the waist. Your bra should stay firmly in place and not slip as you move. Try the bra on under your shirt. Does it show?

, You might NOT have to do this though. If you've found ones that fit, get them.
 Is the elastic worn out? Are the cups not shaped anymore? Is the bra sagging or are the straps stretched out? If so, it's time to get a new one. Be sure to measure yourself again, even if you think you know your size (you might have changed).

