 Be rational and analyze your own thoughts openly and honestly. If it helps, try saying your thoughts aloud to a trusted friend or family member. Always sleep on your emotions for several days to ensure they are accurate and not irrational.


When a friend copies your style it feels like she is violating your friendship by taking your self-expression.If you're experiencing being copied at work or school, perhaps it makes you feel threatened and unappreciated if someone else is taking credit for your personal projects and work ethic. Recognizing how you feel will help you tailor a solution to the problem.
 Writing down what you want to say allows you to construct a coherent and rational argument. Plan what you want the outcome to be and build your strategy towards this outcome. It may also be helpful to keep a journal or write yourself an email each time you experience any negative emotions towards being copied


Begin with a flow chart or brainstorm your thoughts and emotions.
Anticipate what emotions this conversation might stir up and utilize your support network to help you work through these emotions. For example, talk to family and friends if confronting other close people in your network or talk to other coworkers if your confrontation is taking place at the workplace.
Practice and rehearse what you will say. Whether you talk in front of a mirror or go over your talking points with your family, get comfortable speaking about this issue and being in this scenario.
 Mention how their actions have negatively affected you and what actions need to take place in order to rectify the situation. Make sure to choose your words carefully and not to escalate the emotions with an angry or elevated tone. Someone who is bluntly mimicking someone else may be sensitive and insecure making them prone to defensiveness when confronted.


Say something similar to, “I noticed that you have been wearing very similar outfits to what I have been wearing. You have even bought the exact same shoes and accessories. I can appreciate if you like my fashion sense but shopping lets us express ourselves. Are you aware of what you’re doing?”Remember people who copy others often have low self-esteem and may be in denial or become defensive.If her imitation is taking place at work, be professional and courteous so as to ensure your professional status. Make sure not to burn bridges with coworkers by consulting the human resources department to ensure the most professional approach possible based on the company’s standards and policies.
Take a deep breath before and during the confrontation. Keep calm when delivering news that the person may see as accusatory. Open body language and a friendly demeanor can help defuse their defensiveness.
 Don’t use up valuable emotional and mental resources by dwelling on what you can’t control. Removing yourself from the situation takes a proactive approach in dealing with someone copying you: out of sight, out of mind.


If it is impossible to completely avoid this person, treat the entire situation as a joke and don’t spend any more time trying to change it. Finding the humor in the situation can help you deal with any stress or aggravation.

