 Stereo is a good choice in smaller spaces and rooms that allow the occupants to hear both the left and right program from nearly anywhere in the room.

When rooms get larger or longer; or if the space is one located outdoors, (deck, patio, etc.) it becomes increasingly more difficult for occupants to hear anything other than the closest speaker, which will reproduce only either the left or right portion of a stereo program.
A monophonic audio (as opposed to a stereophonic) program ensures that every speaker reproduces the combined left and right program and is ideal for these situations.;
, These systems aren't particularly difficult to setup, but do require some specific equipment that is not usually sold in stores that sell "stereo equipment". This wiki should be considered a starting point to help you to at least know which questions to ask - while providing some answers at the same time.

After the stereo or mono question above has been answered, the first thing you'll need to know is how far apart the speakers will need to be - based on the type and size of the area served and the height above the listening area they will be placed. Then, how much power each should be capable of providing - which will help determine the power output rating of the amplifier needed.
There are charts and websites to help you determine speaker placement that can be found by searching "distributed audio speaker placement" in your favorite search engine.
 Amplifiers with more than one input, separate level controls, and a Master Volume control also functions as a "mixer". A mixer combines or mixes 2 or more low-level inputs, provide amplification and output them on a single, monophonic speaker output. This means an amplifier should have 2 inputs for each stereo source.

By mixing the left and right channel of the stereo source device (MP3 player, streaming audio device, CD, etc.) to output on a single monophonic output - the full range of the source sound is delivered to the speaker - instead of having to choose either the left or right channel of the source device.
Directly connecting a source audio device's left and right channel together and inputting the resultant signal into an amplifier's input can damage the source audio device. A two-input amplifier should be used for one stereo audio source device, a four input amplifier would be fine for two stereo audio source devices, a six input amplifier would be fine for three stereo audio source devices, and so on.
Of course, a mono source device would require only one amplifier input. The amplifier's level controls help match the input signal levels. These may consist of a simple knob, an adjustment made by turning a small screwdriver or by positioning a switch between High, Medium and Low.
If you had an MP3 device on input 1 and 2, a streaming internet audio source on input 3 and 4 and a CD player on 5 and 6 - you might have MP3 inputs 1 & 2 set to low or "3", internet audio inputs 3 and 4 set high or "8 or 9" and CD inputs 5 and 6 set to a middle point or "4 or 5". This would help the speakers play each input at nearly the same volumes without having to make changes to the master volume control every time a different source was selected.


The drawback to these voltage based systems are the inefficiencies or "insertion loss" of the audio transformer(s) that are required at each speaker. The insertion loss of the audio transformer results in systems that are only about 60% efficient. Thirty to 40% of the audio power is lost as heat and magnetism (into free air) in the transformer instead creating magnetism in speaker's voice coil - which results in movement and making a sound. What does that mean?
If a system had 10 speakers; 5 set at 5 Watts and 5 set at 2 Watts - that would be a total of 5x5W=25W + 5x2W=10W for a total of 35Watts. Assuming 60% efficiency, we would need an amplifier capable of 35 x 1.666 (if 60% efficient) or 58 Watts, minimum to power this system. A 60W amp will sufficiently power the speakers, but will lack the ability to add any additional speakers - so it may not be a wise choice.
Here's why: A 120W amplifier would be much less costly than purchasing a second 60W amp and all the work to integrate it with the existing 60W amp. Selecting a 90 or 120-watt amplifier, simply extending the speaker wires and add speakers as needed up to the capacity of the amplifier. You can calculate it from the amplifier instead; 120-watt amplifier driving 60% efficient speakers is calculated as 120W x .60 (60% efficient speakers) = 72 watts.
 It is not unusual for 2 or more different input voltage "taps" to be available. Most commercial speakers include a built-in audio transformer. The audio transformer specifications will list voltage(s) and wattage(s) rating.

Make sure the audio transformers used will (1) provide enough power and (2) have a matching voltage rating as the amplifier. Selecting a transformer that is rated for 70V and 20W for use on a speaker that is rated for 10W is a waste of money (a 10W transformer often costs less than a 20W equivalent) and could result in poor audio quality - especially at louder volume levels.
 Since most of these systems are designed for background music and utilize many speakers - you won't need a great deal of power to each one. Speakers that have multiple power selections will be helpful. Many are set up to provide 4 or 5 power settings that typically double at each selection ie: .25W, .5W, 1W, 2W, 5W. Some speakers have power levels that must be selected by wiring at the time of installation and others have external selector switches that can be changed "on the fly" as needed (others provide for a variable volume control - which is not to be confused with a power or wattage rating). Others have fixed power ratings and cannot be changed without replacing the transformer. There are benefits to speakers that have multiple power selections. The wattage needed is determined by how far apart, how high and the number of speakers are needed to produce the sound at the level desired. Speakers need to be close enough so the sound level present in a location between them is not significantly less than directly under one. Overcoming ambient noise will come into play here, too. Power levels outdoors will often need to be substantially higher than similar size spaces indoors, as there are fewer (if any) walls for the sound to bounce off. Speakers that are not installed close to walls and / or floors will lack a low-frequency response when compared to those same speakers that are located on or near these surfaces., Small wires are easier to install and hide and they cost less to purchase, but wires that are too small will reduce power to the speakers. Make sure you select wire or cable that is UL or FM accepted and is rated for the space for which it will be installed. "Plenum Rated" cables have little to no toxic fumes when burned and as such, are permitted to be installed in "return air plenum". Others resist drying out in attics, wall spaces, sunlight, soil, etc.. Because commercial systems take a 40% "hit" in power due to insertion loss, it would be foolish to incur even more loss due to wires that are sized too small for the distance installed. Typical 70V systems can run very nicely on #16 gauge copper wire over great distances. Calculate the the distance from the amplifier terminals to the last speaker terminals for each "run" Next, add up the speaker wattage. Use the table below to determine the combination of wire size, cable distance or speakers for the system. Ex: 10 speakers @ 5w each equals 50w total. A 50w system can have up to 1,400 (1.4k) feet of #16 cable. A system supplied with the smaller #24 gauge wire on the other hand, can only be served by no more than 210 feet (64.0 m) of cable. See the table below:



Speaker wire chart

Gauge
5 watts
10 watts
15 watts
30 watts
50 watts
100 watts
200 watts


16
10k'
7k'
4.5k'
2.3k'
1.4k'
700'
350'


18
9k'
4.5k'
2.8k
1.4k'
830'
415'
205'


20
5.5k'
2.7k'
1.8k'
900'
540'
270'
135'


22
3.4k'
1.7k'
1.1k'
550'
330'
115'
60'


24
2.1k'
1000'
700'
350'
210'
105'
50'



Read speaker wire gauge from large to small from top to bottom in the left most COLUMN labeled "Gauge". The speaker wattage totals are listed across the top ROW. The result is the maximum DISTANCE (or length of the circuit) in feet for the speaker wire.
 Get the low audio frequencies back in your system. Many speakers are small in size and are simply incapable of moving the volume of air needed to reproduce even the most subtle low frequency effects or "bass". Like traditional sound systems, recovering the bass is done with speakers designed specifically for that purpose. An un-amplified (or "passive") sub-woofer of your choice (with the aforementioned properly sized audio transformer connected) will work nicely in a system like this. A sub-woofer is generally physically larger than the other speakers so that they can move enough air needed to reproduce low frequency effects. These Low frequency sounds radiate in omnidirectional patterns, so it is difficult for people to determine the origin of the sound. This makes sub-woofer placement easy to do in an out of the way place. Other technologies are employed by companies that give small speakers bigger, deeper sounds but often come with a price tag to match. The more surfaces a sub-woofer has near it - the deeper it will sound. The deepest sound will come when the sub woofer is in a corner - where it will benefit from 3 nearby surfaces such as two walls and the floor. If a corner isn't possible, 2 surfaces such as a wall and floor would be the next best choice.