 Leave them on your cellphone, calendar, datebook, and so forth. Also, remind yourself verbally as much as necessary.


Try making a little notice board (perhaps better in your own room).
Sometimes things like email programs will have a calendar that you can mark important dates in, like birthdays. They will send you an email notice within 10 days so you can get a present.;
, Choose people you know are good at remembering things.


If it's something like a release date of an album, then ask a friend or relative who just happens to be a fan of that certain thing.
 If it's vital you shouldn't really forget, (it's probably impossible to forget exciting things) but if you do, have many backup plans. If it's minor, then have one or two reminders.
 Action or movement can help you to recall things, as your body remembers, even if your mind is a little rusty.
 Write a song to help you remember important information! This works great with locker combinations, passwords, PINs, etc. If you learn a song, you'll tend to sing it, and thereby be reminded whilst singing!

, If you are trying to remember a specific maths formula, write it down! Taking notes in class will help you to better remember the material because you're using both your body and your mind in unison. It's also easier to recall where you were when you first learned the concept, making it easier to recall the concept too.
 Using your other senses can help you to better remember, recreating a full picture in your mind. For some people, the other senses may be more reliable than just using sight, reading or writing.
 If you are trying to remember the names of people, a good strategy really is writing their names in small script on your palm. As long as you aren't constantly looking down, this should work.
 During this short period of time, you will get bored and since you have nothing better to do you will look around and read the note. This is particularly effective since people go to the bathroom several times a day.
 Use it to record things you need to remember and ideas you've had. All you need to remember then is your phone.
 If you happen to remember something, like if you have to put a book in your backpack, then do it at that moment, because you will forget later.

