 Many people feel behaving aggressively in social situations can bolster popularity. For example, you may think making fun of an unpopular student will endear you to the popular kids. However, this behavior is unlikely to win you any favor. Try to stay positive and be nice to others. Do not push people down to bring yourself up, as this is likely to backfire.In addition to not helping your quest for popularity, bullying has other consequences. Students who are bullied can develop serious problems as a result, and you do not want to hurt someone just to be popular.
You could also get into trouble with your school if you pick on other students. Bullying is just not worth it.
 Everyone likes a helpful person. If you're able to help out popular students here and there, this will endear you to them. You'll be seen as a helpful, agreeable person to have around.Offer to do things no one else wants to do. For example, say the popular group is planning a party. They need someone to stand by the door and let in guests, which is a job no one likes. Volunteer to do it. The popular kids will appreciate you taking this grueling task off their hands.
Use any talents you have to help out others. If you're great at chemistry, offer to help a popular boy who struggles with the subject with his homework.
However, do not let popular students take advantage of you. You want to look agreeable and genuinely kind and not like a pushover. Do not, for example, do someone's homework for them.
 There are some people in this world who have an innate ability to make other people want to be around them. They are able to do this because they are nice to everyone – not just people who are above them on the social ladder. Being genuinely kind can help you be more likable, leading most students in your school to look up to you.Say "Hi!" to everyone you see at school or work, even people you don’t know.
Don’t just talk about yourself. Listen and ask questions when you’re speaking with other people. Remember details people have shared with you and ask about them later. For example, "Hey, you mentioned your cat was getting spayed this weekend? How is she doing?"
Try to make every person you talk to feel like the most important person in the room. Do not go on your phone during conversation. Make eye contact with the person you're talking to and pay attention to everything they say.
 Humor is a great way to bond with people as laughter puts everyone on the same page. Some people are born funny, but if you’re not one of them, make an effort to develop your sense of humor.The formula for being funny is truth+time=laughter. Try to say something honest, quickly. It can help to watch funny TV shows, movies, and stand up comedians. This can help you get a sense of comedic timing.
Only use your comedy for good – don’t be the person who puts other people down to get a laugh. Do not use humor as a form of bullying, as this is unlikely to win you friends.
 Even the most popular, confident people like hearing nice things about themselves – that’s how humans are wired. Instead of gifting people with empty compliments, like “I like your jeans” try making observational compliments.Take something you notice about a person and use that to formulate your compliment. For example, say something like, “I noticed you’re really good at baseball. You must train really hard."
Do not be shy about telling people how you feel. If you really appreciate how hard a student worked on her presentation, say so. People are drawn to people who are positive and genuine.
 Contrary to popular belief, people can learn to become more charismatic. The more charismatic you are, the more people will want to spend time with you. Popular people are often very charismatic, so honing your charisma can help win you friends.To become more charismatic, stay in the present during conversation. You give off subtle cues when your mind wanders, so genuinely pay attention to what others are saying. You should look like you're listening, but avoid nodding too much while talking to someone. This can make you look overeager and nervous.
If you start to get bored or if you tend to tune out during conversations, focus on the physical sensation in your toes for two seconds. This can help bring you back to your body and help you stay more present.
Make eye contact. People are interested in people who are interested in them. Making eye contact throughout a conversation can make you appear attentive and genuinely invested in what the other person is saying.

