 If you want to text first, go ahead! If the person wants to flirt with you, too, then they will be happy that you texted them first. Don’t worry about seeming needy or making the first move. Texting them first will show that you’re confident and interested.


If you need something to say, try talking about something you have in common, like a class you have together. Try, “This physics lab is taking me forever...how’s yours going?”
Or text, “I saw you guys had a game this afternoon! How did it go?”
You could also write something like, “Are you watching Grey’s Anatomy tonight? I can’t wait until 9…”

, Don’t text them back right when you get their text, especially if you’re doing something else. Wait a little while (anywhere between five minutes and a couple hours) to respond. Sometimes it’s better to space out your conversation so that you don’t run out of things to talk about before you see each other next.You shouldn’t let texting interrupt your life! But, if you wait longer than a day, your crush might think that you’ve lost interest or are flaky.If you take a few hours to respond, tell your crush what you were doing. Say, “Just got back from an awesome water skiing session!” or “Have you ever gone to that new restaurant in town? My parents just took me there, and it was SO yummy!”

, Don’t feel like you need to respond to every single question they ask you. Leave some questions unanswered on purpose, so they have to ask you again if they really want to know. You don’t need to respond with an essay when they ask you a question.For example, if your crush asks you what you’re doing this weekend, don’t give them your entire itinerary. Instead, say something like, “Dinner with my family, seeing some friends on Saturday, but no plans on Sunday. You?” This way, you leave your crush some room to make plans with you if they want to.
Or, if your crush asks how your lacrosse game went, say “We won, but you really have to be there to get the full experience. :)”

, Rather than having a long, drawn-out conversation that might lead to hanging out, send them a text asking them to hang out. Think about what the person likes, as well as your past conversations, when you’re thinking about what to do. Pick something that’s easy and fun, like having dinner or going mini golfing.


For example, try texting, “Loved talking about baseball with you earlier! I have two tickets to a Sox game this Saturday. Want to go? :)”
Or, you could write, “Our convo about pasta earlier made me so hungry. Want to grab some Italian food tonight?”If the person says no, make one of your friends go with you instead! You’ll still have something fun to do, regardless of whether or not your crush wants to go with you.

