 Instead of offering unsolicited assistance, you should ask your family member if they want physical or emotional support. Asking if they need and want you involved will enable you to provide help without being presumptuous and without your relative having to request help.


Say something like "If you ever need help, you can count on me," or "If you ever need someone to talk to, please call me."
Offer both general and specific help. Sometimes people may be shy about asking for help, or might not know where to start. It can help to offer "Would you like me to guide you to the restroom?" or, "What if I came over at 6:00 with some gluten-free lasagna?"
Asking your family member if they need support will allow you to initiate a conversation about their disability without you indirectly telling them that they need help., When communicating with a person about their disability, the most important thing is to listen to them. Without listening, you won’t understand their challenges and concerns. Ultimately, listening to the person you are helping will enable you to provide help that is truly needed and appreciated.


Listening to a person and allowing them to give feedback will validate their personhood.
When listening to your family member, avoid thinking about what you are going to say next. Try to truly clear your mind. Focus on listening.
Wait until your relative is finished to respond. Allow them the full opportunity to talk., Another great way to support your disabled family member is to make sure that the rest of your family is on board with your plan. In order to do this, you should communicate with other family members and coordinate events and care to better support your disabled relative.


If you're not the primary caregiver, make sure to stay in regular contact with the caregiver. The primary caregiver is probably the person who knows the needs and challenges of the disabled person best (next to the disabled person).
If your disabled family member requires substantial amount of financial support, talk to your other family members about setting up a pool to share the cost of their expenses.
If your disabled family member needs emotional support and companionship, talk to your family to make sure someone is always available to offer support.