 You can make a trap to catch snails using a plastic bowl that has deep, vertical sides. The high sides will ensure the snails cannot crawl out once they have fallen into the trap.Alternatively, you can use a 1 liter plastic bottle to make the trap. Use scissors to cut off the top third section of the bottle, which contains the narrow opening. Invert the top section and insert it into the bottom section so the narrow opening is upside down, facing into the bottom section. You can then tape the two pieces together or piece holes in both pieces and secure them with wire.
The shape of the plastic bottle trap will ensure the snails cannot crawl out or escape once they fall into the trap.
 Snails are attracted to fermented yeast and will eagerly head for a bowl of beer. You can fill your trap halfway with fresh beer to attract snails and cause them to crawl into the trap. Fresh beer of any kind will work, though darker brews like Stout or Guinness may be more effective.If you do not have access to beer or do not want to waste good beer, you can create a yeast solution to put into the trap. Combine two cups of warm water with two tablespoons flour, one teaspoon sugar, and ½ teaspoon of yeast. Mix the solution well and add it to the trap until it is half full.
 Once you have added the beer or yeast solution to the trap, you should place the trap in your yard. You can bury the trap in a wet spot in your yard, making sure the rim of the trap is raised 1 inch (2-3 cm) above ground level. This will ensure you catch snails only, rather than other bugs in your yard.Beer traps are most effective at attracting snails within an area of only a few feet so you should choose a spot in your yard that is full of snails or a spot where you have seen snails hanging around before.
You may cover the trap partly with a stone or a small tarp that is raised just enough for the snail to crawl beneath and fall into the trap. This will prevent the trap from filling with water when it rains, as diluted beer or yeast is not as effective at catching snails.
 You will need to maintain the yeast trap by filling it with fresh beer or fresh yeast solution every day. The trap will not be as effective if the beer is old or diluted due to rain water.The liquid in the trap may also evaporate after a few days outside so you should try to top up the trap with fresh beer or yeast solution once a day.

