 List the tangible and valuable products you can offer as part of your package. Design several packages and detail what they include.


Think of yourself as a product. As a professional, you must show that you are reliable, confidential and qualified. Shut down Facebook or Twitter accounts that can portray you in an unprofessional way. Monitor your reputation on the Internet and in the community so that it is positive and polished.;
, Most professionals set them too low and have a hard time raising them in the future. Research your competition and the value of your expertise, and remember that people often perceive expertise with a higher hourly or contract rate.
 Buy your own domain name and pay someone to create an attractive website with samples, reviews and scheduling options. This is the first area of marketing where hiring a professional can increase your effectiveness and occasionally allow you to raise your rates.
 Hire a graphic designer to create a logo and place it on business cards, letterhead, envelopes, the website and note cards. A brand, created by a professional designer, can also improve the professional appearance and improve brand recognition during all your marketing efforts.


Consider trading services with a graphic designer, web designer or marketing expert as you start your business. It is important to develop relationships with people in related fields. You can offer some of your services in exchange for theirs, just be as clear as possible about the terms.
 Use your logo on your business sign, your entryway and even on your car. You should aim to increase its visibility in the community.
 Get the word out about how advanced you are in your field.


Write an expert blog, similar to an email newsletter. Consider posting it to your website and linking to a social media account, like a LinkedIn account.
Contact local magazines. Propose to write an article about a hot topic in your field that affects the local community. Also, propose you become an expert source, so that they will come to you with questions and refer to you in articles.
Become an expert guest for a radio show or news program. Write a proposal for a topic and call to follow up. Keep video or audio clips to help promote you on your website or social media account.
Write an ebook. If you have expertise on a particular topic, write a short ebook and release it in the professional community. Attend conferences to speak about it. Sell it and give it away to potential clients as a tool.
Speak at seminars. Become a key note speaker at business conferences and seminars. If possible, try to propose speaking engagements at businesses outside of your industry. For example, if you are a marketing consultant, host a seminar to managers about improving a professional image or about how to start a grassroots campaign with a local political party.
Become a teacher at a community college or lifelong learning center. Give regular classes on topics that affect the community.
 Make brochures, folders and client information packets. These will help the potential client to remember and refer back frequently.

