 About: what you've learnt about yourself so far, what you've accomplished that makes you happy and what you regret that makes you sad. Think about who you want to be and the pro's and con's of that. Maybe you might be conforming to someone else's ideal version of you or maybe you'll be able to love who you want, when you want freely. Of course this won't be a quick 10 minute realisation but it'll set the foundation for massive leaps in the future and hopefully make the inevitable change less scary.;
, It won't help you accept who you are, it will only make you fall head over heels in depression. (And if that does happen make sure you know that there are so many people that care about you and that are willing to help.)

, Everyone has them. Don't feel bad. Or if it's something you don't like that you can change healthily like your hair colour, go for it. Feel comfortable in your own skin.
 This is crucial! If you hate pink, don't wear it! If you wanna dress in all black and go to school like that, you should do it. Whatever makes you happy! Don't give anyone the power to make you feel bad about yourself.
 Don't stay in your room. Get out and about! But don't push yourself too far, some people are made for heavy socialising and some people don't like the idea of it at all. Find your comfort zone, this is all about accepting who you are right?

, If you want to take ballet, and you've been afraid that someone will tease you, go, shoot for the stars. If you've wanted to ask that girl/guy (remember, you can love/like whoever the heck you want, it's nobody else's business.) out, but don't want to be teased over it, who cares? Social status means nothing when it comes to feelings.
 You are you. They can think what they want. Ask yourself: Who's better? You or them? You! Cut the negative people out of your life, who cares about that mean girl in English class? You'll probably never see her again.
 Just let go of fear in general. That Maths test tomorrow? You've studied all night and now it's 1AM. Go to sleep. Physical and Mental health always come first, you are so important.
 Whether it be dancing, writing, or painting, find it. Self expression is an extension of yourself, so find something that you enjoy and can do well. Don't be afraid to make mistakes or quit something, if playing the guitar doesn't work out and you're only doing it to make someone else happy, stop it. If you're not enjoying it then what's the point?

