 If you live near an area that’s recently been impacted by a disaster, see if you can enlist in an official relief effort. Some of the duties carried out by volunteers include distributing food and water, collecting clothing and finding temporary shelter for people whose homes were destroyed. Your contributions can help a devastated community get back on its feet.Check your local news for more info about how to get involved.
There are plenty of opportunities to take part in humanitarian projects in other countries, as well, if international travel is a possibility., Organizations like Big Brothers Big Sisters of America can match you up with a child in need of a role model figure. The time you spend with them will be used to offer guidance and support and serve as a positive influence. Simply having someone to look up to can make a big difference in a young person’s life.Encourage your mentee’s interests by allowing them to come up with ideas for activities and outings., One-on-one instruction can help struggling students improve their grades and get more out of their time in the classroom. As a student yourself, you’ll be able to work with others in a manner they can relate to, giving them the fresh perspective they need to make progress and grain confidence.Inquire about tutoring programs set up by your school.
Post a personal ad online or in the newspaper offering your services as a tutor.
If you happen to excel in a particular subject, you may be able to help advanced students with more specialized assignments.
 If you’re a sports lover, consider loaning yourself out as a coach’s assistant. Your responsibilities will likely include things like organizing practice drills and activities, maintaining facilities and equipment and coming up with exercises designed to promote creativity and cooperation.Ask around at the athletic department of your local schools, or a community center like the YMCA.Past playing or coaching experience will help, but is usually not a requirement.

