 You should treat finding a new job like a job in itself. Budget several hours each day, at a set time, to search for jobs. For example, you might decide that you will spend one hour each day at 1 p.m. making a list of five jobs that you’re interested in. Then, from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. you will fill out applications for those five jobs., Take some time to improve your resume and tailor it to the jobs you’re interested in. If you’re planning to change your line of work, edit your previous employment to emphasize skills that will be relevant to the new line of work.For example, if you were a computer programmer in your previous job and you’re hoping to get into investment banking, emphasize the analytical skills required in your previous jobs.
 Depending on your financial situation, you may need to accept jobs that aren’t your dream job. At the beginning of your job search, it’s OK to apply only for jobs that you really want. If a few months go by and you’re still unemployed, you should consider taking a job that isn’t exactly what you’re looking for.For example, if you’re searching for a job in programming but you’re getting no offers, consider applying for jobs in IT instead.
Remember that a non-ideal job doesn’t have to be permanent and it may end up leading to other opportunities.
 Employers will want to know why you’re experiencing a period of unemployment. Get in front of the issue by listing it on your resume and having an honest story to tell during interviews.


For example, on your resume you might write, “Laid off due to budget cut-backs. Seeking employment daily for the last two months.”
In an interview, explain to your potential employer what you’ve been doing with your free time. Emphasize any activities that might be selling points. For example, you might say, “I usually apply to five-to-ten jobs a week. In my spare time, I’ve been learning how to program in HTML.”

, If you want to develop new skills, unemployment is a good time to consider going back to school. Think about what kind of jobs you want and choose a program that will give you the skills you need to get hired.Avoid going back to school just to fill time. If you go back to school without a goal in mind, you may just end up accumulating more debt. You can also look for certificate programs or specialized training conferences that are shorter-term and will help hone your skills and make you an attractive candidate.
Schooling is an additional expense, but there are many resources available to help fund your education. If you have a low income you may qualify for federal grants that you don’t have to repay. If you don’t qualify, you may be able to get low-interest loans through the federal government. Fill out the FAFSA application to find out what aid you qualify for.

