 Try to dye it a crazy color, such as green, blue, yellow, white, purple, etc. If you don't have access to semi-permanent/permanent dye, try Kool-Aid or even Crayola markers—they wash out, and give a nice faded color. Color sprays are out there too if your parents aren't too keen on you dying your whole mop an unnatural color. You can also try clip-in extensions in wild colors then do a crazy haircut or try a crazy hair style. Asymmetry, choppy, messy layers, or short and crazy are good. Try some different products for more body or less body, such as mousse or hairspray, or to create spikes, use Elmer's glue. It does come out. Egg whites can be utilized for the sharpest of mohawks. So cut some cute bangs, add some extensions in a fun color, and play around with lengths. With stricter parents, try coloring just the very ends of your hair.;
, Joan Jett's makeup is plenty punk. Neon eyeshadow, like blush red, deep blue, or even a simple gray are good colors to try. Try a little lipstick, whatever color you like. Black nails are pretty rad too. White are even more out there.
 All of these should be customized to your style and appearance, down to bleaching denim or darkening a wash, and adding any kind of appendage you think is cool and will give you some punk credibility. Ripped jeans, light or dark, are a staple. Especially if they are fitted, cuffed, or just ripped on the knees. Other ways you can dress punk are leather pants, band shirts, vinyl pants, rubber clothing, plaid skirts, tank tops with or without the sleeves ripped off. Invest in a single row or double row belt. or three. Even at a private school with uniforms, sneak in a badge or two, wear a single row or double row studded belt. wear some wild socks or shoes. If you have an older friend that is serving as your mentor as you enter the 'scene', they might have some hand me downs. Ask your folks if they have anything leftover from when they were teens. Trust us, your mom remembers the eighties.
 Scare boys at school. Wear badges on your 'leather' or 'denim' jacket or vest that display your punk status. You can find these badges just about anywhere. Just don't do anything really bad for a lot of punishment, or at least anything you can't handle the punishment for. Try to keep calm at school for a mysterious personality and be awesome at home or/and at friends' houses. When out, try and find a mentor, or someone to relate to that is a punk. Observe. Learn. Respect and you might get invited to a cool show and meet some others punks, who you can learn all this and more from and find out what style of punk you want to channel.
 The Sex Pistols are a basic punk band almost every punk likes. The Ramones and The Dead Kennedys are both great punk bands, and The Clash are too. Others include Danzig, Joan Jett, The Distillers, Bad Religion, and The Dropkick Murphys. Find out who Johnny Thunders is. Look up Stiv Bators. Learn something. Blast it! See show flyers out and about but you can't go? Decorate your room and binders with said flyers. You'll get to go soon, 16 and over is right around the corner.
 Those are really punk. Sneakers are good too, but choose Converse or Vans for this. Punk has many different styles. Study them. "Brothel" creepers, motorcycle boots, even some fun low heels. Punk included the 80's too.
 Don't really dance at dances, or dance and just have a good time. Hang around and sing along to the songs, stick out, and BE DIFFERENT.

