 Think ahead to what the weather is usually like where you live. If it's likely to be cold, always choose warmer costumes, such as furry animals, full-length sleeves and pants or layered effects. Some ideas for warmer costumes are listed in a section below.


If possible, choose a costume that allows for boots. That way, you can keep a good portion of your legs nice and snug.
Costumes with a hood are a good choice, as the hood will keep neck, head and face warm all at once.;
, Wear layers underneath and it will both fit and keep you nice and warm.


With a larger costume, you can even wear your normal clothes underneath, such as jeans and a sweater, then add the costume.
 Consider what you might be able to add to the costume without detracting from it. What would the character wear in cold weather? For example, an elf or a superhero might don a cloak, a fairy might wear longer sleeves or an animal might have grown a thicker fur coat for the colder season.


Add a cloak or cape in place of a jacket for a more elegant addition to the costume. If the costume's own cape is only thin, swap it out for a wool or polar fleece version.
Add tights, leggings or pantyhose for warm legs. These are often a very easy way to increase leg warmth without ruining a costume. Match the colors either to your legs (skin-colored) or to the costume.
Wear a skin-colored unitard. If your costume is skimpy and requires showing some skin, a unitard can keep you warm while still giving the appearance of skin. Check for it at dance supply stores. Simply wear it under your costume.
Wear a turtleneck sweater under the costume. This will add warmth to all of your upper body region, which helps best for keeping you warm.
Wear gloves or mittens. Match the color of the costume or choose skin-colored gloves or mittens.
Wear socks in a color that matches the costume, or simply ones that fit inside your shoes, enough to keep your feet warm.
 A wig can both improve the look of the costume and keep your head and ears warm.
 A mask will help to keep your face warm and you won't have to bother with adding makeup either.
 Slimline merino tops and pants or thermals can be placed underneath a costume to keep you warm. Choose the lengths of the sleeves and legs according to the costume; there are thermal shorts as well as short- or long-sleeved thermals.
 Regardless of what it looks like when you wear it, having it ready for when you really start to feel cold will allow you to stay out for longer and keep warm.


You could even wear the jacket between houses, then take it off when trick and treating, and pop it back on again when off to the next house.
 Have a hot sip now and then.


Be sure it is at a temperature suitable for safe sipping.
 You can purchase hand warmers at drugstore. They are usually snapped or bent to make them work; just follow the instructions. Keep them tucked in the pockets of your jacket or carry them in a bag and use them now and then to warm up your hands again.
 Wrap it around you whenever you feel coldest, for a quick warm up. By the end of the evening, you will probably find wearing it like a cape is preferable to freezing anyway.
 Walk briskly and do exercise. Keep up a cracking pace as you trick and treat, to increase your warmth. Try a few jumping jacks, lunges or other on-the-spot exercises to help you warm up. Constant movement should help to keep you warmer.


Your costume might not be suitable for jumping or doing strenuous exercise in; be cautious in case you rip or spoil it.
 Ask your parents to drive you around the different streets. Hop back in the car now and then to get a blast from the heater before you head off for a few more house visits.
 Have a fun indoor party for Halloween rather than going outside door-to-door.
 Here are some ideas for costumes that may be warmer to wear:


Mummy
Medieval clothes
Full length dress - queen, princess, bride, etc.
Ghost - one white bed sheet with eye holes and all your normal clothes on underneath
Clown
An object such as a cell phone, a Rubik's cube or a Lego block - one box with sweater and jumper
Any furry animal
Fruit or vegetable - food item for your body, with sweater and tights of the same color underneath
Care bears
Zombies in everyday clothes - just toss fake blood all over some warm thrift store clothes and add zombie makeup to your face
Santa or the Easter bunny
Ethnic costumes - many of these are modest, so they're ideal for keeping warm too
Gnome, dwarf or any other fantasy creature that always wears long sleeves and pants and a beard to go with it
The Michelin man
Any character that has ever worn a puffy jacket or vest (Marty McFly), a big warm coat (Dr. Who), or other really warm gear (check out your favorite snow and ice movies).

