 Take a pencil and a notepad and list all the things in this country, city or town that you think could be changed. It could be government, relationships you have, the way our world looks, the way you look, monetary issues, food availability and flavor, world population, taxes, bills, and so forth. Whatever you don't like, put it on the list too, so that you can avoid recreating that.;
, Make a basic sketch that sums up a good view of your dreamscape. It may be a map, it could be a picture of your main street, it could be the view from the coffee shop in your world. For brevity and manageability, while it could be a country, making it a city or town will make it easier to work with. Whatever you choose, be sure to make it unique.
 If you like fishing as a sport or hobby more than anything, then make the major competitive sport fishing! You could even make angling the most common job. Make the national or local food your favorite food, design your own flag using your favorite colors and symbols, make the country's or city's motto using your favorite phrase.


If you have trouble imagining it, try to make it more realistic by adding a couple hazardous or irksome components (for example, you could add a patch of stinging nettles to the glorious meadow of your dreams, or add a mean man who owns the supermarket, et cetera.) Just don't make it a sad-and-depressed-land, for if you do, you can't really have a good time in your dream world. You have to find the balance, to ensure it's a lovely place to escape to.
 Decide where you want the stores to be, where your house will be, what your house looks like, and so forth. It is strongly suggested that you have the layout completely ready and almost memorized before you slowly add in people.
 This is probably one of the best parts. If you add people one at a time (which is the suggested method,) you can personalize their hair, clothes, personality, age, job, and even how you met them. Write it down in a notepad or journal (preferably the one that you wrote the list of things you don't like in.)


Devote a page to every person. That way they may seem more realistic, which may be important later on.
 Remember that this is a very slow process. You have to add just small bits of information at a time, or else it won't work. The ability to control your dreams is known as lucid dreaming, and it is possible., Say that you want to dream you're in a meadow, a beautiful meadow that you added earlier to your dreamscape. Tall grass grows lush and high, and when the sun trickles through the blades like warm honey, they ignite and turn a brilliant shade of green. A warm wind sweeps through, soft and deliciously sweet. In your hand you hold a book, a thick, rich, delicious book with a sturdy cover just barely managing to behold the magic that lies within. You feel so happy you feel as though your heart is swooping about, fluttering in your rib cage. Birds perch in the tall trees surrounding you and serenade you with glorious music. You lie down in the sweet grass, feeling so happy, so deliriously drowsy..., At work, in the bathroom, all throughout the day. Continue to do so until bedtime.

You may even verbalize it and whisper to yourself, "I will sleep peacefully in a sweet, sunny meadow," to better promote the image.
 Chances are you will then dream about it., Think all day about one person, dream about them that night, then add them to the meadow the next day. The people may even develop personalities of their own in your dreams!

, If you forget about your made-up land for a while, or just don't think about it, it may disappear or change. Think about it a lot, but don't get distracted; try to keep it on the weekends or at bedtime. Most of all, have it in your head like you would keep an ace in your hand; whip it our when you need it most. When you truly need an escape, take a free vacation to the land (literally) of your dreams.

