 Many tabletop games focus on the story, but they also focus on building your character. You will typically sit around a table with a group of people, and take turns describing what your character does.


One of the most popular tabletop roleplay games is Dungeons and Dragons.
 Typically, you can find a game to join online or in your local gaming/hobby shop. Some games require you to be there in person, while others can be played online.


There are lots of different settings and genres, ranging from fantasy, to science-fiction, to historical, to horror. Some may have other themes too, such as steampunk or western.There are lots of game guides and rule books available online, in bookstores, and at libraries. You can always pick one of these up, and start a game with your friends.
 Some group meet regularly, while others meet occasionally. This can be as often as once a week to a seldom as once a month or only a few times a year. Also, some games are lighthearted and easy-going, while others are very serious and focused.If you are just starting out, a lighthearted, easy-going play style might be the best for you.
If you are very busy with work and/or school, a group that meets weekly night be too much for you, but a group that meets monthly might be perfect.
 Some roleplays will focus more on story or setting, while others will focus more on battle and combat. If you are a very active person, a story-focused roleplay might bore you. On the other hand, if you enjoy a good story, a combat-focused roleplay might not be engaging enough for you. There are three main types of roleplays:Game-oriented roleplays focus on leveling characters via challenges. The battles and monsters become more complex as the characters gain more power.
Simulation-oriented roleplays focus on exploring the setting, genre, or theme. Combat tends to be dangerous in these games.
Narrative-oriented games focus on how a character's decision affects the story. These games tend to give players more control over setting and story.
 Every tabletop roleplay will have its own unique set of terms, but there are some terms that remain consistent across all the different games and genres. The most common ones are:.


Game master: the in charge of the roleplay. They are the narrator, and lead the story. "Game master" may also be written as "GM" or "Gamemaster."
Game mechanics: the rules of the roleplay.
Adventure: the game, but limited to a single story or plot set by the GM.
Campaign: a series of adventures. It typically follows or continues the story and includes the same characters from previous sessions.
 How detailed your character is will depend on what game you are playing. Some games will give you complete freedom during character creation, while others will require you to add stats. Some games will also limit what stats you can use based on what class or race you pick for your character.


Depending on the game you play, you may have to use the 20-sided die to determine your character's stats.
 After you have created your character, the GM will establish the plot and setting. The players will then take turns describing their characters' actions, and the GM will then decide on the consequences of those actions. Sometimes, a 20-sided die will be used to determine the outcome. For example, if your character comes across a treasure chest, the GM may have you roll the die to determine whether or not your character succeeds in opening the chest., For the most part, you will be in charge of describing your character's actions, and the GM will be in charge of describing the results of your character's actions. He or she will also be in charge of describing any scene changes. For example, if your character enters a dungeon, the GM may describe the dungeon. He or she may even throw in a monster for your character to battle.

