 You may not want to devote much time to prepping for your reading log. However, a little prep work will help you stick with the log and finish it efficiently.;
, If your teacher allows you to select which book you want to read, you can find one that you enjoy reading. This will make it much easier to read quickly, and you can successfully complete your reading log in no time. Here are some tips for finding a good book:Think about the topics or subjects that you are interested in, and a pick a book that best fits. For example, if you like mysteries or suspense, look for a book in these genres.
Have you studied a subject or event in school that you’d like to learn more about?
Is there a book you read in the past that you liked? If so, look for books by the same author.
Ask your teacher for recommendations. He or she will be impressed that you asked for their assistance, and will probably be able to give you some good possible options. Your teacher also has a good idea of your reading level and will be able to suggest a book that’s a good fit.
Get help from a school librarian or a public librarian. They are trained to help people find books. If you tell them what grade level you are in and mention your interests, they will be able to point you in the right direction.
Even if your teacher provides you with a list of possible books, you may be able to choose which one is the most appealing to you.
 Although it may sound silly, the more you practice reading, the faster you will be able to read. That’s part of why your teacher is assigning these reading logs., Before you get started reading the book you selected, make sure you know what information you have to fill out for the reading log.


For example, do you have to answer specific questions about the book for the log, or will you have to complete a book report or other project at a later date? If you know what information you will need to look for, you can keep this in mind while you’re reading and your log will be easy to complete.
 If you wait until the last minute to read the book, you’re going to feel stressed out and it will be harder to comprehend the book and quickly fill out your reading log. Procrastination also won’t make this process any more pleasant.Set aside time each day to read. When you are done, reward yourself by doing something you enjoy.
 It may sound too simple, but finding a good location to do your reading in can make the process a lot more enjoyable and faster.Look for a place where you can focus. This might be a quiet corner in your house, a comfy chair in a coffee shop, on the front porch, or on a park bench.
If you read in bed, you might be tempted to fall asleep, and the dining room in your house might get noisy when everyone is home.
 When you find a good spot, make sure there are no distractions such as the television, radio, computer, or your phone. These will make it harder to get into the book you are reading and concentrate.If your mind keeps wandering while you are reading, take a short break. When you return to the reading, you should be better able to pay attention., If you don’t have access to the log while you are reading, keep track of your reading in a notebook, journal, or even on a scratch piece of paper. Then, you can easily transfer the information to your log when you have to turn it in.Pay attention to how long you read and how many pages you read. These details can be difficult to remember later, and if you don’t keep track along the way, you will find it harder to accurately and quickly fill out your reading log.If you have questions about something you read, write them down so you can look up the answers later or ask your teacher. Think about the plot of the story, what the characters want, how the author writes, why the book ended the way it did, and what the author seems to be trying to teach the reader.
Taking notes while you read will help improve your comprehension and help you focus on the book.
 If you are having any difficulties reading or feel like you are having a hard time comprehending the material you read, talk with your teacher or a parent. They will be able to offer some excellent tips and advice on how to improve your reading skills.
 If there are things about the book you found confusing and you’re not sure how to answer a question on your reading log, take a few minutes to do some online research.There are many online websites that discuss specific books. You may find these articles and websites helpful because they often examine the plot, analyze main characters, and interpret important quotes. Use these resources to help you understand the book and complete your reading log.
If one of your friends is reading the book or has read it, talk with them about the book.
Try explaining what you are confused about to an older sibling, parent, or friend. They may be able to answer your question.
 You want your log to be as neat as possible so that it is easy for your teacher to check and review. If you’ve already kept notes and recorded your reading, this will be a quick and easy step., If you procrastinated and waited until the last minute to read, it’s probably tempting to adjust the times and page numbers on your reading log so you seem like you followed directions and didn’t procrastinate. This approach, however, will likely get you in trouble with your teacher.


Teachers are savvy and will probably realize you didn’t get through as many pages as you indicated on the log in such a short amount of time.
Keep in mind that the average adult reading speed is 300 words per minute, so if your reading log reflects you are reading more quickly than this, it will be a red flag to your teacher. Indicating that you read 30 pages in 30 minutes or 20 pages in 20 minutes also looks suspicious.
If the book is difficult to read or on a higher grade level, keep in mind that your teacher will probably expect you to spend more time reading the book.
 Most reading logs usually have a place for parents to verify the information and then provide a signature. Forgetting this step may mean you won’t receive full credit for your log.If you are rushed or didn’t really do the reading, you may feel tempted to forge your parent’s signature, but it’s not worth getting in trouble over. You will have to do the reading log again in the future, and your parents and the teacher will likely be able to tell if you falsified the information.
 If you are having any difficulties completing the log or keeping up with the regular reading, it’s important to talk with your teacher so they can help you strategize about how to complete the log and resolve any problems you may be experiencing.Depending on the circumstances, they may be willing to provide extra time for you to complete the reading.
They may also be able to recommend a reading tutor who can help you improve your reading skills.

