 If you want to expand your music library before you start making playlists, check out services that can recommend new artists to you. See Sources and Citations below for some ideas.;
, Is this compilation for yourself? Your friends? A significant other? Select music that's appropriate for the tastes of the listener. Your grandma might not like a compilation of your favorite death metal songs, but she may enjoy rare jazz recordings from when she was young.
 Do you want your playlist to let someone know how you feel about him or her? If so, listen carefully to the lyrics of each song that you include in the mix, and make sure they're aligned with what you're feeling.
 Assemble a "rough draft" of your playlist by compiling a lot of songs you're thinking about including. You probably won't use all of them in the end, but this step helps you narrow down your options.
 If you gathered more songs than you needed for your playlist or mix, start eliminating those that aren't a perfect fit. Are the lyrics slightly wrong? Does the music make the song fit poorly with the other songs? Could someone use this song to misinterpret your meaning? Ask yourself these questions as you think about what to cut.
 Think of the playlist as a prolonged listening experience - you don't want the listener to get bored or skip songs.


Start out with a few tracks that grab the listener and get his or her attention.
Group songs of similar tempos together, and gradually move into slower or faster tunes.
End the mix on a high note, with one a song that you think will really stick with the listener. Tying in the last song to the theme of the compilation can make it much more effective.
 Finalize your track arrangement and listen to the version a few times. Feel free to remove some tracks and add others. It's possible that you may realize new tracks you'd like to add late in the process.
 If you're sharing your playlist electronically, give it a title that reflects the theme of the mix. Or, if you're out of ideas, name it after the person you're giving it to.
 When you're happy with the mix, burn the CD or share the playlist.

