 The State Board of Contractors, or a similar agency, will be able to provide you with information on what is required.


Look for your state's contact information through the National Contractor License Service: http://www.clsi.com/state_contractor_license_board.htm


, They can also be a great resource in explaining what type of license is required in your state.
 This will depend on your state and the type of services you offer. As an example, a handyman in Arizona must apply for a license in each specific area he services.
 In order to become licensed, you will need to demonstrate credentials in areas of handyman work.


Look for classes offered at your local trade school or community college. There are often handyman training programs on the schedule.
Find out if training is offered by your state or local handyman association. This might include hands-on training with a qualified and licensed professional as well as classroom learning.
 Most states that require a handyman contractor's license will require you to take and pass an exam.


Get testing dates and locations from the State Board of Contractors, and leave yourself enough time to study and prepare before taking the exam.
 There are seminars available through professional handyman associations and the National Contractor License Service.


Study code books for your state and any other recommended reading provided by the State Board of Contractors or the National Contractor License Service.
 Once you successfully pass the handyman contractor's exam, you can apply for your license. Test scores are valid for 1 year in most states, so get your license right after you pass your test.


Complete any necessary paperwork and forms that are required by your State Board of Contractors. You may be required to submit other documentation, including a resume and proof of insurance, and most states assess a fee for your license.
 For states that require a business license, you will need a name for your handyman business.;
, They will provide information on how to register your business name with your state.
, Pay any associated fees. Some states will award your business license immediately, and other states will have a 4 to 6 week waiting period.
, Most states require that you are insured, and the amounts of insurance you carry will vary by state.


Shop around for the best handyman insurance rates. You can compare quotes on sites such as www.comparethemarket.com and other commercial insurance sites.

