 The night before you plan to make the paleo ambrosia salad, put a can of full-fat coconut milk into your refrigerator. Leave the can in the fridge until it is needed.


At the very least, the coconut milk must chill for 3 to 4 hours.
 Turn your oven to 350ºF. As it heats up, take out a baking sheet and line it with a piece of parchment paper. Spread the raw pecans out onto the baking sheet. Once the oven is preheated, toast the pecans in the oven for 5 to 8 minutes or until brown. Remove the pan from the oven and let the nuts cool., Remove the orange peels with a sharp knife. Use the knife to remove the white pulp and membrane from the outside of orange. Separate the orange slices and cut each piece into 1 inch sections. Transfer the oranges to a large bowl.
 Wash and dry the raspberries. Add the clean, dry berries to the large bowl. Drain the fresh or canned pineapple and it to the large bowl.


You may save a handful of berries to garnish the salad.
If you have the cut the pineapple, do so before adding it to the large bowl.
 Remove the cooled pecans from the baking sheet. Place them on a cutting board and chop them coarsely with a sharp knife. Add the cut nuts to the large bowl.


Alternatively, use a nut chopper.
 Measure out 1 cup of unsweetened, dried, shredded coconut. Pour the coconut into the large bowl. Carefully stir the fruit, nuts, and coconut with a rubber scraper.
 Remove the can of coconut milk from the fridge, flip it upside down, and place it on the counter. With a can opener, open the bottom of the can. Pour off the liquid. Scoop the thick coconut milk into a bowl. Add 1 tablespoon of coconut sugar or honey and 1 teaspoon of pure vanilla extract. Whip the ingredients together with an electric beater until it resembles whipped cream.


This process takes between 5 to 7 minutes.
You may use a handheld electric beater or a stand mixer.
 Scoop the cream into the bowl with the fruit, nuts, and shredded coconut. With a rubber scraper, fold the ingredients into the homemade cream. Allow the salad to set for 10 minutes.
 Transfer the set salad to a serving dish. If you set aside fruit, nuts, and/or coconut, use these items to garnish the salad. Serve the paleo confection.


To store, cover the ambrosia salad and place it in the fridge. It will remain good for 3 to 4 days.