 Face oil helps your fingers slide easily across your face, preventing them from dragging and stretching your skin. It also conditions the skin and lightens the appearance of lines and wrinkles. Apply a light layer of one of the following oils:For dry skin: coconut or argan oil.
For medium skin: almond or jojoba oil.
For oily skin: jojoba oil or your favorite moisturizer.
 A firming, lifting massage focuses on areas where the skin tends to droop. Using the tips of your fingers, make tight circular motions over the lines on either side of your mouth. Always apply upward pressure to help lift the skin instead of dragging it down. Continue for one minute.
 Make corkscrew-like, circular motions over the apples of your cheeks to help firm and lift this area. Apply gentle pressure as your fingers move up to your inner cheekbones, then out to the edges of your face and back around. Continue for one minute.
 Position your fingers at the arch of your brows, then sweep them around the outside corners of your eyes. Gently move them under your eyes, and end with your fingers at the inside corners of your eyes. Continue along up the sides of your nose and along your brow lines. Repeat the motion for one minute.









Massaging your eye area helps lift sagging skin and combat crow's feet.
Use extra oil if necessary to prevent your fingers from dragging the delicate skin around your eyes.
 If your forehead has horizontal lines you wish to lighten, you want to massage against the lines, rather than with them. Position your hands next to each other vertically, with your fingers touching your forehead. Make a zig zag motion by moving one hand up while the other moves down, so that you're gently pulling your forehead skin up and down. Continue this motion across your entire forehead for one minute.
 The vertical lines at the top of your nose can be lightened if you massage them horizontally. Position your fingers horizontally across your frown lines. Gently rub back and forth to pull the skin out of its usual lined position.
 Gently massage each part of your face again to end your massage. Your skin should feel firm and youthful when your massage is finished. Repeat daily for best results.
