 When you're building up endurance, you're likely to experience some discomfort as you add time to your runs. You'll get to the point where you feel like you can't take another step. That's OK - you can slow down and walk for a bit. Walk until you feel able to run, then start running again. Keep rotating between walking and running until you've been working out for the amount of time you set out to run.


The run/walk strategy is especially helpful if you're a beginner runner. Try to increase the time you're running and decrease the time you're walking with each subsequent workout. Eventually, you'll be able to run the entire time.
 Doing high-intensity interval training has been shown to increase the body's maximal oxygen uptake - known as VO2 max - which is the standard measure or aerobic fitness.That means that running sprints a few times a week will help you build the endurance to run longer at a slower pace. Try the following routine 2 to 3 times a week for about 6 weeks:


Warm up completely. Sprinting puts a lot of pressure on your muscles, and warming up will help prevent injury.
Sprint for 30 seconds at 50 percent capacity. Rest for 2 minutes.
Sprint for 30 seconds at 80 percent capacity. Rest for 2 minutes.
Sprint for 30 seconds at 100 percent capacity. Rest for 2 minutes.
Repeat for a total of up to 8 sprints depending on your fitness level.
 Boot camp-style exercises like skipping drills and high-knee sprints have been used to great success by some athletes to improve endurance.These exercises build core muscles and tone the entire body. Incorporating plyometrics helps athletes run longer, faster. You can work with a personal trainer to use your gym's equipment to complete a plyometrics routine 2 - 3 times a week. Alternatively, try the following workout:


Run 20 yards (18.3 m) using the shortest, quickest stride you can do. Repeat 6 times.
Do a total of 5 minutes of the following exercises: single-leg hops, jump roping, and high-knee skipping.
 This strategy is used by marathoners who add distance every week. During the week, do 2 or 3 shorter, intense runs - hard runs during which you run faster and with more effort. On the weekend, do your longest run at an easy, conversational pace. You'll find the longer runs to be more pleasant than the shorter ones, even though you're covering more distance and running for a longer amount of time.
 A tempo run is one that starts with 15 minutes at an easy pace, then 20 minutes at a comfortably hard pace (not a sprint), and finishes with 15 minutes at an easy pace. Adding one or two tempo runs to your workout will increase the body's lactate threshold, the point at which the body fatigues while running a certain pace., In order to keep your mind occupied and away from thoughts of feeling tired, try listening to an MP3 player during your run. Alternatively, you might prefer the quiet time to relax your mind and focus only on your running. Do whatever works best for you and helps you push through the discomfort your body will feel as you gain endurance.

