 Have rules in mind before talking to the children about the indoor play. Set up rules that will ensure their safety and allow them to have fun. It's important that the children stick to the rules. If the children don't want to follow the rules, their safety is at risk and you should tell them that they can't play anymore.Good rules include only using the designated room, sticking to the designating play items, and a restriction on running in the house.
You can say something like "I set up the basement for playing. Do not go into the side room and follow the rules that we talked about. If you don't want to follow the rules, I won't allow you to play anymore, and I'll take away the basketball hoop."
Don't make exceptions or bend the rules or else you children will try to push their limits in the future.
 Explain the importance of safety to your children. Even though they are playing, they need to tone down their physicality when inside. Roughhousing could result in breaking something, or worse yet, hurting one of the kids.


You can say something like, "Okay, this mini football game is touch only! Do NOT push down your brothers or sisters, okay?"

, Create a plan that your children can follow in case they get into an emergency when playing indoors. This could include a cell-phone number that you provide or the protocol on what to do if something, such as someone getting hurt. If you aren't going to be home, make sure to leave them a list of emergency numbers in case something goes wrong.


Communicate with the kids via text if you aren't going to be home. It may be easier to do this unless there is an emergency.
If you aren't going to be home, make sure that there is a neighbor that can help your kids in emergency situations., Being present and attentive is the best way to avoid an accident, and to provide the best indoor play to your children. Listen to what they have to say about how much they enjoy the games, and consider providing alternatives if the kids seem bored or uninterested. While you want the space to be safe, you also want it to be a fun and engaging environment for the kids.

