 A loose sheet or blanket can be a choking hazard. If you do use one, make sure it is tightly tucked under the mattress, and reaches up to the baby’s chest. Always be careful about keeping things away from the baby’s head.A good mattress in a playpen is also going to be thin, which is safer for the baby. Your baby’s face can get stuck in the extra padding. Softer mattresses can be pressed away from the edges of the crib, which creates gaps with the side of the crib that the baby can get stuck in., Whenever the baby is sleeping, he needs to be on his back to allow clear breathing. This position drastically reduces the chances of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). Research is limited on why this is the case, but it is believed that an infant sleeping on his stomach will get less oxygen because he is “rebreathing” the air from around the nose., This means extra pillows, blankets, and toys, especially if the child is 4 months and younger. On the soft mattress, these items can roll around and cover or hurt the baby.If you have toys that attach to the side of the crib, make sure they are secure, and don’t have any dangling or protruding parts. The child can use these to climb out of the crib, or detach small parts that he might choke on.If your baby is sleeping in another carrier, like a car seat, do not put the carrier into the crib. On an uneven surface like a mattress, the carrier can flip over and hurt your baby.
If your baby needs to have his head lifted while sleeping, talk to your doctor or pediatrician about the best ways to accomplish that. If you need to raise the mattress, make sure there are no gaps around the perimeter, and the that angle is low so the baby can’t roll off the mattress.
 Cords are dangerous, as children can tug, pull, and climb on them. The cords can also wrap around their necks and strangle them. Keep the baby’s crib or bed away from corded window coverings, as well as electrical wires for things such as lamps, baby monitors, and night lights.Get cordless equipment whenever possible. If you can’t get items without cords, make sure the crib is at least 3 feet away from any cords.

