 You'll need sugar cubes (at least 100, more if you want to make it bigger/taller), a flat piece of cardboard (~1'x1', larger if your pyramid will be bigger), rubber cement, and optionally sand and lots of baking soda (and an extra piece of cardboard, any size).
 Glue a base layer of sugar cubes with the rubber cement, such that they form a large square (for example, 6 cubes by 6 cubes).









Start off with a bigger base, if you want to make a bigger pyramid.
 Brush a little rubber cement over the top of the first layer and then form another square of cubes on top. This layer should be one cube smaller than the layer below (for example, 5 cubes by 5 cubes).
 Make sure that it is properly centered each time.
 You can fill out the pyramid to make it look as it would have when it was new, if you want to. Do this by making a relatively dry baking soda paste (mix baking soda and water). Spread the paste onto the pyramid and smooth the four sides using the edge of the extra piece of cardboard.









Mix in the water a very small amount at a time until a sand-like mixtures is formed and the baking soda holds its shape when you form it.
The smooth, white sides like this is how the pyramids would have originally appeared. While they are just stone blocks now, they used to have a smooth layer of white limestone over the top, so that they would sparkle in the sun!

, If you want to make your pyramid look like it does in real life today, get a can of tan spray paint and spray the pyramid before continuing. Be careful to use only the minimum amount of paint and to do your painting outside, with everything underneath and around it covered in newspaper.
 Next, you will want to cover the cardboard in rubber cement or preferably Elmer's glue and then (while it is still wet) cover the glue in sand or brown sugar.
 Let the sand and glue mixture dry but also allow the baking soda paste to dry, if you wanted to add it. Be careful with the baking soda paste, as it will crumble away easily.
 You can add some toy palm trees or make a Nile River from cut-out construction paper to really make your project shine.








