 If you are applying to production job rather than doing freelance work, you'll need a well-organized resume. Put down all your education, including if you have had education past high school. If you have been to film school, list your coursework and any projects that you worked on.If you went to a liberal arts college and majored in something related to the industry like Film or Cinema Studies, list any concentration or area of interest within the major.
 Create a category in your resume for “Industry Experience”. List all the jobs that relate to the film industry. You want these positions to jump out at the potential employer who is reading your resume, and the best way to do that is to put them in a separate category at the top. It’s ok if you don’t have any experience yet in the film industry. If you don’t have any jobs that would fall into this category, don’t force it. Just leave off this section.
 Put the rest of your job history in a section called Professional Experience or Job History. Make sure to put your most recent jobs. Try to emphasize the jobs in which you have been able to exercise the most responsibility and creativity.Depending on how old you are and how many jobs you have had, you don’t need to list every single job. For instance, if you babysat in high school, you can probably leave that off your resume.
 Film production involves conducting the entire process of the film, from pre to post production. Any experience you’ve had in organizing a major project will help to show that you have the vision required to work in film production., This could include volunteer experience, community service, or any clubs or organizations you belong to or run. The people reading your resume look at hundreds every day. You want to be sure that yours stands out by showing your personality and what you have to offer. , Don’t be modest when writing your resume. For every job that you list, you want to state how your involvement was invaluable to the company you worked for. Instead of listing the tasks you performed, illustrate how these tasks helped the company or business reach a goal.For example, instead of saying “Managed several employees and directed them to do various projects”, say: “Acted as a manager for several employees and increased general productivity of the company to save $1500 monthly.”

, It’s vital to get another person's feedback on your resume before you send it out. A second pair of eyes not only can pick up on spelling and grammatical errors, it can give you an outsider’s opinion of how you present yourself in your resume., Business cards are a great thing to have when you are meeting people on the go. They can act as a stand-in for your resume when you meet people in the industry because they have all of your vital contact information.Make sure that your business card has your name, phone number, email address, and a brief statement or title, such as “Film student” or “Marketing Executive.”

