 Replacing a board is time consuming and a little tricky. Before embarking on the project, look into services in your area that would replace the board for you. After researching services, receiving quotes, and studying the process, decide if you will replace the board yourself or pay a handyman to do it.If the stain extends across several boards, individually replacing each board may not be worth the effort.
 Measure the depth of the board you are removing. Set your circular saw to cut 1/16 inch deeper than the measured depth of the board.The majority of hardwood floor boards are ¾ inch thick.
 Use the circular saw to cut 1 line down the length of the floorboard. Stop the saw before reaching the end of the damaged board. Move the saw over 1 inch and cut a second line down the length of the floorboard. Stop before you reach the end of the damaged floorboard., Carefully score each end of the damaged board with a utility knife. Do not score the surrounding, undamaged boards., Place the chisel in one of the score lines at a 30° angle. Tap a chisel along the scored line with a hammer. Repeat on the other scored line., Insert a pry bar into the gap at one end of the damaged board. Push down on the pry bar to lift up the damaged board. Remove the damaged board with your hand., Plug in a shop vac. Suction up any debris from the area.


You may also use a hand broom and dustpan to sweep up the debris., Use a measuring tape to determine the width and length of the damaged board. Use these measurements to determine the size of the replacement board. Mark the length and width with a pencil on the replacement board., Remove the bottom grooves from the replacement board. Cut the replacement board to the appropriate length and width. Use the pencil marks as your guide., Tap the replacement board into place with a rubber mallet. Make sure the replacement board is flush with the floor. Use a nail gun to insert 1 finish nail into each end of the board.
 Use a putty knife to fill the nail holes with a small amount of wood putty. Once dry, sand the replacement board with 220-grit sandpaper along the grain. Clean up any dust with a damp rag., Apply a matching stain to the replacement board with a rag. Remove any excess stain with a clean rag. Allow the stain to dry.
 Apply the first coat of varnish with a lambs wool applicator. Once dry, sand the area with 220-grit sandpaper. Remove any dust with a damp rag or shop vac.


Apply 3 coats of oil-based finish or 4 coats of water-based finish. Sand between each coat and clean up any dust.

