 For years now, ginger has been giving the sick support with its nausea-fighting powers. Head for your pantry and grab some fresh or candied ginger. If you can handle the flavor of fresh ginger, eat it raw. Otherwise, try it candied or grate some into a cup of water to make tea.
 When all else fails, plain crackers tend to do the trick for nausea. They have a mild flavor and are easy to digest, making them the perfect sick food. If you can handle crackers, try upgrading to pretzels which have a bit of a higher nutritional value.
 Although it’s not everyone’s first ‘sick food’ to turn to, watermelon is actually great for helping out with a bout of nausea. The high water content and mild flavor help to settle your stomach and incorporate more fluids into your system. If you have a fever as well, try the fruit chilled for a soothing cooling effect.
 White rice sans toppings isn’t the most flavorful dish, but it is helpful for combating nausea. The easy-to-digest carbs will give you a short boost of energy, while the simple flavor won’t irritate your stomach further.
 Eating a barely ripe banana (more towards the green side, with no spots) is great for several reasons. The soft texture and mild flavor make it easy to digest, plus the fruit is full of potassium which aids your immune system in healing your body. Kill two birds with one stone, and mash your banana up with a cup of white rice.
 Now, most dairy products are frowned upon during a period of nausea. However, yogurt with active cultures helps to supply your stomach with the good bacteria necessary for kicking out the bad bacteria. Therefore, find a simple yogurt flavor that advertises probiotics, and your stomach will be back on track in no time.
 No butter, no jam, nothing. Plain (unburnt) toast has similar qualities to crackers. The bread is easy to digest and has a very mild taste, making it more likely that your stomach won’t fight against it. Try a single slice and see how you feel before taking another., Sticking to eating the aforementioned foods is best, but if you must eat other things, use your best judgment. Avoid eating any foods that are greasy, fried, spicy, or very sweet. These can all make an upset stomach much worse, and are more likely to trigger a spell of vomiting.

