 If you're feeling dissatisfied with your normal routine, identify people who are different and places where you don't usually go. Consider trying ways to make friends in places outside of school or work. Even if you come from different backgrounds, find people that are friendly and make you feel welcome.
Seek friendships through extra-curricular activities, art or music classes, after school programs, places of worship, volunteer groups, or other activity groups.
Focus on having experiences with others that both are fun and make you feel accepted.
 If you're feeling like your social life isn't making you happy, consider spending more time with relatives that you like. Sometimes it's good to spend time with people who aren't all the same age. They may have advice and wisdom about how to make your social life better.


Talk with an older sibling or cousin. Spend more time with them if you like hanging out with them. Consider ways to hang out with them one-on-one rather than with your relative's friends.
Gain some wisdom from your aunts, uncles, grandparents, or even your parents.
 Ultimately, it's important to do things that you enjoy. If you like mainly doing activities alone, think about how your personality may match more with people who are similar in that way. Identify the things that make you happy, and go from there to find others that make your social life better.


If you're rather be playing video games at home or watching movies from your couch than going out to a party, that's okay. Focus on making plans with friends or relatives around those type of activities. You may find more people like you than you realize.
Being social doesn't mean you have to go to big parties or have a large group of friends. Focus on activities that actually match your interests.
 You will likely feel happier and more secure with your social life when you have quality friendships. Making friends based on real and authentic connections will feel that much more satisfying.


Build friendships with specific people who you enjoy spending time with.
Avoid activities that make you feel overwhelmed by large crowds and no meaningful conversations with friends.
Do activities one-on-one or in small groups as a way to build deeper friendships.
 One of the biggest hurdles to having a good social life is depending on others to make the first move. While you may be more of a follower than a leader, you may end up doing activities that don't really match who you are.


Consider planning an activity that you and others would enjoy. Choose a time and date that's most convenient for everyone.
Avoid having high expectations that everyone will come. While you may be excited about an event you're planning, it's important to identify a few people that have the same enthusiasm rather than believing everyone will be as excited.
Make sure to have fun, and enjoy yourself at an event that you planned. More people are likely to hang out with you next time.
 If your regular social circle feels like it's not enough, reach out to your online community to find friends and new relationships. If you're single, there are lots of opportunities to find new partners. If you're looking for new friends, try the numerous social groups available.


Join Meetup and find like-minded people with similar interests: https://www.meetup.com/

Join one or more dating sites if you're single. Consider sites such as Match.com, Plenty of Fish, Zoosk, or OkCupid.

