 Non-purebred dogs can be incredibly active, intelligent, and dedicated companions. Their mix of breeds can lend to extreme athleticism. Visit your local shelter and take a few small mutts out on a run, or play a game of fetch. You just might find a lifelong companion! Purebreds might be more expensive as well. , The affectionate and loyal Tibetan terrier is a great companion for the active person. Tibetan terriers are quite intelligent and can be vocal. Their long, thick coats need weekly maintenance, as do their quick-growing nails. Tibetan terriers need patient trainers and regular exercise.Tibetan Terriers weigh 20-24 pounds and live 12-15 years.
While the majority of Tibetan Terriers are healthy dogs, some might face health issues including hip dysplasia, patellar luxation, progressive retinal atrophy, lens luxation and neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis. Do regular vet checkups!

, The Shetland Sheepdog is a herding breed that makes a great family companion. The Shetland Sheepdog is excellent with children and friendly toward strangers. It also gets along well with other dogs. This active breed has a thick coat, sheds a lot, and requires moderate grooming.Shetland Sheepdogs weigh 20-35 pounds, and live 12 to 15 years.
Most Shetland Sheepdogs live long, healthy lives, but some may develop dermatomyositis, hip dysplasia, von Willebrand's Disease, hypothyroidism, and Collie Eye Anomaly.
 Originally raised as fox hunters in England, the Jack Russell Terrier is a great choice for a family seeking out a small, but active dog. This breed can be quite charming, but also requires dedicated, consistent training and management. Jack Russells are good with children, shed a moderate amount, and need minimal grooming. They can be quite vocal, and need intense aerobic exercise daily.Jack Russell Terriers weigh 13-17 pounds and live 10-15 years.
Jack Russell Terriers can be genetically susceptible to certain health conditions including Legg-Calve-Perthes disease, deafness, patellar luxation, glaucoma, and lens luxation.
 The intelligent, energetic, and affectionate Border Collie is a good choice for active individuals and families. This herding breed is high energy and loves to cuddle when it’s not working. Border Collies are agile, athletic, and love to be outdoors. A Border Collie’s coat is long and tends to pick up debris, requiring frequent, but not excessive grooming.A Border Collie weighs between 30 and 45 pounds, and has a lifespan of 12-15 years.
Border Collies are generally a healthy breed that requires lots of open space to run.
 If you are looking for a high energy, intelligent, and devoted active breed, an Australian Shepherd is a good choice. Australian Shepherds need lots of exercise. Their owners need to be able to take them out on a run, hike, or romp at the dog park daily. This smart, focused, and kid-friendly breed has a thick coat that required moderate grooming.An Australian Shepherd weighs 35-65 pounds and lives 12-16 years.
While most Australian Shepherds live long, healthy lives, the breed can be susceptible to hip dysplasia, various eye diseases, epilepsy, and sensitivity to certain drugs.
 This working dog is athletic, affectionate, and eager for adventure. Portuguese Water Dogs have webbed feet and thick, hypoallergenic coats that need regular maintenance. They are great with kids, love to swim and are generally healthy.This breed weighs 35-60 pounds and lives 10-14 years.
While generally healthy, Portuguese Water Dogs are prone to hip dysplasia, juvenile dilated cardiomyopathy, progressive retinal atrophy, and storage disease.
 A working dog originally bred in the agricultural regions of Switzerland, the Bernese Mountain Dog is a loyal watchdog that needs an active lifestyle. The breed is known for obedience and its calm and friendly disposition. The Bernese Mountain Dog is great with kids, but sheds a lot! It also has a tendency to bark. The Bernese Mountain Dog weighs in between 70 and 115 pounds, and has a short lifespan of 6-8 years.
Bernese Mountain Dogs can be susceptible to cancer, hip dysplasia, elbow dysplasia, progressive retinal atrophy, portosystemic shunt, von Willebrand’s Disease, panosteitis, and gastric torsion.
 If you’re looking for an active, large dog that is both fearless and loyal, then a Doberman Pinscher might be the dog for you! This high energy breed makes a great watchdog. They are quite obedient, and eager to join their owners on adventures. Their short coats need minimal grooming, and they require daily aerobic exercise.A Doberman Pinscher weighs between 60 and 80 pounds, and lives about 10-13 years.
The breed is susceptible gastric dilation-volvulus, narcolepsy, color mutant alopecia, albinism, cardiomyopathy, Wobbler’s Syndrome, hypothyroidism, progressive retinal atrophy, hip dysplasia, and von Willebrand’s Disease.
 The beautiful Siberian Husky is athletic and independent. This active breed needs plenty of space to run around, preferably a fenced-in yard that is escape-proof. This breed is family and kid-friendly, and gets along well with other dogs. Its thick coat means shedding and requires regular grooming. Siberian Huskies are also known for being quite vocal.A Siberian Husky weighs about 60 pounds, and lives 12-15 years.
The breed is generally healthy, but can be susceptible to eye problems including progressive retinal atrophy, corneal dystrophy, and cataracts.

