 Many charities will train their volunteers and will gladly accept anyone who is willing to help. However, you may want to consider if you have any specialized skills that you can offer in addition to basic volunteer activities. Think about what level of involvement you are comfortable with in order to help you find a volunteer position that's right for you.


Some volunteer positions need people with specific skills. For example, you may volunteer as an administrator or mentor.You might have a skill with carpentry and may be able to help build housing for families in need.
You might want to help hand out food to families who have hungry children.
 Once you've thought about how much time you can spare and what activities you might want to help with, you can start your search for open volunteer positions. Charity organizations will generally publicize their needs for volunteers, offering a wide variety of ways for you to engage in volunteer work. Take some time to search either locally or online for charities that have a need for volunteers.


Searching online can be a quick way to locate volunteer positions.
You can try searching for openings at https://www.volunteermatch.org/search/?v=false&l=United%20States&categories=22

Many communities have local charities that could always use volunteers.
Children's hospitals often need volunteers.
If you attend a church, they may have a need for volunteers to go on mission trips.
 The NICU is a group that is dedicated to helping infants who are placed in the neonatal intensive care unit. Parents can also receive assistance and support from the NICU during this difficult time. Consider working with a local branch of the NICU to help both parents and infants directly.Learn more about volunteering at http://www.nicuhelpinghands.org/ways-to-give/volunteer/


, Reading to children can be a fun and simple way that you can volunteer. Reading to children has been shown to improve both literacy and reading comprehension skills. Try looking around your neighborhood for any charities or programs that need people to read to children.


Libraries can be a good place to volunteer.
Some organizations have additional focuses, like reading to children in pediatric care. , There are many children's charities that aim to help children in a variety of ways. These charities will generally need volunteers to help manage, organize, or otherwise run an event. Consider volunteering to help a local children's charity event.


You might help with a food drive.
Bake-sales can usually use some extra help.
 You don't always need to wait for a charity to start up or invite you to volunteer. If there are no charities nearby, you may consider taking action yourself. You could organize a community event that is aimed at helping children in your neighborhood. Think about some of these ideas when considering how you might ask your community to help its children:


Organize a food drive to help feed hungry children.
Ask your community to donate old clothes to help families and their children in need.
You could collect old toys from the community and deliver them to local children.
You could collect books and deliver them to local children.

