 Not eating enough healthy food can contribute to hair loss as you also lose out on vitamins and minerals that promote healthy hair. This is why people with eating disorders lose their hair, as well as vegetarians who are not getting enough protein in their diet. To improve the strength and sheen of your hair, focus on maintaining a diet that consists of:Iron and zinc. These minerals help your hair follicles grow. Lean red meat is rich in both nutrients, as well as non-meat options like soybeans or lentils.Protein. This is one of the building blocks of life, promoting cell growth and repair, even in your hair. Women should get at least 46 grams a day (for reference, 3 ounces of chicken has about 23 grams of protein). Other sources of protein include fish, beans, nuts, and yogurt.Omega-3 fatty acids. Eat fatty fish, like salmon, twice a week to improve your hair’s strength and shine. In addition to silky hair, omega-3s may also help to relieve depression and improve the health of your heart.
Biotin. Eggs are a rich source of this B vitamin, which is essential for healthy growth of your cells and your hair. Eggs are also an excellent source of protein, choline, and vitamin D.
In addition to these vitamin and mineral rich foods, you should also have a healthy amount of fruits and vegetables in your diet. Citrus fruits like oranges, as well as strawberries, pineapple, tomatoes, and dark green vegetables all contain vitamin C. Vitamin C has antioxidant properties that help make your skin and hair healthy by boosting your metabolism and converting fat and carbohydrates into energy.
 Some vitamins, like vitamin D, help to strengthen your hair but are tricky to get through eating. Look for vitamin D supplements and take about 1,000 IU a day.You can also take vitamin B, vitamin E, and magnesium supplements once a day to ensure you are consuming these vital vitamins and minerals.
Keep in mind there is no proven scientific correlation between vitamin supplements and the prevention of hair loss. Rather, supplements will help you maintain the hair you still have and stay healthy overall., One of the most common causes of hair loss for adults is androgenetic, sometimes called male or female pattern baldness. This kind of hair loss is caused by a combination of genetics and hormones.Male pattern baldness affects around half of all men by 50 years of age. It usually starts in the late twenties or early thirties. Symptoms include a receding hairline and the thinning of the hair on the crown of your head, creating a horseshoe shape around the back and sides of your head. Sometimes it can progress to complete baldness.Female pattern baldness is not as common as male pattern baldness. During female pattern baldness, your hair only thins on the top of your head. It’s not clear if female pattern baldness is hereditary, but it tends to be more noticeable in women who have been through menopause. This may be because post menopausal women have fewer female hormones and this can lead to baldness or hair loss.While conventional wisdom on androgenetic hair loss is that men inherit their mother’s father’s hair, or lack thereof, recent studies have shown that genetic hair loss can be caused by baldness from either the mother’s or the father’s genes for both men and women.If there is a history of pattern baldness in your family, you can try over-the-counter hair loss treatments like Minoxidil (brand name Rogaine), which works well when used consistently over a period of time. But keep in mind the goal of these types of over-the-counter medications is to stop the process of hair loss, not help you grow your hair back.Minoxidil should not be used by pregnant or breastfeeding women.
However, there is no way to prevent hair loss caused by genetics.
 Stress and hair loss can definitely be connected, especially if you are dealing with a recent traumatic event or are continually stressed out. Hair shedding caused by physical or emotional stress is called Telogen effluvium, and it can cause you to lose one-half to three-quarters of your hair. Your hair may come out in handfuls while you shampoo, comb or run your hands through your hair.Telogen effluvium is usually temporary, as you recover from stress or a traumatic event. But if you do not address any stress triggers in your life, your hair shedding could become long-term, or chronic. If you get your stress under control, your hair can grow back., You may also want to adjust your daily routine so you have more time to do things you enjoy and to focus on cultivating calm and peace in your life.
 If you feel your stress is out of control or if you are having a hard time dealing with a traumatic event, don’t keep it to yourself. Talking to someone about your issues can help you recover and release any tension or stress.

