 If you’re an employer yourself, this might seem like counterintuitive advice. You’re the boss. You’ve got the problem with the employee. Shouldn’t they listen to you? They probably should. But as an employer, no one’s disputing your ability to hire and fire your staff—the idea is to avoid and resolve conflict so it doesn’t become a hiring and firing situation.An unhappy employee usually has a reason to be unhappy. While it isn’t always a good reason, there’s usually a reason. It might not have anything to do with you. It might not even be work related. But there’s little chance for you to solve the problem at all if you don’t know what it is.
 It isn’t enough for an employee to know that you’re dissatisfied in some general way. They need to know specifically what to do to make you a happier boss.For example, don’t say: “We’re having trouble with your attitude.”
Instead, try: “I noticed you having some trouble with that customer yesterday. She said she thought you were rude, and I think I know why. I know you’re not a rude person. In the future, always use ‘m’am’ and ‘sir’ when you’re talking to anyone over forty. It might not mean much to you, but it goes a long way with them.”

, As much for your sake as the employee’s sake, you need to apply the same rules consistently across the workplace. If you tell an employee one thing, but then they see you permit the same behavior from others, it sends a signal that your request really isn’t something you prioritize. Imagine how you might feel if you were one of your employees, you were reprimanded by your boss, then saw your boss permit the exact same behavior from someone else. You’d probably resent the person who reprimanded you.
 While you need to record any disciplinary action you take against an employee, it’s just as important to record what was said as it is to record that something was said. Not only does it help you understand what the employee has failed or succeeded in addressing, it also helps you know what you may have failed to explain.