 Blonde is ideal for colouring.
Wear it either loose or in a super slick and sleek, high, pin straight ponytail. Curls with lots of volume for special nights will give you a playboy bunny look.
If your hair is very short either gel so it is smooth and sleek or apply some styling mouse and pin it whilst it is wet to get soft waves.
Spray your hair with a little perfume and maybe some glitter if you would like.;
, Tea-tree toothpaste is great for clearing up acne.
A good tan is important to this look; you want to aim for quite dark skin without looking orange or like a piece of leather. Remember, it's far better to use a good fake tan then to fry your skin in the sun.
Use concealer to hide blemishes and dark circles but don’t wear foundation unless you feel you really need to.
Apply a rosy blush, the easiest way to do this is to smile hard and then brush powder onto the fattest part of your cheeks, remember to blend well.

Start by applying eye shadow: choose a light pink, baby blue, lavender, white or cream colour, glitter shadows are good too.
Smooth it onto your top lids between the lashes and the crease line; making sure you apply it quite heavily.
Brush a small amount just under your brow bone to make your eyes appear more open.
Now choose a darker shade of the same colour and blend it into your crease line, this will give your eyes better definition.
Next you should apply black eyeliner around you entire eye, making the line thinner on the inner corners and quite thick on the outer corner.
Now curl your eyelashes (heated curlers are best) and apply several thin layers of black mascaras to build up volume, don’t forget your lower lashes.
,
Start by finding a lip liner and lipstick that are either candy pink or fawn coloured and that are a few shades lighter than your natural lip colour.
First apply a very, very light layer of foundation or concealer to your lips to help the colour stick.
Carefully outline your lips with the liner; drawing slightly over the your lip line – particularly in the middle section.
Now fill in the rest of your lips with the lipstick; several thin layers last longer than one heavy one.
Finish with a slick of either clear or matching lip-gloss.

Get a proper French manicure, or, at the very least apply a nail whiting pencil under the tips and slick on a coat of clear polish.
Stay away from dark shades of nail polish, if you must have colour go for baby pink.
You may like to apply some stick on gems or jewels to your nails to complete the look.
 Hoops are by far the best choice, the larger the better.
Try to look for brand earrings such as ones with the playboy bunny.
You may also like to get your nose or bellybutton pierced, but be careful not to get to many different piercings as they can make you look too tough.

Your bra should be a push-up or balconette cut to maximize your chest, if you are wearing a low-cut top make sure the detailing on your bra is showing.
Buy lacy thongs, they look hot, especially if your jeans are low enough for them to peek over the top.
If you are going to wear a skirt, defiantly get some stockings, plain or fishnet – either is fine.

Alternatively, you could wear tiny skin-tight tee shirts with cute and/or slightly provocative slogans or pictures on them.
If you have a pierced bellybutton remember to wear a top high enough to show it off!

, Pretty much any colour is okay as long as you stay away from neons and big patterns and prints.
Two suggested styles are a mini-skirt or a sparkly skirt.
If you wear trousers, go for a pair of tight-fitting low-riders that have a slight flair.
 Try to find a good pair of boots that are at least 2½ inches tall, and are lace-up or at least have lace-up detailing.
If its too hot for boots wear a nice pair of wedge sandals or pair of sling-back heels; any style/colour is fine.

Hoods are a must if you want to protect your hair and makeup in the rain. Coats with a fake fur trim are a great look, particularly in white or khaki, but if you buy one make sure the fake fur doesn't look like a dead rat.

Any style of ring is fine as long as it looks girly; Try to get one with pretty stones on it.
Bracelets should be either big and chunky or cute little chains.
Necklaces mustn't be too over the top or large; Try to go for simple designs with hearts or other charms on them.
Make sure your jewelry isn't to expensive looking – cheap ‘n’ cheerful is what you are aiming for.
As with earrings, buy brand jewelry, like the ranges by Playboy, Golddigger or Jordan.
If you wear a belt it should be large and make an impact, choose light or metallic colours.
Your bag should be a small handbag; you could go for either one with a cute and kitsch Pic/logo or a sturdy metallic one with lots of pockets and ring detailing.
Stay away from denim or fabric bags.
The only style of hat that really suits this look is the baker boy cap, it can be worn in any colour but make sure it coordinates with your outfit.

