 Search Care.com, SitterCity, and job sites such as SnagAJob. Care.com and SitterCity are two sites dedicated almost entirely to babysitting and nannying jobs. They have the option of requesting background checks, and facilitate conversations between sitters and prospective clients.You can also check general job sites (Monster, Indeed, SnagAJob, etc) when looking for clients. Bear in mind, though, that these sites are not specifically designed for nannying and babysitting, so they might not have a lot of postings.
When searching Care.com, still exercise caution; you should never meet with a stranger without proper safety precautions, such as taking a trusted peer or adult or giving your exact location and plans to a loved one.;
, Craigslist can be a great tool in finding babysitting jobs, as it will focus entirely on local gigs. You can also post your babysitting services, giving others the opportunity to come to you first.Again, use caution. Craigslist does not require any type of background check, so do not trust everyone you come into contact with. Meet with the parent and child in a public place first, and consider watching the children in question at a park or other public area when you are first starting out.
 Many cities have Facebook groups where people post odd jobs and service requests. Search your city on Facebook to find any local families in need of a babysitter or nanny, and refer them to your personal profile, or your specially-designed website for more information., Many city websites have job postings. Check your town’s website for all local job listings. If there are no job listings, you can contact the city offices and find out if there is a way to get your information posted.


While it is unlikely that your city representatives are going to be willing to post your desire for a babysitting job on the front page, they may be able to refer you to message boards or community chatrooms, where you can present your information, pay rate, and the services you offer.
 Mobile phone apps are similar to Care.com and other babysitting sites, but with the convenience of a cell phone. These apps allow you to stay up-to-date with local needs, and will give you an edge over other babysitters relying upon word-of-mouth or print advertisements alone.There are many apps for babysitting, the most common of which is UrbanSitter. SitterCity also has a mobile app, as well as Care.com. Other apps include Sitter and CluckCluck, all of which allow you to show your availability and search for open positions.
If you use several different apps, make sure you check in with each of them regularly. Failing to respond to a babysitting request quickly could mean losing a new client or frustrating a continuing client.

