 You can make your s'more more flavorful by adding a slice or two of fruit to it. Strawberries and bananas taste great when paired with chocolate, but you can also use other types of fruit too, such as raspberries.


When making a fruity s'more, add the strawberry or banana slice on the graham cracker, before the chocolate.
Consider using chocolate spread instead of hard chocolate. It will help "glue" the fruit to the graham cracker and prevent it from slipping out.
 Instead of using plain old milk or dark chocolate, consider using chocolate filled with caramel, mint, or peanut butter instead. You can also use chocolate with ground nuts in it as well.


For a cool, wintery spin, use mint-filled chocolate instead of regular chocolate. Switch out the regular graham crackers for chocolate graham crackers.
For a unique, salted-caramel flavor, use caramel-filed chocolate and add a strip of fried bacon. If you do not like bacon, you can use salted-caramel chocolate instead.
 Marshmallow and chocolate spreads come in a jar, and might be easier to spread across a graham cracker. Most chocolate spreads will also have a slight hazelnut flavor.


Consider using chocolate sauce instead of chocolate.
 You can substitute the chocolate for other candies, such as peanut butter cups or chocolate-covered wafers. You can also add candy to your s'more.


If you like peanut butter, switch the regular chocolate out for a peanut butter cup. Consider adding a banana for more flavor.
For an extra creamy flavor, skip the chocolate and replace it with dulce de leche. Use cinnamon graham crackers instead of regular ones.
For a unique twist, add a strip of red or black licorice on top of the chocolate just before you set the marshmallow down.
 Assemble the entire s'more first, then wrap it in a lightly-oiled piece of foil. Fold over the ends of the foil packet to seal the s'more inside. Heat the s'more packet in the coals of a campfire for two to three minutes.Be sure to turn the packet often, then take it out of the fire using a pair of tongs.


You can also heat the s'more packet over a grill. Set the temperature to 350°F (177°C).