 If your toddler is reaching for something that's off limits, it's easy to over-react by yelling to get their attention. Avoid yelling or overreacting, since this may frighten your toddler and make them focus on you rather than what you're saying. Instead, react with calmness.For example, you could firmly, but gently, say, "No! Don't pull the cat's tail.That hurts Fluffy." And separate the child from Fluffy, and demonstrate how to pet gently.
In a real emergency it is OK to react accordingly.
 Instead of expecting an instant change in behavior, plan on guiding their behavior as it develops. Young children are still learning cause and effect, so you'll need to consistently respond to unwanted behaviors. For example, if you don't want your child to pull the cat's whiskers, you'll need to separate them every time you see the toddler going near the cat's face.Remember to set an example for your toddler. If you tell them not to play with electrical cords, try not to handle the electrical cords in your child's presence.
 Engaging right away with your toddler is a great way to distract them. Get down on their level and play a silly game (like peekaboo), start dancing with them, or just tickle them. You could encourage your child to chase you or play with toys together.


Try to do an activity that your child enjoys. For example, your toddler might want to cuddle and read a story with you.
 Young children are constantly learning about their surroundings. Never punish your toddler for exploring their environment. Since your toddler won't understand why you're yelling or shaming them, this behavior will only make them frightened of you. Instead, gently, but firmly, remove them and immediately distract them.If you're concerned about your child getting into something dangerous, ensure that all harmful materials and items are stored out of your child's reach.
 Praise your toddler for good behavior. Be specific in your praise, so they learn what kind of behavior you expect. For example, you could say, "Those were nice pets you gave the cat," instead of just saying, "Good job."Be in the habit of catching good behavior, instead of waiting to discipline them for unwanted behavior.
Pay attention to good behavior. Young children learn quickly what sort of actions gather attention. Whether it is good or bad attention is of secondary concern. If you pay more attention to your child when being good than bad, they will act out less often to get your attention.

