 Use a hand saw or circular saw to cut a wooden ladder in half, width-wise, so that you have two halves of a ladder with complete rungs. Each half of the ladder will act as a shelf on both walls and will create a corner shelf., Use an electronic stud finder that you can purchase at most home improvement stores. Slowly go over your wall with the stud finder until the indicator light flashes, indicating the presence of a stud. Find two studs on each of the walls and draw an X. When you are done, you should have four Xs. You'll use the studs to anchor your L brackets.
 Use a measuring tape to determine the width of each of the walls that you want your ladder bookshelf to be on. If your walls are smaller than the length of the ladder, you'll have to cut down each half to accommodate the size of your walls. Use a circular saw to cut down the ladder again to the measurements that you recorded.
 Use screws to screw in the L bracket firmly where you marked the studs. This bracket will be where the bottom of the ladder rests. Use a tape measure to gauge the height of your ladder. Once you get the ladder's height, use a tape measure to draw another X on each of the studs that correspond with the height of the ladder. This will designate where the top L brackets should be screwed in.Once you've screwed in all of your L brackets you should have a total of 4 L brackets on each wall.
Screw in the top L bracket so that the ladder hangs over the L bracket.
Screw in the bottom L bracket so that the ladder rests on top of it.
 Lift one-half of your ladder and place it onto your L brackets. Make sure that the brackets line up with the top and bottom of your ladder. After you mount your ladder to the bottom L brackets, you can work on securing the ladder to the brackets themselves.
 Use screws to screw the wooden ladder to the metal L-brackets on the wall. Use a power drill to drive the screws halfway into the holes of the L brackets and into your wooden ladder. Once all the L brackets have been screwed in half way, use your power drill to tighten the screws and secure the ladder to the wall.
 Hang and drill the other side of the ladder to the other wall in your room. Once you're done securing it to the wall, you'll have completed creating a corner shelf using a wooden ladder.

