 You should get your copy of the construction contract and read it. Before you can sue, you need to make sure that the other side has violated a provision of the contract. Generally, the contract contains the entirety of your agreement and you cannot sue for a contract violation if the other party didn’t promise to do something. Typically, construction contract lawsuits involve the following violations:


The owner hasn’t paid the contractor. Each contract has provisions for paying the contractor.If the owner does not pay the contractor, then the contractor can sue.
The contractor did substandard work. You can sue if the contractor’s work was defective and the contract required that the contractor do the work properly.Either the owner or contractor “repudiates” the contract. This means that the person makes a clear, unconditional refusal to actually perform their obligations under the contract. A person can also repudiate a contract by actions.For example, if the owner refuses to let the contractor onto the property, then the contractor can claim the owner has repudiated the contract.;
, You can’t sue unless you have evidence of a valid contract and a violation of that contract. What evidence is relevant will depend on the individual circumstances of your case. Generally, however, you should look for the following:A valid contract. Find your copy of a signed contract. You need to prove that a valid contract exists before you can win the lawsuit.
Proof that you performed your obligations. If you are the homeowner, find proof that you made timely payments as required by the contract. For example, look for cancelled checks or other proof of payment. If you are the contractor, document that you have been working diligently and competently by, for example, taking photographs of your work.
Proof of a breach. Hold onto communications from the other side or document sloppy work.
Evidence of economic loss. You might have needed to hire someone else to fix the work or complete it. If so, hold onto itemized receipts. If you are a contractor who has not been paid, then your not being paid is sufficient economic loss.
 The contract will probably have a “termination” provision. You should read it. Often, these provisions require that you give the other side notice of any contract violation. The other side usually has a certain amount of time to fix the violation.


A typical notice provision in a contract might read something like: “If the Owner fails to issue a payment for a period of thirty days through no fault of Contractor, the Contractor may, upon fourteen days’ written notice to the Owner, terminate the Contract, provided however that Owner shall first have an opportunity to remit such payment within the fourteen day period following written notice.”You can’t sue unless you give the other side a chance to fix the violation, so be sure to read your entire contract to check if there is a notice provision. If there is, draft a Notice of Breach.
 You should set up the notice like a standard business letter. Make sure that the font is set to a comfortable size and style. Times New Roman 12 point is legible for most people.


Make sure to include the date. You are creating a paper trail so that you can show a court during a lawsuit when the other party received notice of the breach., You need to tell the other party how they broke (“breached”) the contract. You should quote the contract provision they violated. List all of the provisions, starting with the most serious., Your contract may require that you give the other person a chance to fix (“cure”) the violation. The contract should also state how much time the person has to cure.Make your demand clear and remind the other person how much time they have to cure.


For example, if you haven’t received payment, then you should make a demand for payment.
If the contractor has stopped working, then demand that they start working again.
 The contract may state where you should send your notice and the delivery method you must use. You can find this information in your contract. Make sure to follow the specified delivery method.


If you don’t follow the proper method, then the other side could claim that you didn’t provide proper notice.Your lawsuit may be dismissed because you didn’t give the other side a chance to cure.
 You do not have to hire a lawyer to sue for a construction contract violation. However, you would certainly benefit from a lawyer’s advice before filing the lawsuit.You will want to discuss whether or not the contract violation is sufficiently serious to sue and what you can get from the court.


To find an experienced lawyer, you should contact your local or state bar association, which should run a referral program.
Schedule a half hour consultation with the lawyer. Take all of your evidence with you (contract, communications, photographs, etc.) and show it to the lawyer.
 You can’t sue a person in just any court. Generally, you can sue someone in the county where they live or in the county where the work was performed.You should also decide whether you want to sue in small claims court. Each state has a small claims court that is designed for people to represent themselves without a lawyer. If you can’t afford an attorney, then you might want to bring your lawsuit in small claims court.
Each small claims court has a maximum amount that you can sue for. For example, in Maine, you can only sue in small claims for $6,000. In New Mexico, the maximum is $10,000.If your case is worth more than the maximum, then you will have to sue in regular civil court.
 You start the lawsuit by filing a “complaint” with the court. In this document, you identify the person you are suing (who will be the “defendant”). You also identify what part of the contract the defendant violated and make a claim for money compensation.


The contractor may be covered by a surety bond. The purpose of the bond is to ensure completion of the project. If the contractor defaults, then the surety company can find someone else to complete the job or pay out a certain amount of money to the homeowner.You can sue the surety company in addition to the contractor. Make sure to name the surety company as a defendant in the lawsuit.The contractor should have given you information about its surety bond before beginning the project.
 Make several copies of your complaint. Take the original and the copies to the court clerk and ask to file. Also ask the clerk to stamp your copies of the complaint with the filing date.


You will probably have to pay a filing fee.The amount will differ by court.
 You need to notify the defendant that you have filed the lawsuit so that he or she can respond. You will provide this notice by serving a copy of the complaint and a summons on the defendant. You can get the summons from the court clerk.Each court will have its own rules for determining acceptable methods of service. In most courts, you can hire a private process server to make hand delivery on the defendant. You can also usually have someone 18 or older make delivery, provided they are not a party to the lawsuit.
In some courts, you can also hire the local sheriff to make service or mail notice using certified mail, return receipt requested.
 If you sue the contractor’s surety company, then you will need to serve notice on them as well. In some states, such as Washington, the Department of Labor and Industries must make service. You provide the agency with several copies of the complaint and a check to cover the service fee., Whoever makes service should complete a “proof of service” or “affidavit of service” form. You can get this form from the court clerk. Once the form is completed, it will be returned to you.


You must file the original form with the court. Keep a copy for your own records.
 The defendant will probably respond to your complaint by filing an “answer” and sending you or your lawyer a copy. In the answer, the defendant will respond to each allegation that you made, specifically admitting or denying each allegation.If you have an attorney, then make sure to get copies of all documents from your lawyer. You want to stay up to date on your case.
 After the defendant files an answer, the case enters a phase called “discovery.” Discovery is the fact-finding portion of the lawsuit. One purpose is to uncover all of the evidence that the defendant has to support his or her case. Another purpose is to find useful information for your own case.


To this end, you can request from the defendant copies of any document even slightly related to the case. For example, if you are contractor who has not been paid, then you can request that the owner turn over copies of any documents that supports the owner’s decision not to pay you.
 In discovery, each side can ask a witness to answer questions under oath in a “deposition.” This usually takes place in a lawyer’s office, with a court reporter present. You can prepare for your deposition by going over your evidence with your lawyer and doing a mock deposition. On the day of your deposition, remember the following tips:Listen closely to the question and understand it before answering. If something is unclear, ask the lawyer to clarify.
Confer with your lawyer at any time. If you are unsure of how to answer, state that you want to talk to your lawyer.
Never guess, and always clarify if you are giving an estimate. Say, “I can only provide an estimate.” Then wait for the lawyer to ask you to provide the estimate.
Always stay calm and be polite. Depositions can drag on for hours, and tempers may flare as everyone becomes tired. Try to stay upbeat and always polite, even if you think the other side’s lawyer is rude.
 After discovery ends, the defendant might try to get the case dismissed by filing a “motion for summary judgment.” In this motion, the defendant argues that trial would be pointless because the facts are undisputed and the evidence overwhelmingly favors the defendant.Your lawyer will file a motion in opposition. Usually, there are facts in dispute so summary judgment is not appropriate. For example, the defendant might argue that an email you sent him represents a “repudiation” of the contract. However, you might have only expressed dissatisfaction with the contractor in the email.
 You should give serious thought to settling your dispute outside of court. You could negotiate a settlement with the defendant or participate in mediation. Each has advantages.


If you negotiate a settlement, then you can avoid an expensive and lengthy trial. However, negotiation involves compromise. You probably won’t be able to get as much money as you are suing for if you negotiate a settlement.
Mediation would be helpful if you don’t have a lawyer. In mediation, you and the defendant meet with a third party, the mediator, to discuss the dispute. The mediator is trained at getting people to listen to each other and work toward concrete, mutually-agreeable solutions.Mediation is not free, but it is often cheaper than a lawsuit.
 If you can’t resolve the dispute outside of court, then you need to go to trial. At trial, you will have the burden of showing by a “preponderance of evidence” that the defendant broke the contract. This means that it is “more likely than not” that the defendant violated the contract and caused you injury.A breach of contract case can be heard before a jury or only a judge. If there is a jury, then you and your lawyer will need to select the jury before the trial begins.
You will present evidence first. You can have witnesses testify and introduce documents. You must prove the allegations made in your complaint.
The defendant will present evidence second. The defendant will probably try to argue that you breached the contract first. Alternately, the defendant could argue that he or she actually fulfilled all contractual obligations.
If you have a jury, the jury will retire to deliberate. In most state courts, juries no longer need to be unanimous, so you could win even if one or two jurors don’t agree with you., You should talk with a lawyer about whether an appeal is worthwhile. Don’t delay. Generally, you get only a limited amount of time to file your Notice of Appeal—30 days or less.


You can bring an appeal if you think the judge made an error during the trial, such as letting in evidence that shouldn’t have been admitted. Also, you could appeal if there is no way the defendant should have won given the facts. However, appeals are time-consuming, and the appellate court will look at all testimony in a light most favorable to the defendant.
 The court does not collect your judgment for you.All the court does is give a judgment in your favor. Hopefully, the defendant will pay up if you win.


If the defendant does not pay, then you will probably need to put a lien on their property or garnish their wages.
See Collect a Court Ordered Judgment for additional information.

