 For the best odds of escaping riot-control agents (RCAs for short)unscathed, there's no beating a genuine gas mask. However, these aren't usually cheap. Decent-quality gas masks will rarely cost less than about $100-125, while replacement filters can easily cost $40-50 per pack. .Don't forget to bring at least one replacement filter canister with you. If the current canister starts to fail in the middle of a tear gas attack, you'll be glad you brought additional protection.
Note that it is difficult and uncomfortable to perform actions such as running while wearing a gas mask.
Note also that gas masks are subject to export restrictions in some states and countries, so check your local laws before traveling with one., If you can't get your hands on a gas mask, be prepared with a half-face respirator (which can usually be found at hardware stores.) Though these don't offer the full-face protection of gas masks, they should at least make it easier to breathe (and, in addition, they are usually cheaper.)Another reasonable alternative to a gas mask is a device called an "escape hood", which is essentially a plastic bag with a breathing filter used to protect from smoke inhalation when escaping a fire. These are cheaper than gas masks and aren't usually subject to the same regulations., The drop in quality from professional-grade gas masks to lesser solutions is large. However, any sort of barrier between your face and the RCA is better than nothing. If you have nothing better handy, cover your mouth and nose with a surgical mask, a dust mask, or even a bandana. While these won't protect you from inhaling RCAs, they may at least provide some protection while you escape.
 If you don't have a full-face gas mask, well-fitting eye protection is a must. Almost all of the RCAs that are designed to incapacitate rioters via inhalation will also cause eye irritation, pain, and even temporary blindness.


Airtight safety goggles are a good bet in terms of eye protection. These are often used in chemistry labs and are sometimes sold in college bookstores.
If you can't find safety goggles, even ordinary swimming goggles can work well so long as they can keep an airtight seal., Tear gas, pepper spray, and other RCAs can seep into your clothes is you're exposed to them directly. If this happens, the harmful agents will be held against your body and can cause major irritation or even chemical burns. To avoid this, shed any clothing that is exposed to an RCA as soon as you're out of danger. You may need to wash your clothes before using them again or discard them, depending on how much RCA they have been exposed to.Don't forget that a high-end gas mask won't make you invincible against RCAs, as it will do nothing to protect your clothes.
, One common tactic rioters use to fight against tear gas is to throw the canisters back at the police who shot them. However, this isn't wise to do with your bare hands, as tear gas canisters can get very hot (and, in addition, you'll be exposing your bare skin to the gas itself.)Thus, you may want to bring at least a single sturdy glove for dealing with tear gas canisters (or just limit yourself to kicking the canisters.)

