 The electricity that powers these items is generated by emissions-producing energy plants. Using your lights, appliances and anything else powered by electricity as infrequently as possible will reduce your carbon footprint.


Rely on natural light during the day; open up your blinds and let the sun shine in. That way you won't have to turn your lights on.
Turn off your TV when you're not using it, rather than keeping it on in the background.
Shut down your computer when you're finished with it.
 Even when they're switched off, appliances sap energy as long as they stay plugged in. Go around the house and unplug the appliances in your kitchen, bedroom, living room, and so on. Even a phone charger left plugged in can use energy.
 Large appliances are responsible for a big portion of a household's energy use. If you're using outdated appliances, you might want to replace them with energy-saving models. You'll save money and reduce your carbon footprint. See if you can replace the following appliances with a more efficient version:


Refrigerator
Oven and stovetop
Microwave
Dishwasher
Washer
Dryer
Air conditioner

, Heat and air conditioning units are another big household energy sink, so look for ways to cut back on how much you use them. In addition to getting energy-efficient heating and air conditioning systems, try the following:


Adjust your thermostat to 68ʡF (20ʡC) in the winter, and 78ʡF (26ʡC) in the summer.Let your body naturally acclimate to the weather, so you can go longer without heat in the winter and without air conditioning in the summer. Wear warm sweaters and slippers indoors in the winter, and use hand fans in the summer.
When you go out of town, turn off the heat or air conditioning so you aren't wasting energy while you're away.
 It takes a lot of energy to heat water for showers and baths. Take shorter showers and take baths less frequently, since baths typically use more water than showers.


You can also limit your hot water use by turning your water heater to 120ʡF (49ʡC), so the water never gets unnecessarily hot.
Use the cool setting on your washing machine; it's better for your clothes, anyway.

