 This should be a standard EIDE drive.


Unless you have experience with installation of these drives, it is suggested you purchase a new drive from a store like Best Buy that includes cables, screws, and software in case you need them.;
,


Some PCs are tool-less and have buttons or tabs to push in, while others require a small Phillips screwdriver to open. If it is the latter type, the screws will be along the back outer edge of your case.
 It will be in the back of where you actually put your discs in the front....


There will be 2 types of cables attached to the drive, a power cable (small round electric cable) and a EIDE cable (flat cable).
 Sometimes they are a little tight, but they will eventually come loose.
 Usually it has 2 on each side holding it firmly in place.


Some systems (some Dells) have plastic rails that make things easy. You simply pinch them together and slide the whole unit out from the back.
, These settings are changed by moving a jumper on the back of the drive. Usually there are 3 settings, identified as "CS" (Cable Select), "MA" (Master), and "SL" (Slave). In most cases, CS is advised.


If you have many drives in your system or your old drive is not set as CS, you should set the new drive with the same setting as your old drive.



If you have rails on your old drive, remove them with your screwdriver and install them in the same fashion on the new drive.
If screws held your old drive in place, use screws to put the new drive in in the same place the old one was.
 Connect the power cable and EIDE cable to the back on the drive once you have it secured in place. Note that both of these cables have notches and will ONLY go in one way.
 Put any screws you may have removed back into place.
, If you are running Windows XP, Vista, or a recent Linux OS, it should be plug and play. You should not need any drivers under normal circumstances.


It may show up on your screen that it has found and is installing new hardware.


Just because you installed a DVD-ROM drive on your Windows PC does not mean you can automatically watch movies. You will need to install the DVD watching software that came with your drive to give Windows the proper codes to watch movies. Once you install the software, everything should be fine. The software you are looking for is WinDVD or similar.

