 If you're stuck in a mayo and mustard rut, use an exciting savory jam. You don't even need to change your favorite sandwich fillings. Just choose a savory jam that will compliment the fillings. Consider grilling the sandwich for an extra toasty flavor. Try one of these combinations:Smoked turkey with raspberry horseradish jam
Hamburgers with onion jam
Grilled cheese with tomato jam

, You can easily make a cheese ball using your favorite type of cheese. Let it chill completely, so it sets up and set out several types of savory jams to serve with the cheese and crackers. Or you could mix savory jam into a soft cheese to create a dip.


For example, stir onion or garlic jam into soft goat cheese for a rich dip.
 Whisk together a quick vinaigrette to use in salads or to dress roasted vegetables. Pour a little vinegar (you can use any type you like) and olive oil into a small bowl. Stir in a few teaspoons of savory jam and whisk the vinaigrette until the mixture is combined.You could try raspberry horseradish jam combined with balsamic vinegar and olive oil. Or use peach jalapeno jam with champagne vinegar and olive oil.
 You can quickly add flavor to a dish by spreading savory jam over it during the final minutes of cooking. Use a pastry brush to spread a savory jam over ham, chicken, pork tenderloin, or salmon. Glaze the dish during the last 15 to 20 minutes of cooking time.If you glaze a large roast when it starts cooking, the glaze could burn because the roast needs to cook for so long. That's why it's important to wait till the end of the cooking time.
 Cook your favorite pasta noodles and cook up a basic sauce. Stir a few tablespoons of a savory jam into the sauce for an instant flavor boost. You can add it to marinara or basic white sauces. Toss the noodles with the sauce until they're coated.


For example, you could make a basic fettuccine alfredo, but add garlic jam to the sauce for an even stronger flavor.
 Instead of spreading classic marinara sauce or alfredo sauce on your pizza dough, spread savory jam. Top the pizza dough or flatbread with a few simple ingredients, so you don't overwhelm the flavors of the jam. For example, use a roasted red pepper jam with fresh mozzarella and basil.


You could also use pineapple sriracha jam on a pizza with ham and cheese for a fresh take on a Hawaiian pizza.

