 Ask yourself" : "Do I really want to be in it? Will I be able to dedicate the time needed for it?" If you get into the show, you will have to give up a lot of your personal time. Moreover, dropping out is simply not an option, as you'll be letting down the rest of the cast. Be absolutely certain this is the right choice for you at this point in time.;
, You won't be able to get a lead or supporting role if you don't have self confidence. To build up your self confidence, recognize your flaws and insecurities and learn to love them because they are a part of you. Start feeling good about yourself. A good actor/actress only needs to please herself/himself.
 If there's a movie based on it, watch it. If there's a soundtrack, listen to it. Read the book it's based on too, if applicable. Know what the characters are all about and know which one of the lead characters you want to play.


Go online, and look for scripts, you can even watch a little bit on Youtube, if you find the play or musical.
 As soon as you walk into the first audition, you've already started your audition. Practice demonstrating good posture and volunteer in exercises.
 You will need to know when and where the audition will be taking place. Sometimes nerves can do funny things to you and cause you to get lost, so also know exactly how to get to the place where the audition is being held.
 You may be able to choose it yourself but normally it's a set piece, maybe an extract from the script.
 On the day of the audition, be on time or perhaps even 10 minutes early. If waiting near other people auditioning bothers you, at least be at the building and find your own quiet corner away from the others.
 Before you sing your audition piece, warm up your vocal chords.
 If you're asked to sing any random song for the audition, don't sing overused songs. The director has probably listening to these songs all day and if you sing it too, they'll probably skip over you. Also never sing a song in the play! That's basically audition suicide. It just shows you are really desperate for the character who sings that songs role.
 Speak loudly and clearly, the director needs to know how loud you can be. You're never too loud in theatre.


Also walk in with the attitude of your character you would like to play. If you are auditioning for the villain you can walk in with a mysterious look.
 Suggest the character you want to play in your dress (i.e. if you were trying out for Sharpay in High School Musical you might want to wear bright pink.) This helps the director(s) see you as that character. But don't overdo it! Full costumes are usually not appropriate for auditions. Also, too much may give you a slight reputation of being desperate or needy.
 Most acting auditions are cold readings. So when given a scene to audition with, look it over until you almost have it memorized. If you're doing a scene with another person, talk to them to help your chemistry on stage. Take the script pages you have to read out of the script, if possible, so that your body is given more freedom to act.


When reading, hold the pages away from your face, so your words don't get blocked out by having something in front of your face. Don't forget to look at the person you are reading with. Get into the character you are reading.
Whilst others are auditioning make sure you are reading your audition piece. Look at the people auditioning and see what people like and what they don't like so much.
 If you are seen distracting others or being disrespectful, the directors won't want you in their production. Directors look for things off stage too, if you're quiet in your seat, how you react to certain things, and lots more, so be on your best behavior.
 No matter how nervous you are, never show it. The director wants someone who is not afraid to be big and out going in front of an audience that can act.
 Even if you don't get a lead, which you will if you've followed these steps, be a good sport about the role you did get. "There's never small parts, just small actors!" If you have a good attitude and do your best with the part you get, the director will remember. In the future, he or she might give you a bigger role.


Even if you don't get the part that you wanted, congratulate the person who got the part you wanted. It shows that you are a nice person.
Don't worry if you don't get a main part, they'll want to see how well you do with a smaller part first. This is especially true if this is your first performance.

