 For example, a child who is mismatched with the instruction (the material is too difficult or too easy), the lesson is planned poorly and disorganized, or there are adverse influential factors in the classroom setting. All of these situations can cause the child to react in an inappropriate manner. It is the teacher's responsibility to be prepared and make sure that there are no poor transitions or opportunities for the students to be off task. Another influence that might cause misbehaving are cognitive disorders, such as Attention Deficit Hyperactive Disorder (ADHD). All of these symptoms or reasons as to why students can get off topic is the teacher's responsibility to address and prevent them from happening. (School-wide Strategies for Managing Off-task/Inattention).;
, They become apparent when the student displays a repetitive and persistent pattern of behavior that results in the significant disruption in other students. Such disturbances may cause significant impairments in academic and/or social functioning. When adjusting and recognizing inappropriate behaviors early on, students can learn strategies to cope with adverse situations that result in problem behaviors since such a behavior pattern is consistent throughout the individuals life.


The characteristics of a behavioral disorder among children and adolescents are: Initiation of aggressive behavior and reacting aggressively towards others, a display of bullying, threatening, or intimidating behavior, being physically abusive of others, deliberate destruction of someone else's property, showing little empathy and concern for the feelings, wishes, and well being of others, showing callous behavior towards others and lack of feelings of guilt or remorse, they may readily inform on their companions and tend to blame others for their own misdeeds.
(Strategies for teaching students with behavioral disorders).
 Monitor in which conditions does the problem behavior occur and not occur. Find effective and efficient intervention strategies that respond to the needs of the individual student within the classroom.
Modify the classroom environment to decrease problem behavior by rearranging environment, schedule or learning activities to meet the students needs. Also, individually adapt instruction to promote high rates of student engagement and on-task behavior.
Teach and reinforce new skills to increase appropriate behavior and preserve a positive classroom climate. Actively teach students socially and behaviorally, appropriate skills to replace problem behaviors using strategies focused on both individual students and the whole classroom.
Draw on relationships with professional colleagues and students’ families for continued guidance and support.
Assess whether school wide behavior problems warrant adopting schoolwide strategies or programs, and if so, implement ones shown to reduce negative and foster positive interactions.
