 Sometimes, starting the conversation can lead you to a solution. Be polite when you tell you're parents that you are interested in getting a new phone, and really listen to what they have to say. If you can respond to your parents reasons and excuses for not getting you a new phone in a convincing way, they'll be more likely to shell out for your brand new mobile device. You might ask:


"What can I do to earn a new phone?"
"Are there any other chores I can help with to prove I'm ready for a new phone?";
, Stay calm throughout your talk with your parents about your phone situation and keep your cool if you hear a "no" in response. This is an opportunity for you to show your maturity and to earn points with your parents. Instead of getting upset or frustrated, ask your parents:"What can I do to change your mind?"
"What can I do to prove to you that I need a new phone?"

, This can be tricky, especially if you're too young to work. If you have birthday money saved up, you can offer to put that toward getting a new phone, or you can offer to do more housework in exchange for an allowance.Offer your services as a babysitter to friends and family who have children that are younger than you who need supervision.
You might be able to earn money around your neighborhood doing seasonal chores, like mowing lawns in summer or shoveling snow in winter.
 When you want something badly, sometimes it's all you can think about. However, asking again and again can irritate your parents, making them less willing to get you a phone.Instead of asking the same question repeatedly, ask in a roundabout way that highlights your recent effort. You might say, for example:


"How does the kitchen look? I've been trying to help out by doing dishes. I thought that maybe if I helped out around the house more, we could talk again about getting me a new phone."
"I know you've been busy with work lately, so I vacuumed the house for you. Is there anything else I can help with? I was thinking that if I contributed more, I might be able to get a new phone."

, Your parents will be more likely to buy you a new phone if they agree with your reasoning.Your reasoning will be influenced by your personal situation, so you'll have decide which arguments will work best for you. Some you might want to consider include:


Safety features, like improved GPS
Poor reception due to an outdated model
Earning money to buy your own phone will teach you responsibility
Unreliability, like your phone turning on and off randomly or messages arriving late to your phone

, Times when your parents are busy, flustered, or angry are likely to result in a "no" to your phone request. Encourage a good mood in your parents before you ask, by being extra polite and doing any chores you might have before they ask. To improve your chances of a yes before you ask for your new phone, you also might:Turn on your parents' favorite music
Talk about an experience where you both had fun
Do an activity your parents find enjoyable

, Generally speaking, people are more agreeable after they eat, and this might put your parents in a more favorable mood when you ask for your new phone.Weather can also make your parents more or less agreeable. Sunny days with clear skies will improve your odds of getting the phone you desire., Your parents will be more likely to agree to your request for a new phone if you get them to first agree to a few small, related requests.If your parents use the excuse that a new phone would cost more money, ask if you could pick up more chores or household responsibilities to earn a little extra money. Then ask if you can put that money toward a new phone.
 If your parents are open to you doing extra work around the house or some other task to earn your phone, stay on top of your extra chores without being asked. This will show your parents that you are taking your agreement seriously, which will result in your parents taking it seriously as well., While your parents might normally be unwilling to pay the cost of a new phone, a special day, like a gift giving holiday, can be the ideal excuse to splurge on a present. During this time, be clear with your parents. Let them know that you'd rather have a phone than toys or gifts you might not use., Listen to what your parents have to say carefully, and then when it's your turn to speak, put what they said in your own words. By showing that you hear and respect what they are saying, you will improve your chances of getting your new phone.An example like this might look like:



You: Mom, so if I'm hearing you right, you don't think a new phone is worth the cost and you're worried that I'll drop it like my last phone. I hear what you're saying, but I have some ideas...

