 As an employer, if you provide fringe benefits, you may entice quality talent to work for you and you may keep your workforce happy and healthy. In addition, employees might prefer fringe benefits for the reduced tax liability when fringe benefits aren't taxed (while your salary will be).


For example, companies that provide health insurance can ensure their workforce stays healthy so they can come to work and be productive. You may even get tax breaks for providing group plans., Especially if you are a small employer, fringe benefits may be prohibitively expensive to provide. For example, paying an employee's healthcare (or multiple employees) can become very expensive.In another example, the cost of procuring and maintaining a gym for your employees could also be expensive.


Think about these costs before you offer fringe benefits.
 When you start calculating the amount you spend on fringe benefits, create a spreadsheet or use a piece of paper and write down the names of all your employees.


Put all of these names in one column.
 In a series of rows, write down all of the fringe benefits you offer. At this point, do not worry about who receives what benefits.
 Put an (X) or some other mark next to each fringe benefit each employee receives. This will allow you to easily identify the calculations you need to make going forward.


For example, assume you have three employees. Assume you offer health insurance, sick days, and athletic facilities. However, Employee one only receives health insurance and sick days; Employee two only receives athletic facilities; and Employee three takes advantage of every fringe benefit.
 Now that you know what benefits you offer and who receives them, you can quantify the amount of each employee's package. For example:


For Employee one (who receives health insurance and sick days): Calculate the actual value of these benefits. Assume you pay $200 per month ($2,400 annually) for their health insurance and you offer five sick days equaling $800. The value of their fringe benefits package is $3,200.
For Employee two (who receives athletic facilities): Calculate the FMV of this benefit. Assume, based on your location and services offered, that the FMV of this benefit is $75 per month ($900 annually).
, After you calculate the compensation you are providing each individual employee, you can add all of them together in order to understand how much you are paying every year as an employer.


For example, you can add together the packages you give all three of your employees, which would equal $8,200 ($3,200 + $900 + $4,100). This is the amount you pay every year to your employees in order to offer fringe benefits.

