 This code, while fairly straightforward, is an easy way to begin assigning symbols to your alphabet. Write out the alphabet in its standard order. After this, go through and number each letter of the alphabet from 1 to 26 so that A=1, B=2, and complete this pattern.


This code, while fairly simple, is also easy to crack. You could try switching it up by reversing the order of the numbers from the beginning (A=26), or by numbering normally for the first half of the alphabet and reversing your numbers when you hit the half-way point, so that N=26, O=25, and so on.
 While most people think of Morse Code as a series of sounds and lights, rather than something that can be written, there are shorthand symbols for each letter in the code.Morse Code, named after its inventor Samuel Morse, was used to quickly send messages through telegraphs in the 1830's. Each letter will be composed of a series of dots and dashes. Compose a key of the various correlations and use it as a guide when writing in this code.


For advanced coders, there are Morse Code symbols that also represent all forms of punctuation. Try spicing up your messages by writing full sentences, divided by periods, commas, and exclamation points, within your Morse Code.
 Invented in Ancient Egypt, hieroglyphics is old system of writing language that combines a more traditional alphabet with symbolic drawings.What's a bit tough about learning hieroglyphics is that it not only relies on letters, but also on sounds. When writing the letter A, for example, you'll have to memorize the symbols for both the long and short vowel sounds.


Write out a key that not only includes the letters of the English alphabet, but also the sounds that have been assigned their own symbol in hieroglyphics. You'll see that the shared letters often have the same basic design, and that there are small modifications that correlate to each sound or combination of letters.
 While you can certainly use these existing codes, or other codes that exist in the world, it can be fun to create your own. Get together with a friend and assign a symbol to each letter in the alphabet. Keeping these designs fairly simple will be helpful in mastering your own code. It's also very important that you hold onto your key, as you don't want to forget your methods.

