 If your wife is struggling, maybe lost a job, things not well at work. Shock her and pay the bills. Don't complain about it though, otherwise it doesn't mean anything. Also remember, you got married, so what's yours is hers. Make as if it doesn't affect you. She will notice that you not complaining and love you more..;
, The fact that she sees you working to take care of and provide for her and the family shows her that you care for her needs enough to provide them. So grind out that job, and pay for your woman’s needs.
 When the chores threaten to overwhelm her, whenever she’s feeling ill, down with pregnancy, or downright not just in the mood, lending a helping hand is a small, sweet way to be affectionate to your wife.
 An occasional flower, box of chocolate, or a nice scarf you ‘happened to see outside and thought would look nice on her’ while on the outside is seemingly trivial, is actually a nice way to show your affection for your wife, and will ensure that you’re the only thing she’d think about for a long while.
 Nothing beats being straight about it. Periodically remind her of how much you love and care for her.
 Remind her in small, nice ways of how beautiful she is. If she’s got a new hairdo, buys a new dress or changes her looks a bit, compliment it a little on that. Paying attention to noticing such small things goes a long way towards showing your affection.
 Kiss her as often as you get the chance. Doesn’t necessarily mean going French all the time but you could just attempt nice little, playful kisses, pecks, and back-of-the-hand kissing. Kiss her in the morning when she wakes up in the morning too (morning bad breath and all). Let her wake up to you staring at her sleep. Smile at her, and then go in for a nibbling kiss. Kiss her also at night, just before you go to bed. She’s sure to drown by your affection this way.
 Learn to be comfortable holding her hand, in public and else; touching her, letting her touch you in return; letting her lean on you as she sleeps; holding her when she cries or is feeling down. These are sure ways to let you affectionate juices flow. Just be a little bit moderate and don’t overdo. Only, seize every chance as it comes.
 Wives like it when their husbands LOOK at them, as opposed to looking at other women. Take time each day to examine your wife’s outlook, from head to toe if possible. Look at her when unclad; look at her fully-clothed. Take time to examine your wife’s figure. And let her catch you doing it. You’ll be rewarded with that bashful, shy smile and the inception in your wife’s consciousness of the knowledge that however old she is she’s still sexy enough to warrant your visual attention.
 There's absolutely nothing wrong with spoiling your woman a little, especially if she's your life partner. Treat her to special surprises once in a while: a fancy trip, a shopping card, an all-expense-paid spa treatment, a romantic candlelight dinner. She's sure to love you forever with a truckload of these coming in occasionally

