 Remember this, you are your own best analyst when it comes to your health and only you really know your values and the risks you are willing to take.;
, Ask questions when you are done listening to get all the information you can. Take your best friend, a nurse friend, your mom, sister, dad or brother with you to the office visit.
 Also have them document the answers that your healthcare provider gives you when you ask questions so you can review the notes together later.
 Once you have finished your visit, if there is a treatment decision, then ask your healthcare provider for evaluation time. Hopefully, you have some time to make decisions about treatment and will have an opportunity to review your notes before you engage in appointment making and plans for treatment. Do not let office staff or scheduling issues pressure you to make a commitment before you have had time to evaluate your decision fully.
 Once you are back home, go over your notes with whomever accompanied you to the visit. See if there are any gaps in information, or further questions you have formed as a result of the review.
 Use well respected sites. Some good resources are Web MD, Mayo Clinic, and the National Institute for Health web sites. There are many other excellent sites but these are three trusted and general health related resources.
 You want top of the line research based material to make the best possible decision. You do not want to be reading about worse case scenarios or fear inducing drama when you are facing tough choices.
 For instance, if you have heart issues you might want to visit the American Heart Association web site. If you are fighting a cancer, there are many cancer specific sites with good supportive networks available.
 They can be a great resource. Ask about the side effects of any drugs you are asked to begin taking. Every drug has a pharmaceutical profile and all drugs have some risks involved. Ask your pharmacist to rate the risks and review any precautions taking into consideration any of your health history which might be important.
 The family members of your household may have excellent observations regarding your illness and how it is affecting you. However, remember, you are your own best resource when it comes to decision making. You are the one whose health is on the line. You should not ever make a decision which will affect your health because someone else wants you to make that decision. You should always consider your options and choose according to your own values and comfort.

