 A natural, genuine, carefree smile is the perfect way to let a girl know that you like being around her. It will also let her know that you’re a happy person, and since happiness can be contagious, she’ll associate positive emotions with you. If she returns your smile, you can bet she feels comfortable around you., This is a great way to gauge her interest level. As you talk, notice if she gives you any signs or hints that she likes you or if uses vaguely romantic language. She could also show her interest in you by nodding frequently or repeating some of your phrases.


To start a conversation, you can ask her an open-ended question about class, work, or pop culture. It could be something as simple as “what do you think about this band?” or “how’s your day going?”
Don’t fret if the girl you like doesn’t initiate a conversation with you. If she likes you, she may be too shy or nervous to do so! Even if she seems like the most confident girl you know, she may have had a bad experience in the past or simply may not be ready to approach you yet but will be receptive if you start the conversation first.
If you’re already friends, starting a conversation will be easy. In this case, the most effective way to tell if she likes you is to pick up on body language cues or to see if she treats you differently than she does her other friends.
 If you like the girl, put your best foot forward by remembering a few small details about the things she tells you. Listen carefully to the things she says so that you will have them for future reference.


For example, if she tells you the name of her favorite band, bring up one of the band’s songs during your next chat. She’ll be impressed that you took notice! If she wasn’t already interested in you romantically, she might start to reconsider once she sees how attentive you are.
Talking also provides another opportunity to observe her body language, so watch for physical cues such as subtle touches.
 Only do this if you actually do like her and if you get the sense that she likes you back. This is a blunt move which can seem daunting, but if you like the girl and are fairly certain she might like you back, a bold approach which could open the door to you asking her out on a date with the certainty that she likes you back.


You can let her know you’re interested by saying something like “I really like having you as a friend, but I’d love to be more than friends.”
Don’t tell her you like her if you are just looking to satisfy your curiosity about her interest in you. This can be hurtful and can sever her trust in you.
 If you like the girl but aren’t sure if she likes you back, you can test the waters by saying “I’ve been hearing great things about this movie,___. Would you like to come see it with me?” Keep the tone casual. If she says yes, you’ll know she’s interested. If she says no, you can change the conversation to something else.
 Back off if you get the sense that she actually doesn’t like you or engage in a flirty banter if you sense there is mutual interest.


If the girl you like objects to your romantic advances, even when you thought she liked you back, don't take it personally. A good relationship starts with a strong mutual connection. Moreover, there are plenty of other girls who will be right for you.
 Trying to figure out whether a girl likes you can be all-consuming and distracting. Over-analyzing her behavior may result in your becoming obsessed with simply "winning her over" rather than getting to know her as a person.


Rather than investing tons of time in determining whether or not she likes you, take opportunities every now and then to spend time with her and her friends. Just make sure to make your intentions relatively clear (via subtle flirting), or else you may become permanently "friend-zoned."

