 If you encounter bullying or teasing at school or in a community environment, the best solution is to step forward and tell an adult. A teacher, coach, school counselor, community leader, or parent can all help you handle mean girls.Don’t fall into the trap of thinking the bullying will get worse if you tell. Bullies threaten their victims like this to keep their negative behavior a secret. Exposing the bully is the only way you can stop the problem. If the first person you tell does not take action, keep telling until something changes.
Pull the person aside and explain the situation. “Excuse me, Ms. Carson. Melanie keeps pushing me whenever we are in line for recess.” Stick to the facts and ask for help.;
, There’s no need to demonstrate your strength by getting physical or being verbally abusive with the bully. Instead, use your voice to speak up for yourself with confidence.


Your response to teasing or bullying doesn’t have to be grand. All you have to say is “Stop it,” or, “Knock it off,” to send the message that you will not allow yourself to be mistreated., Being assertive also crosses over to how you are holding your body and your facial expressions. Stand with your back straight, shoulders loose and your chin up. Make your facial expression serious to demonstrate that you are not joking around. Make direct eye contact and don't fidget — you can put your hands in your front of back pockets to appear confident and relaxed., Sometimes, mean girl behavior isn't so obvious. In such cases, it may be more difficult for you to call out the behavior and insist that the girl stop. Ignoring and trying not to demonstrate a negative reaction can help you in these instances.For example, if a girl is spreading rumors about you, but it's hard to prove, you might tell an adult; however, there's a chance it may not get resolved because no one wants to admit any wrongdoing. In this scenario, you may try to avoid showing any sort of response to the rumors and avoid talking to the people you think are involved. Remain true to yourself and eventually the truth of who you are will be louder than the rumors, which will fade away.
Or, if a group of "friends" is ignoring you, you might stop trying to be included and act as if you don't notice their slights. If they don't get a reaction, the mistreatment may stop in its tracks.
 Of course, you want to avoid getting in trouble because you were forced to get physical with a bully. That’s why you should always try to get to an adult and assertively stand up for yourself when facing a mean girl. Using any sort of physical defense should be your last option.Self-defense should be used during times when you are completely alone and unable to call for help and a bully has physically harmed you. If this happens, try a defense like kicking the person in the shins and then running away.

