 If your dog has only recently begun experiencing seizures, you’ll need to bring it to a veterinary clinic or veterinary hospital as soon as possible. While seizures are not life threatening and generally only last from one to three minutes, epilepsy is a serious condition and should be dealt with promptly. The longer that epilepsy goes untreated, the higher the likelihood that the disease will cause brain damage to the dog.If you need to transport your dog while it is still experiencing an epileptic seizure, put the dog in a crate or kennel. Do not attempt to pick up or lift your dog while it’s seizing, as it could unintentionally injure both itself and you.
 Canine epilepsy can take a variety of forms and is diagnosed by observing the type of seizure that the dog experiences and noting the age at which seizures begin. Often, epilepsy will be caused by physical and medical issues, including head injuries, kidney or liver failure, strokes, brain tumors, congenital defects, or extremes in body temperature. The resultant epilepsy is known as “secondary epilepsy.” If your dog’s epilepsy has no discernible cause, it will be diagnosed with idiopathic epilepsy. Idiopathic epilepsy is also known as “primary,” “genetic,” “inherited,” or “true” epilepsy.As a rule, younger dogs are more at risk for primary and idiopathic epilepsy, while dogs who experience epilepsy when they’re 4 years old (or older) are more likely to be diagnosed with secondary epilepsy., Epilepsy is a genetic disorder and cannot be prevented, so medication is the primary method of fighting the disease. Veterinarians will commonly prescribe Phenobarbital to decrease seizures, and often pair this with Potassium bromide to control some of Phenobarbital’s less pleasant side effects, including liver damage. Your vet may also prescribe Primidone, which is similar to Phenobarbital in its uses and side effects.It can take a while to find the right antiepileptic drug (or combination of drugs) for your epileptic dog. Once your dog is on a medication, keep a written record of the dog’s seizures; note if they increase or decrease with each new medication and report back to your vet.
This process will help the vet prescribe an effective medication for your dog’s epilepsy.
 The medications that your veterinarian will prescribe for your epileptic dog need to be given daily, and comprise an important part of both the treatment for epilepsy and your practice of coping with the disease. Vets will commonly prescribe two or even three medicines; you should carefully follow the directions for daily drug administration and administer in the dosage that your vet has prescribed.Your dog will probably also need to regularly visit the vet’s office for follow-up bloodwork after each change in medication or dosage, or if the dog experiences a seizure while on medication.

