 If you don't have a bucket and must use a hose, make sure that you buy a nozzle that will allow you to regulate water flow. The average hose will waste 10 gallons of water per minute, meaning that for a 10-minute wash, you'll have used 100 gallons of water. A turnoff nozzle will allow you to rinse your car quickly and turn off your hose while you scrub again.You can purchase a nozzle for your hose at most home and gardening and department stores.
The cost of hose nozzles range from $14 to $20., The average car wash uses less water on average than doing it yourself. Search for eco-friendly car wash businesses that actively try to reduce their water usage. There are also other car washes that recycle harmful chemicals like dust, sediment, and detergents and prevent them from entering the stormwater system.


Some cities that experience regular droughts have banned residential car washing.On average, professional car washes will only use 14-18 gallons of water to wash your car.
 Using a bucket and a wet sponge or rag to rinse your vehicle will help you save water.Fill your buckets with three gallons or less of water. Instead of washing your car down with a garden hose, rinse your car by using a wet rag or sponge dipped in clean water. When your water gets dirty, empty it out and get a fresh bucket.


Separating your buckets of water by soapy and clear water will prevent you from having to replace it continually.
 An easy way to reduce the amount of water you're using to wash your car is simply to lessen the frequency in which you are washing it. Determine how much time elapses between washings and adjust it to a longer span of time.


For instance, if you wash your car every two weeks, consider trying to go without a car wash for two months.
Citizens in Los Angeles, California took a pledge not to wash their cars for 60 days as a response to an ongoing drought., Sunlight can cause water to evaporate quicker, which could increase the amount of water you need to use to rinse off your car.Find some shade, such as under foliage or an outdoor roof.

