 Unfortunately, cockatoos have gained a reputation as "cuddly." Though cockatoos are very loving parrots, before buying one it's important to ask yourself the following questions, and only purchase a Moluccan or Umbrella Cockatoo if all your answers are in the affirmative:


Do I have the money for cages, toys, vet care, food, and anything else my 'too might need?
Do I have the space for a cage roughly 3 x 3 x 3 (91cm x 91cm x 91cm)?
Do I have the time for a parrot that needs at least an hour of play time a day?
Do I have the patience for a parrot that will scream extremely loudly and bite?
Do I have the commitment for a parrot that will, in all probability, outlive me? (Moluccan Cockatoos, for example, can live to 65 plus years.);
, You have several options for obtaining a cockatoo. You can:


Buy a baby cockatoo from a pet store. This is extremely risky, as generally you don't know who the parents are, where he was bred, or his health history. However, certain parrot-specific stores are reliable enough to be bought from. Look at parrot websites online for people's comments on forums, etc., for advice as to where they purchased their cockatoo from. If you are in a region where cockatoos are found naturally, require written proof that the parrots were not wild-caught, as catching parrots from the wild is a cruel practice which can physically and emotionally damage a parrot.
Buy a young bird from an established private breeder. A private breeder knows the parents and will have raised, or help raise the baby. The breeder can also let you know how siblings have turned out, and you can make plans accordingly. You can make any arrangements with the breeder ahead of time, such as preferring the chick be parent raised, hand-raised, or co-parented with both humans and parrot parents.
Buy an adult from an individual. As long as the adult is being re-homed because of a situation unrelated to the Cockatoo himself (allergies, divorce, etc), this is a fine way to get a 'Too. However, require that you meet the parrot beforehand to check her behavior, and contact the vet for her health history.
Adopt an adult from a rescue center. This is a good way to go, as rescue centers will usually be able to tell you the parrot's behavior and health. However, avoid rescue centers that seem to be individual-run, or which don't give their parrots vet care, as the health of the cockatoo may have been compromised. Ask the local animal welfare organization or shelter for their advice.
 The cage should be rectangular and roughly three feet by three feet by three feet (91cm by 91cm by 91cm), with plenty of space for your cockatoo to climb and flap his wings, and a bar spacing no more than half an inch (1.27cm). Because zinc and lead are poisonous to parrots, request a written certificate that the cage does not contain these elements. Ideally the cage will be stainless steel with a strong lock, as Umbrellas and Moluccans have a penchant for escaping, and harming less powerful cages. You should include plenty of toys (but not so much as to restrict your 'Too's movement); a seed guard for keeping thrown food inside; three stainless steel bowls for pellets, vegetables and fruit, and water; and safe wooden and/or rope perches.
 Seeds are, contrary to popular belief, not a suitable diet for parrots. Around 60 percent of your Cockatoo's diet should comprise of formulated, non-dyed pellets such as the brand Roudybush. Vegetables are another necessary part of your 'Too's diet; some of the best vegetables include kale, broccoli, dandelion greens, carrots, cooked sweet potato, and squash. Fruits are healthy and tasty, but should only be fed in moderation due to their high water content; good choices include orange fruits such as papaya, mango, oranges, and cantaloupe.Healthy table foods (well-cooked meat, brown rice, tofu, cheese, non-fat yogurt, cooked egg, cooked beans, carrots, etc) are also acceptable in small amounts. Seeds are a good treat; grit, cuttlebone, and vitamin supplements are unnecessary. Food should act as mental stimulation as well as nutrition, so introduce new foods as a means of chewing, play, and curiosity fulfillment.Toxic foods include:


Chocolate
Avocado
Green parts of tomatoes
The seeds/pits of fruits from the rose family, including pears, peaches, apricots, and cherries
Caffeine and alcohol
Dried beans
Very salty foods like pretzels; and
Many other foods; always check that a food is safe for your parrot before feeding it to him!

, He should be out for at least an hour a day, though longer is always better. Try to fit him into your life - let him out to watch TV with you, or let him sit on your chair when you're on the computer. However, if you bought a baby, you'll need to train him to step up. You can do this by following these simple steps:


Place your arm next to his chest, and in a gentle but firm voice tell him "Step up!".
Hopefully, he'll step onto your arm, or place one foot on your arm. Don't worry if he does nothing!
When he steps up, praise him! You can also offer him a treat; however, don't do it every time or he'll come to expect it.
Eventually stepping up will become a learned behavior.
 This is nothing but mandatory. Find a vet who specializes in avian care; it's also good to have an emergency vet available in case your parrot gets in trouble after your regular vet closes. You'll need to take your Cockatoo to the vet every year for blood work to check for any diseases; and if you notice that he has runny droppings, seems tired and dejected, has changed his eating or drinking habits, or is suddenly biting or plucking when he didn't before, take him to the vet immediately.
 If you allow him to fly, he could severely injure or kill himself through flying into fans, pots of boiling water, closed windows, or other household dangers. In addition, lost parrots are often euthanized in shelters or never found or returned to their owner. And even if you clip your 'Too's wings, he might be able to fly away if you bring him outside. Never take your Cockatoo outside without a harness or carrier!

, While he is a baby, enforce rules such as no biting, inside voices, or any other rules you have by ignoring bad behavior and praising good behavior. This will help you during the teenager stage, at which point your parrot will seek a parrot to mate with (which might be you, as parrots have a loose sense of species), explore and defy boundaries, and behave in general like a human teenager. Adopted adults have something somewhat similar: When you first adopt your 'Too, you'll experience the "honeymoon" stage, at which point he will behave perfectly. Once this stage is over, however, you will experience typical Moluccan or Umbrella behavior.
 Common ones include:



Teflon and many other non-stick products, which can be found in ovens, irons, heaters, and many other household items. If heated, they can produce poly-tetra-fluoro-ethylene (PTFE) fumes, which is fatal to parrots and other birds.
Fans - this only applies for non-clipped 'Toos.
Open toilet bowls, which your Cockatoo can drown in.
Dogs and cats: Even their saliva can be fatal for parrots, and no matter how well they seem to get along, your cockatoo should be kept separate from any other pets.
Lead and zinc, which can be found in some cages, and many household items (Lead: picture frames, paint, jewelry, etc. Zinc: white rust, padlocks, galvanized dishes, certain paints, duct tape, etc).
Some household plants, including the common Christmas plant, poinsettia.
 Moluccan and Umbrella Cockatoos are powerful enough that they can cause severe damage to a child, with the addition of any emotional trauma an attack may cause. Even the friendliest 'Too can attack if provoked.
 Common problems cockatoos have include plucking, screaming, and biting. Plucking is a neurotic behavior in which the parrot will pull feathers out, causing a great deal of pain. If it progresses far enough, plucking can go as far as self-mutilation; if this happens, your Cockatoo needs to be re-homed or taken to a sanctuary. Screaming is a natural behavior, and happens most often during the morning and evening, but if it starts to become a habit, seek the help of a professional. Biting is again natural, but if it becomes an issue, again find a professional.
 Umbrellas and Moluccans are difficult to care for, but if they're given the correct care, your 'Too can be your "cuddly" (if screaming) best friend!

