 Silicone or rubber menstrual cups are reusable, flexible, bell-shaped devices that collect your menstrual flow. The cup should not leak if inserted properly and is one of the best alternatives to a tampon if you want to go swimming.


Menstrual cups have a variety of advantages in addition to being an alternative to tampons for swimming. As menstrual cups only have to be replaced once a year, you'll make less trips to the store and spend less money on menstrual hygiene products. Cups only need to be emptied every 10 hours. Menstrual cups may also cause less odor during your period.Some women find menstrual cups difficult and messy to insert and remove. If you have fibroids or a dropped uterus, it can be hard to find a cup that fits you.If you have an IUD, talk to your gynecologist before using a menstrual cup. Inserting a menstrual cup could potentially dislodge your IUD and you want to make sure you take proper precautions.Menstrual cups come in a variety of sizes, so you may have to experiment with several sizes before you find a cup that works for you. You can buy menstrual cups online or at a drug store.Insert the cup before swimming, and leave it in until you can change out of your swimsuit into your regular clothing and switch to another method of period protection.
Check out this helpful wikiHow page to learn the process of inserting and removing a reusable menstrual cup.;
, While they can be expensive compared to tampons or reusable cups, disposable menstrual cups are flexible, easy to insert, and work well for protection while swimming.


Like reusable cups, disposable cups can be messy to insert and remove and require a learning curve to master placing them correctly in the vagina.
Just as you would with a reusable cup, insert the cup before swimming, and leave it in until you can change out of your swimsuit into your regular clothing and switch to another method of period protection.
Check out this helpful wikiHow page to learn the process of inserting and removing a disposable menstrual cup.
 If you avoid tampons because you are concerned about the chemicals used in their production, a natural sea sponge might be a good solution for you. Sea sponge tampons are harvested from the ocean and contain no chemicals, and they are also reusable.The USFDA (United States Food and Drug Administration) does not approve the use of sea sponges for menstrual purposes due their potential connection to toxic shock syndrome. Tampons and sea sponges work the same way-- by absorbing your menstrual flow. The advantages of a sea sponge are that it is all natural, very absorbent, and conforms to the shape of your body, plus it can be washed between uses and reused for up to six months.Be sure that the sea sponge you purchase for use as menstrual protection is intended for that purpose, since sea sponges sold for arts and crafts or other purposes can be treated with chemicals. Try sponges manufactured by Sea Clouds or Jade & Pearl Sea Pearls.
To use a sea sponge for menstrual protection, begin by washing it in a mild soap and rinsing well. Then, while it is still moist, squeeze out the excess water, and insert it in the vagina while squeezing it tightly between your fingers to compress its size.
 A diaphragm is a dome-shaped rubber cup placed high in the vagina. It is a birth control device, designed to block sperm from entering the cervix. It is not meant as a menstrual device.However, if you have a light flow you can use it while swimming as an alternative to a tampon.


A diaphragm can be left in the vagina for up to 24 hours. If you have sex, you must leave your diaphragm in for at least 6 hours following intercourse to prevent pregnancy. Diaphragms do not protect against STDs.
Diaphragms can increase the risk of urinary tract infections. You should not use a diaphragm if you have a latex allergy. Cramping or pelvic pain can result from the wrong sized diaphragm, so be sure to replace your diaphragm in the event of weight loss or gain of 10 pounds or more.
To wash your diaphragm, remove it and wash it with mild soap, then rinse and dry. Do not use products like baby powder or face powder, as these can damage the diaphragm.
Once again, using a diaphragm for regular menstrual protection is not recommended. If you're having a light flow and want an alternative to a tampon to swim, you can try inserting a diaphragm. You may want to test it out beforehand, however, to see how well it blocks blood flow. If you have sex after swimming, be sure to leave the diaphragm in place for six hours before removing it.
 Much like a diaphragm, a cervical cap is primarily used as a contraceptive device. However, it does block menstrual flow so you can try using it when swimming if you want an alternative to your tampon.


A cervical cap is a silicon cup that is inserted in the vagina. Similar to a diaphragm, its purpose is to prevent pregnancy by blocking sperm from entering the cervix.If you're allergic to latex or spermicide or have a history of toxic shock syndrome, you should probably not use the cervical cap. It might also be a bad idea to use a cervical cap if you have poor vaginal muscle control, any kind of infections like UTIs or STDs, and have any cuts or tears in your vaginal tissues.Talk to your doctor before using your cervical cap during menstruation. It is not recommended for habitual use, but if you're towards the end of your period and you only intend to use it while swimming, it could be a good alternative to a tampon.
 If you're unable to find a tampon alternative that works for you, you can find a way to get involved in water activities without fully submerging.


Sunbathing, wading, relaxing under a beach umbrella, and letting your feet hang in the water are all good options, and you can wear a menstrual pad while you do these things.
Remember that menstruation is a completely normal part of your life, and while it can be embarrassing to tell your friends you are on your period and don't want to swim, you should feel confident that your friends will understand.
If you're uncomfortable telling them that you're on your period, you can simply tell them that you aren't feeling well or don't feel like swimming.
 Waterproof underwear can be a safe, comfortable alternative to your period when swimming or doing other activities.


Waterproof underwear looks much like regular underwear or bikini bottoms but has a hidden, leak-proof lining that helps absorb menstrual blood.
If you plan on swimming in waterproof underwear, know that they will not absorb a heavy or moderate flow. They will only work towards the end of your cycle or on months when you're having a light flow.
 As it can be difficult to find tampon alternatives that are effective and easy to conceal under a bathing suit; if you have a heavy period you may have to simply wait until your flow lightens to swim.


Hormonal birth control pills, when used correctly, can result in a lighter period. Hormonal IUDs may also result in less bleeding during your menstrual cycle. If you're an avid swimmer and dislike tampons, you could look into these options to shorten your cycle overall.
You might also consider Seasonale or other birth control pills that result in less frequent periods. Seasonale is designed so that you take "active" hormonal pills every day for three months before taking a week of "inactive" placebo pills, which activates your period. Although some women have light, breakthrough bleeding during their active pills, this method can help you predict when you will have your period so you can plan your swimming times around it.Try establishing a vigorous exercise routine. Regular, rigorous physical activities of any kind can reduce the length of your period and make it lighter. If you're an avid swimmer, you may find your cycle changes during warmer months when you swim frequently. However, if your period becomes abnormally light or stops altogether talk to your doctor to rule out underlying medical concerns or pregnancy.