 When your cat does something you want it to do, especially in the early stages of training, be sure to reward the cat with treats. This will help your cat associate the behavior it just engaged in with receiving the treat.If your cat uses the scratch post instead of scratching the furniture, give the cat a treat as it is scratching the post.
If your cat stops biting you during play time, give it a treat to show that this is the kind of play you want to happen.
Try to give your cats treats that are relatively healthy so that you don’t encourage a weight problem in your cat.;
, If your cat is behaving well and you want to reward it, spend some time playing with the cat. Cats are naturally active animals with a great hunting instinct. For indoor cats especially, playing with them is a great way to keep them active and strengthen the bond between the two of you.Try running around the house with a string for your cat to chase. Or throw a ball or a toy mouse around for the cat to run after.
You can also give your cat a toy with catnip inside. This is a treat for the cat, and also a fun thing you can use to play with your cat.
Put your cat on your lap and pet it. Showing affection is also important in strengthening the bond between the two of you.
 Too many treats can lead to an unhealthy, overweight cat. So it’s important to transition away from treat-based rewards once your cat begins to learn the desired behavior. Switch from treats as every reward to rewarding only occasionally with treats. Instead, praise your cat when it behaves the way you want it to.Try praising your cat by saying things like, “Good kitty!” or by saying its name in a loving way.
You can also pet your cat and rub it affectionately as an alternative to providing treats.
Feel free to give your cat treats on occasion, just not every time once the behavior is learned.
 One of the most important things in training any animal, cats included, is repetition of the expected behavior. They need to see consistency over time and be rewarded regularly behaving in the way you want it to.Remember to be consistent. If you want your cat to learn a new thing, you need to always show the cat that this is how you expect it to behave. Don’t let it slide sometimes when you feel like it, as the cat won’t be able to distinguish the difference in your expectations.
If you want your cat to stop biting and scratching during playtime, you need to practice this over and over. Play with your cat often and encourage it to avoid biting or scratching each time. If the cat bites or scratches, stand up immediately and walk away. You can come back a few moments later and begin to play again. But if the cats starts biting or scratching again, walk away every time.
 When your cat performs the behavior you are trying to teach, be sure to reward it immediately. This is crucial if you want your cat to associate the positive reinforcement with the act it just committed. Waiting even a matter of moments will negate the training and confuse the cat.If you don’t see your cat do the thing you are trying to teach it, wait until the cat does it again before you reward it.
If you see your cat using the scratching post instead of tearing up your furniture, immediately offer it a treat. This is most effective if you give the cat a treat while it is still using the scratching post.
 Your cat can’t be expected to learn something new overnight. You need to give your cat some time so that it has a chance to learn the new behavior. Be patient with your cat and let it learn at its own pace, rather than trying to force it.Try not to get frustrated if it takes longer than expected. Keep working at it and your cat will get the hang of it over time.
Don’t pick up your cat and try to force it into new behaviors. Let the cat come to the desired behavior on its own and then reward the behavior. Trying to force your cat may scare it.
If you pick your cat up and try to make it use a scratching post or play with a certain toy, the cat may feel trapped or uneasy. Let the cat find the thing on its own.
 It is unlikely that your cat will know what it is being punished for if you give it a punishment for something you discover hours (or even minutes) later. This is confusing for cats and will not improve their training.For example, if you come home and find cat poop outside of the litter box, don’t punish your cat for that. Only punish if you catch your cat in the act of doing whatever it is you don’t want it to do.
 It can be an instinctual reaction to swat at your cat if you catch it doing something it shouldn’t do. However, physically harming your cat, even in a minor way, can make your cat feel scared and unsafe. Your cat may lash out by biting, clawing, or defending itself in some other way.Causing your cat pain can also make your cat afraid of you. This isn’t the kind of relationship you want with your pet.
 If you must punish your cat, you should do so by taking away things that it wants. This can include things like treats, your attention, or even a favorite toy. Be sure to make it clear that you are withholding the item because of the cat’s behavior and not just randomly.For example, if your cat is biting or scratching your hand when you try to play with it, simply stop playing and walk away from the cat. The cat will eventually learn that engaging in this behavior will mean an end to playtime.

