 You don't want to dwell on the past. Like the example above, later that night, you start worrying and regretting. Let it go. Sometimes it's not that easy and you just can't stand it. Well here is what you have to do:


Don't let others make you regret it more. It didn't happen for a reason. If it were meant to happen, then it would have happened. Correct?

Do not focus on it too much. You are just over thinking it now. You don't want to focus on the past. Or the future. Live in the moment.

;
, For example, draw, paint, play video games, go outside, hang out with friends, hang out with family, go for a walk, plan a short vacation. Whatever floats your boat. My opinion on which example works best would be hanging out with friends. Don't be an anti-social. Go out there...have fun!

, (Referencing to my example above) Lets say the person they asked said yes. So they are having a drink, and not you are a bit jealous. And you think about how that could have been you and there is a huge feeling of regret inside of you and that was your only chance. "Hello, wake up" It's over...it's done and it already happened. If it were meant to be you, it would have been you. Maybe if it was you, something bad would have happened. Or maybe everything would have been normal or fine. But don't dwell on it. Think about this:


They asked you before they asked the other person.

You said no...whether it was what you wanted to say or not. And that is okay. Do you know them? Is the person really your friend? Then ask them to hang out, ask them to a movie, as friends or not. Whatever you choose.

Like the bullet point above, if you know them and you know you are friends. Then everything is fine. You can still talk to them or hang out with them. However, if you didn't know who they were and you really wish you did. Then get to know them! If you can't even do that...then it's just the sad truth that it just wasn't supposed to happen. You will just have to move on.
 This is also a big part of this.


Let's say it was a birthday party and you are around the age 10. This boy/girl asked you to have a drink (a soda, of course...at least i really hope so) and you never really talked to him at school and not you are flipping out. Here is your answer: You are far to young to be worrying about that. You have so much more things ahead of you.
Then say you are in your mid teens (15, 16, 17?). This could be different. Let's say this was at a school dance. And someone asked you if you wanted some punch and you said no. He asks someone else and you look at them and can't stand it. Later that night you are regretting and worrying. This is very understandable, you have your teenage hormones, your jealousy, your blues. But you just have to let it all go. It was in the past. Now you are in the present. Go do something you love!
Alright, how about 20+? You are at the bar and someone asks if you would like a drink with them. You say no, they ask your friend, she says yes. First, you are probably upset with your friend. Second, you missed your chance. Let it go. Go ask someone else for a drink, your friend already left you, get out there have fun (be responsible, but i think you know that).

