 Diagnosing vision loss is done by performing a series of tests called a comprehensive eye exam. There are several components to this test. A visual acuity test is a done to determine the sharpness of your vision. It is done by standing in front an eye chart with several lines of the alphabet. Each line has different sized letters. The largest letters on top and the smallest on the bottom. This examination will test your near vision by determining the smallest line you can read comfortably without strain.
Screening for hereditary color blindness is part of the exam as well.
Perform a cover test. This test will determine how well your eyes work together. The doctor will have you focus on a small object with one eye, and cover the other one. The purpose of doing this allows the doctor to determine if the uncovered eye has to re-focus to see the object. If the eye does have to re-focus to see the object, this could indicate extreme eye strain which would cause a “lazy eye”.
Examine the health of your eyes. To determine the health of your eye, your doctor will perform a slit light test. Your chin will be placed in a chin rest that is connected to a slit light. This test is used to examine the front part of the eye, (cornea, lids, and iris) as well as the inside of the eye (retina, optic nerves).
 Glaucoma is an increase in pressure in the eye that can lead to blindness. Testing for glaucoma is done by blowing a small burst of air into the eyes and measuring the pressure.
 It is very common to have your eyes dilated during an eye exam. Dilating the eyes involves placing medicated eye drops in the eye with the purpose of dilating (widening) the pupils. This is done to look for diabetes, high blood pressure, macular degeneration, and glaucoma.


Dilating the eyes usually last a few hours. Bring a pair of shades after the exam, as bright sunlight could be harmful to dilated pupils. The actual dilating of the eyes does not hurt, but it may be uncomfortable. , Comprehensive eye exams can take about 1-2 hours. Although the majority of the test results are immediate, the doctor may want to do further testing. If so consult your healthcare provider for a timetable.
 This is done by doing a refraction test. The doctor will show you a series of lens choices and ask which choice is clearer. This test determines the severity of nearsightedness, farsightedness, presbyopia and astigmatism.

