 To make a floating clock, you’ll need the following tools: adhesive putty, wooden numbers ranging from 1 – 12, 4 different pieces of scrapbook paper, glue, an Xacto knife, pink ink and a clock mechanism kit.Wooden numbers can be purchased on Etsy or in a craft store.
The clock mechanism kit can be purchased on Etsy or in a craft store for around $5.
For a funkier look, try buying your wooden numbers in different fonts and sizes.;
, Use the glue to attach each of the wooden numbers to a portion of the scrapbook paper. Use the Xacto knife to carefully cut around the numbers to remove the excess paper.Set the numbers aside for a moment and allow the glue to dry.
Finish off the numbers by dipping the edges in the ink.
To seal the numbers further, paint on a protective coat of glaze.
For a more sophisticated look, forgo the scrapbook paper and instead spray the numbers with metallic silver spray paint.
 The clock will end up measuring about two feet wide, so pick a spot to mount it where you have a lot of room. Once you have selected the spot, use a ruler to determine the center of the spot. This is where you will hang the clock mechanism.


Secure the clock mechanism to the wall using the adhesive putty.
This clock looks great when positioned over a mantelpiece or low cabinet.
 Use a ruler to measure up one foot directly on top of the clock. Mark this spot with a pencil. This is where you will hang the number 12.


Measure one foot to the right of your clock and mark it with a pencil. This is where you will hang the number 3.
Measure down one foot below your clock and mark it with a pencil. This is where you will hang the number 6.
Measure one foot to the left of your clock and mark it with a pencil. This is where you will hang the number 9.
 Use the adhesive putty to hang the 12, 3, 6 and 9 on the pre-marked pencil spots. You can then use a ruler and pencil to space out and mark off where the rest of the numbers will hang.Use the adhesive putty to hang the remaining numbers.
Adhesive putty is easily removable, so if you need to adjust the placement of a number, you can easily remove it from the wall and remount it somewhere else.
Insert any batteries the clock mechanism may require and set the clock to the correct time.

