 It is better if you choose pictures and videos on a certain topic you want your movie to be about. It may take some time for the videos (if any) to load.;
, Go to the "Edit" bar at the top (Video Tools).


Change the sequence of your contents and rotate the clips if not straight. Additional contents can also be added by clicking the smaller upper icon. The option which appeared when the workspace was empty will not be shown.

Trim your video. Remove the unwanted parts of your movie by trimming them.






There's a trimming tool with which you can trim your video. An alternative to this is to play your video and pause at your unwanted part. Select the "splitting tool" and split your video into two parts. Again trim your unwanted part so that the main part remains and delete the unwanted split.


Select duration of each picture and adjust the speed of your video if you want. The default duration of each picture is 7.00 seconds usually, but with too many photos and videos your video might become too long and bit boring. In this case you can increase the speed of one or all clips.
 Use music appropriate for the situation in your video. For example, if you're making a comedy movie or video try using entertaining music and for horror videos, use spooky music. If you think that a music lasts too long or its scene has been done, select add music and choose appropriate music with "Add music at current point" selected.
 You can adjust the format and duration of the text in the Format (text tools) bar.
 Animations make your video interesting. There are some ideas below to help you understand uses of animations.


If you want a cinematic effect, try using the fade animation.
If you want to show time flying away, try showing pages of time flying away.
 The most common is automatic pan and zoom which makes still pictures look like moving videos. This is also available under the animations' panel.
 If you want your movie to look like and ancient one, select the grayscale (black and white) or sepia tone. Other visual effects are meant for other cinematic effects.
 If you've added videos which have audio, adjust the audio and music with the audio mix option. If your photos and videos have gone out of the music or vice versa, select "fit to music".
, Try adding AutoMovie Themes.
 You have different formats to save a movie. It may take some time.
