 Being thankful can help you recognize that you have good things in your life. You can get more enjoyment from life if you spend some time acknowledging the things that make you happy.Spend some time every few days writing down moments that make you happy. You don’t need to make a laundry list; instead, focus on a few specific instances and write more about those instances., Being open to positive experiences can help you enjoy life to the fullest. When you find joy in small moments, you will appreciate life and learn about what you want and need to be healthy. Be present in the moment, and take notice of the good things that surround you.


For example, take a walk in nature. Look at your surroundings. Notice how the wind rustles through the trees. Notice the ladybug climbing up a leaf. Watch the sun filter through the tree branches. Paying attention to the little things will help you find happiness.
 Being honest and true to yourself will help you stay in touch with the real you. When you spend all your time pretending to be someone else or trying to please others, you start to lose a sense of what you really like and need. Be an authentic person. For example, your friends want to go dancing but you’d really like to get a good night’s sleep so you can go hiking the next morning. Do what feels right for you, not for them.
Be sensitive towards other people’s needs, but don’t override your own needs., Meditation is a great way to connect with your inner strength and beauty. This will help clear your head of negative thoughts – both from you and from others.


Find a quiet place where you won’t be disturbed for at least 10-15 minutes.
Breathe deeply, inhaling for a count of 4, holding your breath for a count of 4, and exhaling for a count of 4. Feel your breath expand your stomach. Hold your hand over your stomach to feel this.
Focus your thoughts on your breath. When your thoughts start to wander, acknowledge the thoughts and let them go. Return your focus to your breath.

