 As often as you can, see how you can be of service to your teen as they attempt to change their smelly ways. See if they need more time in the restroom in the mornings to get ready. If so, then perhaps help them to wake up a bit earlier. Or, if they need more money to buy items, see if they can give you a list and you’ll get them.You might say, “I’m running to the store for a few things. Would you like to give me a list of any bathroom or personal items that you need?”
You can also help your teen problem-solve. For example, if they are low on time in the mornings, then you might suggest that they shower the night before or lay out their clothes to help make getting ready in the morning a little faster.
 Depending on your teen they may be excited or dreading going shopping. So, tailor the trip according to their personality and needs. You could even split this up into a few brief shopping trips as well. When you go out, give them the freedom to browse the aisles and choose what they like.It may be a good idea to direct them toward a particular aisle and then give them some privacy. You could say, “Why don’t you hang out here and pick out a shaving cream that you like and anything else you want. I am going to head over to the frozen foods, just find me when you are done.”
After you buy the products, if they plan on taking them to school, remind them that it is not a good idea to share hygiene items with others as you can get all sorts of infections and illnesses., You can also do some shopping on your own and stock your teen’s bathroom with an assortment of new products. Keep an eye on which ones they use and keep those filled. If they seem to avoid others, perhaps try a new brand or scent. Keep in mind that what you might buy for you might not be trendy or eye catching enough for your teen.If they ask about a particular product that you left out, you might say, “A friend told me that she loved that shampoo, so I thought you might like it too.”

, Schedule in particular times for certain aspects of hygienic care each day. That way your teen will know what to expect and is more likely to just go with the flow. Make sure that all members of your family participate and try to keep on track, even over holidays and school breaks.


For example, about 15 minutes before bed time make a point to encourage all of your family members to hit the bathroom and brush their teeth.
You can also get them into a routine of making and keeping haircut appointments, dentist appointments, etc. After this routine is established, you can even have them start scheduling their own. This will be a helpful habit for them to have in adulthood.
 Your teens are watching how you behave and will look to you as a role model. So, make sure to take time to take care of yourself, even if you are busy. Talk to them about the products that you enjoy or the medical appointments that you’ve scheduled. Tell them your opinions about your dentist and ask for theirs as well. Keep the bathroom door open, when reasonable, so your teen can watch you go about your routine., Offer sincere praise at regular intervals. However, make sure that you don’t draw too much of a contrast between past and present. Instead, talk about how they continue to improve as they mature and grow up. This will make them proud and more likely to follow your advice in the future.You might say, “I’m so happy that you’ve stopped biting your nails. I knew they would be beautiful if they grew out. Has it been hard to resist biting?”

, If you notice that the teen is also appearing downcast or depressed, then you may be dealing with a larger mental health issue. Try to observe the teen’s sleeping and eating patterns to get more of a clue regarding their overall mindset. If you continue to be concerned, seek out the help of a medical professional.Consider how you teen was about a year ago and see if there is a stark contrast in how they are now. This can be a clue that they are suffering.
 If you are working with a teen who is special needs or has additional complicating issues, you may want to speak with a counselor or your pediatrician. They may be able to offer you additional modeling techniques. They can also assist in teaching the teen how to be aware of social cues indicating proper hygiene practices.