 Unfortunately only certain schools lay out formal qualification guidelines for their teachers. There are schools that have no guidelines and yet very good teachers. What's a parent to do?

, Sit through a few classes. Judo for example involves throws, locks and being pinned on the ground, so if your child is claustrophobic it wouldn't be a good idea. That said , judo improves physical strength and confidence, so it depends on the child.
 Fortunately the internet makes this a lot easier. Make a list of the schools in your town and start checking the websites for the schools. What you should look for is a school that has a formal education program for its teachers. Some karate schools for example have teaching ranks such as "juin-shidoin" and "shidoin" in addition to black belt degree ranking. The whole point of these teaching ranks is to formalize the process of passing on the martial art to the student. It's a recognition that teaching aspects such as self discipline and self control are just as important as teaching a child how to spar.
 Talk to the head instructor. You can learn a lot from sitting in on a couple of classes. Does the instructor control the class well ?, Does the instructor keep his students attention for the entire class ?, Are the students enjoying themselves ? A good instructor will engage his students and make them want to return. A good instructor will demonstrate that they truly care about the advancement of their students in more ways than just the martial arts.
 A good martial arts training hall should be spotlessly clean. If you see students cleaning the hall before and after the lesson, you know this is a school that cares about the development of the whole person. Cleaning is not menial forced labour, it shows the students care about their teacher and want to preserve their art. This is also a point in the favour of small schools that may not have formalized teaching ranks.
 There are great martial arts schools that operate clearly as profit making businesses, but there are also wonderful not-for-profit schools that depend on the involvement of the students for survival. Cost alone does not define a great school but it obviously affects the parent. If you want to have your child picked up from school by the martial arts club, taught martial arts everyday and given time to finish homework, this is available but of course the cost will be relatively high. Conversely you might opt for the not-for-profit school which is the least expensive, but you must bear in mind that you or your child may need to volunteer time and effort to assure the clubs continued survival.
 For example, the club gets together to do a push-up-a-thon to provide funds for a guide dog for the blind, or the club has trophy or a contest named in honour of a past student or instructor that passed away. This is evidence that the club and its leader, care about the students and the community they live in.

