 All land and semi-aquatic turtles need a supply of clean, fresh water in their habitat. By creating a small pond, you provide your turtles with the water they need to swim, bathe, and drink. The size of your pond will depend on the number of turtles you want to have in the enclosure, and the space available. Pools should be large enough for turtles to exercise and move about freely. Take their adult length and multiple that number by 2.5; this is the minimum depth you’ll want the water to be. The length of the pool should be at least five times as large as their adult length. This gives them room to swim around and bask.For ponds with multiple turtles, you need a larger pond. Smaller ponds accumulate waste and cannot be properly cleaned.For land turtles, you want to create a shallow pond that is no deeper than a foot in the middle. The pond should have gently sloping sides so turtles can enter and exit the water easily.
 Direct sunlight can cause a small pond to heat to an unsafe temperature, and causes unwanted algae growth.Ideally, you want an area that is has both shade and sun coverage during all times of day. Putting the pond alongside your house or a shed will provide sun coverage for several hours a day as well.
 When you’ve decided where you’d like the water feature to go, you can start to dig. It can be whatever shape you’d like, and the depth will depend on the sort of turtle you have. Red-eared sliders do better in deeper ponds, while others prefer shallower water. Research the type of water your turtle species inhabits in the wild to get a good idea of how deep your pond should be.If you intend to have your aquatic turtles hibernate outdoors during the winter, the pool will need at least a foot of water below the ice to hibernate. Check your local area’s weather to see how thick the ice is in local ponds.
 You can purchase a pool liner online, from a large retailer, or from an outdoor good store. The liner will keep the water from seeping into the ground, which would become a big muddy mess. You will need to follow the manufacturer’s directions for the pool liner.


A concrete pool will last longer, but is a more complicated process to undergo. If you prefer to use a waterproof tarp, choose tan or canvas colored tarps instead of black. Black tarps absorb the sunlight and can overheat small pools., Using a hose, you can now fill the pond with water.
 Logs should be placed around the pond so that some can extend into the water. These help the turtles get in and out of the water, and it also provides them with a place to bask. Logs help to mimic the turtle’s natural habitats, and it also serves a decorative function.