 Santa Claus can be a tricky subject for parents of young children. Often you will feel torn between not wanting to lie to your kids, and not wanting to break the spell of Santa Claus and his flying reindeer. Once your kids start to get curious they will probably ask you lots of questions about Santa. One way to deal with the questions which encourages the kids to think about it is to turn the questions back on them.If your daughter asks you if Santa is real, say “what do you think?” and ask her why she thinks what she does.
If she pushes you for an answer you can subtly dodge it, while encouraging her to think critically. Say something like “well, I’ve never seen Santa, and don’t really believe in things I haven’t seen.”
You could also encourage her to think about some of the implausible parts of story, such as visiting every house in one night, and the flying reindeer.
Doing this can prompt her to come to her own conclusion as part of growing up naturally.;
, Encouraging your kids to come up with the truth themselves avoids a scenario in which you bluntly break the magic of Santa Claus. Always try to encourage questions rather than just presenting answers, but if you are asked outright you don’t have to lie. Depending on your child you might think it best just to be straightforward and honest.


If asked, you could just say “No, Santa Claus isn’t real. He’s part of the myth and story of the holidays.”
You can explain that there isn’t a man with a beard that comes down the chimney to give you presents, but that people who love and care for each other give each other gifts.
 You can try to have your children associate Santa Claus with other imaginary characters in games and plays. You can refer to Santa “from the Christmas stories” to connect Santa with other fictional characters. Your children will begin to piece things together and develop their understanding that Santa is part of an imaginative world and not a real one.


You can associate Santa with characters that your child may be less likely to believe in, such as the Tooth Fairy or the Easter Bunny.Your kids can enjoy a fantasy story while understanding that it is not real.
 It can be helpful to provide some context for the Santa stories to help you to explain their persistence. You could explain the story of St Nicholas who gave to poor and looked after children many centuries ago, and say that these stories develop and change over time.You could set them a task to find out about the stories and ask them to unravel the mystery themselves.
 While you might think it’s important not to lie to your children, you should take care to strike a balance and allow them to fully enjoy all the festivities of the holidays. Your daughter might understand that Santa is not real, but will still want to visit the Santa in the Mall with her friends, or leave out some cookies and carrots for Santa and the reindeer.


Kids love to pretend, so you shouldn’t assume that they really believe Santa Claus is real if they want to participate in the different activities.It can be hard to escape Santa in the holidays with all the films, decorations and pictures, but you can limit the amount of Santa in your own home.
 One way to keep Santa present, but to demonstrate to your kids that he is not a real person, is to have one of the parents dress up as Santa at home. Your child will certainly know that this is their Mom or Dad, and you can use this as a way to play together and associate Santa with other fictional characters.


Dressing up can help you make Santa into a game for your kids.
You can create stories involving Santa teaming up with all sorts of other fictional characters.
 You might think it’s wrong to lie to your kids about Santa Claus, but you need to remember that each family is different and it’s not up to you to decide when someone else’s kids learn the truth. You may find yourself in some awkward situations if one of your child’s friends asks you about Santa Claus, but you should divert them back to their own parents.Once your kid knows the truth, be sure to explain to them that they shouldn’t go around telling all their friends.
Try to explain that other kids believe in Santa and your child shouldn’t break the spell for them.
Say “you figured out that Santa wasn’t real, and you should let your friends do the same.”

