 It needs to be one that buyers will remember with ease, can type out easily to forward to others, and has a catchy sound to it. Make it easy to spell too.


Consider combining your name with the type of craft or an element of your craft when finding a suitable name for the domain. Sometimes your name alone may suffice.
When coming up with an idea for the domain name, say it out loud. Sometimes what looks good on paper sounds strange when spoken.;
, Customers will be curious to know more about the person behind the crafts and it is also a good way to build online rapport. Don't embellish and make it too long but do point out key motivations, your training/background, and your previous experience.
 You need to be able to manipulate and update the site with great ease, all the more important if you're not fully conversant with HTML and other markup language or with programming.
 Use high quality photos (learn how to take good product photos) and if it's possible, include the ability for the viewer to turn the product around and see more than one perspective of it. If the product comes in several colors, consider adding a tool that allows the customer to change the shade to see the final look.
 Keep photos to a good size but one that can cope with slower download times. Also, don't embellish the site with too many distractions. While it is nice to provide information related to the products and links, these can distract the consumer and you might even lose them by following another link. Stick with information pertinent to the craft products and don't put barriers in the customer's way.
 This way you can keep customers informed about new stock, send them information about the craft you're making and even ebooks if that is something you're keen on putting together. A regular newsletter can be a great way to keep clients interested and involved.
 Remove broken links, old stock photos, outdated information on a regular basis so that the customer is assured that the information is current and reliable. Make new products really obvious with special designation on the homepage of their category.
 Keep a page where your craft has been noted by others in the press, at shows, and where you have won awards. All of this adds to your reputation and credibility and encourages the customers to see you as a popular craftsperson.
 If you sell in stores, explain where and use Google Maps to help them locate a store near them. Ask your web designer to help you with this is you don't know how.
 Be sure to actively maintain your Twitter and Facebook accounts so that customers feel engaged with you.

