 You should target each one with a free radio initiative in order to increase your success. It is likely that you will save money on advertising, but you will need to spend money on you or your employees' time spent creating ads and calling radio stations.;
, Talk radio stations often ask for listener feedback. The more helpful and interesting you are, the more airtime you will get, and you can list your website at the end of your call.


Remember that you are the most important marketing tool for your product. You should rise to any occasion that puts your voice and expertise in the public eye.
 In order for the radio station to hold this contest that could increase their listening base, they have to mention your business, website and name every time that the contest is announced.
 Most radio stations have an event listing section where they occasionally say what is going on in the community during the week or weekend. Submit well in advance to all the radio stations in your area, if you have an event that needs publicity.
 For example, if you buy 30 ads, the station will give you 30 more ads for free. They fill their airtime and you get ads that you would not otherwise get at half price.
 If you are a professional looking for advertising, there is no better way to get your name out there. You should be ready with potential subjects for the show, because you will be competing with other guest options that the radio station might have.
 In this case, you call station managers in your target demographic and say you will give them a percentage, such as 50 percent, of every sale you receive through a radio advertisement on their station. You will most likely be asked to prepare the ad and keep very good records of your sales.


The offer will not be accepted at all the radio stations you call. You should think of it as both a business proposition and a bartering opportunity. Be ready with details of the products you sell and the ad you would like to run. Start with a low percentage and expect to barter up until the point that deal is no longer beneficial to you.
You can often find station manager names online or in the Broadcasting Yearbook or the SRDS Directory, which are available at local public libraries in the reference section. They are available for purchase for about $100.

