 stands for Réspondez, s'il vous plait which means please reply in French. Unfortunately, some people might not be familiar with this expression and its meaning. By changing the wording of your invitation, or including the words "please reply," there will be less of a chance that a guest misunderstands your request.


Another option you might consider: "please send your RSVP response to..."

, You might communicate this to your guests by saying:


To ensure there is enough food and drink for everyone, please send a response to this invitation.
So that we can prepare seating for everyone in advance, please reply as to whether or not you can make our party.
 This may cause her to think you are only informing her of the event, and not requesting an RSVP. To keep your invitation to the point, you might:


Limit your invitation to only necessary information, such as who is holding the event, what the event is for, where the event will be, when it will be, and why it is being held.
 You may also want to use a "soft" deadline on your invitation, as it is common for a few stragglers to respond shortly after the deadline has passed. To draw attention to this information you might:


Use an eye catching design to draw attention.
Use all caps, italics, underlining, or special font.
 Check and double check your contact information before you send out your invitations.
 In many cases, a host or hostess might request the RSVP be returned only if a guest is unable to make the event. Be sure the words "RSVP regrets only" are prominent and clearly expressed so that no guest misunderstands the purpose of this kind of RSVP.
 You might even consider sending out an email request for your guests to "save the date." This will improve the chances of your event making it into your partygoers calendars where they will be reminded of it whenever they check their schedules.
 If you are sending e-vites to personal email accounts, you might wait until a weekday evening, when people are off work and more likely to see a "new email" notification.


Sending an e-vite very early in the day or late at night is also a strategy to consider. This way, your invite will have a higher chance at being at the top of your guests inbox, making it more visible.



For major events that use physical invitations sent by post, like weddings, anniversaries, and reunions, you may also want to include a return envelope with the RSVP you send.
 Studies have shown that human brains respond to perceived scarcity, and you can use this to your advantage.On your invite, you may want to write:


"Please respond so there isn't a shortage of cupcakes for your children."
"Seating is limited in our home, so please RSVP so we can prepare to accommodate everyone at our party."

, By including even a small gift with your invite, you can increase the rate at which your guests RSVP.Your gift doesn't have to be extravagant for you to enjoy this effect. With a simple paper invitation you might include:


A pin from the dollar store.
A balloon.
A sticker.
 The prospect of winning something free can be a powerful motivating factor, and can help your event stick in the minds of your guests. Along with your invitation, you might inform guests that when they RSVP, they'll be entered into a raffle for something like:A bottle of wine.
A $5 gift card

