 You should tell this attorney everything about the case, including those facts that may make you look bad. Your malpractice attorney may be able to counteract some of these bad things if s/he knows about them, but s/he cannot prepare if s/he doesn't know.


You should also discuss any potential problems you may face from the information you disclosed to the initial attorney. Remember, this information could be disclosed upon the termination of the attorney-client privilege.
 After your attorney has interviewed you and you have agreed on a contract, s/he will file and serve a complaint against the attorney you are suing. This begins the litigation process.
 During discovery, both parties will exchange documents and ask each other questions ("interrogatories"). This process is designed to investigate the case fully.Additionally, your attorney can subpoena documents or deposition from companies or individuals that are not parties to the litigation.Your attorney will receive "document requests" during this process. This includes both written documents as well as any other material, such as data, photographs, or charts, that pertains to your case.
 A deposition is a sworn statement given in front of a court reporter, who records everything that is said. Everything said in a deposition is "on the record." Listen to your attorney during the deposition preparation process. In general, there are two rules to follow when giving a deposition:Don't guess. If you don't know something, say "I don't know" and move on. "Guessing" in a deposition can get you in serious trouble.
Don't give more than is asked for. It is the opposing side's duty to get answers. You should not volunteer more information than is specifically asked for in the question.
 At some point, your attorney will likely have to oppose a summary judgment motion. This is a motion that requests the judge to determine whether or not you have alleged sufficient facts to potentially win your case. If the judge determines that the facts you've alleged are insufficient, the judge may dismiss your case.
These motions are a crucial part of your case, but you will probably not be particularly involved in this part of the process.
 If your case withstands a summary judgment motion, you will have an opportunity to settle your case at a settlement conference, a mediation or potentially non-binding arbitration.


Consult with to your attorney about each of these options to determine your best choice.
Be aware that because they are very hard for the plaintiff (you, in this case) to win, most legal malpractice cases are not settled out of court. They go to trial instead., If you fail to settle your case, you will have to go to trial. At trial, both parties will present evidence in an effort to prove their case in front of a jury or judge. Not only will you be expected to attend the trial, you will also be required to testify. Your attorney will prepare you for both attending the trial and your testimony.


Your trial may take anywhere from a few days to a few weeks to finish.
 If either side is unhappy with the outcome of the legal malpractice case, they can appeal the ruling. Ask your legal malpractice attorney what your chances of success on appeal are.


If you are planning to appeal, make sure you file your Notice of Appeal before your time expires.
Both parties are still able to negotiate a settlement during the appeals process.

