 When shopping for vintage jewelry, there are two main categories: fine and costume jewelry. Before setting out to shop, you should determine whether or not you are looking for a fine piece of designer jewelry made using precious metals and gemstones, or a more reasonably priced piece of costume jewelry likely made from different types of glass, plastic, stones, and wood. For example, if you are looking for a vintage engagement ring, you will likely want to stay away from costume jewelry.Keep in mind that fine vintage jewelry is much more expensive than costume jewelry, so your budget may dictate which type of jewelry to shop for.
That being said, vintage costume jewelry is often made from better quality material than modern costume jewelry and as a result these pieces last a long time. Some are even dipped in gold making them less likely to turn green or tarnish over time.;
, The label “vintage jewelry” covers all jewelry that is over 20 years old. As a result, this is a massive category that incorporates a lot of very different styles, fashions, and time periods. Before you begin shopping, you may want to narrow down your search to a particular era or type of jewelry. This way you can focus your research and shopping on a smaller subset of vintage jewelry.For example, you may be interested in the geometric shapes associated with the Art Deco period, alternatively you may like the intricate etchings of the early Victorian era, or the nature-inspired jewelry of the Georgian era.
Research online to find out some of the common characteristics of jewelry made during the time period you are interested in.
 When researching into vintage jewelry a great place to check is reputable jewelry associations. For example, the National Association for the Study of Jewelry and the Related Arts can provide you with a number of resources on the history of jewelry and how to identify vintage pieces from different historical eras. The association also provides dates and locations of vintage jewelry exhibitions, which can help to put you in contact with jewelry collectors, appraisers, and enthusiasts.