 Sibling rivalry can arise when siblings feel like they have to compete for attention or become jealous of one another.Remember that jealousy is completely natural and can arise from time to time.
Make it clear to your sister that you don’t need to compete with one another for your parent’s time or attention.
Praise her accomplishments and help bring attention to her when it’s appropriate so you can make sure she knows that you aren’t competing for your parent’s affection but rather sharing it., You and your sister are at different developmental stages of your lives and have different interests. Teach her not to judge her successes by comparison to yours.Discuss your differences in a positive way, emphasizing that you each have your own strengths.
Praise her for her accomplishments without mentioning your own as a yard stick or measure of comparison. You are different people and don’t need to excel at the same things., Jealousy is bound to rear its head from time to time, but that doesn’t mean it has to be a big deal.


Downplay the importance of jealousy. If your sister expresses her jealousy of something you can do or have, explain that jealousy is normal and that there’s nothing wrong with it.Re-emphasize that you are individuals with your own strengths. If she feels jealous of something you are capable of, discuss some things she is capable of that you wish you could be better at.
 No matter how hard you try, arguments are bound to arise from time to time. Arguments are normal and natural for siblings, just remember that you are friends.


Treat her with respect even when you’re angry. Remember you won’t be fighting forever.
Express what you are upset about clearly without being accusatory. Acknowledge her grievances and concerns.Listen to her side of things and try to appreciate where she’s coming from.
Teach her how to handle disagreements respectfully and calmly by doing so yourself.
 The best way to alleviate sibling rivalry is to help her understand that you aren’t in competition, you’re on the same team.Play games where you can be on the same team or help one another succeed.
Help her accomplish her goals and ask her help when she can aid in yours. Establish a relationship where you share in one another’s victories.

