 In general, you will need planning permission if you are going to build a new structure, make changes to an existing structure, or change the use of a current building. If your plans fall into one of these three major categories, then you will probably need to obtain planning permission before you continue.For most projects throughout the United Kingdom, you can find the information you need at PlanningPortal.co.uk., The Planning Portal provides a comprehensive list of types of building projects. This list includes such topics as Basements, Change of Use, Demolition, Doors and Windows, Solar Panels, and many more. By selecting the topic from that list that most closely matches that work that you are planning to do, you can find guidance about whether or not you need planning permission. If you do, the link will provide further information about where to reach out for more specific guidance.For example, the link to “External Walls” tells you that you do not need permission just to paint your walls or for most general maintenance projects. However, you do need permission for certain projects if you live in a Conservation Area, National Park, or other special locations.
You can also view other planning applications online. All planning applications are made available online through the Planning Portal. You should take advantage of this information and view some of the other applications. Reviewing other applications will give you a sense of the level of detail that is required and the type of information that you need to prepare in order to seek planning permission.
 For any sizable project that requires government permission, it is a good idea to consult with an attorney. An attorney can help you understand the application process and help you prepare your application to maximize your chance of approval., Before you submit your application, you should meet with a planning official to discuss your project. The planning officer can help identify points of concern that you will need to address and can let you know which local authorities you will need to speak with to get additional permissions. The planning officer can help you understand the application and review process.For your meeting with the planning officer, be prepared with the following materials and information:


plans and drawings of your project
an explanation of the reason for your project and its overall purpose
information about the location of your project, in proximity to any roads, highways, landmarks, telephone or sewer lines

, Part of the permission process involves public notice and comment. You can help this go smoothly by talking with your neighbors early on. Describe what you are doing and explain the impact on them. If you can get their support early, then the public notice portion of your application is likely to be much simpler and more productive.By talking with your neighbors, you may be able to get their support before you submit your application. If they object to your work, they may be able to let you know what their objections are, and you could modify your project to satisfy them.
 Part of the review of your project will include the effect that it will have on local wildlife. Anything you can do to minimize impact will increase your chances of approval. Natural England, the governmental agency on wildlife preservation, can help answer any questions you may have before you begin., If your project could cause any kind of air or water pollution or affect safe housing in the area, you may be required to submit an Environmental Impact statement. Officials at the local environmental health department can help you review your project and determine, ahead of time, whether your project is likely to fall into this category., If you are planning anything that could infringe on any roads or highways, you will need the approval of the local highway authority. You should contact your local office early in your planning, to see what you may need to do.Highway authority officials could help you revise your project in a way that will ensure approval.
 If your proposal is likely to involve the use of any dangerous chemicals, you will need approval of the office of the Health and Safety Executive. From its website, www.hse.gov.uk, you can find information about particular substances, registration requirements, concerns for manufacturers, and concern for downstream users., Although this is not a requirement for getting planning permission, it is an important consideration for any work project. The Planning Portal website provides useful tips and burglary prevention advice., If your project is in one of the five designated areas of archaeological importance in England, you will need to provide at least six weeks’ advance notice to your local authority before you begin work, whether or not your project needs planning permission. The authority will then inspect your site and let you know if you can proceed., From the home page, www.planningportal.co.uk, you will find all the information necessary about the approval process. From the home page, after completing all your preliminary research and conferences, select the link to “Start or View your Planning Applications.”You will be prompted to answer only the questions that will apply to your particular type of project. At a minimum, you will need some introductory identifying information about yourself and the property. You will then need to provide information about the project itself., You will need to know, from your preliminary research, which additional consents you need. If you have questions, the web site can help guide you. You should also contact your local planning authority if you need further guidance.The following is a list of the consent types that you can apply for online:


Householder planning consent
Full planning consent
Outline planning consent
Reserved Matters
Listed building consent
Advertisement consent
Lawful Development Certificate (LDC)
Prior notification 
Removal/variation of conditions
Approval of conditions
Consent under Tree Preservation Orders 
Notification of proposed works to trees in conservation areas
Application for non-material amendments

, There is a much longer list of additional consent types that are not available online. For these other consents, you must download the application and submit it by mail or in person to the appropriate authority. The forms are available for download from the Planning Portal site. Some of these consent types, but not a complete list, are as follows:Prior approval for onshore extraction of oil and gas
Prior approval for a registered nursery
Prior approval for certain agricultural uses
Prior approval for betting shops
Prior approval for installation of photovoltaic cells

, All projects, anywhere in the country, will require a certain minimum set of documents. Without these required items, your application will not be considered. These mandatory documents include the following items:the completed application form
a location plan, showing the site area and its surrounding context. You can get this plan from one of the Planning Portal’s registered suppliers, listed on the website.
a site plan, specific to your project. This must show the details of your project.
an ownership certificate certifying ownership of the property
agricultural holdings certificate, whether or not the site includes an agricultural holding
design and access statement, outlining the design principals for the project
the required filing fee. The fee is calculated as a percentage of the size of the project. The Planning Portal includes a “fee calculator” to help you determine the amount of your particular fee., Your local planning authority may require one or more additional documents with your application. To find out what is required locally, contact your local authority directly. You can also connect to the local office’s list of requirements through the national Planning Portal., With the exception of basic identifying information that is needed to open your application, all applicants are cautioned not to provide personal information with the application. You need to be aware that all application materials may be made public through the website. Do not include anything that you do not want available to everyone., After your application is submitted, you should soon receive an email from the Planning Portal. This email is not approval of your project. It is confirmation that your application has been received.As part of the confirmation, you will receive a unique reference number. Make note of this number and continue to use it on all future correspondence with the authority.
 Once your application is complete, you may be contacted by the planning authority for more information. Be prepared to provide additional information, answer questions, or even participate in a public hearing, if necessary, depending on the size and scope of the project., Within eight weeks, you should receive a decision from the planning authority. The decision is likely to be one of four different options, and based on each option, you will respond in a different fashion, as follows:Permission refused. If this is the response, you may change your proposal and submit a new application, or you may appeal to the Secretary of State.
No decision. If eight weeks go by without a decision, you have the right to appeal to the Secretary of State for a decision.
Permission granted, with conditions. If this is the response, you may appeal to the Secretary of State to have the conditions waived, or you may choose to proceed with your project in accordance with the conditions that have been set.
Permission granted. In this case, you may simply proceed with your project.
 If the planning authority denies your application or sets conditions that you do not wish to follow, your first step should be a conversation with the planning authority. You can get an explanation on the decision and ask for guidance about revising your project to get approval., This is a link that is available from the original Planning Portal. You will follow the links online to open an account, provide information about your project, and submit the formal request to have your project reviewed.The deadline for filing an appeal is six months from the date of your decision letter. In the case of a non-determination, the deadline is six months from the date that a decision was expected, which was eight weeks after the submission of your initial application.
 The appeal process lasts approximately six months at least from the date of filing. You are warned that only about one in every three appeals is successful.