 Therapy is a common treatment for depression. Talking to a licensed mental health professional can help your teen learn how to manage her feelings. She can find support from a knowledgeable, neutral source. A therapist can help your teen learn how to change patterns of thought and provide her with tools to deal with her depression., Depending on the severity of the depression, your teen may need medication. Talk to the doctor about whether an antidepressant is right for your teen and ask about the possible risks associated with antidepressant medications. Your doctor may suggest an antidepressant for your teen if the benefits seem to outweigh the risks.


Be aware that some antidepressants can cause your teen to become suicidal. Several antidepressants known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) can increase suicidal thoughts in children, teens, and adults under the age of 25. For this reason, these medications carry a black box label (the most severe warning label that the FDA makes).The medications that carry these risks include: fluoxetine (Prozac), sertraline (Zoloft), escitalopram (Lexapro), paroxetine (Paxil), citalopram (Celexa), fluvoxamine (Luvox), and venlafaxine (Effexor).Antidepressants don’t work overnight. They take a month to a month and a half to start working., If your teen is depressed, one of the best things you can for her is to let her know you are there for her. This means you listen to her without lecturing, giving advice, or trying to convince her she why she shouldn’t be depressed.Don’t ask your teen too many questions or attack her. If you are frustrated, do not take it out on her. Listen and let her know you are there to support her.
 To help your teen, try to make your home a healthy environment for everyone. This includes feeding everyone a healthy diet and making time to spend together over meals. Adjust the family schedule so your teen gets plenty of rest.Try to encourage your teen to exercise and be more active. Do activities with your teen to help keep her active and to get her out of the house.
 When your teen is depressed, make sure to keep an eye on her. Monitor her behavior to ensure the depression is not getting worse. This does not mean to stay on your teen’s back, to nag her, or to bully her. Remember to stay supportive and loving towards your teen even while you monitor her depression.Keep up with your teen’s medicine schedule. Provide gentle reminders if she is forgetting to take her medicine.
Know what you are going to do if your teen’s depression gets worse. Be prepared with a plan.
 Alcohol can be tempting for a depressed teen. Because of this, make sure to get rid of alcohol or keep it locked away so your teen won’t have access to it. Lock up all prescription medicines, too, just in case.Talk to your teen about drugs and alcohol. Explain that drugs and alcohol worsen depression and can make her feel worse.
 Even if your teen is going to therapy and is on medication, you should monitor her for suicide. If she shows any signs, call your doctor immediately. If it is an emergency, take her to the emergency room of call the suicide hotline. The suicide hotline number is 1-800-SUICIDE.