 Athletic trainers are often the first ones on the scene when an athlete is injured and must be prepared to recognize and evaluate injuries quickly and effectively. You will often need to provide immediate medical care to athletes in a hectic environment, such as a game or match.Your duties as an athletic trainer can vary from applying bandages or braces and making sure athletes recover properly from their injuries. You may also provide physical therapy, massage, and medication to help relieve muscle pain and irritation. In a game environment, you may make decisions about whether or not a player needs further medical treatment outside of your expertise.
As an athletic trainer, you will also focus on rehabilitating an athlete after they have sustained an injury, sometimes over a period of months or years. If you work with a specific team or group, you may work with the athletes during their training to ensure they are training properly and are not at risk of injury. You may also need to speak about athletic training and injury prevention at businesses, schools, or in front of sports teams.
The position of an athletic trainer is often confused with the position of a personal trainer. But there are major differences between the positions, as athletic trainers treat many different types of patients, from professional and youth athletes, dancers, musicians, and members of the military. As an athletic trainer, you also offer physical medicine, rehabilitation and preventative services to your patients.;
, A certified athletic trainer will often work under the supervision of a physician and work closely with other healthcare professionals, athletic coaches, and the parents of athletes. You will get to know all your patients or clients on an individual level and become very familiar with how to best treat their injuries. You may work in the following settings:Professional and college level sports
Sports medicine clinics
Hospital emergency rooms and rehabilitation clinics
Secondary and intermediate medical schools
The performing arts, such as professional dancing
Law enforcement and the military
Doctor offices

, According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the job prospects for athletic trainers are good and the field for athletic trainers is growing faster than average. The average salary of an athletic trainer is $42,000 a year.According to a recent survey by the National Athletic Trainers’ Association (NATA), the salary for athletic trainers have risen steadily every year.Since 2003, the three fastest rising areas for athletic trainers are in youth sports (up 41% to $46,296), professional sports (up 31% to $50,515) and high schools (up 16% to $42,442)., It’s never too early to start preparing for your career as an athletic trainer. High school biology will provide foundational knowledge on how to treat injuries to the human body and physics can be useful for your university level courses.You may also want to work on improving your public speaking skills in English class, speech class, and drama class. This may come in useful when you need to communicate with athletes, other healthcare professionals, or clients.
If you are athletically inclined, consider joining a sports team or a sports club to build more first person experience working with athletes and a team. If your high school has an athletic trainer, ask her if you can shadow her for a day and observe how she treats athlete injuries.
 Athletic trainers are required to have a bachelor’s of science degree in athletic training or a related field. Most athletic training programs have classroom and clinical requirements, with courses such as kinesiology, therapeutic rehabilitation and reconditioning, sports psychology, human anatomy, and clinical pharmacology.


Make sure your program of study is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Athletic Training Education (CAATE). Many athletic trainer programs and exercise physiology programs are accredited by CAATE. A list of CAATE programs in athletic training can be found here: http://caate.net/find-programs/.
 Though a master’s degree is not required to be employed as an athletic trainer, it can give you a higher level of expertise and lead to management positions. You should consider two types of master’s degree programs: entry-level master’s programs for students who do not have an undergraduate degree in athletic training and advanced master’s programs created for students who have received their Athletic Training Certification (ATC).Master’s programs in athletic training will offer classes on athletic training administration, orthopaedic evaluation, educational research statistics, and therapeutic exercise.
 As of 2009, 47 states require licensing or registration for athletic trainers before they can be hired in a position or practice. To become certified, you must pass the BOC exam and earn your bachelor’s degree or master’s degree in athletic training.The BOC is an independent body that offers standard certification exams for athletic trainers. You can contact your local BOC chapter in your state for more information on the exam. Most students take the BOC during the last semester of their degree. To maintain your certification, you must adhere to the BOC Standards of Practice and Disciplinary Process and enroll in continuing education courses.The American Society of Exercise Physiologists (ASP) offers the Exercise Physiologist Certified (EPC) certification for physiologists. The American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) offers certifications for exercise physiologists., Joining a professional association for athletic trainers, such as the National Athletic Trainers Association (NATA), can help you to network and connect with other trainers and potential employers. As a member, you will also have access to conferences and continuing education courses to expand your knowledge and keep up to date with the latest practices in the field.More information about NATA can be found on their website: http://www.nata.org/. The NATA website also has a career center page with job listings and opportunities., When you start to look for positions as an athletic trainer, you should consider your preferred work environment and your desired level of pay. High schools, colleges, and fitness centers are all viable options for a starting athletic trainer, as well as health care centers.You can increase your level of pay by focusing on different sports teams or sports field that can be more lucrative than others. As you gain more experience as an athletic trainer, you may be able to move into an administrative or managerial role in a clinic or a hospital.
When you are crafting your resume, you should highlight your educational background, your BOC certification, and your relevant intrapersonal skills, such as your strong communication skills, your ability to work well with others, and your ability to think quickly on your feet.
To ace your job interviews, you should dress professionally and appear confident and friendly. You should prepare a few examples of past situations where you had to use your athletic training skills and have at least two references you can provide to the potential employer.
 If you have a passion for sales and marketing, you may consider applying to sales and marketing roles at an athletic equipment company. As an athletic trainer, you can act as a sales expert and sell medical equipment to patients and hospitals.