 Topical retinoids are gels or creams that you apply to your face as an acne treatment. They are an effective treatment for reducing acne. These medications require a prescription from your doctor or dermatologist.You will need to apply the medicine three times per week at first and then work up to applying it once per day as your skin adjusts to it.
The medicine will prevent your hair follicles from becoming clogged, which is a common cause of acne.;
, Salicylic acid is one of the best products to help treat acne and dry out pimples. It helps to dry out the oils that cause the pimples. Look for products that have salicylic acid in them, including over the counter facial products.


These products may be concentrated between 0.5% to 5%. Common side effects of salicylic acid include stinging at the site of application and skin irritation., If your acne is really red and irritated, then your doctor may decide to prescribe an antibiotic. Antibiotics are often combined with other medications such as retinoids or benzoyl peroxide products to help clear up and prevent infections caused by acne.Make sure that you use the antibiotic exactly as instructed by your doctor. Improper use of antibiotics can lead to antibiotic resistant infections.
 Benzoyl peroxide is a substance that eliminates the bacteria on the face that causes acne. It also helps remove excess oils as well as dead skin on your face, which will dry out the pimples quickly. Over the counter products have benzoyl peroxide in concentrations of 2.5% to 10%. Look for one with a concentration that matches the severity of your pimple.


In addition to drying out the pimple, benzoyl peroxide may cause burning, scaling, stinging, and irritation on your skin where you apply these products., If you are female, then you can also consider taking an oral contraceptive to help dry out pimples and fight acne. Oral contraceptives are often effective at treating acne, but talk with your doctor about the potential side effects of these medications.If you already take birth control, then consider asking your doctor about switching to one that will help with acne as well, such as Yaz, Ortho-Tricyclen, or Estrostep.
 Although it is not a medical treatment option, it is important to wash your face twice a day. This will help dry out the pimples you have as well as prevent any more from cropping up.


Always use gentle pressure when you cleanse your face to avoid hurting your skin.
You should also wash your face after any intense activity that causes you to sweat a lot. Sweat that is left on your skin causes the oils to build up on your face and cause pimples.You can make your own oil-based cleanser. Use an ounce of organic oil, such as hemp seed oil, sunflower oil, shea butter, or castor oil.Add 3-5 drops of an anti-bacterial or antiseptic essential oil to help fight natural bacteria that can lead to pimples. Try tea tree,lavender,oregano, rosemary,or frankincense.Mix the oils and store the oil mixture in a sealable container. Just make sure you keep it away from light.

