 The color scheme is a big part of setting the tone for your dining experience. Consider what type of gathering you are having and what feel you would like it to have. Light colors will come across as more delicate, bold colors appear more fun and energetic, dark colors can add romance and sophistication.


Mix it up and try using some fun patterns. A bold geometric design will add artistic flair while a soft floral pattern will add elegance. With patterns, a little goes a long way. Consider using them to provide an interesting accent, such as with the napkins or a table runner.
Each season has a distinct feel to it that can be reflected with the table’s color scheme. For spring, pastels or floral patterns are a safe bet. For a winter theme, you could go cream colored or ivory and add in some darker browns or maroon. In fall, jewel tones can beautifully complement the rich shades of harvest. In summer, bright colors will make a bold statement.
 You can buy one to match your theme or use a general one. A floral arrangement always looks nice. Just make sure it isn’t too large. You don’t want to block the line of sight of your guests.


If you are feeling artistic, try making your own centerpiece. You could add glass stones to an elegant bowl or decorate a small pot of flowers. Even food can be arranged into a centerpiece when placed strategically on a small pedestal. This works especially well with seasonal items., Bringing in nature is a great way to add warmth to your table. In winter, you could arrange a few pinecones and a couple of small evergreen branches. In spring, you could decorate with a few flower petals sprinkled on your table. Fall is a great time to add some seasonal foods for decor, such as pomegranates, corn, and squash. You could put out a bowl of fruit in the summer, such as oranges., This will define your theme and add festive flair to your table. For a Christmas party, you could fill a clear bowl with ornaments and use that as the centerpiece. For a Hanukkah party, you can use a menorah as the centerpiece. For a Thanksgiving party, you could incorporate a cornucopia and a couple of decorative candles.For a Halloween party, try using a few small pumpkins placed strategically around your food. If it is a Halloween party for kids, you could even include a few markers with the pumpkins so that they can decorate them.
 A personal touch goes a long way. This shows the effort you put into creating a special experience for your guests. You could try making customized name cards or even a homemade centerpiece. Arrange your own flowers or have fun making DIY placemats. When you make things yourself, it also helps to save money.


Don’t overdo it. The table should never appear cluttered. You want your guests to have enough space to move and breath without worrying about hitting something or knocking things over.
 The food should be evenly spaced in the center of the table. You could try to add style to your arrangement by placing dishes according to size or you could arrange food by type. If it is a large table, setting the food closer to guests so that they can pass it around is helpful.


Set up food in different heights. If you have a lot of dishes, levels can help fit more without being overcrowded. Try using a stand for your bread platter or placing an entree on top of a covered box. If you don’t enough horizontal space, vertical space always helps.Use a separate table if there isn't enough room. Sometimes there is more food than space at the table. Don’t let this deter you. Set up a serving table near the dining table and have guests help themselves. This will create a buffet style dining experience. You could do something similar for dessert or even for drinks. It doesn't have to all fit at one table.

