 Though the concept of bisexuality is often particularly hard for some to come to terms with, understanding bisexuality can be extremely helpful in learning more about sexual orientation, gender, and even the mysteries of attraction and our subsequent treatment of one another.Recognize that bisexuality is more common than homosexuality. Yup. Even people who recognize that sexuality and gender are fluid are often surprised to learn of the greater frequency with which people identify as bisexual.
While some people assume bisexuality is more common for women, many men identify as bisexual as well.
 Insecurity, bigotry, and ignorance bring out to worst in people, and many people – even people you may love – may not initially recognize your right to identify as you wish.Bisexuality is especially tough for some people to accept. Even people who are comfortable with the concept of homosexuality may reject the concept of bisexuality because it may radically challenge their assumptions about sexual orientations.
An inability to comfortably categorize other’s as either alike or different from themselves, especially in the context of behavior or identity regarding aspects of our lives (like sex) that some people are especially sensitive about can lead to particularly vehement demonstrations of insecurity.
Never allow your siblings to hurt or disrespect you. If they use offensive or aggressive language, or become visibly angry, postpone the rest of the discussion until everyone is calm. Have a friend or parent talk to them if this behavior continues.
 We live in a heterosexist society. The assumption that heterosexuality is “normal” is an extremely significant aspect of many people’s thoughts and behaviors. Challenges to this assumption, including real-world evidence that contradicts heteronormativity, commonly make people uncomfortable. This discomfort is what the term homophobia refers to.Know that people’s fear does not mean they cannot learn to be more understanding. Often, people are unaware of their prejudice. This does not justify any rude or insensitive behavior. If you are mistreated by people who are bigoted or otherwise insecure, know that it has nothing to do with you.
Many people still do not understand the incredible complexity of human sexual orientation. Though we celebrate diversity in other ways, many people are judgmental of people who identify with minority categories of sexual identity.
Most people’s views will change as they have more positive interactions with people like you!

, Simply by being a positive, friendly person, you may help people recognize that sexual orientation does not at all dictate your worth and quality as an individual.


Social equality in terms of sexual orientation is rising, and your ability to have conversations about how you identify with your friends and family will help facilitate this process.
Do not feel as though it is your responsibility, or that you are obligated in any way to educate people about the way that you or others identify. Simply know that when these conversations do occur, they do help people better understand the diversity, wonder, and excitement that members of our species are capable of sharing with one another.

