 Go to http://www.airbnb.com and start by typing in where you’d like to go, the dates you’d like to travel, and the number of people who will be going. Airbnb’s simple “Where,” “When,” and “Who” boxes make this easy and intuitive. Click “Search” once you have the information down., You’ll then see a list of all the available rentals for your chosen locations and dates. You can narrow these down by selecting only those with a certain number of rooms, or within a certain price range.Since you’re traveling with a family, it might be very helpful to look for rentals with multiple rooms available, or entire houses/apartments.
After doing a general search for listings in a location, click on "Filters" below the results to narrow things down by these categories.
 Traveling with a family means more people that want to be entertained. Luckily, Airbnb also lets you sort properties based on whether things like televisions, wi-fi, or a kitchen are available. Take advantage of these to find just what each of your family members wants.These options will also be available via the "Filters" menu shown below the search results.
 Airbnb rentals that are happy to accommodate children can be labeled as such. However, this can mean lots of different things. If might mean that the host has games, toys, or other things that might keep children happy, or it might just mean that the host is willing to allow children in the home.There is also a filter specifically for the "Family/Kid-friendly" label.
 You can book Airbnb through a Facebook account, or use an email address. When you sign in, follow the prompts to create a profile. You can then access your account to use Airbnb’s communications features. If you’re looking for specific needs, like no staircases (to help keep a toddler safe), contact the host directly and ask about this.

Even if a listing does not have a “Family/Kid-Friendly” label, let the host know you are traveling with family. They may have games, movies, or other things that will make your stay great. They might also have tips about good places for families to visit in the area.
 Once you’ve found the listing that will make your whole family happy, enter your card information to book the home. You should then receive an email confirmation that includes the details of your upcoming stay, and information about how to contact the host and Airbnb., Many Airbnb rentals provide guests with access to a kitchen. Try cooking some meals during your vacation instead of eating out all the time. This will cut down on a major vacation expense, and also give your family opportunities to relax and spend more time together.Visit some markets in the area and pick up a few local delicacies to make the cooking experience more special.
 A nice perk of Airbnb is getting to spend time in a home that’s a different type than yours. Make the most of this during your vacation. For instance:If you’re staying in a suburban home with a big backyard, use it as an opportunity to play catch with your family. If
If you’re staying in a high-rise apartment, take some time out to look at the city lights at night while sharing ice cream with everyone.
 Airbnb’s motto is “Don’t go there. Live there.” Many Airbnb listings are located away from popular tourist areas. This gives you the opportunity to soak up more of the local flavor of your area. Go off the beaten path and look for some family fun near your Airbnb home. For instance:Look for family-friendly restaurants nearby that cater to locals more than tourists.
Visit fun attractions that might be overlooked by sightseeing guides. Maybe there’s a great putt putt course or park just around the corner!

, Airbnb gives guests opportunities to review the homes they stay in. You can read these online as you search for listings. They can give you a good sense of what a home and host are like. The reviews tend to be positive, so if you do see something negative about a home, take it seriously. Contact the host if you have any questions., Listings on Airbnb may include guidelines that the host sets for how you are permitted to use their home. You are expected to abide by these, so if there’s something in the rules that won’t work for your family, choose another location.For example, if the house rules ask guests not to touch a priceless pottery collection on display, you might want to choose a different location if you’re traveling with a toddler.
 Airbnb does its best to vet and verify hosts and accommodations. A few bad apples might show up, however. When communicating with a potential host about a listing, think twice if they do things like ask you to pay off site (which is against Airbnb’s policy). If you sense anything that feels like a scam, chose another listing., Listings on Airbnb will include pictures so that potential guests can get a sense of what’s being offered. Since you’re relying on the hosts to be truthful about the listing, you can double-check any important things. For instance, if the listing says it includes two bedrooms, but the pictures only show one, ask the host to send a picture of the other one before you book., Every booking on Airbnb includes a free 24-hour concierge service. If you need any help during your stay, or if you run into issues with the host or the accommodations, call this service right away. The number should be included in the confirmation information you received after booking.Airbnb wants customers to be satisfied and to have a great experience. You can request a refund if the accommodations were not as described.

