 You can use any type of oil you want. The oil is simply there to make de-molding the mushroom cap easier.If you can't find a plastic bowl in the right shape and size, you can use a different material. Plastic is easier to use because of how flexible it is.
 This will eventually make the stem, so make sure that the shape and size suits the cap.If the cup is too small for the bowl, try a different container, such as a tall yogurt container.


The cups that you get iced coffee in are great for this!

, Every brand will be a little different, so follow the instructions on the package. Ideally, it should have a slushy-like consistency.Make sure that you mix enough to fill both the bowl and the cup.
 You can use your trowel to smooth it down, or you can leave it rough for a more organic look.Gently tap the bowl to remove any air bubbles., Make sure that the cup is centered and straight. The wider part of the cup should be facing you., Use your trowel to smooth the cement down. This will help the mushroom stand upright.Once again, gently tap the cup to remove any air bubbles.


If you will be using this mushroom on a lawn, consider pushing a galvanized steel nail into the stem. This way, the nail will stick into the lawn and help anchor the mushroom., How long this takes depends on the type of cement you are using, how big your mushroom is, and the weather conditions in your area.
 Use a craft blade to cut straight down the plastic cup first. Then, cut around the top edge of the stem, where the stem meets the mushroom cap. Carefully pull the plastic cup off. Part of the plastic cup will remain embedded in the cement, which is fine., Paint the stem and the underside of the mushroom cap white. Next, paint the cap a bright color. Let the paint dry, then add white spots onto the cap. Let the paint dry again, then seal the paint using a clear, outdoor sealer.


If you need to apply more coats of paint, allow the first one to dry completely.
Turn it into a mosaic mushroom by attaching glass gems to the cap using tile adhesive, then filling the gaps with grout. Wipe the grout away with a damp cloth before it dries.