 For example, paperclips do not help organize cables and do not help people find the end of a roll of tape. Also, don't use the ends of pants hangers as clips around the house. They will just get scattered, lost, broken, misplaced and are impossible to keep track of.;
, You may have seen people collecting juice bottles to use when they lose their dustpans, as well as can tabs to use as fishing hooks and to hang clothes with. Don't do this. That way, you can avoid becoming a hoarder and letting useless items inhibit your day-to-day routine.
 Some people use bread clips to hang off cords and cables so that they can be labelled. Hacks like these are tedious and tend to waste more time than they save. It is best to avoid spending massive amounts of time on organizing your possessions. Instead, focus on keeping your possessions to a minimum and strive to keep those items that you often use readily accessible.
 A lot of people use the life hack where you use a ketchup bottle to pour out pancake mess. Ironically, by the time you get the pancake mix in and when you clean it out, you are left with more mess and hassle. Some people even use their shoe organizers to put cleaning chemicals in, and then they wonder where to put their shoes.
 Having to go out and buy something for a specific purpose is not a life hack. Heaps of life hacks involve using a shoe organizer to organize anything such as cleaning chemicals, but this hack is only useful to people who have a shoe organizer they are not using lying around their house. Otherwise you will may as well buy something which has already been designed for the purpose.
 Taking extra time to do something perfectly is a waste of your life and annoying to other people. Life hackers have come up with easy ways to fold your clothes, but what is even quicker and easier is to shove your clothes in the drawer and not be a folding freak, for example.
 Decide whether the hack is too good to be true, more effort to perform then doing something the conventional way, or just not worth your while. For example, just by looking at a recipe for homemade gin, you can see it costs more, takes forever and has lots of ingredients you wouldn't normally have, so don't, just buy some good old mother's ruin from the liquor store.
 Spare yourself the disappoint of finding out that balancing a spoon on a pot of boiling water, making a speaker out of a toilet roll, using a toaster to make a sandwich and adding salt to decrease the boiling point of water doesn't work.

