 You need to be able to regulate your own emotions and not become overwhelmed yourself, otherwise you won’t be able to help your friend very much.


Take a break from the conversation if you need a minute to re-group. Perhaps excuse yourself to go to the bathroom. Take deep breaths, or let some of your emotions out if you need to.
 According to the 5 love languages, many people enjoy receiving gifts as ways to show love and support.This can go a long way in cheering someone up who is sad and it shows that you are thoughtful and supportive.


Give a gift such as flowers, a card, or her favorite candy.
If you are lacking in finances, you can write her a loving letter or make her a home-made gift (art, etc).
 For example, some individuals may tend to personalize events or situations, which can create unnecessary negative emotions.An example might be if your friend says, “It’s my fault that Fido ran away.” Help your friend re-direct these types of thoughts by offering alternatives and calming disagreeing with her. You could say something such as, "You love Fido and do everything you can to take care of him. Maybe he just got out somehow and couldn't find his way home."
Some people might have negative thoughts that try to predict the future such as if your friend says, “I’m never going to find Fido.” This is an incorrect thought because she cannot predict what will happen. You can gently say something like, “Isn’t it possible that you will still find him? I have hope that we might be able to get him back.”
Avoid blaming others.Encourage your friend to focus on what she can do about the situation instead of thinking too much about how others may have contributed to the issue; this can increase anger and reduce her ability to think logically and problem-solve.
 When people are very sad they can sometimes have difficulty thinking rationally and working toward solutions to their problem. Encourage your friend to look at her emotions as information. Her sadness is telling her that something is wrong and might need to be resolved.Then, you can help her come up with possible solutions and work toward them.


For example, if your friend lost her dog, you can say, “Let’s work on a solution together. What do you think we should do first?”
Offer possible solutions. For instance, you could say, “I have an idea, why don’t we start calling local shelters to see if anyone has found him.”

