 Pour 1 to 2 tsp (5 to 10 ml) of vegetable oil into the pan. Use your fingers or a clean paper towel to spread the oil over the entire inside surface of the pan, including all of the sides and the bottom.


You only want to use enough oil to coat the surface. Avoid letting the oil puddle up inside the pan.
Consider using flaxseed oil for this method instead of standard vegetable oil. Flaxseed oil is very light, which makes it an ideal choice when applying a light coating to the pan.
This technique is the mildest one and is safe to use with all Orgreenic pans, including all stovetop pans, oven pans, and grill pans.
 Wrap a brown paper grocery bag around the coated part of the pan. The handle can either be exposed or hidden inside the bag; either option is acceptable.


The paper bag will protect the surface of the pan, concentrate the natural heat from the sun inside of it, and catch any oil that drips off the pan.
 Find a sunny window and place the pan, still wrapped inside its bag, upside-down in the sunlight. Leave it there for three to five days.


Placing the pan upside-down will prevent any of the oil from congealing or otherwise making a mess inside the pan.
Touch the outside of the bag each day. The surface should feel notably warm. If the surface is not warm, the sunlight might not be strong enough at that location.
 Remove the pan from the sunlight and from the brown bag. Use a clean paper towel to clean off any visible oil that remains.


The surface may still feel a little greasy, but that greasiness assists the non-stick properties of the pan. Make sure that there are no puddles of oil and no stickiness on the surface, though.
 You will need to re-season an Orgreenic pan every six months. Do so using this method or one of the other listed methods.


Since this method is so gentle, the seasoning may not last as long and there is a good chance that you will need to re-season your pan ahead of schedule. Re-season the pan whenever food starts sticking to it on a regular basis.

