 If your babysitter happens to be an extremely boring person with no life, there's no point in spying on him or her. Make a checklist of things you'd enjoy seeing from the babysitter. Examples:


A boyfriend/girlfriend to talk with
A busy family to argue with
An annoying roommate to scream at;
, Get your cousins or siblings to help you, or maybe your neighbors to help. Make sure they are not noisy, will not give anything away, and are good at spying. The more the merrier, as they say!

, The distractor should be a few feet away from the babysitter, playing with something or watching TV, minding their own business. This is good to have because the babysitter will not come looking for all of you if someone is there. They will feel more comfortable and will be happier to talk on the phone or go on the computer or something.
 Under the couch, behind the couch, under the desk, in the desk, etc. Find a place that can fit the people you have, and can let you be hidden and not seen. It's a good idea to split everyone up in different places, just in case you can't hear something from one angle, the other people can hear it from another angle. The spot should also be near the spot the babysitter hangs around, such as in a chair or on the rug or near the couch.
 You don't need to buy anything, but grab useful and appropriate items. A camera, a video camera, a phone to take pictures or to call/text your friends on, some walkie talkies, a notepad to jot things down, and a flashlight for distracting or if you're in a dark place are good things to have.
 Keep quiet! Get everything in place and make secret code names and things. Have fun with it.
 Don't take down very personal information, like their social security number, just take funny things, like the things they say and the fights they get in.
 This way it won't look like anything, just some kid thing, and that you're not doing anything suspicious.
 There isn't anything they can do about it, and remind them that it was just a kid thing and that they didn't take anything important down. You may even want to show you what you got, just so they know that it's safe to come back!

