 If you're going to be in charge of this group, there are some important things to consider:


Are you really ready to do this? Have you thought through whether you are the right person to be in charge of rounding up people, funds and sending out meet-up notices? It's not everyone's cup of tea but for the organizing type of person, it's pure joy.
Do you have enough time? Consider the work, child raising, volunteering, household commitments that you already have. Will the playgroup fit in with all that easily or will it be just one more burden and feel like over-commitment? Be honest with yourself.
Will you be okay with use of your house if needs be, at least to begin with?
Is your spouse happy for you to take on this responsibility? Will your spouse help?
Is your toddler old enough to be sociable with other toddlers (make sure they know not to hit or fight etc).;
, Hold a picnic, barbecue or in-house event to get to know both the parents and their children in your local area. Introduce people to your idea ask them if they think it is a good idea and if they would bring their kids to it. Find out whether they're interested in participating in the formation of a toddler playgroup in your area. If at least four to five sets of parents think it's a good idea, you've got enough to form a group.


Find out which parents would like to be actively involved in setting up the group and which parents would rather just use the services of the playgroup. Don't force people to agree to help; those people will only end up letting you down and it's far better to be realistic and rely on the enthusiastic ones instead. You can ping the non-helpers for finances or other resources later––they'll usually be happy to excuse their non-participation in this way!

, These existing groups will serve as a useful resource and source of information for you to learn from. Ask to see those who run the playgroup and ask plenty of questions on how to run such a playgroup.
 In the warmer months, the local park or botanical gardens will work well. However, for rainy days and cold days, you'll need somewhere indoors and safe. This could include:


Your own homes, and other parent's homes, on a rotating basis.
Cafes or restaurants that are happy for parents and young children to be there.
Community centers or halls, council or municipal rooms, library rooms, etc.
A school room.
Some other suitable venue.


Also consider which places are not suitable. You'll need to have reasons why they're not suitable in case any parent insists they're a great idea, often for reasons of their own convenience or relationships. For example, an office building in the city center might help someone working there but provide great frustration for everyone else; or, a place that needs to be paid for might suit some parents but cause other parents to turn away as they can't afford it.
 This could include a traveling container of toys that everyone has contributed to, a plate of food from each parent attending and something interesting to talk about each time, for the parents.


Ensure that there are drinks and snacks, whether people bring these or the host offers them on a rotating basis.
Suggest things to talk about, such as a latest child raising manual, a story on TV or ideas for child raising in difficult times. Having some ideas to get everyone talking can help make it both enjoyable and useful for the parents.
 The key things to bear in mind include:


It must be safe. Homes of parents with small children are usually already childproofed, but assume nothing and ask first.
It must be viewable by parents. Parents like to keep an eye on young children while playing.
Ideally, have a quiet space for upset or tired toddlers to retreat to for a nap. Have a baby monitor in the space. If out and about, set up a circle of strollers and carry beds just for this purpose, such as under a shady tree or in a quiet corner of a cafe.
 The best time is around one to two hours and no longer. Don't make it so short that everyone sets up and then feels they have to leave again, and don't make it so long that everyone, parents included, gets cranky and can't wait to leave.


Be flexible about arrival and departure times. Insisting everyone be there on time or leave only at the allotted time will lose members of the group. Remember that some parents will be shy, tired, depressed, busy, needing to pick up other kids, get the groceries, whatever. Assume nothing and give people the freedom to come and go as needed. It's not the business of the playgroup to be judgmental.
Avoid choosing a time when the toddlers are likely to be sleepy. Weekday mornings are often best, as the toddlers will be full of energy and no school-aged kids need to be collected. Weekends also offer lots of flexibility but may be constrained by family needs coming first.
 Make flyers, put notices on Facebook and ask friends and family to spread the word.