


Use a tape measure to determine the distance between the ridge and eave of the roof.
Add the amount of desired overhang to that measurement if you want the roofing to hang over the eaves.
Determine the roof's width.
Divide the roof's width by 3. The result gives you the number of panels that you need. For a roof that is 45 feet (13.7 m) wide, you will need 15 metal panels. Panels come in a width of 3 feet (.91 m) each, but are cut to desired lengths.;
, Give the roof measurements to a metal roofing distributor when ordering your panels.



This is a good time to add a radiant barrier insulation for energy efficiency or you can cover the roof with 30-pound (13.6-kg) roofing felt to keep moisture away from the roof. Leave the old shingles on the roof.
Use a staple gun or plastic cap nails to secure the insulation or roofing felt .
 Batten boards help to secure the steel panels to the roof.


Lay 1-by-4-inch (2.5-by-10.2-cm) pine boards over all of the roofing felt. The boards should run parallel with the ridge and the eaves.
Place the boards 24 inches (61 cm) apart from eave to ridge.
Use a drill to screw the boards into the roof.
 Eave flashing helps water to flow off of the roof.


Use a hammer and nails to attach eave flashing to the eaves.
Install the eave flashing along the roof's entire width. If the roof has gutters, the eave flashing should cover over each of the gutter's sides.
 Closure strips help close gaps beneath the steel roofing panels where animals and pests may hide.


Place closure strips onto the eave flashing.
Place a drop of butyl tape sealant over the closure strip.



Place the first panel along 1 edge of the roof. The bottom end of the panel should hang 3/4 inch (1.9 cm) over the eave.
Screw the panel onto each 1-by-4-inch (2.5-by-10.2-cm) board.



Lay the second panel along the first panel. The high ridges that run the length of the second panel should overlap the ridges on the first panel.
Secure the second panel by screwing it onto the first panel. Place the screws into the overlapping ridges. Insert a screw every foot (30.5 cm) from the eave to the ridge.
Repeat the process with the rest of the panels. Cover the entire roof.
 Gable trim gives the roof's edges a smooth appearance.


Apply a thin line of butyl tape sealant along the side edge of the roof.
Place the gable trim over the side edge of the roof.
Screw the gable trim into the roof.
Install gable trim on all edges of the roof.
 The ridge cap helps water to flow off of the roof.


Apply a thin line of butyl tape sealant along the roof's ridge.
Place outside foam closures along the roof's ridge.
Apply butyl tape sealant in a thin line along the length of the foam closures.
Place the ridge cap over the roof.
Secure the ridge cap on both sides of the peak with evenly spaced screws.

