 Ducks eat a variety of aquatic plants and will settle in areas where they will be able to feed. Some examples of aquatic plants that ducks are attracted to are Widgeon Grass and Wild Celery.Wild celery grows under water up to the surface and produces seeds that ducks feed on. Ducks will also dive down to eat the tuber part of the plant.To plant the wild celery, be sure the bulbs are covered with a cheesecloth to prevent sunlight from getting to them. Be sure to plant the wild celery in less than 3 feet of water.Widgeon Grass grows completely underwater and provides food for ducks, geese, and fish. It is grown similarly to Wild Celery, with bulbs planted carefully in shallow water away from direct sunlight.;
, Chufa can be planted anywhere near a pond and is a great source of fat and protein for waterfowl. It grows easily in wet environments and attracts ducks, who love to eat it. It is a simple grass to plant because it does not take much upkeep, and it does not require fertilizer once it is planted.Plant chufa seeds approximately 1 to 2 inches deep into soil near your pond and in rows 2 to 4 inches apart., When the plants mature and then are hydrated by a pond close by, ducks will be attracted to them when they are migrating. Rotating these plants every third year is recommended so that the soil doesn’t become nutrient deficient.
 Ducks are very attracted to rice, which also needs a wet environment to grow. Try adding Japanese millet to your plot. This is used by duck hunters to attract ducks. The millet should be planted in a dry area near the pond. It grows quickly, and stands about 2 to 4 feet tall when it is fully mature., Insecticides and herbicides kill off bugs that ducks love to eat and are also poisonous to them. To attract ducks, don’t use these chemicals on your your lawn or near the pond where you’re hoping to attract them., Be sure that any ducks you attract to your pond are kept healthy by providing them with clean drinking water. Ducks can easily contract botulism, so be sure that their pond is clear of dead animals and pesticides.You can also try keeping a galvanized steel dish or tub of fresh water near the pond. Be sure to clean it daily to make sure the water remains clear.

