 There are professional carpet cleaners who will come to your home and steam clean carpet and upholstery, or you can purchase or rent steam cleaning machines to do the job yourself. Stores offer cleaning solutions that are specifically formulated for odor removal, or you can try other solutions such as Oxyclean, vinegar or bleach.Do not steam clean for at least a month if you are using a microbial solution. Use the solution for 4 cycles before steam cleaning.
Avoid using regular vacuums and cleaners such as baking soda or carpet shampoos because it doesn’t clean down to the carpet pads where odors could be trapped.
Professional carpet cleaning costs vary greatly because it depends on the size of the home and how many rooms you will be cleaning. Overall, you can expect to pay an average of $51 per room. Some companies may also charge by the square foot.Steam cleaner rentals usually have an hourly minimum for rental, but also allow you to rent per day. You can find the cleaner and products at your local hardware store., Ozone (O3) is a reactive particle which chemically attracts and reacts with molecules in the air and on surfaces. The oxygen in ozone chemically changes the structure of the molecule to eliminate the odor.You can purchase ozone generators online or at your local hardware store for anywhere from a couple hundred dollars to a couple thousand dollars.Instructions usually suggest to let the generator run for an hour in a closed room, but you can allow it to run for 3-4 hours.Ozone is effective in removing odors because as a gas, it is able to penetrate anywhere that air can go: walls, ceilings, vents, carpets, upholstery fibers and more.
You can read online consumer reviews that discuss various features of ozone generators such as cost, size, noise, durability, and effectiveness.Ozone generators are typically purchased for places where ozone is needed, such as places where there is gaseous pollution (like the smell of curry). They should not be used to remove allergens, as they have been known to cause greater health issues., Contact a company that has machines that use an Advanced Photocatalytic Oxidation (APO) process. This process utilizes air and water to create vaporized hydrogen peroxide, and reactive hydroxyl particles. This process cleans both air and surfaces in a home. Not only does it clean, but it breaks down compounds which hold odors.Most homes can be completed in 12 hours or less and clients, furniture, clothing, and rugs can remain in the home.
You can also purchase photocatalytic air purifiers that use the same technology to zap odor-causing particles.Purifiers and filters can be found online for about $200., Use turpentine to break down grease from kitchen surfaces. Then, strip the current paint off your walls by grinding, applying heat, or using chemicals. Next, apply an odor blocking and sealing primer which will both keep current odors from seeping out, and keep new odors from penetrating the paint.Lastly, choose your paint and mix in additives that have been known to block odors such as vanilla or chemical additives.


To remove grease, mix equal parts turpentine, linseed oil, and white vinegar, and use a light cloth to wipe the grease off kitchen surfaces. There is no need to rinse when done. Simply allow to dry and buff with a cloth.Turpentine can often have a noxious smell so be sure to use in a well-ventilated area, and use rubber gloves and a mask to protect yourself, and line your work area with cloth or cardboard.
When mixing additives to your paint, add two tablespoons of vanilla extract to every gallon of paint.Or, you can mix in odorless additives (found at your local hardware or paint store) that actually remove odors, as opposed to just blocking them.