 A great facial skin toner will prevent skin from sagging, meaning your face (and jaw) looking their tightest. Any buildup of excess dead skin flakes will rob your face of its natural vibrance and definition, so it's necessary to keep all of that under control if you're wanting a truly chiselled jawline.Aim to get an astringent toner, as these tend to be the best when it comes to skin tightening., Collagen is the active ingredient in the skin that keeps the skin tight. Some cleansers and toners encourage collagen production in your skin, so it's recommended you do some research when it comes to buying products. Collagen-specific medical injections are also available, but the unnatural side effects make it hard to recommend as anything but a last-ditch option.
 If you use makeup, you can emphasize the look of your jaw subtly via cosmetics. There are a few ways to do this; if you're not so used to using makeup, getting the effect right may take a few tries before you succeed. These techniques should be kept slight and subtle; this way, the human eye won't notice anything's been done to tweak your jaw's appearance.Contouring your cheek and jaw with a light bronzer will make your jawline more eye-catching. Apply it lightly in a downward motion, one or two shades darker than your natural skin tone.Highlighting your jawline lightly will emphasize its shape. Add a two inch line directly above your jawline. This will improve your jaw's visual definition.Taking a little bit of bronzer and dusting it along your jaw and neck will blend the above cosmetic effects. Be light with your application here; you just want to make it so that the contouring is blended a little better.
 As with virtually every other facial feature, surgeries are available to those who really want a quick fix. Digestive molecules are injected directly into the area you want to target, and burn down the excess fat, all the while encouraging positive collagen growth. Talk to a doctor if surgery sounds like something you might be interested in.If you're looking to get a chiselled jawline, cosmetic surgery is helpful and potentially effective, but the cost and possible side effects make it difficult to recommend unless you have exhausted all other possibilities first.

