 Hard-shell clams or "quahogs" like large chowder clams, littlenecks, and cherrystones should have tightly closed shells.


If you can separate the shells easily, then the clam inside is dead. Clams that are already dead should not be purchased or, if already purchased, should be discarded.;
, Use your dominant hand to pass the blade of a small, dull knife in between the two closed shell halves.


Work with on clam at a time.
Hold the clam with a towel to prevent juice from dripping onto your hand and to provide extra traction as you cut.
The knife should have a blade that is thin enough to pass in between two tightly closed shell halves, but the blade should also be fairly blunt to minimize the risk of accidentally cutting yourself. Use a shucking knife if possible.
 Slide the knife around the perimeter of the clam to loosen both the adductor muscles and hinge.


Close your hand around the clam as you work, squeezing it slightly to put pressure on it.
Note that it will likely be difficult to pass the knife around the perimeter of the clam, and you may have to press or squeeze the knife in between the two shell halves.
 Twist the knife, rotating it from side to side, until the top shell lifts off.


Sever the top shell completely by cutting the upper adductor muscles with the blade of your knife.
Lift off the top shell.
 Slide the knife below the exposed crab meat, severing the lower adductor muscles.


Do not lift the crab meat out of the bottom shell yet.
 Fill a shall baking pan with ice and lay the shucked clams on top of the ice until you are ready to add them to the chowder.


Place the clams in the ice shell-side down.
 Drain the juice from fresh clams, setting it aside. Strain the juice to remove any pieces of shell. Add enough water to the juice to make 1 1/2 cups (375 ml) of liquid.Rough-chop the clams into small pieces and set aside.
Canned clams can be used instead of fresh clams. You should still drain the liquid from these clams and reserve it for use in the chowder. Add enough water to the liquid to make 1 1/2 cups (375 ml) of liquid.
Alternatively, add bottled clam juice to the reserved clam juice instead of water. Doing so will create a stronger clam flavor.
 Cook the bacon over medium heat for several minutes until it turns crisp and brown on both sides.


If the saucepan is too small to place full strips of bacon in, cut the slices in halves or thirds before placing them in the pan.
Note that bacon has enough fat in it to cook without the addition of extra oil.
When the bacon has finished cooking, drain it on paper towels and crumble it into small pieces. Set aside until the end.
Alternatively, you could use pre-cooked bacon or bacon bits instead of cooking your own bacon.
 Pour most of the bacon grease out of the saucepan, saving only 1 Tbsp (15 ml).


If, for whatever reason, you do not have enough grease to leave 1 Tbsp (15 ml) in the pan, add enough olive oil or cooking oil to make up the difference.
If using pre-cooked bacon or bacon bits, heat 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of olive oil or cooking oil in a large saucepan over medium heat.
 Pour the reserved, diluted clam juice into the saucepan. Add the potatoes, onion, instant bouillon granules, Worcestershire sauce, black pepper, and dried thyme immediately afterward.


You will need 3 medium potatoes, peeled and chopped into small, bite-size pieces. This should make about 2 1/2 cups (625 ml) of potatoes.
Chop 1 large onion, creating roughly 1 cup (250 ml) of chopped onion.
Use chicken or vegetable bouillon granules. Do not use beef-flavored granules.
Crush the thyme with your fingers before adding it. If using fresh thyme instead of dried, use 1 Tbsp (15 ml) and chop the thyme well before adding it.
 Heat the mixture to a boil over medium-high heat, then reduce the heat to medium-low and let simmer for 15 minutes.


Cover the pan as the chowder base simmers.
The potatoes should be tender once finished.
 Press each potato against the side of the pan using the back of a fork.


The potatoes should not be completely mashed, but they should be crushed or crumbled once finished.
Note that this step can be skipped if you diced the potatoes into small enough chunks.
 In a separate dish, combine the milk, half-and-half, and flour until smooth. Stir this mixture into the saucepan until evenly blended.


Once the flour mixture has been added to the chowder base, the contents of the saucepan should bubble and thicken.
You can use whole milk or 2-percent milk.
Similarly, you could use half-and-half or light cream.
 Stir the chopped or minced clams into the chowder. Let boil, then reduce the heat and cook for 2 additional minutes.


Boiling and simmering the chowder after you add the clams will ensure that the clams are cooked without being overcooked. It also ensures that the entire dish will be heated through.
 Pour the clam chowder into individual serving bowls and sprinkle with some of the bacon that you set aside earlier.
 Pour the juice out of the clam shells, straining it to remove any bits of debris. Combine the juice with enough water to make 1 1/2 cups (375 ml) of liquid.


Chop the clam meat into small pieces and set aside until ready to add.
Canned minced clams can also be used. Drain the liquid, again adding enough water to form 1 1/2 cups (375 ml) of liquid.
Opt for water instead of using bottled clam juice. You can technically add more clam juice to the reserved juice for a stronger flavor, but you will be adding more clam juice to the chowder later on, so adding more now could create too potent a flavor.
 Place 2 strips of bacon into a large saucepan and cook on medium heat until brown and crispy.


If you cannot fit the bacon into the saucepan, cut it into pieces before cooking it.
Drain the cooked bacon on layers of paper towels, and crumble it into fine pieces. Set aside until later.
Alternatively, you could use pre-cooked bacon strips or bacon bits instead of fresh bacon.
 Pour off most of the grease, reserving only 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of the drippings.


If you do not have enough grease to form 2 Tbsp (30 ml), add enough olive oil or cooking oil to the pan to make up the difference.
If you opt for pre-cooked bacon or bacon bits, use 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of olive oil in place of the bacon drippings.
 Add the chopped celery, chopped onion, and chopped carrots to the oil. Cook for several minutes on medium to medium-high heat until tender, stirring frequently.


You will need 2 stalks of celery, which should produce about 1 cup (250 ml) of chopped celery.
The small onion you use should produce about 1/3 cup (80 ml) chopped onion.
The small carrot you use should produce about 1/4 cup (60 ml) of chopped carrots. You could also shred the carrots using a box grater, if desired.
 Pour the reserved clam liquid and 8-oz (250-ml) bottle of clam juice into the saucepan. Also add the cubed potatoes, cayenne pepper, black pepper, and dried thyme.


Instead of the clam juice, you could use 1 cup (250 ml) chicken broth. Note that doing so will dilute the clam flavor.
You will need about 2 medium red potatoes, which should produce roughly 2 cups (500 ml) of cubed potatoes.
Crush the thyme in between your fingers before adding it. If using fresh thyme, use 1 Tbsp (15 ml) instead of 1 tsp (5 ml).
 Bring the chowder to a boil over medium-high heat, then immediately drop it down to medium-low heat so that it only simmers.


Keep the saucepan covered as the chowder simmers.
 Add the clams to the chowder mixture alongside one undrained 14.5-oz (450-ml) can of diced tomatoes. Also add the crumbled bacon from earlier.


Make sure that each of the new ingredients is evenly distributed throughout the chowder liquid.
 Bring the chowder to a boil, then reduce the heat and simmer for 2 more minutes.


This step cooks the clams without cooking them too long. It also makes sure that the entire chowder is heated through.
 Pour or ladle into individual serving bowls.

