 Even if you have a storefront or office space, create a website for your business also for ease of access. Use it as a tool for the public to learn about your business and either order products or schedule appointments. Potential customers use Google and other search engines to find businesses near them, and then look for Internet reviews and ratings to decide which one to visit.If you have a storefront, be sure to provide directions to your business on your website. Include a map or a link to Google Maps to make your storefront easy to find.
Make your contact information, like your phone number and business email address, very visible and easy to find.
Provide a live-chat option for customers shopping online who need assistance.
Offer an easy method for emailing any questions about your services or products, and respond to inquiries promptly.
If a significant number of your customer speak a different language, such as Spanish, consider implementing an option to change the language of the website.
 In addition to having a functional website, join popular social media platforms like Facebook, Google + , and Twitter. Allow people to share your webpage with their friends just by "liking" or commenting on your profile. Post on your page and respond to customer posts or comments. Patrol ratings sites like Yelp and Google for reviews and respond to all comments/criticisms promptly and publicly.Post anytime you have news or new product launches.
Offer discounts or giveaways to online "friends" to attract more attention. It's so easy for a customer to send a link to all their friends who may also become future customers.Respond to all comments, good or bad, on your page. If someone praises your business, reply with a thank you and express how you love serving others.
Try not to delete constructive criticism or comments from unhappy customers if you can address them instead. With the ability to take screen shots, forward posts and the library cataloging of Twitter posts,anything posted on the web never really disappears.
Consider posting in additional language if a significant portion of your customers speak this language. Many companies who do this choose to provide the original text of the post followed by a translation, all within the same social media post.
 Make sure to return calls and emails promptly, and always make that your employees answer any questions the customers have about your products or services. The most important thing is to have a human who speaks clearly and understandably answer the phone. Many companies outsource their customer service to countries where English is not a native language, making communication more difficult.


Long hold times and/or forcing customers to follow a series of voice-mail prompts that may not answer their questions are easy ways to alienate potential clients or customers.Emails and phone calls should be returned within one business day. If you are going to be out of the office for more than a day, change your outgoing message to reflect that.
 If this potential client or customer found you through email or an internet form, you likely already have their name. If not, ask them for it and use it at least once before the end of the initial conversation., Even when writing or speaking over the phone, customers can tell if you are a pleasant person or not. Assure that your language is respectful and straightforward and that your tone is upbeat. Their tone will likely mimic your own., Word travels fast, especially in our online world where internet ratings are often used by customers to choose a business to visit for the first time.


Making sure the customer has no remaining questions during the first interaction may prevent any problems later.Consider criticisms as an opportunity to improve your services or products and always thank the customer for their input., The Internet has become a major market for selling goods due to the convenience of being able to shop from home at any time of day. Shipping orders as quickly as possible ensures your customer will receive their products before the initial buyer's high wears off. Wrapping orders in decorative paper or a unique way makes customers feel special, like you invested time in making them happy.If possible, offer free shipping. This increases purchases overall even if you charge the same amount for an item as everyone else.
Consider offering priority or express shipping if the customer spends a certain amount of money or buys a related item also. Just make sure you can handle the costs first.

