 Shampoo contains harsh cleansers that strip the hair of natural oils and leave it dry, frizzy and poofy. Many curly-haired people have found that ditching shampoo entirely and choosing a moisturizing conditioner keeps curls shiny and bouncy, more like waves. Washing your hair with conditioner, known as "co-washing" is easy to do, and you'll save money if you don't have to use shampoo. Here's how to co-wash:Wet your hair in the shower, and massage conditioner into your scalp. Rub your scalp in a circular motion, and make sure you cover every spot.
Use your fingers to comb the conditioner through to the tips of your hair.
Wash it out using warm or cool water to seal up the cuticle so your hair won't frizz up.
 Curly-haired people don't need to wash their hair as frequently as those with straight hair. The natural oil your scalp produces takes a long time to travel down the coils of your hair to the tips. Washing it away too often will result in dry, brittle hair that looks frizzy instead of wavy. Cut back washing your hair to twice or even once a week and notice the results.
 Work through the tangles gently with a wide-toothed comb, and never a fine comb or brush. A wide-toothed comb will keep your strands of hair together instead of pulling them apart, which can end up making your hair poof up.
 Instead of roughly toweling your hair dry, use a soft, fluffy towel to dab away the extra water. Only use a hairdryer when you want to create a style for a special occasion; using one too often will result in damage to curly hair.
 Before your hair is completely dry, apply a little hair oil, anti-frizz serum or straightening serum. Use your fingers to comb it through your hair, focusing on the tips. As your hair finishes drying, the serum will soak in, and your hair will end up sleek and shiny with lots of movement.


Argan oil is a great natural solution that many curly-haired people swear by. It makes your hair look glossy and healthy.
Or try a tiny bit of coconut oil (a little goes a long way). It will protect your hair from getting frizzy throughout the day.
 This fun trick is great for both your hair and skin. Cotton pillowcases absorb moisture and oils, leaving your hair and skin dry in the morning. A silk pillowcase will keep your curls looking loose and pretty, rather than crushed and frizzy., If you really want your hair to look wavy instead of curly, having it chemically relaxed by a professional will give you the look you want. However, this is not a long-term solution, since over time this practice is damaging to curly hair.


When you get your hair relaxed, chemicals are applied to your hair that cause it to become permanently straight. Then your hair is permanently waved according to your specifications; you can choose tighter waves or looser waves.
Make sure you see a stylist who has experience working with very curly hair.
