 Remove all large appliances, furniture, or other obstacles from the linoleum surface.;
, Removal of smaller, easy-to-handle strips will be much easier than trying to handle the entire sheet of linoleum at once.
 In order to get the lino topper soft and pliable, consider heating one section at a time with a heat gun. This will make the removal of the topper much easier.


What if you don't have a heat gun? A hair dryer may work, but chances are that the hair gun doesn't get hot enough to do the job efficiently. Try for yourself and see whether the hottest setting on the hair gun makes the removal of the topper any easier.
 Use a 4-inch (10.16 cm) putty knife to lift the edges of each section and then tear the remainder. The tough outer skin should come off easily, but if the linoleum was fully bonded when installed, you may have large sections of soft backing and adhesive that will need additional attention.
 Rub a bit of petroleum jelly on the scraper blade to keep it from getting gunked up. Then, begin by sliding the automatic scraper underneath a pre-cut seam and lifting the linoleum up with your free hand. Follow the pre-cut seams to remove the linoleum topper. Depending on the job, this process is sometimes quicker than removing the topper by hand.
 Many older linoleum floors contain either asbestos tiles or sheeting, which are small fibers that can be dangerous if inhaled.Although proper and safe removal of asbestos can be accomplished at home, it may be easier (and ultimately safer) to remove it with the help of a professional abatement contractor.


Either way, prepare to use goggles and a respirator mask to filter out any potential asbestos fibers from the more porous parts of your body. These should be used for safety regardless of whether you think your lino flooring contains asbestos.
Another way to make possible asbestos tiles or sheeting less dangerous is to dampen in with water before removal. Dry asbestos gets airborne relatively easily, even if you can't see it. Wet asbestos doesn't get airborne as easily. Be careful about dampening the underlayment if you have wooden floors. See the next couple of steps below.
 You may need to apply moderate to extreme pressure depending on the strength of the adhesive. This can be very time consuming, but it doesn't risk damaging hardwood subfloors.


You can try to use the heat gun and automatic oscillating scraper for removing the adhesive, just as you removed the lino topper. You may, however, find that it's difficult to get the oscillating scraper blade underneath the adhesive. Either way, the heat gun softens the adhesive and makes it easier to remove.
 Again, only apply water if the subfloor is concrete or a replaceable plywood. Wood warping may occur with any type of water application so be careful when dealing with salvageable hardwood subfloors.


Here's how you get the boiling water onto the adhesive or underlayment without creating an absolute mess or, even worse, flooding. Line sections of the floor with towels — towels you're okay with losing. Pour the hot water over the towels, letting the towels absorb most of the water but heat up the adhesive anyway. Wait 15 minutes before removing the towels.
Next scrape away with a manual scraper. You'll want a larger scraper for moistened adhesive, as it comes off much easier than dry adhesive, giving you plenty of opportunity to take a wider berth.
 Get the steamer warmed up. Place the applicator pad of the steamer over one section of the adhesive and let it steam for 60 to 90 seconds. Move the steamer to an adjacent section and scrape off the section where the applicator just was.


This process is pretty quick compared to the dry method of removing adhesive. A 100 square foot floor should take less than two hours.
 Most chemical strippers use the same active ingredients that are found in paint strippers and can be purchased at your local hardware store.
 Since most of the adhesive should have been removed before the stripper was deployed, this process should be fairly easy.
 Your subfloor is officially ready to shine in a new skin!

