 A romantic ceremony for two is the most budget-conscious wedding option.Many resorts and wedding coordinators have “Just The Two of You” wedding packages that are extremely affordable. Start by checking out the major hotels and resorts for wedding packages, and go from there.


Most basic wedding packages include the ceremony set up, minister, flowers and decorations, cake, champagne and sometimes even the photography and a romantic dinner for the two of you.
After the ceremony, the rest of your stay will be your honeymoon, so there are no additional costs to travel elsewhere.
 Many resorts and wedding planners offer affordable packages for a small number of guests, which would include the ceremony, champagne and cake.In lieu of a reception, arrange for everyone to enjoy dinner at a large table at the hotel’s restaurant, or in their garden or nearby on the beach.


Check airlines for discounts that cover the air fare for small wedding parties. Look for any wedding packages that might include accommodations and multi-room discounts.
 This works best for guests that are close friends and family only. Keep the details simple and have your wedding in the late morning, to be followed by a wedding brunch or lunch that essentially functions as a reception. This is a particularly lovely idea for outdoors, when the temperature is just right.


Cost for alcohol will be very low, since the event is so early, and you won’t need to worry about spending money on a band or DJ.
After brunch, guests can either go off and do their own activities or you can plan activities that everyone can do together.
 When it comes to destination weddings, guests are typically expected to pay for their own airfare and travel accommodations.This is not unusual and makes things very affordable for you. Of course, if your wedding budget allows it, paying for those things is a wonderful sentiment on your part. However, it is not expected or required.


Since guests will be expected to pay their own way, you will need to send out invitations quite early, in order to give them plenty of time to prepare for travel. No less than 6 months out is a reasonable time frame. 8 months prior to the event or even a full year is much better, though.
Think carefully about who you want to invite, especially considering the financial burden that will be placed on the guests to attend. Keep things simple and small.

