 Debit and credit cards, which are usually accepted in all countries, are generally the most convenient options. However, certain festivals and other street events may require cash. While you can get cash if you can find an ATM, it's a good idea to get some cash before your trip as well. In Kerala, the currency used is the Indian Rupee.You can sometimes get foreign currency from your local bank, so ask there first. If your bank does not do currency exchanges, or does not carry rupees, you can make an exchange at the airport or even online.
It's a good idea to have about $100 to $150 in rupees on hand going into your trip.
 To travel outside the US, you'll need a passport that is currently valid. If you currently have a valid passport, simply remember to bring this with you on your trip. If you don't have a valid passport, you will need to renew or apply for a passport.


If your passport was issued when you were 15 years of age or younger, it is valid for 5 years. If your passport was issued when you were 16 years of age or older, it is valid for 10 years.When applying for or renewing a passport, you have to fill out an application that asks for basic information like your birthday and social security number. You can find this form on USA.gov. You also have to provide copies of things like your birth certificate.You can mail in your papers and applications online, submit them at a local Department of State in person, or mail them in., In the event you are injured overseas, your insurance information and prescriptions can be helpful to doctors. Legally, you may be required to show prescriptions at customs to prove you have a legal right to this medication., The Center for Disease Control and Prevent recommends you carry some basic over-the-counter medication for a trip to India. The CDC advises travelers bring the following:Antacid
Motion sickness medication
Diarrhea medicine
Cough drops, decongestants, and cough suppressant medicine
Mild laxative
Mild sedative
Saline nose spray

