 Colleges and universities are reviewed by outside, non-governmental sources to ensure that the school meets certain educational standards. These organizations review the school’s student services and resources, faculty, degree programs, curriculum, and many other elements that make up a robust academic atmosphere. This is important when selecting an online program because it ensures that your school has been reviewed and meets basic academic standards., Most schools will state on their website that they have the proper accreditation, but it is important to keep digging for more information. Since accreditation bodies are non-governmental organizations, they are not guided by generalized metrics and standards. Phony accrediting bodies exist as do accrediting bodies with bare-minimum academic standards.Refer to the U.S.-based Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) to determine if your school has legitimate accreditation. CHEA is an organization that helps certify schools and accrediting organizations. They maintain an international database, so be sure to check out their website for more information on your potential online school.
If you are in the U.S., see if your school is recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. This is another way to verify a school’s credibility.
 Reviewing a school’s graduation rate can reveal a lot about the institution.If the graduation rate is low, this could indicate that the academic programs are lacking.


If your potential school is based in the U.S., the Federal Student Aid office, which is a part of the U.S. Department of Education, makes it easy to check these facts and figures online. Their online Federal School Code Search allows you to compare up to 10 schools at once. Just type in the school’s name, and the website will provide this information in a simple, straight-forward table., A loan default rate measures the percentage of individuals who are unable to pay back his or her loans. If a school has a high loan default rate, it could indicate that the school does not provide sound financial guidance.This information can help you gauge a school’s credibility and reliability.


If you are going to school in the U.S., refer to the U.S. Department of Education’s online database, Official Cohort Default Rates for Schools, to discover your school’s loan default rate.

