 Someone who shares traits with the stereotypical "alpha male" might occasionally act stubborn, impatient, and demanding, especially during quarrels.When he slips into these negative patterns, it is important that you do not act overly submissive or apologetic. Instead, remain calm and analytical as you state your case. Walk away from the argument if you need to, but do not flatter, pander, or give in too easily.Some scripts you might use include:


"I can see that we're not going to reach an agreement tonight. Let's continue talking about this tomorrow."
"I know that we don't agree on this. But here are the reasons why I think I'm right . . ."
"I am happy to find middle ground, but I am not willing to let go of my core beliefs. It is important that you are willing to compromise if I am going to compromise too."

, Be careful if he acts aggressively by breaking things, making threats, or frequently raising his voice to the point that you end up in tears. This is not acceptable behavior, and you deserve better.

Leave the situation immediately if you feel personally threatened. Let him know that his actions are unacceptable, and seek help outside of the relationship from a friend, the authorities, or a domestic abuse hotline.
 In general, people are happy in relationships when there is an egalitarian power structure. In this case, both partners might share chores, have equal say over important decisions, and might both work outside of the home.These relationships are less likely to end in divorce or break-ups.
 While egalitarian relationships are the most successful in the long run, they might also reduce libido and sexual passion.If you are attracted to dominance, consider finding ways for this dominance to be expressed, even if it does not impact your day-to-day decision-making. For example, you might consider:


Introducing a dominant/submissive role-play during sex. Be sure to discuss your preferences and limitations in advance, and make sure that you can stop the role-play at any time by using a "safe-word."
Finding outlets to perform traditional gender roles. For example, a woman might dress up in traditional feminine outfits; a man might dress up in athletic clothing.Divide chores along gendered lines. If you are a woman in a heterosexual relationship, consider taking on some stereotypically feminine labor, such as cooking or washing dishes. Ask your partner to take on stereotypically masculine labor, such as repairing the car. This might increase sexual attraction., Many people who exhibit typical "alpha" traits communicate in a direct manner. They tend not to beat around the bush. Try to keep this in mind so that you are not offended at how direct and straightforward their conversation is. Instead, remember that direct communication can help a relationship avoid patterns of passive-aggression or mutual dissatisfaction:

If your partner's bluntness is insulting or hurtful, however, these are warning signs that your partner is going well beyond "direct" communication and is instead hoping to injure your feelings. This is not a sign of confidence but of aggression, and you should consider whether he is worth your time and energy., Tell your partner what you find attractive about him and his confidence. Feel free to be direct about what makes you happy in a relationship.


If you enjoy his athletic ability, for example, tell him that and support his athletic successes.
If you are attracted to chivalrous behavior, tell him that you love it when he buys you flowers, jewelry, or surprising you with exotic vacations. Express your delight and pleasure when he engages in these behaviors., If both you and your partner are confident people, you will likely have some independent interests and activities that the other one does not share. Be sure that you both maintain your independence in certain areas, even if you share many other activities. Keep your old friends, keep up with your old hobbies, and spend some time apart every now and again. Healthy boundaries will help the relationship last and will help you both maintain your self-confidence.
 True confidence is not about performing strength but rather about being honest about who you are and what your needs are. People who are confident will not be afraid to build a lasting bond with the right person.If the person you are dating is emotionally honest and is willing to commit, that is a good sign that he is a truly confident person who knows what he wants.

