 Although emergencies require rapid action, the most important factor in effectively handling the situation is to keep calm. If you find yourself becoming confused or anxious, stop what you're doing. Take a deep breath. Remember that to be calm in a stressful situation you must deliberately adjust your behavior.The reason you feel panicked in an emergency is the result of your body's automatic overproduction of the stress hormone cortisol. The cortisol goes to the brain and slows down the pre-frontal cortex, which is the region responsible for planning complex action.
By overriding your body's reaction, you can continue to access your critical thinking faculties. You won't be responding from emotion, but from rational thought.;
, What signs indicate that there is an emergency? Is this a medical emergency, or is there a threat to the property/building that may result in human injury? It's important to stop and take inventory of the situation calmly before reacting to the emergency.An injury due to motor vehicle accident, or smoke inhalation or burns from a fire are examples of medical emergency situations.
A medical emergency consists of sudden physical symptoms, such as intense bleeding, head trauma, loss of consciousness, chest pain, choking, sudden dizziness or weakness.
Intense desire to hurt yourself or someone else constitute a mental health emergency.
Other mental health changes may also be considered an emergency, such as sudden changes in behavior or experiencing confusion, can be an emergency if they occur without cause.
Behavioral emergencies are best met by remaining calm, and encouraging the person in crisis to stay calm as well.
 Chemical spills, fires, breaking water pipes, electrical outages, natural disasters such as floods or fires are all examples of potential workplace emergencies. If you have advance warning of the possibility of an emergency, such the warning of flood, heavy snow, tornado, etc., you may be better prepared. However, the nature of an emergency is to be unexpected.When assessing emergency situations, be aware that the situation may be volatile. It may change rapidly.
If you have advance warning of an emergency, prepare ahead of time for the best results.
 Assaults or threats of violence at a workplace or home are emergencies that call for rapid response. In most cases, there is no predictable pattern or method to these emergencies. These situations tend to be unpredictable, and they change quickly.If you find yourself in an emergency of this nature, keep yourself safe. Run to a safe location, or find shelter in place. Do not fight, except as a last resort.
Being attentive to warning signs in your workplace, including any act of physical violence (pushing, shoving, etc.) should be immediately reported to your supervisor.
Open, honest communication between employees and supervisors is part of maintaining a safe, healthy workplace.
 For example, if one person appears injured, are you or anyone else in danger of also being injured? For example, if one person is caught in a machine, is the machine turned off? If there has been a chemical spill, is the spill spreading towards anyone else? Is the person caught in structure that's collapsing?


If the threat isn't contained, this will affect your response.
Be aware that any emergency situation may change abruptly, so that ongoing assessment is required.
 If you, or others, are at risk of being harmed, leave the situation immediately. If you have an evacuation plan, follow it. Go to an area where you will be safe.


In a situation where you cannot leave, find the safest possible location within your given area. For example, hiding beneath a solid surface, such as a desk or table, may help if there is a chance of being hit by falling debris.
If you're near a car accident, make sure you're not in the line of oncoming traffic. Get off the road.
Be aware that in an emergency, elements are likely to change quickly. In your assessment, notice if volatile or combustible elements are present. For example, in an auto accident, gasoline may catch fire abruptly.
 If you can safely assist someone else in leaving a dangerous situation, do so. If returning to the emergency situation is risky, a trained rescue person may be better equipped to retrieve anyone in harm's way.


Offering verbal reassurance to an injured person if he is conscious will help another person, even if you can't move him.
If the emergency is stable, stay with the victim.
 In the USA, call 911 for emergency assistance. Use whatever number is applicable to call emergency services outside the U.S. This phone number will reach a emergency dispatcher who will need to know your location and the nature of the emergency.Answer all of the questions the dispatcher asks. The job of the dispatcher is to provide quick, appropriate emergency response. She can only do this by asking these questions.
If you're calling on a traditional telephone or a GPS-equipped cell phone, emergency services may be able to track your location even if you're unable to speak. Even if you can't talk, call emergency services and someone will be able to find you to provide help.

