 Calcium is stored in the bones and teeth, and it makes them hard and sturdy. The average adult needs 1,000 mg of calcium every day. Adolescent girls and premenopausal women need about 200 mg more.There are lots of ways to incorporate calcium into your diet. Your options includedairy (such as milk, yogurt, and cheese)
juices fortified with calcium
boxed cereals fortified with calcium
oatmeal
beans
legumes
salmon
dark leafy greens (such as broccoli, spinach, collards, or bok choy)
almonds;
, Though older studies suggested that protein was actually detrimental to bone mass, newer research shows that, eaten in moderation, it aids with the absorption of calcium. Men should get about 56 grams of protein per day, women should get 46, and pregnant women should get 70. Eat plenty of lean protein, including:


fish
beans
cheese
eggs
nuts
chicken
oats
Greek yogurt
milk
broccoli
quinoa
brussels sprouts

, You should get about 600 IU (but no more than 4,000 IU) of Vitamin D every day. Talk to your doctor about taking a Vitamin D supplement if you are concerned that you aren’t getting enough from sources such as these: eggs (with yolks)
fatty fish (such as salmon, mackerel, or tuna)
shrimp
cod liver oil
beef liver
dairy products fortified with Vitamin D
cereals fortified with Vitamin D
juice fortified with Vitamin D
the sun (about 10-15 minutes three times per week will do) , Women should get 90 micrograms of Vitamin K, and men should get 120. Get Vitamin K in foods such as leafy greens
onions
asparagus

, Potassium may help neutralize acids that take calcium out of your body, so it’s important to get this nutrient alongside calcium, proteins, and vitamins. Adults should get, in general, 4.7 grams of potassium daily. Foods high in potassium include sweet potatoes
white potatoes with the skins on
bananas
yogurt
dairy products
meat
nuts

, Leading a sedentary lifestyle contributes immensely to bone loss. Particularly if your job requires you to sit for long periods of time, be sure to take frequent breaks to stand, stretch, or take a quick walk.
 Along with eating a diet rich in calcium and other nutrients, this is the key to building and improving bone mass. Exercise to keep those bones strong! The National Osteoporosis Foundation recommends about 30 minutes of weight-bearing exercise every day. Some effective weight bearing exercises include


walking
dancing
jogging
jumping rope
skiing
climbing stairs

, In addition to getting plenty of weight bearing exercise, it’s also a good idea to improve your strength by lifting weights or using elastic bands. This will not only improve bone mass, but also aid in strength and balance, which can help prevent falls (and broken bones) as you get older. Alongside lifting weights, yoga, tai chi, and pilates are good ways to incorporate resistance training into your routine. Be careful though! Some positions are not recommended for people who already have osteoporosis. Try to do resistance training 2-3 days per week. Work each major muscle group if you can (legs, hips, back, abs, chest, shoulders, and arms), but if you aren’t up for that, rotate and work on a different set of muscles each day. , Smoking leads to bone loss. Adults who smoke are more likely to fracture bones, and the risk increases the more you smoke. Studies indicate that even secondhand smoke can effect bone mass., Too much caffeine can make it hard for your body to absorb calcium.Especially if you don’t get enough calcium in your diet, stick to 2 or fewer cups of coffee or soft drinks per day., Drinking excessively can cause bone loss, so stick to moderate consumption. One drink per day for women and two for men is okay, and some studies have even shown that alcohol in moderation can help bone health in the long term. 