 Even if you don’t have a date by the deadline, you never know what might happen from now until then and even if you don't get one, you'll still have a ball.;
, Prom is the time to go all out - even if the person you are asking is a longtime girlfriend or boyfriend or simply a friend.
 If there is a "Prom Committee" to help the school prepare for this event, you may be interested in joining or even by simply giving feedback on what you'd like to see done for that day.
 Factors to consider include upbeat dance music for the beginning of the evening, some relaxing movie for rest times and the slow, weepy stuff towards the end.
 You’ll want to take pictures together to remember this night forever!

, You don't want to have any stray hairs sticking to your dress or your dates!

, Look in thrift stores or at sales before prom season to find an awesome dress that works for you without completely breaking your budget.
 Get used to walking in them and break them in before prom, so that you will not have to deal with blisters and bloody, aching feet on the night of prom.


Dark or simple colors are usually a safe bet, although it depends on the theme. You probably don't want to wear a hot pink dress to a haunted house themed dance, but it would be fine if the theme were neon lights.
 This is especially important if your school is a big one or many schools are having prom on the same weekend.


Wash your hair. Use a good-smelling shampoo and a hair conditioner. Then use a bubble bath for your body. Before your hair dries, use a hair mask to protect it. Dry and then comb them. Later, after you've gotten everything else ready and before the prom, you can go somewhere to get your hair done professionally.
 You can get a professional to do this, but it may be unnecessary and expensive if you can make yourself up by yourself.


Paint your nails. Choose a flattering color that matches your outfit. If you want your nails to look particularly glamorous, you can go to a nail salon and have them professionally done. At a nail salon, you also have to option to add fancy designs, which would be much more difficult to do if you painted your own nails.
 At first, use a face soap. Wet your fingers and massage the soap over your entire face. Wash out your face a lot of times. Use a peal-off mask to make your face look fresher. Wait about 25 minutes (or the time that is given on the mask packet), and then wash the mask off. Wax your mustache. Put some day cream on all your face and some eye cream under your eyes. Try not to use a cream that clogs up your pores., Give yourself enough time on the night of the prom to fix your hair, your makeup, and to put on your dress.
 Make sure you have your ticket, photo ID, some money, lip balm, and anything else you might need.
 You can help each other with hair and makeup – it’s lots of fun and will take much less time than if you tried to do it all yourself. You can even turn up together and have strength in numbers for a "wow" of an entrance!

, Make sure you have arrangements to get home safely and take care not to get in a car with anyone who is intoxicated.
 Remember to just have fun!

, This will ensure that any tux rental shops in your area still have an appropriate size and fit for you. Consider asking your date about the color of their outfit so that you can match.
, You should order it early so that you can ensure that the shop does not sell out.
, Go easy! Make sure that the smell is not overpowering.
 Apply some sort of product - gel, mousse, hair clay, serum, pomade - to make it look shiny and soft. Go easy, though - too much will make it look greasy. A dime-sized amount should be more than enough. If you get a haircut before your date, schedule it for three or four days before the event so that you don't have little hairs in your ears or on your neck.
 Trim your nails and rub lotion over your hands to make your hands look more presentable.
 After you've brushed your teeth, put the toothbrush on your tongue and gently scrape it. Then floss around every tooth. This is especially important if you have braces - you don't want your date noticing any food stuck in your mouth when you first show up. Finish with mouthwash.

