;
, It will be difficult, letting your friend know you are sexually attracted to them will almost certainly alter your friendship. If you were both totally hammered or stoned you could just both pretend it never happened?

, Remember why you and your friend became such good pals to begin with. Talk about the fact you had sex and be honest with one another about why it happened. If the sex wasn't very good, be careful about discussing this. You might hurt your friend's feelings. If you both thought it was rubbish, that could be a good way to realize you're destined to be best friends and not lovers.
 Sometimes, friends make the best lovers and vise versa. There might be more to this friendship than you think.
 Make sure you're both, "on the same page". If he or she isn't, then immediately stop the sex before things get more complicated. If you both want to go the Friends with Benefits route, it might be a good idea to talk about what will happen if either of you meet someone you want to have a sexual relationship with. Also think about what you'll say to other friends and family. If you are sleeping together, do you want to be treated as a couple or are you happy to make sure everyone else thinks and / or acts like you are just friends.
 Your other friends may think the you'll be okay having sex with them. Your friend would probably be happy so see you flirting with another person you are attracted to, the person you are sleeping with may not. One of you may have stronger feelings than the other. Don't string along a person who's hoping eventually you'll fall in love with them when for you it was just a sh*g, even if it means you'll have to give up your friendship.
 There is more to your friendship than sex. You probably liked to go bowling, talk and text on the phone, gossip, hang out, etc. Keeping your minds focused on other activities will always remind you that you are friends no matter what else has happened.
 Sex itself doesn't ruin friendships. The lack of communication and admission of feelings ruins the friendship. Face the facts and accept that you just had sex with your friend. Sex is a normal activity among all living creatures. Just stop having it with each other, change your relationship, or carry on as before.
 If you're committed to putting it behind you and maintaining the friendship like it was before, don't put temptation in your path.
 You'll never know what will happen. You two can end up in a relationship, you two can just carry on a friendship, but this one (or few) encounters will blow over and just become a thing of the past if you want it to be. You two obviously care about each other and that is what's the most important about maintaining a successful friendship.

