 Check your yard and any exterior buildings or sheds for small pellets of rodent droppings about ¼ – ½" (0.5 – 1.0cm) in size. You may also see signs of gnawing on wooden boards or rodent tracks in dirt or dust. Small wads of paper or soft material might in fact be the rodent's nest. You may also be able to smell their urine or hear them.If you have mice, you'll see uneaten food since they won't eat everything they find. If you have rats, you might only find inedible things like shells or bones.
 Rodents can make nests out of materials commonly found around houses or sheds. Keep woodpiles at least 100 feet away from your house. If you have hay or garbage cans, place them on a raised pallet that's at least one foot off the ground.Keep any outside compost bins at least 100 feet away from the house.
Trim grass and shrubs so they're short and don't provide a nesting place for rodents.
 Clear away leaves and large bushes from along the baseboards of your house. If you can, cover the baseboards with metal flashing around the base of a wooden, earthen or adobe home. The metal should reach at least 1 foot (0.3 m) above the ground and six inches into the ground.


Don't forget to remove any junk in your yard that could give shelter to rodents (like tires, old cars, old furniture, or old yard equipment.
 Barn owls, cats, snakes, and hawks all eat rodents. Let your cat out into the yard if it likes to hunt mice. You can also encourage other predators by buying a barn owl box and setting it up 10 feet off of the ground. Barn owls may start living in your yard and eating the rodents.Avoid using poison bait traps outside. You'll never be able to guarantee the safety of other animals, pets or children that may find the traps.
 If you still see signs of rodents, you may need to get professional help. Professional pest companies will be able to quickly and effectively remove the rodents from your yard before they begin moving into your home.If you have a large or widespread infestation, you may want to contact a pest control company if you have several sheds our outdoor buildings that are infected since these are difficult to clean and seal.

