 Small businesses use a variety of software programs to manage their financial record-keeping, including payroll, inventory and sales. If you are already using accounting software like QuickBooks for your bookkeeping, it is convenient to use their purchase order templates because all of your vendor contacts, shipping addresses and billing information will already be in the system. You can also link your purchase order information to your financial reports., Tell QuickBooks you want to create a purchase order for one of your vendors. Select Vendors > Create Purchase Orders. This opens the “Create Purchase Orders” window., Click on the drop down list in the “Vendor” menu. A list of all of the vendors you have used in the past will come up. Select the vendor for whom you want to create the purchase order. The system will populate the purchase order with the company name and address of the vendor., Use the class drop down list to select a category for the merchandise you are purchasing. This is optional, but it is a good idea to enter this information. It will help you to link your purchase orders to your financial reports, which lists expenses by category., Since your company name and address are already in the system, QuickBooks populates this section with your company information. However, if you are shipping to a different address, you can select a different address to enter here. QuickBooks has a list of all of your customers, vendors and employees. You can select one of these addresses or manually enter a different one., The system will automatically fill in the current date. However, if you want to enter a different date, you can manually enter it into the purchase order.Choose the date carefully. Since a purchase order is a contract that legally binds the vendor to fulfill the order in a defined amount of time, the date you enter should be accurate.
 QuickBooks will automatically assign a purchase order number. The system sequentially orders all of the purchase orders you create. If it does not enter the correct purchase order number or you have a different naming convention, you can manually enter the purchase order number., Use the columns of the “Create Purchase Orders” window to describe all of the items you are purchasing. Put one item in each row.


Include the item number and a description of the item and the quantity you are purchasing.
Input the unit price (the cost for one). QuickBooks automatically calculates the extended price by multiplying the unit price by the quantity.
 Click the print button to print out a hard copy of the purchase order. You can send the vendor a hard copy or submit and electronic copy. Save a copy of your purchase order electronically in your QuickBooks system.Choose Save and Close to save the purchase order and exit the system.
Choose Save and New to save the purchase order and open a new blank window for creating another purchase order.

