 Some people are willing to spend more on a watch than others. When you first start looking into watches, decide what price range you are comfortable with. Ask yourself what you need to watch for, and then decide what price you are willing to pay to fulfill that need. Watches can be as low as $20 at a department store to over $25,000 from a designer company. The price varies depending on style, material, brand, and movement.Keep in mind that the kind of watch you want will factor in to the price. If you can, have a little bit of wiggle room in your price just in case you want or need an expensive feature., There are many types of watches that can be bought on a modest budget. You can expect materials such as cloth, leather, and stainless steel on the casing and bands. They have battery and solar quartz movement and low to moderate water resistance. Many sports watches come in this range, though some of the more technologically advanced options will cost more. If you buy from a major retailer, watches can be extremely cheap, but you will not likely find any with advanced features or long lasting materials unless you spend a little bit more. Most department stores carry watches in many price ranges, but you can find watches within this range from good brands that are good quality.


In you are looking at major retailers such as Target and Walmart, try brands such as Timex and Casio. These are typically under $100. For example, the Timex Expedition Dive Style Chronograph Watch has a stainless steel band and casing, battery quartz movement, analog display, and water resistance up to 200 meters. It also has the bonus feature of a night mode, which illuminates the screen even with no natural light.
Department stores like Macy's offer brands such as Guess, Tommy Hilfiger, and Fossil. They are typically between $250-300. For example, the Seiko SKS407 has a stainless steel case and band, analog display, quartz movement, and water resistance up to 100 meters. It also has three additional dials that measure minutes, seconds, and milliseconds as well as a date counter., You can still get features such as rubber, cloth, and leather bands, stainless steel casing, and quartz movement in this range, but there are better brands such as Bulova, Hugo Boss, and Armani, as well as better materials and more advanced features available at this level. Most major retailers will not carry watches this expensive, but department stores and stores for the specific brands do carry watches within this range.


Bulova is one of the best brands available at this level. Their watches look like high end watches but are in a price range that is affordable. They are also good if you want a sturdier material than stainless steel. Look for watches like the Bulova 96B133, which has a titanium band and case, quartz movement, and with a water resistance of 300 meters., Once you get over $750, you can start buying in some more high end department stores such as Nordstrom. You can also buy more high end watch brands such as Shinola and Movado. They come in leather, stainless steel, titanium, varying degrees of water resistance, and have analog faces with quartz movement.


Two major features that can make watch more expensive in this range is the Swiss construction and the PVD coating. The Swiss are known for their watch making abilities, making their watches higher end than others. The PVD coating is resistant to wear and tarnish.
Look for watches like a Movado Sapphire Synergy, which has a scratch resistant face, swiss quartz movement, and PVD stainless steel., At this level, you can now buy watches with manual movement and diamonds. You can also buy from high end designers such as Gucci and Givenchy. The quality of the watches also increase, with fine made materials and long lasting construction.


Look for watches like the Gucci G Chrono collection. It has stainless steel construction, a scratch resistant face, and 54 diamonds measuring almost a carrot around its face. , Once you get in this range, the watches can vary greatly depending on the material and designer. Watch designers such as Rolex, Cartier, Glashütte, Patek Philippe, and A. Lange & Söhne have watches that can range from $5,000 to $100,000 and beyond. The materials include all the precious metals, although some are still stainless steel. The movement is almost entirely manual. Rolex does does have a lower priced collection of Air Kings, which retail for under $6,000.If you want to be extremely extravagant, try the Audemars Grand Royal Oak Offshore Complications. They are self-winding, scratch resistant, water resistance up to 20 meters, analog, have four additional dials, and made of 18k pink and white gold. They run over $750,000.

