 First, illustrate your base dress or pant/shirt combination. This costume works well with a black base, but once you get the hang of it you can alter and edit your color scheme to fit the "gothic" ideals.;
, These colors can be used on your wings, makeup, belts, jewelry, or any other items that you think will unify the look. Some color ideas are:


Bright blue
Red
Pink
White
Lime green
Forest Green
Light grey
Purple

, Choose them in either a neutral color or in your accent color. They can be homemade or store-bought, gauzy or feathery. Even if the rest of your outfit fails, you can still be a fairy as long as you have the wings!

, Use Walmart, Kmart, and thrift stores to your advantage, but don't forget about your own closet. Look for mesh clothing, peasant skirts (which can be cut shorter if necessary), and leotards. If you know how to use fabric dye, you could also buy a lace slip and dye it black. In a pinch the basic black dress that accompanies most witch and vampire costumes will work as a base.
 Don't bother with neat, conservative designs: go crazy and do it big. Feel free to use glitter, sequins and colored beads as well. This step isn't necessary, but can really spice up an outfit if you were unable to find accessories, or accessories in the correct colors.
 Add colored streaks of your accent color. You can just use color extensions or clip-ons. If you choose to dye your hair, plan this step carefully since semi-permanent black dye on blonde hair may turn green if not dyed brown first. Also, your colored streaks may not show well on the dyed hair, so it may be wise to get clip-in color streaks.
 Black boots of any style are always good goth wear, but make sure that they fit well enough for you to walk around in comfortably. If you can't find boots, paint some old sneakers black (if they're not black already) and add shoelaces in your accent color. You can glitter and decorate the shoes as well, if you want.
 It'll make your legs look better and help keep you keep warm on a chilly night.
 Chains and oversized rings are good. Anything occult-looking, like dragons or pentacles, is fun to add to a goth fairy costume. Don't forget hair ornaments, especially if you didn't put colored streaks in your hair.
 Wear liquid eyeliner or heavily apply black pencil liner, and a strong dose of eyeshadow in your accent color. If you're accenting your lips, put either black or accent-colored lipstick on. Don't apply striking make-up to both lips and eyes, as it can easily look clownish. You might also want to whiten the rest of your face, as goths tend to look paler than most.

