 Depending on where you live and the time of year you schedule your visit, the weather conditions along the coastline can vary greatly. The preferred time to visit is in the summer, as the weather will be generally sunny and warm (in most places). But if that isn't possible, some beaches, such as those in Florida, can be visited comfortably year-round.;
, While many beaches are just what you'd expect - sandy, breezy, and along the coastline - others can be rocky, close to volcanoes (as may be the case in Hawaii) or pose another type of inconvenience or even danger. Browse the web for current beach conditions and make sure to look for any notices or warnings of potential hazards.
 You can easily do this by logging on to Weather.com or another forecast site and check out the weather for the day you'll be visiting. Unless you have hotel reservations, if the weather says rain or thunderstorms, try rescheduling your visit to a later date if circumstances allow.


Be aware that Hurricane Season runs from June 1st to November 30th each year in the United States. Plan your trip accordingly if you decide to visit in that span of time, and be prepared to cancel or leave early should you schedule your trip for the week a nasty hurricane pounds the coast.
 If the beach you'd like to visit is more than a 4-5 hour drive away, it may be worth it (especially with young children) to spend the night at a budget hotel or motel near the beach. Otherwise, just spending the day and returning home in the evening is more cost-effective on short notice.
 Bring along the following items, the first of which are standard beach attire:


Bathing suits
Cover-ups
Sandals, flip flops, or water shoes
T-shirts
A wide-brimmed hat and sunglasses to keep out the sunlight
Towels
Sunscreen with an SPF of 15 or higher
Insect-repellent

Aloe Vera gel for sunburns
Bottled water
A large tote or gym bag for these items, as well as plastic bags for wet clothes.
 You may not want to leave the house at 6 a.m., but it beats sitting in bumper-to-bumper traffic for hours. Bring along a few games, books, toys, a fully-charged iPod, or some other form of entertainment to keep the kids occupied on the drive, as well as snacks and perhaps a pillow or blanket for resting.
 Go swimming, surfing, or scuba-diving, collect seashells, play around in the surf, make a sandcastle, etc.
 This will save you money and allows you to enjoy a homemade meal at the beach. Good items to include are sandwiches, wraps, salads, chips, pretzels, popcorn, cut vegetables, bottled drinks, and a packaged dessert (e.g. cookies or fresh fruit). While it's best not to go swimming directly after eating, you can safely return to the water after a few minutes or so have passed.
 Families with young children can put them down for a backseat nap on the way home, and leaving just before rush hour peaks will give you time to bypass the major roads before the rush begins.

