 Many computers have cameras built into the monitor or body of the computer. Know how to operate your camera before beginning. Besides a location for shooting, this is all you'll need. The benefit of shooting from a computer is in its convenience - you won't have to use any technical equipment and you'll be able to edit the video and upload it to sharing sites on the same computer you shoot it on.


One of the best things about making a music video is sharing it! Videos you make on your computer are especially easy to share to streaming video sites. They're also a good way to get noticed - amateur music videos are among some of the most popular viral videos of all-time. However, if you don't want to share your video online, you won't need an internet connection.





;
, The instructions in this section assume that you have either recorded your own song previously or have permission to use someone else's. You should pick a song that you know well - forgetting the parts of a song while you're shooting can mean time is wasted re-shooting.


Getting the legal right to use someone else's music can be a tricky process (see: How to Buy Music Rights.) If you don't want your music video removed, seek permission before uploading it.






You don't necessarily need to use an entire song for your music video. Some of the most successful viral videos ever use only a short selection of a larger song., The simplest option for recording a webcam music video is to simply use one uninterrupted shot of the area where you normally use your computer. For more ambitious videos, you may want to take many separate shots, then edit them together into one seamless whole. In either case, plan ahead. Write an outline or some basic stage directions beforehand. If you or any cast members forget what to do, you'll be able to consult your instructions.


For videos with a narrative, write a script (see: How to Write a Script.)






Most webcam videos aren't complicated - some of the most famous webcam music videos ever are nothing more than one person sitting in front of his or her computer and lip-syncing to a short clip from the song.Don't let this keep you from being creative - a more memorable video has a better chance of taking off!







, Even if you've planned a simple video, walk through it a few times. You may be surprised by stumbling blocks that you hadn't anticipated - for instance, you might a get a case of the giggles or have a hard time keeping on beat with the music.


If your on-screen action is meant to be synchronized in time with the song, play the song while you're filming. For this, it can be handy to keep a boombox or a set of speakers off-camera.






If you've got the hard drive space, leave the camera on for your rehearsals. You may surprise yourself by nailing it on the first try! Even better, you may capture a happy accident that you hadn't planned for. Sometimes this can give you better footage than you would have gotten if everything had gone "right.", Webcams usually have worse picture quality than conventional cameras as-is - don't worsen things with bad lighting. You don't need anything fancy, just a few 100W bulbs. The less the camera has to compensate for low light, the better your videos will look.


Sometimes a well-done low-light look can give a music video a dark or mysterious atmosphere. If you're going to incorporate darkness into your video, have at least one light source - your audience needs to be able to see something.
 The rest is up to you - be confident and show the world you know how to rock out!


If you have time, record multiple takes. Experiment with different angles and performance styles. You might discover that making subtle changes to your performance or camera can give your video tremendous personality.
 Try to pick your best, most entertaining performance. If your video uses multiple takes, edit these takes together in a video-editing program. A variety of paid and free options are available for your editing needs (see: How to Edit Videos for YouTube.) When you have footage that you love, upload your work to a video streaming site (see: How to Upload a Video to YouTube), then share your link with your fans!

