 You should use a quality wood and high grade chicken wire. A chicken coop is a structure that will house chickens.
Most chicken coops will be elevated structures with latched doors and chicken wire windows.
Chicken wire will prevent the chickens from escaping and it will keep predators out.
Most chicken coops will have roosting bars for the chickens to roost on and nesting boxes for the chickens to lay their eggs in.
 You will want the chickens to have enough room in the coop. Plan for at least 2-4 square feet of floor space per chicken in your flock.
You will need a nesting box for every 3-4 chickens.
For example, if you had 12 chickens, you would need at least 24 square feet of floor space and at least 6 nesting boxes.
 Elevation is necessary to prevent predators from digging into the coop. You can elevate your coop with cement blocks, bricks, or a wooden platform.
Lay out the size of the coop on the ground and place your elevation platforms at each corner.
To make these more sturdy you might drive them into the ground to steady them.
 Most chicken coops have a wood flooring if they are raised from the ground. Plywood covered with inexpensive linoleum is a preferred and cost-effective chicken coop flooring.
Linoleum covering on a chicken coop floor will be durable as well as easy to clean.
If you have decided against elevating your chicken coop you can use a dirt floor, but this won't prevent predators.
If you don't have an elevated coop, you can also lay out concrete for flooring. This will keep out predators and be simple to clean.
 You can start with a plywood frame. Make sure the coop is ventilated. This means that most of the sides should be windows rather than a solid wooden wall.
Cover the open sides of the frame with a high-grade chicken wire. This will keep your chickens in the coop and predators out.
Make a door with a latch. This latch should be a locking eye-hook type. Raccoons and other predators have been known to open sliding latches.
 This is where chickens will lay their eggs. These should be about 12 inches square. You will need one for every 3-4 chickens in the coop.
You can place these at floor level or on a platform.
If they are on a platform, build a small ramp or ladder so the chickens can climb into them.
 These should be above the nesting boxes.


If the roosts are placed below the nesting boxes, the chickens will be tempted to sleep in the nesting boxes. This will cause them to be soiled and unsuitable for eggs.
Plan on using a wooden rod with at least 8 inches of space per chicken.
Avoid metal roosting rods. These will get cold in the wintertime. Plastic should also be avoided as it can get slippery.
 This can be sloped to avoid rainwater from collecting or flat.


Make sure it is solid and free of holes. You don't want your chickens to be wet in the rain.
You will also want to make sure your chickens have shade.
Some chicken coop kits and plans have shingles for sealing the roof. You can use these or make your own.
 This will provide a cozy cushioning for the birds. Avoid using hay, as it can get moldy.
Sand and sawdust can become wet, soiled, and harbor bacteria.
Straw or pine shavings make the cleanest and best bedding.
 You will have to make sure the coop is clean and free of escape points.


You should plan on cleaning your chicken coop often.
Chickens will soil the coop, so you need to replace the bedding and wash down the flooring regularly.
Make sure the latches, chicken wire, and platform are secure and free of holes.

