 The first thing that a stranger sees in you is your outward personality (your first impression) but not just your good looks and charms. So always have a winning personality that everyone seeks. Joining personality development programs is a good idea to develop your personality.;
, Don't go around telling everyone how you survived Antarctica barefoot or how you climbed the Mt. Everest without using an oxygen cylinder. It's good to boast a little with your close friends and family but not with everyone. They'll just think that you're a show-off. Let them talk about their achievements, so that you have equal right to then establish your status. You must not be a self-centered person, but let other people express their views.
 Don't talk about you and your life only. Let others tell you about themselves, and listen to them. It's a very good and professional habit to show interest in what they're saying. Never ignore them while they're speaking either.


It is not a good idea to interrupt the person who is speaking because one may get irritated. Plan the input you would like to make, and find the right time to do so.
Hopefully, this person will want to keep the conversation interactive, but remember, don't go off the topic when disturbing their presentation or point of view.
 It simply means wear clothes similar in style to others in the office or work space. The clothes may match your personality but don't overdo it.


It is also a good idea to make your own signature style regarding dress. For example, Steve Jobs wore his turtle neck, Levis jeans and white shoes in each and every keynote and public appearances.
 Make your style professional looking, wearing deodorant, light cologne, perfume, etc. Make sure that your appearance does not reflect immaturity.
 Maintain culturally appropriate eye contact with people who are talking to you; don't make faces and don't stare too much either, doing this makes the speaker think that you respect him but are not intimidated by him.
 No matter how hyped the product is, getting overexcited just displays immaturity. If someone has a product that you've been waiting to buy, don't beg them to give it to you a few moments sooner. Keep your calm and your excitement under control.
 Don't talk too much with people unless it's about sharing valuable ideas with the other people. Be sure to talk with logical, good sense. People should think that you are social but not too talkative.
 Remember, while you are talking less, with clear sense, be sure to talk formally as well. Speaking informally (lots of "like" "y'know" etc.)will leave a bad impression on other people, especially if you are just getting to know a person.


Remember not to have the "holier than thou" and the "know it all" attitude; it just puts people off.
 You must be updated with the latest world of fashion and technology and learn to walk with the modern times. Always accessorize yourself professionally.
 If someone asks for a necessary help, then please help them, but if a person shows up with a task which he/she can easily do but is unwilling to, then ask the person: "Can you do it for yourself?", but don't make unnecessary, judgmental comments or demands.
 If you have several skills or talents, be best at it and never ever try to imitate others. You must always have a great deal of competence so that others will likely notice your professionalism.
 Be it rich or poor, a CEO or regular staff, your grandpa or the garbage collector, you must respect everybody that you encounter. You must respect all jobs and talk to everybody with equal respect. Slowly, when people start noticing this trait, you'll be respected.
 When you make a promise to somebody, then make sure you keep it. Doing this will make the person think that you are reliable and honest, a trait which will boost your professionalism.
 Time should mean a lot to you. Always be on time for meetings, whether it is with your friends or your clients. Your punctuality will be remembered by other people, as being late drastically lowers the respect that other people have for you.
 Do not show a grin, snarl or grimace. If some work or project is given to you, then don't grin, or seem overly proud; just put your head up with a very slight smile (or anything else that makes people realize that you are okay with the work and the responsibility). You can also show this confidence at home, work or even on a date.
 Bring out factual information--citing a quote, offering, bringing forward evidence or support--for your position. It will influence the person to whom you are telling a quote. But these examples must be related to what you all are talking about. Not trying to do so will just make you appear to be uninterested in the conversation.
 Even if it's a funeral, or your friend's Nobel acceptance speech, keep things simple, and go for a firm handshake to congratulate each. Stay silent at funerals of acquaintances or distant relatives, with no obvious tears rolling down the cheeks; otherwise people may think that you are way too emotional to act professionally in all circumstances.

