 Think of the stores you shop with the most and the stores you consider most reliable or inexpensive. The list of stores you come up with will likely vary depending on the type of product you are looking for. You may, for instance, check with various department stores when shopping for clothing, a mix of department and home goods stores when looking for small kitchen appliances, or a mix of department and home improvement stores if looking for large appliances or tools.
 If you do not know the store website address already, go to a search engine and type the store’s name in. The store’s website is usually the first hit to pop up. If you have difficulty, though, you could also try searching the store’s name with “official website” typed after it.
 You can either locate the product by doing a search, using the store’s search bar, or by browsing through the departments until you find what you are looking for. If you are looking for a specific product, doing a keyword search is the most efficient and practical means. If looking for a generic product, browsing through the departments might prove more useful.
 While a product may be cheaper at one store than it is at another, the difference in shipping costs can sometimes make the more expensive item cheaper to buy. Stores that offer free “in store pickup” are, understandably, the cheapest.
 As soon as you find the product you want on each store’s website, jot down the name of the product as well as the price. If the product is currently on sale, make a note of that fact along with when the sale ends, since the price will likely go up after the sale finishes.
 Saving the product page from each store to your favorites list will make it easier to go back to the product you decide to buy later.
 After you visit all the websites on your list, compare which ones had the best prices. Since all of these stores are, theoretically, ones you feel comfortable shopping at, the only things you really need to take into account are the cost of the product and the cost of shipping.
 Return to the product page of the store that had the best price and make your purchase. Alternatively, if the product is marked “Available in stores,” you can also drive to that store and purchase the product there.

