 Make sure that the food you choose for your puppy is formulated for puppies and that it is appropriate for your dog’s breed. Talk to your vet about what dog foods have the best quality ingredients for your puppy and ask for recommendations about how much and how often to feed your puppy.Puppies require more frequent feedings than adult dogs. That means that you will have to feed your puppy three meals per day until he reaches 18 weeks. Then you can switch to two meals per day.Provide treats for your puppy as well. Use treats to reinforce your puppy’s good behavior. Doing so will also improve your bond with your new puppy.Be consistent with the type of food you feed your puppy. Changing his food overnight can cause severe gastric distress. If you must change him to a new brand, do so gradually. Add about 1/3 of the new food to the old food and increase the amount over the course of a week until you are feeding him only the new food.Keep in mind it is quite difficult to feed a balanced homemade diet to a growing puppy. The balance of calcium and phosphate needs to be exactly right in order to provide for growing bones, and this is difficult for even expert nutritionists to achieve. Remember, wild dogs don't live nearly as long as our pets.
 You will need to have two separate bowls for your puppy’s food and water. Choose bowls that are easy to clean and that are dishwasher safe. It is a good idea to choose ceramic or stainless steel bowls because these cannot be damaged by chewing and they have a smooth surface that does not harbor as much bacteria as plastic bowls.Make sure that your puppy always has access to fresh, clean water. Keep the bowl filled and change his water out every day.
 Puppies have to chew, so always provide something suitable for your puppy to chew on. Make sure that you choose your puppy’s chew toys with care because many toys are not safe for an unsupervised puppy. If your puppy chews a hole in a toy and swallows some plastic, this can lead to a serious bowel obstruction.


Select toys or chews that are suitable for unsupervised access, such as a KONG toy. These toys are designed to be filled with treats to keep your puppy entertained and give him a chewing outlet.Make sure the toy is large enough that it can't be swallowed whole. If you are trying to decide between two toys, buy the larger one., Usually collars come in x-small, small, medium, large, and x-large. Choose a collar and leash that is appropriate for your dog’s size and breed.For example, smaller dog’s will require a lightweight leash, while a large dog may require a harness and heavyweight leash.
Get a retractable leash for walking and 2–4 foot (0.6–1.2 m) leash for training.
 Purchase a soft brush to shine your puppy’s coat and a wire or pin brush to eliminate knots and mats. You may also want to get a comb for detail grooming.Teach your puppy to enjoy being brushed and groomed from day one. Doing so will help you to avoid problems when the dog is an adult.
 Dental disease is very common in dogs due to a lack of dental care in most dogs. Introducing your puppy to a dental care at a young age helps him to accept tooth brushing as normal. This way, you can brush your dog’s teeth daily and ensure that he has good dental health as he grows.Start getting your puppy used to having your fingers in his mouth by putting some chicken broth or peanut butter on one of your fingers and letting him lick it off. Do this a few times and try to rub a finger on his teeth and gums as you do so.
After your puppy gets used to your fingers, start introducing the toothbrush. Try to brush your puppy’s teeth once every day for a couple of minutes.

