 As dogs age, their dietary needs change. Your senior dog may require food to help maintain his weight or to manage a health condition. Make sure that you are feeding your senior dog a veterinarian approved diet to meet your dog’s needs.You can find many different types of senior dog food in stores, but they are all a little different. Ask your dog’s veterinarian which brand and type will best meet your dog’s needs.
 Senior dogs can remain active well into their golden years, and it is important to keep playing with your senior dog. However, you may need to cut off playtime sometimes. This is because some dogs will keep on running and playing even if they are exhausted. Pay attention to your dog’s behavior to determine if you need to give him a break when you are playing.For example, if you notice that your dog is panting, then he is probably getting worn out. Take a break or cut off the game for the day.
 Keeping your senior dog entertained is also an important part of enhancing his health. Senior dogs are prone to senility, but regular stimulation can help to keep his mind active. Make sure that your senior dog always has something to play with, such as a squeaky toy or ball. You might also consider getting a few puzzle toys to help stimulate your senior dog’s mind.


Try rotating your dog’s toys so that he won’t become bored with his toys. Keep his toys in a box that is out of sight and give him a different toy to play with every day.
Make sure that you talk to your dog and play with him as well to help keep his mind stimulated., Keeping your senior dog healthy also requires taking him for regular checkups with your dog’s veterinarian. Regular checkups can detect problems before they become bigger issues, which is important since senior dogs are more prone to serious conditions like cancer and kidney problems.Take your senior dog to see the veterinarian at least once per year to check for potential health problems. If you suspect a problem, then call and make an appointment right away.

