 In Tienlen, the card goes from lowest to highest in this order: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, J, Q, K, A, and 2.
 Typically Tienlen is four players each with thirteen cards, but if you have more people or less people, you can try to make adjustments.



Whatever the person put down before, you usually put the same amount of cards going ahead in order of the last card.
For example: The person ahead of you puts out 4, 5, 6; You would put down 5, 6, 7 or something higher.
For pairs, if they went a pair of 4, you could go a pair of 4

, The winner goes first, but if this is the first round, who ever has the 3 of spade goes first. The 3 of spade can be used in a double, triple, combo, or by itself.
 The suit order from lowest to highest is: Spades, Club, Diamonds, Hearts.


For example, if a player puts down a 4 of Clubs, you can beat it with a 4 of Diamonds, 4 of Hearts, or any higher card such as 5, 6, 7…
Another example: if a player puts down a combo such as 3, 4, 5, 6, you can beat it with a 3, 4, 5, 6 but your 6's suit must be higher than the other player's 6.
 The only hands that can beat a single 2 is a quad of any card (3, 3, 3, 3 or K, K, K, K) or three consecutive pairs (4, 4, 5, 5, 6, 6). Of course higher quads or higher three consecutive pairs can beat those. These are called bombs.
, Each player can only have 13 cards. Jokers are not used.
 Let's say the game begins with a player putting down a pair of three (must include the 3 of spade), the next player must put down a higher pair, or a pair of three with a higher suit, and it continues until no one else is able to put down a pair. That is considered a single rotation. If a player skips within a rotation (because he or she does not or can not throw down the hand for that turn) that player can not play again for that rotation. The winner of a rotation gets to put down whatever he or she wants to for the next rotation.
 You do not have to put down the required cards within a rotation, sometimes it's best to save your good cards for other rotations. It is a game of strategy and luck. It's a great game to play when you're drinking with friends and to gamble with. Each player puts in a dollar per game, winner takes all. If a player throws down a 2 and you bomb him, he loses a dollar to you, but if your bomb is defeated by a higher one from another player, that player keeps your dollar and the dollar from the guy who threw down the 2. The money from bombs are separate from the initial money to start the game.

