 Before you can choose the correct cold medicine, you need to figure out what your symptoms are. Each cold medicine is geared towards a specific set of symptoms. If you just grab a cold medicine without your symptoms in mind, you may end up getting something not fit for your cold., Cold medicine boxes will list the active ingredients. Make sure to read those ingredients before buying a medicine. Many cold medicine labels will also outline which symptoms the cold medicine will treat.


Pay attention to the amount of medication listed on the label. Some medicines will have stronger concentrations of medicines than others. For example, one medicine might have 120 milligrams of Pseudoephedrine, while another might have 30 milligrams.
For example, if you have a sore throat, look for ingredients for pain relief or for sore throat to be listed as a symptom. A cold medicine with expectorant may not be the best option for this ailment.
 You should be very careful when taking cold medicines. You shouldn’t take multiple medicines of the same kind, like multiple decongestants. If you take a medicine that treats multiple symptoms, refrain from taking anything else.Cold medications, even if they are sold over-the-counter, can interact with other medications you may be taking and cause a serious reaction. Before making your purchase, it's a good idea to consult with a pharmacist and let her know which other medications (including supplements) you are taking. She should be able to let you know if it's safe to take your cold medicine of choice.
 When taking cold medicine, make sure not to overdose. Read the labels carefully.


When taking acetaminophen, take special care not ingest more than the recommended daily dose. Also do not take multiple medicines that include acetaminophen., Depending on what active ingredients are in cold medicine, it may be drowsy or non-drowsy. Most labels will specify if the product causes you to be drowsy and if you should take caution when operating machinery or driving vehicles. If you are going to work, especially if you work a job that requires you to be mentally aware or physically capable, make sure to choose a non-drowsy variety.
 Children’s cough medicine can pose risks for children. Cough medicine should not be given to children ages four to six without talking to a doctor first. Parents should be cautious when giving cold medicine to their kids. Giving too much cold medicine can be easy, so parents should take extreme caution when administering it. Make sure to read the dosage guidelines very carefully.Be careful not to give the child different brands, especially if they contain the same ingredients.

