 To get there, go to Comodo or Morroc, and speak to the Kafra for a warp. You need to meet Rogue Guildsman to start the quest.;
, First, warp to Comodo from Prontera and then head east, east, south, east, east, and then finally south.


Some of the monsters along the way are aggressive and can use magic spells, so be sure to bring a lot of Fly Wings to avoid them.
 When you’re there, speak with the Rogue Guildsman, Markie.


You need to be a Thief with a job level 40 or higher to take this job quest; otherwise, the NPC won't start the job change event.
 Markie will ask you one of these three sets of questions. Answers have been included.



Question Set 1

Which monster drops a slotted Gladius? (Answer: Kobold)
Which monster drops a slotted Main-Gauche? (Answer: Hornet)
Choose the class that’s able to create unique potions. (Answer: Alchemist)
Choose the weapon that Rogues aren't allowed to use. (Answer: Katar)
Choose the property that the Hode monster possesses. (Answer: Earth)
Choose the monster that’s unable to be tamed for a Cute Pet. (Answer: Creamy)
Choose the monster that receives more damage from a Dagger with the Fire property. (Answer: Hammer Goblin)
Choose the town that doesn't have any guild castles. (Answer: Alberta)
Choose the plant that drops Blue Herbs. (Answer: Blue Plant or Shining Plant)
Choose the monster that does not have the Undead property. (Answer: Familiar)



Question Set 2

By what percentage is the flee rate increased when a Thief masters the Improve Dodge? (Answer: 30)
Choose the monster that detects a character using the Hiding or Cloaking skill. (Answer: Argos)
Choose the location where Thieves can change their jobs to Rogues. (Answer: Pharos Lighthouse)
In which town can a Novice change their jobs to Thieves? (Answer: Morroc)
Choose the card that does not affect the DEX stat. (Answer: Mummy Card)
So, what's cool about being a Rogue? (Any answer is correct.)
When is it possible to change from Thief to Rogue? (Answer: at job level 40 or at job level 50)
You want to dye your hair blue. What town do you go to and which direction with 12 o'clock being north. (Answer: Prontera, 7 o'clock)
Choose the mushroom that’s required for the Thief job change quest. (Answer: Orange Gooey Mushroom or Orange Net Mushroom)
Choose the card that least benefits the Rogue class. (Answer: Elder Willow Card)



Question Set 3

Choose the skill necessary for learning Stalk. (Answer: Hiding)
In comparison to the Merchant's level 10 Discount skill, how much more of a discount, in terms of percent, can a Rogue get with level 10 Haggle skill? (Answer: 1%)
What is the correct description for the skill Mug? (Answer: Steal Zeny from monsters)
How many Rogues does it require to activate the skill Slyness? (Answer: 2 Rogues)
Choose the skill that you can learn at level 5 Divest Helm. (Answer: Divest Shield)
Choose the skill which allows its user to move while hiding. (Answer: Stalk)
Choose that card that increases the accuracy rate of its owner. (Answer: Mummy Card)
Choose the monster that receives more damage when it’s attacked by a weapon with the Vadon card, 20% more damage on fire property. (Answer: Elder Willow)
How much SP does the skill Double Attack require when used with a dagger? (Answer: Passive skill, no SP required.)
Choose the most efficient dagger to use in the Byalan Dungeon. (Answer: Wind Main-Gauche)



, Answer at least 9 out of 10 questions correctly to pass it.
 The good news is, if you made a mistake or failed the test, you can just retake this part of the quest.
 After you’ve passed the written test, you will be sent to Mr. Smith on the next floor.
 There are 3 different sets of items, and you will be given one. All sets and their hunting locations as well as those with the best drop rates in the game are listed below. Some items may be dropped by multiple monsters.



Item List Set 1. 10,000 Zeny, 10 Yellow Herb (from Yellow Plant at Juno Field), 10 Shell (from Steel Chonchon at Sograt Desert 13), 10 Grasshopper's Leg (from Rocker at Prontera Field 07), and 10 Bear's Footskin (from Big Foot at Payon Forest 07)

Item List Set 2. 10,000 Zeny, 10 Garlet (purchasable at Geffen Trader for 40z each), 10 Snake Scale (from Boa at Payon Forest 02), 10 Green Herd (from Green Plant at Hvergelmir's Fountain), and 10 Crab Shell (from Crab at Hugel Field 06)

Item List Set 3. 10,000 Zeny, 10 Skel-Bone (from Khalitzburg at Glast Heim Chivalry 2), 10 Decayed Nail (from Zombie at Geffen Dungeon 2), 10 Horrendous Mouth (from Ghoul at Cursed Monastery 1), and 6 Blue Herb (from Blue Plant at Hvergelmir's Fountain)

, With the items you’ve gathered, you must go back to him so you can proceed to the next level.
 At this part of the quest, Mr. Smith tells you to search for them, and gives you a password along with his clues. Write it down or refer to this list for the answer.



Aragham Jr. If you’re assigned for this NPC, find him at the Fortress Saint Darmain, southwest part of the map (cmd_fild09 106, 195). The password will be “Aragham never hoarded upgrade items.”

Hollgrehenn Jr. For this NPC, find him at the Fortress Saint Darmain, southeast of the map (cmd_fild09 335, 145). The password will be “My father never hoarded upgrade items.”

Antonio Jr. This NPC can be found at Kokomo Beach, southeast of the map (cmd_fild04 302, 177). Password will be “Antonio doesn't enjoy destroying upgrade items.”

Hermanthorn Jr. Found at Kokomo Beach (cmd_fild07 349, 285), no password is required to enter the building. However, to enter the maze, you will be given the code 3019.
 Once inside the building, you will be asked if you're ready for the maze. Make sure to put Backslide and Hide in your hotkey. At this part of the quest, you’re able to hide from any monster you encounter in the maze.


Stay close to the wall. If you fail the first time, you can try again until you get it right.
 Do so after you’ve reached the end and escaped the maze.
 Remember that Thieves changing into Rogues at job level 50 will be given a Gladius with 3 slots as a reward. Otherwise, you will get Gladius with 2 slots.

