 Make sure to hold one end of the band in each of your hands. Hold your hands underneath your shoulders with your elbows drawn into your sides.
Lift your chest off the ground and reach both arms straight out from your shoulders. When you are fully extended, pull on the band by drawing your shoulder blades together. You won’t hold this position for very long, maybe a few seconds.
Relax your shoulders to bring your hands back to the original position. Slowly lower your chest to the ground. Repeat eight times.
 You can use the elastic band to mimic a rowing machine. The band provides resistance to your shoulders and upper back as you pull back.Sit on the ground with your legs extended in front of you. Wrap your elastic band around the bottom of your feet, or a fixed object near your feet. You should keep your arms extended so that the band is as loose as possible, with one end in each hand.
Pull your arms toward your body, tightening your shoulder blades to get the effect on your back.
Return your arms to the original position. Make sure your feet stay planted as you pull and return the elastic.
 By anchoring your elastic band to the floor, you can extend your back muscles by leaning backwards. The band gives some resistance while you keep your back straight.Make sure the elastic band is anchored to something stable below your knees. It can be under your feet, or be held down by a really heavy object.
Sit upright on a stool, or some other object without a back so you can lean back. Hold the other end of the band up against your chest so it is taut.
Slowly lean backwards until you are at about 30 degrees. Make sure your pelvis doesn’t move and your back stays straight.
Hold that position for several seconds, then slowly return upright. Repeat 10 times.
 Using the elastic band as resistance, you can rotate your upper body to work the back muscles while seated. You’ll need a door knob or some other point you can use to anchor the elastic band.Rotation, especially under resistance, can injure backs, so do this exercise with caution and remember to keep your abs engaged.


Anchor the band to the knob of a closed door or some other location at your seated chest height. Make sure the door or whatever else you have anchored the band to won’t move.
Sit next to the door so that it is off to your right side. Hold the other end of the band against your chest with one hand. Make sure the band is taut.
Slowly rotate your upper body to the left, away from the door. Make sure your pelvis and knees stay in place so your back muscles are doing the work.
Hold the position for a few seconds, then slowly rotate back. Repeat 10 times, then turn around and rotate to the right to work the muscles on your other side.

