 Ensure that they will make it to school each day by sticking to a strong routine. Enforce a regular curfew at night so they will be home with enough time left to finish homework and studies and then wind down for bed. Establish a nightly bedtime so they get plenty of sleep.Also establish a daily wake-up time to reduce their chance of oversleeping. Additionally, create a morning plan to make sure they get to school.Have them leave the house at the same time each day with plenty of time to make it to the bus stop.
Map and time your drive or walk before the school year starts if you have to escort them yourself.
Check traffic and weather reports in the morning to plan around unforeseen events.
Coordinate with other family members, trusted neighbors, or other students’ parents if you are unable to escort them.
 Plan your family activities around the school calendar. Schedule vacations and other trips to match school breaks so they don’t interfere with your child’s learning. Also avoid disrupting any special events involving your child’s extracurricular activities, which may still take place during school breaks.These could include:


Sports events
Other contests for clubs like chess, debate, or economics.
Plays, recitals, and concerts
School trips.
 Be aware that your child’s absence will not be struck from their record just because you have allowed it. Count all absences as the same, whether or not they were excused or unavoidable. Keep the number of excused absences to an absolute minimum to allow for unavoidable absences, like illnesses and emergencies.Refrain from making appointments with doctors, dentists, or other offices during the school day.
If you must keep your child out of school for such appointments or other reasons, like religious observances, alert their teachers ahead of time.
 Keep an open dialogue with teachers and attendance offices to find out if your child misses school without you knowing. If you know you will be keeping your child out of school on a particular day, let teachers know so they can provide your child with material from lessons they would otherwise miss. Alert them right away if your child will be absent for a long time due to their health or other emergencies.If your child is already chronically absent, contact the school to try possible remedies:Establishing a “contract” between your student, teachers, and guidance counselors. Define clear goals for your child, with appropriate prizes for success and repercussions for failure.
Assigning a model student or a teacher as a mentor to provide one-on-one help.
Exploring sports teams, clubs, and other activities that may motivate your child to stay in school, since many require a certain level of attendance for eligibility.
Switching classes or programs, if possible, in case your child’s absenteeism is due to a lack of interest or personal problems with specific classmates or teachers.

