 Part of the reason you're on Facebook is because every time you check your phone or email, you get a notification that someone posted a photo or a comment about you, or that it's the birthday of your third cousin's second best friend. This kind of message inevitably causes you to click on Facebook for "the purpose" of seeing whatever has been posted, but it leads you to inevitably waste your time browsing through random photos.


Turning off the notifications is the first step to making Facebook less appealing.
To do this, click on the lock, press "See More Settings", find the Email tab, press Edit, and select "Only notifications about your account, security and privacy".
 Before you delete Facebook, you should keep the contact information of the people you actually want to stay in touch with if you don't have them already. Save them to your email account so that you can continue to stay in touch with the people you really care about. If your only interaction with someone was through sending Facebook messages, then chances are that it wasn't a real friend anyway.
 Just like smoking, quitting cold turkey will be the hardest approach. Instead, try quitting Facebook for a day or two, and then work your way up to quitting it for a week. During that time, make a list of all of the things you accomplished because you didn't waste your time on Facebook. Set more goals to meet for your next week without Facebook and try to meet them.


Once you've been able to go two or three weeks without Facebook, you should work your way up to a month. After that, it may be time to quit for good.
If you're staying on Facebook because you're worried you'll miss important updates from friends or that you won't get invited to parties, have a close friend in your inner circle keep you in the loop about what's going on with your friends without talking about how great Facebook is.
Alternately, you can tell your friends to stop talking about what people are doing on Facebook completely instead. Remind yourself that if your "friends" had something really important to tell you, they would just call you or tell you in person -- not post it on Facebook.
 Write a simple post telling all of your friends that you're quitting Facebook for a while. This will give them a nice heads up if they're used to connecting with you on Facebook, and it will also make you more likely to keep your promise. Once you announce that you're really quitting Facebook, you'll be more likely to stick to your promise.


If you're really serious, tell your friends to not tease you for not being on Facebook, and to stop telling you that you need to give in and get back on Facebook.
 Once you've announced that you left Facebook, it's time to take measures to actually leave it, and to tie up any loose online threads that you've left behind. Here are some things that you may need to do:


There are two options here: you can either deactivate your account, which lets you take a breather without losing any information, or permanently delete your Facebook account, which is the real deal.
If you've started any groups, transfer admin rights to someone you trust.
Send an email to your Facebook contacts explaining your decision to leave. Include your current contact information so they can get in touch with you without Facebook.
If you plan to permanently delete, clear every last bit of information from your profile. Don't forget to remove your photos!

, You can turn to this step in a moment of desperation if you're worried you won't be able to control your impulse to go on Facebook -- even after you deleted your account. Check out How to How to Block Websites on Firefox or How to Block a Website on Internet Explorer for assistance.


You can use free "self-control" programs, available for download online, to temporarily disable your access to popular social media websites.
Parental control programs can also help; various ones are available and allow you to set limits on who can access Facebook (or other sites) and for how long.
 A lot of people get addicted to Facebook because they check it when there's nothing else to do, like in between classes or during a lunch break; then the curiosity spills over into time that should be spent doing other things, like studying or working. Find something to do during those little windows of time in order to prevent relapse. Here are some great ways to fill your time instead of being on Facebook:


Stay away from the computer as much as you can. For many of us, getting in front of a monitor is a default activity. Try to find other things to do that'll keep you away from the computer and therefore, Facebook. Keep a notebook. Meditate. Finger knit.
Learn to do impressive tricks with a tech deck.
Make a goal of reading one book a week instead of spending that time on Facebook.
Call your friends on the phone or do something fun with them in-person. Anything that you can do anywhere and for short periods of time is good.

