 To do this, either click the Windows logo in the bottom-left corner of the screen or press the ⊞ Win key.
 It's just above the bottom-left corner of the Start window., This person-shaped icon is in the middle row of options., It's a tab in the upper-left side of the Settings window. Doing so will display your profile information., Your profile name is at the top of this page; if you see "Administrator" beneath your name and email address, you're on an administrator account.

If you're not using an administrator account, you can't make changes to other user accounts.
 It's a tab on the left side of the window. If you aren't an administrator, you won't see this option., This option will be below either the "Other people" or the "Your family" heading., It's a button below the user's name or email address., It's below the "Account type" heading., You'll see this option at the top of the pop-up menu.

Alternatively, click Standard user to revoke administrator privileges.
 This will save your changes and apply administrator privileges to your selected user., Either click the Windows logo, or press the ⊞ Win key.
 It's on the right side of the Start window.


If you don't see Control Panel here, type "control panel" into Start and then click Control Panel at the top of the window when it appears.
 It's in the top-right corner of the Control Panel window., This option is at the bottom of the drop-down menu. Doing so will prompt the User Accounts icon to appear.
 It's in the bottom row of icons.
 In the top-right side of the window, you should see your account icon and name; if you're using an administrator account, "Administrator" will appear below the name.

If you instead see "Standard user" here, you cannot make changes to other users' account types.
 It's near the bottom of the list of links that is on the left side of the window.
 This should be an account for which you wish to change the account type.
 It's near the bottom of the list of links on the left side of the window.
 It's in the middle of the page.


If you're revoking administrator privileges, you'll instead click the Standard User circle.
 This button is at the bottom of the window. Doing so will save your changes for the selected user.

