 People read for a wide variety of reasons. Before you pick up a book, consider what you want to get out of reading. Some people like reading books that teach them new skills, from computer programming languages to skills for hunting or camping. Other people enjoy narratives, whether fictional or biographical, to transport them to other times, worlds, or situations. Think first about what you ultimately want to get out of reading.You are much more likely to learn to love reading if you connect with something that seems purposeful to you. If reading is just an exercise or something you feel you “should” like, it’s not likely to have a meaningful impact.;
, Once you know whether you want to learn, be entertained, or something else entirely, you can narrow down types of books based on your answer. For instance, knowing you want an entertaining story alone doesn’t narrow between poetry, literature, popular fiction, memoir, and other types of writing, all of which could provide an entertaining narrative.


Try doing an internet search for popular books in the area that you’ve chosen. This can give you a list of suggestions where you might start.
Consult with your local librarian. Librarians are usually delighted to make reading recommendations. Once you know what you’re “looking for” from your reading, ask your librarian if s/he knows of any books that might suit.
Talk with the employees at your local bookstore. Most people who work at bookstores love reading and love books. They can be a great source of recommendations. Chatting with people who are passionate about reading might even spark a little fire of your own!

, You can narrow down reading choices even more once you’ve picked a general type of writing by considering the genre you want. If you’ve decided on popular fiction, for instance, you can choose between horror, science fiction, historical, fantasy, romance, mystery, or more realist books that take a less whimsical approach to their characters and settings.


As another example, if you decide to want to read nonfiction history books, then consider the time period and subjects that most interest you. A book about D-Day in Normandy during World War II will obviously be a very different reading experience than a book about the politics of the Roman senate around the time of Julius Caesar.
 Even within a particular genre, a particular writer’s style might not work for you due to his/her particular voice. This can be due to when the book was written, the tone, the point of view, or a number of other reasons. If you don’t like a book in the genre you think you should most enjoy, try to narrow down the reason why.


For instance, if you decide you want to read horror novels, older novels such as Frankenstein or Dracula are going to read very differently than Stephen King or Clive Barker novels.
 You may feel very passionately about social issues or something else. Seek out books that connect to the issues about which you are passionate or that frame the issue in a wider context.Remember that you can read more than books, too. Look at print and online magazines, blogs, and other places to find other reading material.
 People sometimes feel obligated to finish a book even when they don’t like it. You’ll develop an aversion to reading rather than a love of it if you try to slog through a 300-page novel that you don’t like. Many books can start slow as they develop the setting and people/characters involved, but if a book hasn’t hooked you within 50-75 pages, then there’s nothing wrong with moving to another one.
 Reading isn’t a competition. It’s a deeply personal, highly subjective activity. There’s no reason why you should feel guilty for not loving that award-winning novel everyone’s talking about. Nor should you feel embarrassed if you truly love something that others may consider “lowbrow,” like comics or romance novels. Read what you love, and don’t compare yourself to anyone else.

