 You may be bloating because of an enzyme deficiency. If you cannot avoid foods that cause bloating or don’t want to, you can take digestive enzymes to help your body digest foods better. This is most helpful bloating is caused by improper digestion, overeating, and lactose intolerance. Look for products with some of each of the following:


Proteases, which break down proteins
Lipases, which break down fats
Carbohydrates (such as amylase), which break down carbohydrates
Lactase, which breaks down the sugar (lactose) in dairy products
Individual digestive enzymes, such as papain and bromelain
If you are not sure which enzyme you are deficient in, buy a combination of enzymes or ask your doctor.
Look for a Seal of Approval from either the Natural Products Association (NPA) or the US Pharmacopoiea (USP)., Constipation is a common cause of bloating. If you suffer from temporary or occasional constipation, you can take fiber supplements. However, this often causes gas, so take the supplement in smaller doses throughout the day and drink plenty of water with them to reduce the chance of gas.


Probiotics are also good for constipation because they help replenish gut bacteria. Watch out for increased bloating during the first few weeks.
 There are many over the counter remedies that can help you relieve bloating. Always follow manufacturer’s instructions found on the label of these medications. These medications include:


Beano, which can help your body digest the sugars in beans and vegetables that make you feel gassy
Lactaid and Dairy Ease, which are used for bloating from any intolerance to lactose
Pepto Bismol, which can be used to ease digestion related gas and bloating
Products containing simethicone, such as Gas-X and Mylanta, can help relieve your gas, which will help the bloating subside.You can also try activated charcoal to help with gas., Trapped air or gas can cause bloating. Although it may be strange to do, do not hold back any sort of gas release, including passing gas or belching. Holding them in can cause bloating and stomach issues to get worse.


If you are in a public, excuse yourself and go to the restroom or outside. There, you can belch or pass gas without being rude.You can also help pass held in gas by maintaining good posture, which helps the gas pass as naturally as possible.

