 Now that you've taken the time to observe someone, what can you learn from the information you gathered? Imagining what's behind people's unique body language and personality quirks is all part of the fun of observing them. Whether you're just people watching or you're trying to better understand someone you know, using your imagination to connect the dots is the next step.If you're people watching, it can be fun to make up stories about people. That man you see riding the train every morning - what's his background? Based on what he wears and where he gets off the train, what can you deduce?
It's fun to use your imagination to try to figure out where people are coming from, but if you really want to understand people, you need to find out if you're right.
 You already have the "what" in this scenario - your observations. The logical next step on your path to understanding someone is to figure out why something is true. This will give you a clearer picture of what's going on in someone's life and where they might be coming from.For instance, if you observe that someone begins to talk faster and sweat when you ask her about her future plans, why do you think she reacts in this way? Could she be anxious about failing at something she's trying to achieve? Might she be lying about something?
Narrow your theory down by asking pointed questions or observing the person more carefully.
Put the pieces together. Once you have a theory in mind, determine whether your other observations support it.
 When you start making deductions based on your analysis of your observations, it's important to figure out a way to know if you're right. If you tend to draw a lot of false conclusions, your observation technique might need some improvement.


Let's say you've been noticing that your friend smiles broadly when he's talking to you, his pupils often look dilated, and his hands tend to get a little sweaty. (Plus he wears blue every day because you told him it looks good with his eyes, and he waits for you in the afternoons after class). You've taken the evidence into account and concluded that your friend is nursing a crush on you. Determine if your deduction is correct by flirting with him and observing his response - or you could just ask him if he has feelings for you.
 Sometimes you'll find that your observations were correct, and other times you'll be completely wrong. While people often betray their emotions through body language and other means, they're also quite adept at keeping their feelings private. The goal of learning how to observe people is a worthy one - ultimately you'll gain a better understanding of people in general - but don't make the mistake of believing you can read people's minds just by looking at them. The mystery that naturally surrounds people is part of what makes them so fun to observe.

