 We're not in the 90s anymore. By buying trashy tabloids, you are giving money to the Paparazzi. They harass celebrities and profit from every unflattering picture that they take. There's no reason why you should constantly waste money and get month-old gossip in return. Keep in mind that a lot of what's written is fake or greatly exaggerated.;
, You can get fairly new gossip on your television every day. There's a lot that you can choose from, and it can pretty convenient if you just want to sit back and relax. Unlike a tabloid, you don't have to pay for the whole thing when you just want one story. You can tune in to the parts you want to hear and switch the channel when you feel like it. There are also many celebrity references on late night/talk shows.
 This is much easier to do since it is in our faces all the time. Read reviews in the newspaper, check top 10 charts, watch online videos, etc. You'll learn a lot about pop culture and celebrities this way; reading other people's opinions, forming your own, and turning it into an enjoyable experience.
 This is a lot of people's favorite media form, because it lets them click on whatever they like and give their opinion about it. They can also read other people's comments and feel like a part of the community. Another good thing about those sites is that they're constantly updated. You can read articles that were just released and see candid celebrity pictures from an hour ago. You can choose whichever site you like best and regularly read it. There's Dlisted, OhNoTheyDidn't!, GossipGirls, and Jossip, or the most famous one: Perez Hilton to name a few.
 You can add an RSS feed, get a new homepage, sign up for newsletters, get alerts - you choose what you want. Sign up to make sure that you get updated even when you forget to check gossip sites. That way, you'll know when something big happens right on the spot.
 You can show-off your knowledge and chat about the latest celebrity headlines. You might find yourself learning some new information, as well.
 There's always dirt that you'll never read about. When you actually encounter a star, you get to have a close-up of their fame and personality for a few moments. You might notice something interesting or scandalous about them during that time. Bringing a camera would let you share the moment with your friends and update them with "real-life" gossip that's exclusive only to you.

