 A duffel bags is the most appropriate bag to use when getting ready for an airsoft game. It will be used to hold all of your airsoft items.;
, Always get a gun with at least 350 fps for field, or 300-350 for close quarter battle (CQB). Anything lower than that would be a very cheap gun. Get a small sidearm, preferably a CO2 or green gas/propane powered handgun with a holster. Small automatic assault rifles (AEGs) can be used as a secondary weapon as well. Buy your primary weapon, preferably an AEG over 350fps for a field game, at least 300fps, but not over 350fps for CQB or a Sniper Rifle 'Over 400fps'.
 Invest in a nice pair of goggles, and wear them when playing games of airsoft. These are vital for your safety. Use a brand name for airsoft goggles.
, Nothing cheap that you can get at the mall for under $10.
 A major asset to airsoft games are grenades. These devices give you the upper hand during skirmishes and other tactical advances. Smoke grenades, which can be bought at your local firework stand, are usually very effective. Airsoft grenades are also effective. To make these you'll need a plastic Easter egg. Fill it with airsoft BB's and 1 M-1000 and poke a hole the top half of the Easter egg so you can stick a fuse in it. Then light it and Boom. Not all fields allow these though, and used improperly can be really dangerous.
, Make sure that camo matches to what type of forest or other terrain you are playing your airsoft game in. Common places to play are urban, snow. desert, and green forest.
 Always make sure you wear either a camo hat or helmet.
 Vests are vital to holding your supplies during battle.
 Look up statistics and learn how to field strip them as well. You do not want your gun to jam in the middle of a fire fight.
 If your gun is 300-350 FPS get 0.20 g bbs, and for 350-400 FPS get 0.25 g bbs. Always get 12 gram CO2 cartridges, or gas if you're using a gas blow back pistol, preferably 15 CO2 rounds and 8000 of your choice weight BB's. That should last you a couple days in FULL-DAY airsoft wars.
, Never wear Nike shoes or walking shoes for outdoor. Wear any type of boot that appeals to you. 5.11, Wolverine, and Timberland are good choices.
 In the event that someone falls into a thorn bush or gets cut, sanitize and cover wounds.
 Make sure it's the voltage that it is set for, because you do not want to ruin you gearbox.
, Before the game starts shoot your gun(s) off a couple times just to put a mental note of how far the bb travels.
 Have zip ties handy, as they a very effective role in restraining POWs (prisoners of war) when taking them hostage. A screwdriver is great for switching out parts for your gun and removing things off the rail system. The knife is great for cutting items such as zip-ties and cutting tape. Duct tape is helpful to every aspect of airsoft.
 Another great safety item are gloves. They are very useful when you need to take position in a tree and you don't want to cut your hands or you need to pick up something that you couldn't without hand protection. It is very painful to be shot on the hand, so gloves come in handy. Mechanic gloves are great and can be used in many different applications.
, These can be expensive and impractical, seeing as how most airsoft claymores need to be remotely set off. Although, they do add another dynamic to warfare and sometimes increase the fun.

