 Recurve bows are used for one of two purposes: for target archery or for hunting. These bows are essentially the same, with one fundamental difference: the draw weight. This is the amount of power you’ll need to draw the bow. Decide if you’ll use your bow primarily for target archery or for hunting.Your bow will need a higher draw weight for hunting.;
, Draw weight on a bow correlates to how hard you have to pull in order to draw back the string on the bow. To select your ideal draw weight an adult beginner should start between 18 and 24lbs of draw weight. Children should start even lower. Choosing a low draw weight will result in less speed and power in your shooting but will allow you to get proper form and technique.
If you're a beginner, shoot with a lighter bow with regard to the draw weight. Don't choose a bow that's too hard to pull back. If it seems too easy, move up a weight.
Younger people should also choose a lower draw weight.
 Bows come in different lengths. The average teenager and adult should use a 66 or 68 inch bow. , A take-down bow is one that dismantles for easy portability. The bow’s two limbs can be separated from the rest of the bow. This also allows for easier servicing of the bow.


A take-down bow also makes the draw weight flexible. You don’t need to buy a whole new bow if you decide to raise your draw weight; rather, you’d just need to purchase new limbs for the bow., It is a good idea to see how well you can hold and shoot a bow before you settle on purchasing it. Try out some different options at a local archery shop. This place will likely have several sample brands and styles.
 If you are going to purchase a bow, consult an expert at the sporting goods store to fit you for a bow that takes height, draw strength, and handedness into consideration.
 Your draw length is the length that your arm can draw the bow string back in order to shoot the arrow. Spread your arms out to either side of your body and hold them parallel to the ground. Have someone measure the exact number of inches from one middle finger tip on one arm to the middle finger tip on your other arm. Divide this number by 2.5. This gives you your approximate draw length, it should be checked by a professional before you purchase anything. Your arrow length will be 1-2 inches more than your draw length.
 Most arrows are made of either fiberglass or carbon, which keeps them relatively lightweight. The arrow weight can vary in the shaft. The heavier the arrow shaft, the deeper it will sink into a target. If you are using an arrow for target practice, you don’t need the arrow to sink in very far. If you are using it for hunting, however, you do need the arrow to sink in through skin and bone.
 If you are planning to get arrows for hunting, make sure they have suitable heads made of strong material with good piercing power.
 Shooting a recurve bow is not as simple as picking up the bow and some arrows alone. If you plan on practicing someplace like your backyard as opposed to a range, then you will need to purchase a suitable target that won’t ruin your arrows. Targets are available online or at sporting goods stores.


Alternately, make your own target with 2 firm hay bales. Wrap them in shade cloth to tighten them up., An armguard goes on the forearm of the arm that's holding the bow. Its purpose is to protect your arm if the string hits it. These can be purchased at sporting goods stores, outdoor stores and online.
 A finger tab is a strap of leather that protects your fingers from the tension of the string as you pull it back. Your finger tab goes on the fingers that will be drawing back your bowstring with your pointer finger above the arrow and middle and fourth below. You can also touch your thumb to your pinkie behind the string to keep them out of the way., Depending on the bow you rent/purchase, it may or may not come with additional parts helpful for beginners, such as a sight and a clicker. A clicker should really be avoided for a beginner as proper technique is best achieved without it. , If you are right-handed, stand with your left hip pointing toward the target (vice versa if you are left-handed). Keep your body remains vertical. Don’t lean to one side or the other. Rather, imagine that your body is aligned with a center vertical line to keep yourself straight.
 The shooting line is a line that marks a particular distance from the target. Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart, centering yourself over the shooting line.Keeping your feet firmly planted at shoulder-width also maximizes your stability as you shoot.
 Look directly at the target by turning your head toward it. Be sure not to turn the rest of your body, which should instead remain perpendicular to the target. Keep your chest in and shoulders down, making sure not to hunch up your shoulders., If you are right-handed, hold the bow with your left hand on the hand grip. Most recurve bows have handles, so you will know where to hold the bow.


The thumb and index finger should turn slightly inward, while the rest of your fingers on this hand should be relaxed. Your wrist should also be relaxed.
Don’t hold your bow with a death grip. This will cause inaccuracy in your shooting.Stay relaxed so that every movement will be smooth.
 You need to load the arrow by fitting the notch in the end of the arrow onto the bow string. Do this before lifting your bow and without actually drawing the string. This is called "nocking" the arrow.
 As you lift, ensure that the arm holding the bow is straight and locked at the elbow.If your elbow is bent at all, it will be much more difficult to draw the bow.


Keeping the elbow of your bow arm straight additionally helps to keep your arm away from the bow string as you release., You should pull back far enough that your hand rests right under your jawbone. Your bowstring should nearly touch your face around the corner of your mouth.Check again as you draw back that you are not twisting your torso to face the target.


Try to practice letting the stronger muscles in your back do most of the work as you draw the bow as opposed to your arm muscles., You want to aim with your dominant eye while keeping your other eye closed.Your dominant eye is much more reliable for your aim to the target.


If your bow has a sight, use the notches in the sight to help you line up your target. Also check your aim with your eyes.
 Don’t jerk the string back, or the arrow won't fly straight. Keep your release as smooth and gentle as possible, thinking of the action more like relaxing your fingers off the string as opposed to letting it go.Don't move your hand or arm while you shoot. "Helping" the arrow doesn't actually help at all.
 Once you release the string, the arrow still must accelerate off the bow, and any movement during the fraction of a second can disrupt the intended flight path of the arrow. Train yourself not to jerk or flinch by holding your position until you hear the arrow hit the target.