 Hipsters come in all shapes and forms and they all want to be unique and cool. Never ever call yourself a hipster, you’ll look and sound like a poser. If anyone asks if you are, say no. Or walk away and act like you don't know what they're talking about or you can act awkward and change the subject.


You can even roll your eyes or get angry if someone calls you a hipster.
 If you really want to be a hipster, then you have to reject mainstream culture and work on finding your own, more independent interests. That means playing bocce with your friends in the park instead of watching the Super Bowl, learning how to make your own tahini instead of going to Burger King, and never listening to any mainstream radio stations.


Even if you secretly love Beyonce, Lady Gaga, or Britney Spears (gasp!), you can't talk about them in public.
Most hipsters adopt an eco-friendly and healthy eating lifestyle, so no more going to The Olive Garden, McDonald's, or Pizza Hut -- no matter how badly you crave it.
 Even if you're really upset because your friend has hurt your feelings, or you're really excited because you found out that the cute guy in your math class with the thick-framed glasses has a big crush on you, you have to learn how to control your emotions -- a slight frown or a slight smile should be the most that you can muster. You don't have to be unfriendly, but you should avoid waving wildly, giving loud hugs, or openly falling into a crying jag in public.


To a hipster, everything is "pretty cool" or "just okay" -- your emotional spectrum shouldn't be too wide.
Rolling your eyes, looking at the floor, or languidly checking your phone is a great way to look like you don't care.
And try not to crack up, no matter how funny something is -- go for a quick laugh, a chuckle, or even just say "that's funny" without cracking a smile.
 If you want to be a true hipster, then you have to learn not to take things at face value and to use a winning and wry sarcasm to express even the most basic thoughts. If it's pouring rain, you can say, "I think I'll go for a jog" in a flat tone that may make people laugh or at least snicker. Be sarcastic to your girlfriend as well as to any guys who come your way, even if they try to ask you out.


If you manage your sarcasm the right way, people will be charmed and amused by you. Just don't overdo it, or people will feel like you don't take anything seriously.

