 Make sure that the vehicle's ignition is turned off before accessing the fuse compartment.


Removing a fuse while the vehicle is running can be very dangerous. It can also cause damage to the overall fuse box and the other fuses.
Note that you should also apply the parking brake if you have not done so already.
 In most vehicles, the fuse compartment is located on the left side of the vehicle, beneath the dashboard and in between the steering wheel and the car door.


Alternatively, the fuse compartment might be located in the interior doorjamb or on the right passenger side of the vehicle near the floor.
Many vehicles have one fuse box underneath the hood of the car and a second fuse compartment inside the passenger portion of the vehicle. The OnStar fuse should be located in the second fuse compartment, not the fuse box under the hood.
 The fuse compartment should have a handle on it. Simply pull the handle and lift away the door to expose the fuses.


In rare instances, there might be a screw you will need to remove before pulling off the fuse compartment cover.
 There should be a diagram of fuses located on the back of the fuse panel cover. Use that diagram to determine where the OnStar fuse is located.In many vehicles, the OnStar fuse is a red fuse located in the upper left corner of the fuse box.
If there is no diagram on the back of the fuse panel cover, you should check the operator's manual for your vehicle and locate the appropriate diagram there.
Vehicles that come off the lot with OnStar automatically installed will probably have a fuse specifically marked for the OnStar system. If there is not "OnStar" fuse, however, you may need to locate the fuse for the mirror.
Note that removing an OnStar fuse connected to other systems, like the mirror or radio, will also deactivate any associated functions. For that reason, this method may only be appropriate when there is a separate OnStar fuse unconnected to other systems.
 To remove the fuse and deactivate the system, simply pinch the fuse between your fingers and pull it straight out.


If you are unable to pull the fuse out with your fingers, use a plastic plug puller or plastic-tipped tweezers.
Do not remove the fuse unless you are certain that you have located the correct one.
 It's a good idea to store the fuse in the glove box or another secure location in case you want to reactivate OnStar later.


To reactivate OnStar, simply return the fuse to its place within the fuse box.
If the free trial is still active when you remove the fuse, OnStar will be unable to remotely turn off the trial after it expires. You may need to temporarily plug the fuse back into the vehicle long enough for OnStar to turn off the trial.
 Return the cover to the fuse compartment and turn on the ignition. Test all systems in the vehicle to make sure that no others were affected.


If the OnStar light was on prior to the removal of the fuse, it should now be off.
Other than the OnStar system and its related services, no other system in the vehicle should stop working. If other systems have also stopped working, they may have been connected to the OnStar fuse. There will be no way to return these systems to functioning order without plugging the fuse back into the fuse box.
The process is complete once you finish verifying that everything else in your vehicle still works.

