 The more you know about the product or service, the easier it will be to answer customer questions.Study the product or service that your company provides, and take note of frequently asked questions or common points of confusion. Knowing the product will make your job easier and you'll be more efficient.


You can even use or purchase the product or service to understand how the customer feels.
If you have questions about the product or service, ask your supervisor.
For example, if you're a customer service representative for a cable company, it would help to know what channels your company provides as well as common issues with cable boxes or modems.
 While customer service jobs require the same traits to be effective, each company and industry will have different standards and procedures. Even if you have some experience, learn the methods that your company uses. This could include a system to handle angry customers or the procedure to log individual calls into a database. Work closely with whoever is training you, and make sure to ask questions when you're unsure of something.


It's usually better to take your time and get something right, rather than rushing and messing it up.
Follow the instructions from the person training you carefully.
 A misunderstanding or miscommunication can damage your reputation with a customer. Keep the conversation clear and concise and don't talk about something unless you are certain about it. Identify their problem and work to solve their issue without diverting into a different topic.


If a customer asks you a question that you're not sure about, say, "I'm not sure why, but let me put you on hold and I'll get the information from my supervisor. Sorry for the inconvenience."
A miscommunication may make a customer have false expectations which could get you in trouble.For instance, if a customer asks how much something costs and you say "It will be included in your bill," it could be misconstrued as a free product, when what you actually meant to say was, "The cost will be listed on your bill."

, When you're dealing with a customer, they will most likely mirror your attitude. If you act irate or annoyed, there's a good chance that they will return the favor and the interaction will be less than favorable. If you remain polite and courteous, even in the face of someone who's angry, your energy will affect the way they act.Try to set the tone for the interaction. If the customer is initially angry, you can reduce their frustration by staying calm and polite.
If you're dealing with an angry customer, you can say something like, "I understand why you're angry, but I'm going to figure it out and resolve the issue."
If the tone of the conversation escalates, and the customer remains mad, consider forwarding them to a supervisor.
 Some customers will know precisely what their issue is, and others will ask a lot of questions. Regardless of the knowledge of the client, you must have patience.Try to understand their issue through their perspective. If they are a new customer and haven't used your product, there's a chance that they don't understand how to use it, or don't know your company's policies. Make sure to explain everything so that they can walk away satisfied with your interaction.


If the customer is new to your product say something like, "I totally understand how frustrating it can be. I'm going to help you figure this out."
Ask the customer questions so you can ascertain their familiarity with your product or service.
If you have a file on the person and they are a brand new customer, make sure to have extra patience with them.

