 Before dyeing hair that's already damaged, get a trim. This will help remove split ends, which can keep your hair healthy in the long run., In the weeks leading up to coloring your hair, go for a more aggressive conditioning regimen. An extra hydrating conditioner can help prevent future damage to you hair. Use an extra hydrating conditioner daily, a deep conditioner once a week, and use a leave-in conditioner on hot days to prevent your hair from drying out in the sun., Protein treatments can help strengthen and replenish damaged hair. You can get protein treatments done at a salon or buy protein treatments to do at home. You should only do protein treatments every one to two weeks. Otherwise, they could make your hair more brittle.Protein treatments are similar to hair masks. You saturated the hair with the protein treatment, let it sit for a set period of time, and then wash it out., The day before coloring your hair, purchase a deep conditioning hair mask from a salon or department store. Apply the mask to your hair and leave it in for the recommended time frame before washing it out. This will ensure your hair is adequately hydrated prior to dyeing, minimizing further damage.If you're getting your hair done at a salon, ask your stylist for a recommendation for a hair mask. They will probably have some experience working with damaged hair and can give you a good recommendation depending on the kind of dye job you're getting.
Natural ingredients that are good for the hair include things like olive oil, milk, honey, and coconut oil., Look for hair colors that are specifically designed for use on damaged hair. Look for ammonia-free products that have nourishing additives like royal jelly. Moisturizing dyes are also great for damaged hair.Demi-permanent is also generally better than permanent for damaged hair., If you're dyeing damaged hair, do not attempt to lighten it. Going from something like brunette to blonde requires a lot of damage to the cuticle. Go for shades darker than your natural hair or simply try to cover grays and roots. It is never a good idea to lighten damaged hair., The day before you color your hair, refrain from shampooing. Shampoo can dry out your hair, which is no good for hair that's already damaged. Stick to rinsing out your hair and applying a conditioner before getting it colored., If your hair has already been dyed, focus only on touching up the roots. Avoid applying dye throughout your hair, as hair that's already damaged may dry out further with excess dye. In general, the less coloring the better when dealing with damaged hair., While many people can use box hair colors successfully, treating damaged hair of any kind is tricky. As color always causes damage, it's a good idea to see a stylist if you're going to be coloring damaged hair. A stylist will know how to best minimize further damage when coloring hair., Invest in a quality renewal mask after dyeing your hair. Once a week, apply the mask throughout your hair and leave it in for the recommended timeframe before washing it out. This will help re-hydrate your hair, minimizing damage done by coloring.If you got your hair colored at a salon, ask your stylist to recommend a renewal mask.
 After dyeing your hair, use only a color preserving shampoo to avoid stripping away the dye. The better you protect your color, the less often you'll need to touch up your hair. As dyeing always causes damage, it's always a good idea to dye damaged hair as little as possible., Infrequent shampooing can also keep your hair color intact longer. Only shampoo every other day and no more than two to three times per week. This will minimize your need for follow up treatments, preventing further damage from excessive dyeing.