, Each of the three Spirit Vials are held on the Level Body using two methods: first, by a grey-colored Vial Retainer that snaps over the Vial and into the Level Body and secured by means of four-locking Retainer Tabs and, second through the use of an adhesive applied to the Vial Seat (on each end of the Vial) and the Vial itself. Removal of the Retainer is the primary step required in order for the Spirit Vial to be replaced., Then, using a flat screwdriver, GENTLY unsecure the first Retainer Tab on the backside of the level using the following method: Push on the "flat face" (the broad sloped grey surface) back toward the rear of the slot (away from the Vial) the Tab is fitted into. At the same time, exert a slight downward force to push the Tab part of the way out of the slot itself. Use your hand holding the Retainer to prevent the Retainer Tab from resetting itself.

Be careful. Patience is required here. The plastic tabs are soft, fragile, and become more so over time. It is not uncommon for them to break or become damaged during removal of the Retainer.
 Use the same procedure in the previous step to prevent resetting., Repeat Steps #02 - #03 for the opposite side pair of Retainer Tabs., Once the four Tabs have been successfully unseated carefully remove the Vial Retainer. Use caution as in many instances the adhesive the manufacturer uses to hold the Vials has leaked out during the manufacturing process onto the Retainer essentially fusing it to the Level Body. If this is the case, use the screwdriver to gently pry and lift off the Retainer., The Spirit Vials used in the Swanson Post Levels are typically held in place using both the Retainer and an adhesive applied to the vial itself. Using a screwdriver, gently pry the Vial out of its seat. Once the Vial has been removed, clean any residual adhesive from the Vial Seats to insure a proper fitting for the replacement. Keep the old Vial for comparing size with the replacement., Compare the replacement physically with the old Vial and note any differences in size. If the new one is too long to seat, sand the ends to fit. Use adhesive sparingly to assure the new Vial is seated firmly and cannot move. Adhesive may not be required unless the Retainer has been damaged and doesn't properly secure the Vial. Use a MILD adhesive (Do Not Use "super-glue", etc.) Place a small dab into the Vial Seat before setting the Vial and the Retainer.

Read the Safety Tips below before doing any sanding or using any adhesive. Be sure not to sand the Vial down to where there is a danger of the Vial breaking (shattering) during the sanding process or while the tool is being used.
 Insert the four locking Retainer Tabs into their respective slots and press down until you hear the Tabs snap into place. Check the reverse side to insure each Tab is properly seated., Repeat the above steps to change-out any of the other three vials that require replacement. If any of the Retainers are damaged or broken during removal they can be easily repaired using an adhesive...just remember not to use the STRONG adhesive to secure the Retainer to the Level Body in the event the Vials require replacement again at a later date.