 It doesn't have to be blonde, but it has to be healthy and stylish. When you go to get your hair cut show the stylist exactly what you want. Don't EVER trust them to pick a cut that will be flattering on you, and only go to somebody that you trust to do a good job, and who you know can cut your hair the way you want it. Look up reviews of different salons before you decide, otherwise you'll regret it later.;
, Definitely wear some makeup, but remember that makeup is meant to enhance your natural features, not to hide or change them. You also don't have to spend $100 at sephora to get the look that you want. For school wearing some eyeliner, mascara and lip colour/gloss should be fine, but don't be afraid to jazz it up with a smokey eye or popping lip colour for social functions and events.
 Go to parties and try to talk to people from different cliques/friend groups. Saying that you don't drink, smoke, or do drugs isn't an excuse not to go to parties, because no matter where you are you won't be the only person sober. If you do drink, smoke, or do drugs don't make a fool of yourself by getting too wasted, and when you drink make sure that you're drinking something classy(ish) like Palm Bays, or vodka/gin tonic, etc. Never get drunk though, because Cher drinks but is never portrayed as drunk or high. It's not classy. Aside from parties, hang out with lots of cool people after school, and at lunch. Just remember that whoever you hang out with can be cool (Tai!) Find a good spot to eat lunch every day where lots of other people can sit with you too. Make sure it's in the most central spot in your school, so that everybody can see you and your posse having a good time, and they'll want to join in. Don't ever make fun of people even if they're trying too hard or trying to be like you. Be nice to everyone. Keep up on all the latest gossip. If something happens, from a breakup to an arrest you want to know about it.
 Do your homework. Just because you want to keep up a social life doesn't mean that you can ignore your studies. This isn't middle school anymore and contrary to popular belief people actually like hanging around people who are educated and can keep up an intelligent conversation. Aim for A's and B's in all your courses, and try to have a developed vocabulary. As Cher would do, read one non-school book a week. And remember, good grades=freedom. If you get grounded for failing your courses your social life is in the toilet.
 Try to get at least 45 minutes of exercise every day. Focus more on cardio than strength, but killer abs never hurt either. Don't try to look like a body builder, but looking toned and slim is a great thing. You need to feel confident with your body, even if you're not at your goal weight. Eat healthy all the time, except for occasional french fry/pizza binges with your girlfriends. Make sure that if you bring a lunch to school it's the healthiest meal of your day. You don't want everyone to think you're a pig, or that you don't care about yourself. A good idea would be a piece of fruit, vegetables and some whole wheat crackers, or a dainty sandwich on whole wheat.
 Smell good. Have a signature scent, like grapefruit or caramel, and try to buy all of your body wash/lotions in that scent, or a scent that goes with it, so that you don't smell overpowering. Layering scents isn't rocket science, but it's just as important. Shower daily, and do whatever you've gotta do to your face to have as clear skin as possible. Make a list of things you need to do, from head to toe, and don't forget anything, including shaving/waxing/plucking, which you need to do if you plan on wearing short sleeves, or any bottoms other than pants. Hairy legs and pits are a huge turn off to most people. If you're opposed to hair removal for whatever reason try to keep your legs and armpits covered at all times. Example list: wash hair, pluck eyebrows, clean ears, wash face, shave armpits, wash body, lotion body, manicure, shave legs, buff feet, pedicure.
 You don't have to spend a lot of money or dress out of your comfort zone to be fashionable. Yoga/sweat pants are comfortable but they are not appropriate for school. You'll come across as sloppy and slobby if you don't put an effort into what you're wearing. Nothing looks sillier than a girl with her makeup and hair done who is wearing track pants and an old school t-shirt. Some stores that sell stylish, affordable, and original clothes are Forever 21, H&M, Garage, and Sirens. Thrift stores often always have cute pieces that are more vintage, and that nobody else would have. These are good options because you can replace your out of date outfits more often, and therefore be more in fashion at all times. Some stores that are a little bit more expensive but tend to have slightly nicer clothes are Urban Outfitters, American Apparel, and Simons. Department stores and local boutiques are also good places to shop. However, if you go to a boutique try to go to one in a different town because chances are that the other girls at your school shop at the one in town, and nobody likes to spend $30 on a shirt to find out that her arch rival has the same one.

