 A period is a standard sign of puberty.;
, There are ways of telling if your period is coming. One way of telling if your period is near is discharge. A discharge is the yellow/white substance that appears in your underwear. Once you get your discharge, your period could come within 6 months and up to 2 years time. Some girls choose to wear a panty liner to protect their underwear, but some don't.


Wear pantiliners to protect your underpants.
 A sign that your period might come, is that your breasts might start to grow, they will grow bigger than usual, not that big but they might grow. You can expect your period about two years after your breasts start developing., Just after your breasts start to form, you'll probably start growing pubic hair. It will be soft and thin at first, but it’ll get coarser over time. Your period usually arrives around one to two years after., Once you've had discharge, you should start thinking about being prepared. It might be a good idea to create a mini kit for yourself, small enough to take anywhere you go (such as school). Get a starter kit targeted at tweens and teens; check your local pharmacy.
 Most girls' first periods are light so maybe have some normal or "lil lets teen" pad would be best. Everyone is different so just in case your period comes heavy, it may be a good idea to have a couple heavy pads just in case. It's a good idea to wait until you've had at least 5 periods before you start wearing tampons.
,, You will see bright red marks or you will see brown dark sticky marks, this means it is gonna come soon.
 Your back and legs might hurt and your body also might start to hurt a little, with small cramps.
, Don't be embarrassed. If they say no, go up to them and quietly explain the situation. If they say no again, just quickly leave. The nurse will most likely give you a note that excuses you.
, However, do not wear tampons when you're not on your period!

, Again, this depends on the person. Mark the date from when it started to when it ended. Then you'll know to expect it around that time.
 If you’re thinking you don’t look as good in your bikini as you did a few days ago, that might be some period-related bloating. You could also have either diarrhea or constipation, cramps, and nausea. Some girls start craving specific foods and eating a little more than usual, too, so be careful that you keep snacking on healthy things., You’re not a drama queen, but you’ve been feeling pretty weepy the past few days. That’s probably a sign that your period is right around the corner. You could also be more irritated than usual or have trouble sleeping. And in severe cases, gals have trouble remembering things and concentrating in the days leading up to their periods., Extra acne tends to pop out on your face when your period shows up because your hormones are going wild., You might feel more tired than usual.

