 Here you will get a +10% damage reduction rate, as well as more threat generated towards you (and not your other fragile party members!).;
, Too many warriors try to tank with a two-handed weapon, or dual wielding, and, except for certain circumstances in low level instances, it generally does not work very well or causes much un-needed work for the healer. Your job is not to deal damage, but to prevent damage from being dealt to others. Besides, there are much needed abilities that can only be used with a shield, as well as the crucial damage reduction and blocking.
 - Now that you've got everything else down, it's time to make the enemies hate you so that they attack you, or build up what some call "aggro". To do this, use the abilities you have that create this "threat". Abilities like Devastate (if protection), Sunder Armor, Revenge, Heroic Strike, and Shield Block / Shield Bash (if protection) and Thunderclap, among others. Always be spamming heroic strike if you have around 40+ rage; it does not start the global cool down so it can be spammed in between abilities, helping you generate much more threat. If your group is inpatient, you may want to open with Bloodrage to get some initial rage for that opening strike.
 - Good, you've got the threat, but you don't want to lose it! Be persistent! On a single target, make sure to keep using abilities like Sunder Armor/Devastate to hold threat, and of course Revenge when you can. If you're fighting multiple enemies, maybe alternate creatures when you use Sunder Armor, and cast Thunderclap when you can. Try to make sure you are always on top of the global cool down, so every time you can cast an ability make sure you do. Recently warriors have gotten some nice shiny new talents and abilities, like shockwave. Thunderclap now affects all targets in range so don't refrain from spamming it when aoe tanking. Tanking many enemies may take some practice, as it gets tricky, but, when slip ups happen (and they will), you can always taunt the target back to you, mocking blow is now usable in defensive stance so you won't need to switch to battle stance. This ability can be a life saver if taunt is resisted or is on cool down; use Challenging Shout if things really get out of hand.

