 The color blocking trend is all about bold colors and clean lines, so a bold shade is preferable over a pastel or rich hue.


“Colorblocking” refers to the fashion trend of wearing large, solid blocks of contrasting colors. It is a vibrant, edgy fad requiring the use of similarly vibrant colors.
 Look for something with straight lines and choose an equally bold contrasting color.


For instance, if you have orange jeans, go with a strong midnight blue top. Blue and orange are complementary colors that lie opposite from one another on the color wheel, so the level of contrast here is quite high.
Other possible color combinations include aqua and bright yellow, tomato red and fuchsia, navy blue and pink, mint green and melon, lilac and pastel orange, and coral and turquoise., A solid shoe, like a flat, sneaker, or boot, works better than a strappy sandal since it covers more space and has a stronger presence.


Choose a shoe in a color that contrasts with your jean color. An easy way to do this would be to match your shoe color with the color of your top. Orange jeans paired with a midnight blue tank top, then, would work well with midnight blue flats or sneakers.
 This look is already bold enough without the use of bold accessories.


Accessories that are too bold can actually make the outfit appear too loud and out of balance.
Neutral colors work best for accessories. For instance, pearl post earrings and a silver watch can look great with orange jeans and a midnight blue top.Small traces of color can also work, as long as they remain small. In the outfit described above, you could swap out the pearl post earrings for tiny orange-gem posts.
 For this style, natural-looking make-up is better than bold make-up. The idea is too make your outfit the center of attention, which you may struggle to accomplish if it has to compete with your cosmetics.


Choose neutral foundation, eyeshadow, and lip color. If you introduce any non-natural color to your make-up, do so with an eyeliner or nail polish.

