 In the App Store, tap on the magnifying glass icon at the bottom, then start typing "Pic Music" in the text field at the top of the screen., It will appear below the text field., It's to the right of the Pic Music app.

After a moment, the button will change to Install; tap it to install the app on your device.
 The same button you used to "Get" and "Install" the app can now be used to open it., It's the large red button in the center of the screen. This is how you add a photo to the app.

Tap OK to allow access to your photos when prompted.
 Do so by tapping the photo you'd like to add music to.

Select multiple photos to create a slide show.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen., It's in the upper-right corner of the screen., It's at the top of the menu, under the "Music" section.

Tap OK to allow access to your music library when prompted.
 Do so by locating and tapping on one of the songs in your Apple Music library.

Select a song that has been downloaded to your device or you'll receive a Digital Rights Management (DRM) warning.
 Drag the sound track near the top of the screen to the right or left to find the place where you'd like the music to start., It's in the upper-right corner of the screen., It's in the upper-right corner of the screen., It's near the bottom of the menu in the "Share" section., Doing so opens Instagram., Your image with the music should appear the large square at the top of the screen.

If the image to which you added music doesn't appear in the top half of the screen, tap it's thumbnail in the grid at the bottom of the screen.
 It's at the top-right of the screen., Use the buttons at the bottom of the screen to edit or enhance your photo.

Scroll left across the thumbnails at the bottom of the screen to select a filter.
To shorten the time your video appears on the screen, tap Trim.
The Cover selection allows you to choose the image that will appear on your Instagram feed before your video starts playing. If you only have one photo, there is no need to set a cover.
 It's at the top-right of the screen., Use the keyboard to type a caption and add hashtags to make your image searchable., It's in the upper-right corner of the screen

Tap Add Location if you'd like followers to know where you took the photo.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen. Your picture with music will be posted to your Instagram feed.