 Look under your sink and locate a pipe with a J or P-like curve. This is your sink trap. The sink trap is located in between the tail pipe and the waste pipe.The tail pipe is the pipe that connects directly to your sink, and the waste pipe is the pipe that connects to the wall.
 You can use a regular gallon bucket, or any type of water collecting device like a dishpan. The bucket will be used to catch any water, dirt, and grime that comes out as you remove the sink trap., Begin by loosening the slip joint nuts on each end of the sink trap (on each end of the J or P). You can do this either manually, using your hands, or you can use a wrench. Once the joint nuts are loose, continue to untighten them with your hands.If your sink trap has a decorative or metal finish, then use a strap wrench to loosen the slip joints to prevent scratching. You can also place duct tape on the parts of the wrench that come into contact with your pipes to prevent scratching.
 As you remove the sink trap, make sure to locate the O-rings. There should be two; one on each side of the J. Place them somewhere safe. The O-rings are used to seal the connection between the sink trap and the tail and waste pipes.Also make sure to take note of the order the parts are in. This way you can reassemble the sink trap correctly.
Clog the waste pipe with a cloth or rag to prevent sewer gases from entering your home.
 Take the sink trap to a separate sink or outside to rinse. Rinse the trap thoroughly until all the loose dirt and grime are removed., You can also use a dishwashing detergent to remove any dirt and grime as you scrub the sink trap. Scrub the sink trap until all the dirt and grime are removed.At this point, you can use the bottle brush to scrub and remove any dirt and grime from the end of the tail pipe as well.
 Place the slip joint nuts onto the tail and waste pipes first. Slip the O-rings back onto the tail and waste pipes. Then place the sink trap between the tail and waste pipes. Use your hands to tighten the slip joint nuts over the ends of the sink trap.Use your wrench to finish tightening the slip joint nuts. Only tighten the slip joints nuts a quarter turn more. Try not to tighten them too tight. This can cause your pipes to crack and break, especially plastic ones.

