 Like oatmeal, quinoa can be made into a delicious and warm breakfast meal. You'll need to get out the right equipment to make warm quinoa porridge for breakfast.

Start by setting out a heavy-bottomed pot.Unlike instant oatmeal, there is no instant quinoa that you can make in the microwave. You'll need to cook this over the stop top like traditional oatmeal.
You will not need a pot with a lid to make quinoa porridge. You need to continually stir without the lid to get the proper consistency of this dish.
You'll also need to keep an eye on your quinoa and stir consistently as it cooks. Use a wooden spoon or spatula to keep it from sticking to the bottom of the pot.;
, You'll need to choose what type of liquid you want to use to make your hot quinoa porridge. Depending on your diet, there are a variety of options to choose from.

Try regular milk. Whether you do skim or whole milk, adding milk to your warm quinoa can help make your porridge creamy and rich. Plus, it'll add a hit of calcium and protein.If you don't want to use cow's milk, you can also do dairy substitutes. Try almond, soy or even rice milk if you'd like. They all work well in this recipe.
If you don't want to use any milk at all, you can also make your porridge with water. It won't add any creaminess to your porridge, but still gets it to the right consistency.
 Like oatmeal and other hot breakfast cereals, you can add a variety of different spices or flavorings to your quinoa porridge. Follow a recipe or consider adding your favorite flavors.

If you like you can add some extracts to your hot quinoa to add flavor. Try adding vanilla, almond or even coconut extract to your quinoa.
If you like a natural source of vanilla, consider cooking your quinoa with a split vanilla bean for flavor.
Spices like cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger or clove are also quite tasty in a warm quinoa porridge.
 Quinoa is not naturally sweet. In fact, it can sometimes have a more savory or even slightly bitter flavor. If you're looking for a sweet porridge, you'll need to add a source of sweetness to your porridge.

If you want to add a natural sweetener that isn't as processed as white sugar, consider drizzling in some honey, agave syrup, molasses or maple syrup.If you're watching your total calorie or sugar intake, you may opt for a no-calorie sweetener like sucralose or truvia.
You can also consider leaving out sweeteners altogether. If you make your porridge with milk and add spices or fruit, there might be enough natural sweetness for your tastes.
 Once your quinoa porridge is made, there are a lot of different toppings you can add on. Whether you like Chia seeds, nuts, dried fruit or fresh fruit, you can add an additional hit of nutrition with some toppings.Try fresh fruit on your quinoa. You can add any type of fruit you'd like. Apples would go well with cinnamon and nutmeg or sliced peaches may go well with vanilla extract.
You can also add dried fruit to your porridge as well. It's little chewier and sometimes tart which can be a nice addition to your breakfast meal.
You can also add some healthy fats and protein by adding nuts to quinoa. Whether it's almonds, cashews or pistachios, these are other great toppings.