 You might have a passion for stage acting or a desire to work strictly in television or film. Comedy might be your area of strength or you might excel in dramatic expression.;
,


Enroll in a theater program. New York has many reputable drama schools that offer high-quality training for actors. Some are undergraduate programs requiring study of general education courses in addition to theater classes. Other programs are strictly theater schools, focusing on the art of acting.
Find a drama coach. If you prefer one-on-one or small group instruction, study with a drama coach. Choose a coach who has trained and guided other actresses through successful acting careers.
 An acting resume is typically 1 page in length and lists your acting qualifications.


Provide your name and contact information at the top. Your full name, phone number, address and email address are required information.
Include a physical description. Acting resumes require your height, weight, eye color and hair color. This information is necessary for directors who must fill specific roles.
Indicate your acting training. If you have a degree in theater or have taken classes with specific instructors, include that information. If you have studied with a reputable theater school or acting coach, mentioning the name might attract positive attention.
List your acting experience. This is typically several columns of information with headings like "Production Name," "Role" and "Date."
Provide a website URL. If you have an actor's website, include the Web address so that directors and casting agents can view pictures or clips of your past work.
 This is a professionally produced 8-inch by 10-inch (20.3-cm by 25.4-cm) image taken from the neck up.
 New York City has many acting agencies with close connections to directors and production houses. Research various agencies to select one that has contacts in your preferred acting genre. Agents usually require a resume, headshot and clips of past work.
 A high-quality agent will send you notices of auditions for acting jobs that are a promising fit. Auditions also can be found in acting trade magazines, online acting resources and job search sites.


Prepare for the audition. Familiarize yourself with dress requirements and what to expect by asking your agent or reading the details of the audition posting.
Rehearse your lines. Always show up prepared for the audition. The more prepared you are, the greater the chances of feeling relaxed and performing your best.
Bring music, if necessary. If auditioning for a musical, you might be asked to sing a song. Be prepared with recorded music or sheet music, if an on-site musician will be provided.
 The Taft-Hartley Act, named after its original sponsors, is the acting industry's informal term for labor union requirements. You earn Taft-Hartley status by speaking a line in a film or television show. This entitles you to membership with the Screen Actors Guild, which offers union regulation over actors' work conditions, benefits and monetary compensation.

