 Give each chef a number. After the cooking is over, have each chef make a sign to put in front of his or her serving container with the number of their dish and a brief description.


For instance, a possible sign could read "3: Spicy Red Bean Chili."
Make sure this sign does not have their name.
 Once the chefs have their number, have the chefs divvy up small portions of their food into small serving containers so everyone can enjoy. Make sure that these containers are labelled with the chef's assigned number. This will make it easy for judges and guests to pick a favorite dish, still without knowing which chef cooked what., Have the chefs step away from their station so that no one can tell who cooked what. Make sure judges get the food immediately after it's cooked so it's still hot. Also distribute food out to the rest of your guests.
 Let the judges know what rating system you want them to use. Many times a scaled numbering system from one to ten works best. Have the judge write down their scores and any comments they have on the food. Then gather these up and see what chef received the highest score.If your guests are acting as the judges, give them all a ballot where they can write down their favorite dish or dishes.
 After everyone has had a chance to eat, announce which chef cooked which dish. Then reveal the winner of the cook off as well as second and third place. Announce the scores of the top three chefs, and read any comments that the judges or guests have left for them. This is best left for the end of the event., Give out prizes to the top two or top three winners. Make sure that the prizes you are giving out could be appreciated by anyone, and are not gender specific. Gift cards are a good thing to give if you cannot think of anything that all your contestants would appreciate.You could also give away food items, like artisan olive oil or good wine.
After the winner is announced and the cook off is winding down, thank your guests for coming. Let your chefs know that you appreciated all their hard work, and thank your judges for their time.
Also remind everyone to take all their equipment and supplies home so you won’t have to return them later., You likely will have a lot of clean up to do after the cook off. If you feel comfortable, ask a couple of friends if they can stick around and help you. You probably will have a couple people who will volunteer to help. It may be the least fun part of the cook off, but you can feel good that you hosted such a successful and enjoyable event.