 Before trying to hook up your player, make sure it is plugged in and turns on when you press the "power" button. Usually a small light or welcome message appears when the DVD player is working correctly.;
, There are at three common ways to connect a DVD player, and each needs a different cable to work. Your DVD player should come with all of the appropriate cords, but you need to check which connections your TV accepts as well. Look into your owner's manuals or check the TV and DVD Player yourself to see what connections you can use. The three most common are.



HDMI: The most modern connection, HDMI resembles a longer, thinner USB cord. HDMI connections are the highest quality connections and you only need one cord for both the audio and video.

A/V Cables (Three-Prong): Standing for Audio/Visual cables, this the most common connection for DVDs. There are three prongs at either end-- red, yellow, and white -- and they match up to corresponding colored inputs on both the TV and DVD player.

Component Cables: Sporting better quality than A/V cables but less than HDMI, component cables are a set of five colored prongs attaching to five matching inputs on both the TV and the DVD player.
 Once you know what connection you will use, locate the cable and make sure it is not torn or frayed. If you need a new cable, or are missing one, take a picture of the input you want and bring it to your local electronics store to find a replacement.


If possible, use and HDMI cable, as they are the easiest to install and have the best quality video.
 Once you know what connection you will need, make sure you put the DVD player close enough to the TV so that you can reach the appropriate cables to the back.


Do not stack different electronic equipment on top of one another -- they can quickly heat up when in use and damage the electronics. , This prevents the likelihood of electric shocks and protects the equipment. , Most projectors have the same set of inputs as TVs, so don't be intimidated if you want to hook up a projector instead.


Some projectors use a "DVI Input" instead of the three connections listed above. If so, follow the same procedure as "Connecting with an HDMI Cable," substituting a DVi cable for an HDMI. 