 Douches and feminine sprays are marketed towards women as products that promote cleanliness. The vagina, however, is a self-cleaning part of your body. Stay away from these types of products if you have vaginal dryness, as they can worsen the problem.Plain warm water is enough to clean your vagina. Don’t use soap or other cleansers on the outside or inside of your vagina.
 Bubble bath, scented soaps and lotions, and laundry detergent can all worsen dryness because they contain harsh chemicals. Use plain, unscented products whenever possible. Try natural laundry detergent, and skip using dryer sheets., Public swimming areas contain high amounts of chlorine, which is very drying to your skin. Avoid spending a lot of time in pools and hot tubs, or at least rinse your vagina well with cool, plain water afterwards., Dehydration can contribute to vaginal dryness, so ensure you stay well hydrated throughout the day.Aim to drink 9 cups (2.2 liters) of fluids daily.Drink more if you sweat a lot, work out, or live in a hot climate.
Water, juice, and tea count towards your fluids.
 Get regular exercise to help keep your hormones in balance. Aerobic workouts are those that increase your heart rate and breathing rate. Walking, slow jogging, biking, and swimming are good options. Aim to get at least 30 minutes of aerobic activity at least 5 days per week., Omega-3 fatty acids and products like flaxseed oil and soy have estrogen-like qualities, which may help improve vaginal dryness.Eat fatty fish like salmon or mackerel several times per week, and incorporate soy products into your diet.

You can also try taking oral probiotics to improve vaginal health. Find these as capsules at your pharmacy, or eat yogurt with live cultures., Nicotine dependence can cause or worsen vaginal dryness. Stop smoking now to help improve your symptoms., Some antidepressants, cold medicine, and allergy pills can dry out mucous membranes – including the sensitive skin in your vagina.Make a list of your medications to take to your doctor. Discuss whether any of your medicines might be worsening your problem, and whether you can switch to a different medication.

Never stop taking your medicine without your doctor’s supervision.

