 If you haven’t cleaned your window tracks in a while you may need a variety of supplies to get your window tracks back to that new and clean look. You’ll need:


A good vacuum with a hose attachment. A brush head can also help you break up caked on dirt.
A thin cleaning brush or an old toothbrush. You can also purchase special window track cleaning brushes. These brushes are designed with a special brush head that’s made to get all those hard to reach corners in the window track.
A clean bucket of warm or hot water. Add a few drops of dish soap or Dawn Soap until you see foamy bubbles.
One towel to dip into your water and one dry towel to wipe up any leftover moisture.
You may also want to grab baking soda and vinegar to help you break down any tough dirt or mold. You’ll need q-tips as well to loosen the dirt.;
, Take your vacuum cleaner with the attachment hose and suck out all the loose debris in the window track. Your vacuum will suck up any loose dirt as well as dead insects, dust, cobwebs, etc.
Once you have vacuumed up as much debris as you can, use your brush attachment if you have one. Scrub the tracks with your brush to help you break up more debris.
 Loosen up the muck with vinegar and baking soda. Target the corners first and then work your way into the center. You may also want to remove your screen for separate cleaning.
Pour a small amount of baking soda on your tracks. You only need a couple of tablespoons. Then pour a small amount of vinegar into the tracks.
Again, you don’t need a lot. Just enough vinegar so that it causes the baking soda to fizzle. The baking soda and vinegar will help to break up any tougher grime that your vacuum didn’t get.
 Once you’ve let the vinegar and baking soda soak in and work for a few minutes, go over the grime with your q-tips. A rule of thumb is to wait until the baking soda stops fizzling.

Clean by making small circles with your q-tips. Start at the corners and sweep all the muck toward the center. The q-tips should get most of the muck off the tracks.
Lay down some paper towels and press to soak up any leftover vinegar and grime.
 On some windows, you may be able to remove all the dirt and grime with vinegar and baking soda. But if your windows still need some work, it’s time to wash and wipe the tracks down.

Dish soap like Dawn works very well. Otherwise, you can use a natural, organic cleaning product. Natural cleaners like vinegar and lemon are options that will clean your tracks. You can also use Castille soap for an organic approach. , Use the brush to scrub the inside of the window tracks to loosen any leftover and stubborn dirt & debris.


You can use any type of brush from a special window track bush to a toothbrush to a toilet scrubber.
Pay special attention to the corners to ensure all dirt is properly loosened by the soapy brush. , Make sure you squeeze all the excess water out so that it doesn’t pool in your tracks.


Your towel should be damp enough to wipe away and absorb any leftover dirt.
 By now you’ll have efficiently cleaned your window tracks and there shouldn’t be much grime or dirt left.

Make sure to wipe down the main part of the track and the corners. Pay attention to each little crevice and groove.
It’s also a good idea to wipe down the vertical tracks if you haven’t already. Additionally, wipe any parts of the actual window that you can reach, especially the frame which touches the tracks.
 Wipe away any water drips or wet spots leftover in the window track.


After you’ve got your tracks looking pristine and to your liking, take your dry rag and give the tracks a good wipe. The dry rag will remove any moisture and prevent drip or streak marks.
You may also want to leave your windows open to let the areas air dry.
 To make cleaning your tracks quick and easy, do it a few times a year.

The more frequently you clean your windows and window tracks, the less work you’ll have to do each time you clean.
You don’t always have to go through all the steps to get the tracks nice and clean.
You may find that applying vinegar and baking soda is enough to get your tracks clean, or that a quick wipe down with soapy water gets all the grime off.
 Don’t ignore your vertical tracks. These areas are prime for grime and dirt buildup.

Use your brush and q-tips to get into the harder to reach places.
The dirt and grime that gets into your vertical tracks often falls down and creates more buildup on your bottom tracks.
 You may not always need to use a brush or q-tips. But when trying to clean out every part of the track, a brush or q-tip will be able to really get in and scrub the areas effectively.

You can also use an old toothbrush to reach smaller areas and still get an effective scrubbing.
 If you do a deep clean a couple times a year, you can still maintain cleaner tracks by wiping the tracks down whenever you clean that room.

You won’t always need to use soap and water or brushes if you clean frequently. Use some disinfectant wipes or paper towels and cleaning spray. Quickly clean the tracks to prevent excess buildup of grime or dirt, especially in the corners.

