 Many science classes include labs, which are demonstrations of techniques you’ve learned about in your textbook or lectures. Your teacher will expect you to show up ready to start your lab.Labs are usually scheduled at a separate time from the course. They may be in a different room or building from the lecture portion of the course.
In the labs, you’ll be expected to do hands-on work to practice the material you’re expected to learn.
 Labs taught at the college level will usually require written reports. While the specific method of presentation may vary according to your teacher’s methodology, you can expect your report to include: title, abstract, introduction, materials and methods, results, discussion, references and literature cited.The report must be typed, using the citation format that your instructor requires.
The purpose of the report is to persuade others to accept or reject your own hypothesis. Your report will do this by showing the data you found through your research, and your interpretation of the data.
 This notebook should be a bound journal, not looseleaf, with numbered pages that are never removed or torn out. It is a permanent record of the observations you make in your lab. You’ll write your lab report based on records you’ve kept in your notebook.


Don’t use your lab notebook to keep notes of your classwork, lectures, or other study materials.
Your lab notebook should be marked with your name, phone number, email address or other contact information in case it’s ever lost. Make sure to mark this information on the front cover in permanent ink.
 In addition to your lab notebook, you’ll need sharp pencils, a blank pen, a calculator, and other materials as your instructor requests. Dressing appropriately will also be important for your success in labs. Wear clean, comfortable clothes. Because you’ll be standing during a lot of your lab class, it’s a good idea to wear comfortable shoes.Your lab may require safety goggles, gloves to cover your hands, acid-proof aprons or other safety clothing.
Closed-toe shoes might be required for certain labs. It’s usually a good idea to avoid sandals, flip-flops, and other open-toe shoes.
Wearing long pants might be required for some labs.
 Many times, lab experiments are meant to be done by a group of 2 or more students. This means that you probably won’t have time to do the whole experiment on your own, and will need to rely on the group’s efforts.


You’ll need to be aware of the results of what others have done in the process, even if you didn’t do it yourself.
Part of the learning process in a lab is to learn to work effectively in a group.

