 The FBI operates a website where you can learn about internet fraud and file a complaint reporting fraudulent activity.


The IC3 works to combat fraud and make it safer for people to buy and sell items over the internet. A number of business partners, including eBay and PayPal, strengthen the operation by providing information and assistance to the FBI's investigation of internet fraud.All sorts of internet crime including fraud are investigated by the IC3. Complaints are reviewed and passed along to any other federal, state, or local agencies that might have an interest in the subject of the complaint., Review the information required for a complaint and pull together as many details as you have.


The IC3 complaint requires your name and contact information, as well as the name and contact information of the individual you believe defrauded you. Your complaint also should include a detailed description of the transaction and any other information you believe is relevant to your case.In addition to any emails, you also should retain any receipts, phone bills, or bank statements that contain information related to the fraudulent transaction., Once you have all the documents and details you need, you're ready to start the complaint process.


After you click the button, you'll have to read the FBI's privacy policy and accept its terms before continuing.
By the act of submitting your complaint, you acknowledge that the information you've provided is correct to the best of your knowledge. If you lie in your complaint, you risk being convicted and facing fines or jail time under federal law., The complaint form will have space for you to enter as much detail as possible about the fraudulent eBay listing.


Before you describe the transaction, you'll be asked for information about yourself, including contact information and the name of your local police or sheriff's office. You also will be asked information about the individual or business responsible for the fraud. Although you may not have enough information to fill in all the blanks on the form, you should provide as much information as you have.The complaint form also includes a monetary loss section in which you should specify the total amount of money you lost as a result of the fraudulent transaction and characterize your means of payment.The next section of the form provides a blank for you to include a description of the transaction in your own words. You should be as specific as you can and include as many details as possible including the dates any key events took place.You may attach electronic copies of documents such as emails with the other eBay user to your complaint, but you should maintain copies in your own records as well. If a law enforcement agency opens a full-scale investigation in the future they may request this information directly from you.If you attach electronic copies of emails, make sure they include the email header information as law enforcement agencies may be able to use that information to trace the location of the sender or receiver of the email., Once you're satisfied that all the information you've entered is complete and accurate, you can submit your complaint.


After you've submitted your complaint, you'll receive a confirmation email from the IC3 that acknowledges your complaint has been received and provides you with a unique complaint ID and password.The confirmation email also contains a link where you can review your complaint and download or print a PDF copy of it for your records, as well as add any further information., You can use your complaint ID and password to check on the review process or report additional information related to the same complaint.Although the IC3 does not itself conduct investigations, it reviews each complaint and forwards it to the appropriate federal, state, or local law enforcement and regulatory agencies.