 Confronted with a situation in which there are truly only two decisions and you are unsure which is best, the rational approach is to try to select the best choice after weighing the pros and cons of each. To do this effectively, you'll need some information about your options.


Information such as the features and ratings of two different car models can be useful, for example, in trying to avoid purchasing a poor quality car.Take some time to gather whatever information you can about the qualities and consequences of each option.
Talking to trusted friends can be a good way to gather information. Your friends may know things about the situation which you do not, or may present alternative perspectives that lead you to think about the situation in an entirely different way.This can also help you overcome your personal biases, and may be particularly effective if the friend you talk to has encountered a similar situation in their own life.Too many perspectives can muddy the waters, however. Seek out the council of a few trusted friends, but don't call everyone you know for advice.;
, Once you feel well informed about the situation, take some time to brainstorm the benefits and drawbacks of each option. Come up with as many different pros and cons as you can for each.Try to consider both the long and short-term consequences of your decision when generating your list. Both types of consequences matter, but long-term effects are sometimes less obvious.This type of thinking helps you try out different ideas and think things through.You can write this list down on a piece of paper, or use one of the many digital apps or websites that can help organize your thoughts.
 Once you've got a comprehensive list of the pros and cons, decide which types of considerations are most important to you.For example, if you are trying to choose between two job offers, you might consider whether location or pay is more important to you. If pay is more important, and one of the jobs offers a higher salary, that's a strong argument for that choice, even if you prefer the location of the other job.
 After determining which considerations are most important, analyze your lists and determine which option provides the best outcomes in terms of the most important considerations.


Try not to over-think this. Too much analysis can lead to more confusion than clarification.Try to think rationally about your options, rather than letting emotions cloud your judgment. Be open-minded and receptive to useful information, even if it makes you uncomfortable.