 Arthritis is often agitated by any motions or exercises that have high levels of impact on joints. To avoid making the symptoms of arthritis worse, you should always opt for low-impact forms of exercise. Using low-impact exercises will help reduce the stress on your joints and help keep you free from pain caused by arthritis. Try walking, swimming or bicycling for low impact activities.
Even some everyday activities such as gardening or yard work could count as low-impact exercise.
 Before you exercise or do any heavy physical activity, it can be a good idea to apply heat to warm up your joints and muscles. Warming the areas affected by arthritis will help keep them from developing the usual pain and stiffness that can accompany heavy physical activity. Try to apply gentle heat to any areas that you have arthritis to prevent it from worsening.You can use a warm towel to apply heat.
Taking a warm shower can help prepare your joints for activity.
Don't use anything that is painfully hot.
You can apply heat for about 20 minutes.
 Moving to quickly or vigorously during your day or a workout can worsen the effects of arthritis. It can be helpful to keep any motions gentle, smooth and slow to avoid triggering the painful symptoms that arthritis can bring. Always take care with your movement to help limit the effects arthritis has on your life.Always warm up before a workout.
Try gently moving for at least 10 minutes before exercise.
Use your full range of motion when warming up.
 Overexertion can bring out the symptoms of arthritis and may even cause it to develop further. If you suffer from arthritis, it's a good idea to avoid getting more physical exertion than you feel capable of. Taking it easy and getting in a break when you feel tired or sore can be good ideas when trying to limit the severity of your arthritis symptoms. Stop if you feel any pain.Swelling and redness can be signs that you need to take a break or stop for the day.
 After heavy physical activity, it can be a good idea to apply ice to any areas that you notice symptoms of arthritis. Applying ice can help prevent inflammation and stiffness in the areas you have arthritis, reducing the symptoms that it would have otherwise. Always apply ice after heavy physical labor or exercise to help manage your arthritis symptoms and prevent them from worsening. Try applying ice directly to areas that you have arthritis symptoms.
Never apply ice directly to the skin. Always wrap ice up in a cloth before using it on your joints.
Try to ice affected areas for around 20 minutes.

