 Don't copy Piper exactly, or you will look like a poser. As long as you like the way your hair looks, it doesn't matter. Piper doesn't care about her looks (which is ironic, given the fact that she is a child of Aphrodite) and is happy looking scruffy and disheveled, as long as she feels good. If you want to look like Piper, then go for a choppy hair cut, and little side braids, which don't take a lot of maintenance. But if you truly want to act like Piper, then as long as you like your hair, anything goes.;
, Piper is naturally good looking, and she doesn't spend hours fussing over make-up and clothes. Just dress in whatever you feel comfortable wearing. Piper tends to wear ripped jeans, converse, loose t-shirts and plaid shirts. She dresses for comfort, and not to please anyone but herself. Frankly, getting a lot of attention, for Piper, is very embarrassing, so don't try to draw attention to your clothing.
 Wash your face daily, apply toothpaste to spots overnight to help them heal, use acne creams if you need to, and just generally look after your skin. Piper is naturally pretty, and does not need make up to feel beautiful, so neither should you.
 Piper is a pretty tough cookie. No matter what you face, try to appear cool and collected. Try to stay calm in tricky situations. Piper is not afraid to stand up against bullies or speak her mind. She never needs to resort to petty name calling or violence, because she can stand up for herself, even against nasty people (like Drew, from the Aphrodite Cabin). If you find keeping your cool difficult, make sure you breathe through your nose, to help calm yourself down and if you need to, have a little list of clever comebacks in the back of your mind if you need to use them (but only as a last resort).
 Piper might be able to get whatever she wants using her charms speak, but that doesn't stop her from being a kind person. She is kind to all the kids at Camp Half-Blood, even the ones who were mean to her at first. She is even nice to that horrible bully, Drew. (Remember, people like Drew can't stand it when you're nice to them. They hate it. If somebody starts acting like Drew, and tries to be mean to you, just smile sweetly, and be so sickeningly nice to them that they can't stand it. It drives them crazy!) Charms speak doesn't really exist, but you CAN go places by being nice to people. Remember, please and thank you will go a long way!

, Piper hates being the center of attention. Try not to be loud, obnoxious, or cause a scene.
 You don't have to be one of those boy-crazy teenage girls who go goo-goo eyed over some hot boy-band, or read soppy romance books that make you want to puke, but care about love. Love is powerful, more powerful than you know, and try to be the girl that your friends go to for dating advice, even if you haven't dated many/any people at all! Never try to mess up people's relationships on purpose, and when you see a couple, be happy for them. Don't obsess over love, but don't be embarrassed to have a crush or be in love. It happens. It's okay.
 Piper is a vegetarian, but of course, you don't have to become one if you don't want to. Remember, the best way to be like Piper is to just be yourself, and not care about what other people think, rather than copy her exactly.
 Piper loves Cherokee mythology. It is a good idea to look up myths and legends in your free time, especially ones connected to your family heritage (e.g. If you're Irish, look up Celtic lore).

