 Always be sure to quote your subjects accurately. If you are unsure, double check with them as to what they said or consult your recording of the interview.


Never alter quotes.
 This is because a quote rarely has the power to sum up the story on its own.


Provide at least a full paragraph of explanatory text before introducing quotes from the main actors involved in the story.
If you intend to use quotes at all in your story, introduce them in the third or fourth paragraph.
One exception is when writing longer feature articles in a news magazine or, less commonly, in a newspaper.
 Don’t overuse quotes or string them together in long, multi-paragraph passages.


One quote per paragraph is often enough. However, if you choose to include a longer paragraph consisting of mostly or entirely quoted material, you only need to reference the source once. For instance, you could write:

“Our forces are spread thin,” Commander Jones said. “Though the enemy is concentrated in the north, they are massing additional forces in the east, and their allies are gathering strength in the west.”



, For instance, do not write: The party was “surprised” by the speed voters abandoned it. “Surprised” is a fairly typical word and not very memorable, and can therefore be referenced as indirect speech without quotes. Instead, write the same sentence without the quotation marks.


In the case of unusual phrases or language, partial quotes are acceptable. For instance: Senator Michaels was “bowled over” by the response to his legislation. This vocabulary choice is unusual and may indicate something about Senator Michaels’ personality.
 Some people believe that enclosing inflammatory speech within quotation marks will eliminate the possibility that they can be sued for defamatory speech. However, this is not so.


For instance, suppose you write the following sentence: Candidate X is a “dirty communist” and is unfit to hold office. Assuming Candidate X is not a communist, you could be sued for utilizing defamatory speech, even though you enclosed “dirty communist” in quotation marks.

