 This will help you determine how much tile is needed for the project.


Use a measuring tape to measure the length and width of your floor, then multiply the length and the width to calculate the total floor area. For example, if your room is 12 feet (3.65 meters) by 9 feet (2.74 meters), your total floor area will be 108 feet (32.91 meters).;
, The amount of tiles you need will vary depending on the size of tiles you want for your floors. For example, if you want square tiles that measure 1 foot (30.48 cm) on each side, you will need 108 tiles for a floor area that measures 108 feet (32.91 meters).


Use an online floor tile calculator if you need mathematical assistance with determining how many tiles are needed for your flooring.
Type "floor tile calculator" into any Internet search engine to locate a website with a calculator or use the calculator on the "Dummies" website, which is featured in the Sources section of this article.



Go to any Internet search engine and use a variety of keywords to find tile retailers; such as "online tile store," "buy tile online," or "best tiles online." The search results will display numerous retailers that sell tile.
Use specific keywords if you want to buy a certain type or style of tile. For example, if you want to buy ceramic tiles, type keywords such as "buy ceramic tiles online" to locate retailers that specialize in ceramic tiles.
 Most retail websites will feature product reviews and ratings written by consumers next to each item being sold. This will allow you to determine if other buyers of the tile have been satisfied with their purchase.


Read both the positive and negative product reviews, and look for trends and patterns with feedback. For example, you may not want to buy a specific brand or style of tile if numerous consumers have written negative reviews about the tile; such as how corners of a specific tile continuously peel up from the floor.
 You may want to choose a tile retailer that honors returns in the event that your tile is the wrong color, wrong size, or if there are any problems with the order.


Look for the warranty and return policies within the "frequently asked questions" section of the website or locate a specific section labeled similarly to "buying policies."
Look specifically for information that indicates you will be required to pay a restocking fee if you return tiles. In some cases, websites will charge you a large percentage of the final sale price if you decide to return the tile later on.
 Depending on the weight and size of your tile order, your shipping fees may be costly.


Buy from websites that charge flat shipping rates for all tile orders, or for websites that honor shipping discounts if you order a specific amount of tiles. The shipping fees on these types of websites may be less costly.
 In some cases, you may want to follow up with your order or ask questions about the tile during the installation process.


Look for a customer service phone number, email address, and the retailer's office hours of operation. You may not want to purchase tile from an online retailer with limited customer service hours, or from a retailer that does not provide customer service at all.
 If you are not installing the tile yourself, you will need to call local tile installers in your area to determine if they can install the tile you are ordering.


Locate a local tile installer using your local phone directory, your local phone book, or by performing an Internet search.
Provide the tile installer with information about the tile you plan on ordering; such as the tile's brand name, style, and any other details. The tile installer will then be able to verify if they can install that tile for you.

