 If you don't want to order checks through your bank, or if you simply want to shop around for a better deal, you can order checks through an online third-party vendor. You can search around online to find the best deals by entering "order checks online" or "cheap check orders" in a search engine.


Be sure that the site you use is secure and legitimate. Once you've found a low-cost check service, you may want to search online for reviews of that service/company to ensure that they are not a fraudulent or scamming company., If you're ordering through a third-party vendor, you'll need to provide the website with your account information. Unlike your bank's website, the third-party vendor will not be able to simply link with your bank account. If you already have existing checks from your bank, your information will be on the checks. If not, you may need to contact your bank to learn this information. You'll need to provide:


your bank's routing number (the nine-digit figure located in the bottom left-hand corner of a check, bracketed by a vertical bar and a colon)
your checking account number (located in the bottom-center of a check, usually preceding the individual check number of that check)your address and possibly your phone number
the number you want your checks to start on (optional)
the date you opened your checking account (not always a requirement, but may be, depending on the state you live in), Depending on where you order checks from, they will most likely be cheaper than you'd pay through the bank. You'll still have to pay, though, and you'll need to provide the website with your payment information. Then simply wait for the checks to arrive by mail or courier.


The cost, delivery options, and delivery time will vary, depending on which service you use.
 Once your checks arrive, you should ensure that they are safe and secure. You can do this by looking for a padlock icon on the checks. You will most likely see it on the right-hand side of the check, under the box where you'll enter the amount. That icon means that the company (and its checks) have been verified by the Check Payment Systems Association (CPSA).