 A fever is a form of inflammation your body uses to protect itself against harmful substances. Foods that increase inflammation can cause your fever to worsen or last longer. They can also cause indigestion and bloating, making you even more uncomfortable. Try to avoid these foods as much as possible, especially when you have a fever:Refined carbohydrates such as white bread, pastries, and donuts
Fried foods
Sugar-sweetened beverages such as soda or energy drinks
Red meat such as veal, ham, or steak and processed meats such as hot dogs
Margarine, shortening, and lard

, While some foods can cause inflammation, others can help reduce it. However, if you experience nausea, indigestion, or vomiting after eating something, you should try to avoid it until your fever decreases. Lighter, non-acidic foods such as salads with light dressing, nuts, and whole grains are more easily absorbed by the body when you have a fever. Foods that help reduce inflammation include:Fruits such as strawberries, cherries, and oranges
Nuts like almonds and walnuts
Green leafy vegetables such as spinach or kale, which are high in antioxidants
Fatty fish like salmon, mackerel, tuna, and sardines
Whole grains such as brown rice, quinoa, millet, oatmeal, and flax seed
Olive or canola oil

, Although vitamin C deficiency is rare, it can greatly affect the immune system. Making sure you get enough Vitamin C when you have a fever can help your body recover faster. Vitamin C can be taken as a dietary supplement with a recommended dose of 500 mg split into two or three times daily. Since smoking depletes vitamin C, smokers may need an additional 35 mg per day. You can also add vitamin C-rich foods to your daily diet. Good natural sources of vitamin C include:Sweet red or green peppers
Citrus fruit such as oranges, pomelo, grapefruit, limes, or non-concentrated citrus juices
Spinach, broccoli, and brussel sprouts
Strawberries and raspberries
Tomatoes
Mango, papaya, and cantaloupe

, Magnesium is a necessary nutrient for many body functions, such as energy production. It also reduces anxiety, stress, chronic fatigue, chest pain, and helps maintain healthy blood pressure, cholesterol, and blood sugar levels.Magnesium deficiency can weaken the immune system and cause a number of health problems.


Natural food sources of magnesium include salmon, mackerel, halibut, tuna, dark chocolate, dark leafy greens, nuts, seeds, brown rice, lentils, soybeans, black beans, chickpeas, avocado, and bananas.Calcium can inhibit the absorption of magnesium supplements, so it is better to use more readily absorbed forms such as magnesium bicarbonate and magnesium oxide. 100mg of magnesium supplements is recommended to be taken 2–3 times daily. Adults should get at least 280–350 mg of magnesium daily.
Excessive intake of magnesium can have adverse effects and reduce calcium absorption, so it is important not to overdose. Ask your doctor what dosage will be right for your individual needs.
 Drinking warm fluids such as soup can help reduce the internal temperature of the body, promote hydration, and stimulate sweating that helps keep your body cool to alleviate fever.The broth for the soup should be light and should contain no flour or grains.


Place 1 lb. of sliced potatoes, ½ lb. of chopped carrots, ¼ lb. of chopped leeks, and other leafy vegetables such as lettuce, spinach, or red cabbage in 2 liters of water.
Cook for one hour on medium heat, then strain the soup into a mug or soup bowl. Salt should only be added for individuals with low blood pressure.
 A bland diet includes foods that are soft, not very spicy, and low in fiber to be digested easily.Some good choices for foods are:Breads, crackers, and pastas made with refined white flour
Refined hot cereals, such as oatmeal or cream of wheat
Juices are okay in moderation, but do not give your child too much fruit juice, as many fruits contain citric acid, which can cause stomach acid reflux and lead to vomiting. Dilute these drinks by making them one half water, one half juice. If you are making homemade juice, make sure the fruits or vegetables used are ripe. Make sure the juice is 100% juice with no added sugar. Do not give juice to a child who is vomiting.For children who are accustomed to drinking it regularly, milk is a good choice if they are not vomiting.
Infants should only be given nutritious beverages, breastmilk, and commercial rehydration solutions like Pedialyte until the fever comes down. Solid foods may put too much strain on the infant’s digestive system.