 If you make a plan ahead of time, you might be more likely to stick to it--especially if that plan involves another person. Ask a coworker to go for a walk or jog with you after work, or to hit up the health club nearby on the way home. Or, make a plan to do yoga in the park on your day off together.Making a plan by yourself won’t be as effective as asking someone else to join you. Not only will you feel more accountable for following through with that plan, you’ll have the person nearby at work as a reminder that the plan is in place.
 If you’re not so good at keeping your hand out of the candy jar at work, ask that your coworkers keep their junk food out of the common areas. You could suggest a bin system in the fridge with each employee’s name on them, or that the candy and donuts in the break room be replaced with fruit.It might seem like a stretch to suggest others change their habits as well, but you aren’t really asking them to stop eating unhealthy things—just that those unhealthy things aren’t out in the open for anyone to graze on.
You might be surprised to find that many of your coworkers might be in favor of a healthy change in the communal snacks in the workplace.
 Some offices or workplaces hold competitions to see which employee can lose the most weight over a certain period of time. Instead of creating competitiveness, though, try fostering support. If multiple employees want to participate, consider creating a group meeting after work once or twice a week to help support each other along the way.If you work at a desk or on the computer, consider creating a digital way to keep track of each other’s success, like an email thread or a personal webpage.
 Sometimes changing up your eating habits can be difficult, especially if you don’t really know what to cook for yourself. Hold a healthy dish potluck at work to get some new ideas of easy, healthy dishes you can make yourself.


Have each person bring along a few copies of the recipe for the dish they’ve brought. That way, if you like it, you will know how to make it yourself at home!

