 The best option of all, of course, is to avoid situations where you have to make a split-second decision or be sacked. Unfortunately, every quarterback finds himself in this situation eventually. If a sack is imminent, throwing the ball is only one of your options. Based on the circumstances on the field, you may also choose to do one of the following:


Run the ball. If your linemen have made an opening for you, you may want to dodge any rushers and run forward for a possible gain of several yards. If there's no openings, you should run up the side of the field. In both situations, you may still be tackled for a loss of yards, but you still avoid an especially damaging sack.
Execute a lateral. If there is an open and attentive offensive player (usually a running back), you can toss the ball to him as long as he is behind or to the side of you. This is called a "lateral." If an attempted lateral goes forward, it is usually illegal and will receive a penalty.
 Intentionally throwing the ball away to avoid a sack can be illegal based on where you are on the field. In the NFL, throwing the ball away while you are within the "pocket" formed by your offensive tackles results in an Intentional Grounding penalty. However, if you are outside the pocket, you may throw the ball away.


An intentional grounding penalty results in a loss of 10 yards (9.1 m) - worse than many sacks. Because of this, it may be better to take a small loss of yards if you are in the pocket.
 In the NFL, a pass begins when the passer begins to bring his hand forward. Thus, the quicker you initiate the pass, the more likely you are to have an incomplete pass called (which will result in no lost yards.)

, It's difficult to maneuver in the instant before being tackled, but, if possible, try to ensure the tackler grabs your lower body. If he wraps your arms up, you won't be able to throw and may even risk a fumble.


Keep your arms free, but if you can't throw before you're tackled, tuck the ball in as you fall. This way, you're less likely to lose control of it and fumble.
 If you're feeling lucky and you can't see any receivers as you're being tackled, you can try passing the ball so that it is blocked by part of a defender's body but is not caught. This is risky, but will result in an incomplete pass.
 This will vary based on which parts of your body the tackler has a hold on. If you have a free leg, step into the pass. If your upper body is free, roll your shoulders through the pass.
 The only outcome worse than a sack is an interception, so make sure the pass is out of reach of any defenders between you and the receiver. This may require throwing over the body of your tackler if you are being tackled from the front.

