 Things to consider include: Screen size, projector distance location, mini-kitchen, placement of audio equipment, sloped and/or tiered seating arrangements, size of couches or chairs.;
,, IR, RF, and RS232 control of components. MX3000 with RF/232 interface is a nice option. Wireless keyboard (Logitech’s Bluetooth Plexiglas has the mouse built in to the keyboard).
 Lutron has simple IR light switches and when interfacing with the MX3000 controller you can individually assign the IR output to control individual light switches. There are also whole house lighting systems that can be controlled via RS232 commands. An off color rope light in a crown molding helps with mood lighting that can add ambiance to the room. Red rope light tucked under the base trim is a cheap way to re-create the theatre style aisle lights.
 Run at least one HDMI cable from the projector to the component rack. Perhaps a monitor cable, Cat 5 (IR and/or RS232 control and programming, RG-6 (may want 3 or 4 just in case HDMI options are not available). Cat 5 to the home router which will connect to the hub/switch in the component cabinet. Consider running all power back to the component rack (projector, sub, and seating)- this will allow you to build an “extension” cord that plugs the devices (projector/sub/other?) into the power conditioning units. Cat 5, RG6 and 16/2 speaker runs to the seats (seats are for the bass shacker/butt kicker option). 7.1 surround means 16/2 (min) wire to 2 speakers in the rear, middle and front, plus an additional 16/2 for the front center speaker. RG6 or long subwoofer wire from component rack to the Subwoofer location. 2/3/4 RG6’s wires from Satellite and/or Cable provider to component rack. Consider conduit to all locations.
 720p, 1080i, 1080p, High Def v. ???? These are all very confusing numbers and letters for the average. The basics are DLP is better. 1080i is the high def being provided by the satellite and digital cable providers. It looks great! 1080p is the current high spec. If going on 1080p make sure all the secondary components are capable of the same numbers/letters.
 Flat and dark is a good option. If it is a dedicated room, try a dark maroon on the walls and flat black on the ceiling. It is a dark room even with multiple can lights on, but it works well. For a dedicated home theatre you should look into acoustical paneling for the walls as well. This helps with the audio quality within the room and helps isolate the sound from outside rooms.

