 Avoid a routine life, if you would make new ideas actual: actualize them. You will make something happen by doing it on purpose.;
,, Look there for a new/or old use for an existing object or thought, in a better way.
, Use a coincident as an intersection of ideas. Cross traffic may be an obstacle, bring a collision or a chance to combine things, spreading into connections. It is amazing how looking opens the doors: physical openings, objects and ideas that you can bring out, to develop some ideas.
 Stand on the "shoulders" of the previous generations of ideas, objects and people. There you begin based on what exists already, which may be a helpful old plan, mentor or a partner, etc.
 You may need less formal training than people believe, if you use the steps. But, education often stifles, or kills ideas. Teachers often show you old ideas to bog down into, getting stuck. Use those ideas as steps up from there.
 Clear up ideas; make gains; don't sit on your ideas. Don't reinvent basic things or even systems unless you are a dedicated, primary innovator-inventor. If you are, then do you have or will you make the time and raise the money that you need to create and develop it.


In the worst case, failed inventors may quite often be "ne'er-do-wells," who never develop anything beyond loss, debt and muddled ideas.
 Expand a concept, a new, clear use in your area of interests.
 Go where they are available and learn from ones who may help your goal: convention exhibits, trade shows. Suppliers and professionals who may want your future business can be quite fertile fields to dig in, for helpful hints and ways to do things, to develop needed methods, procedures (accounting, law), etc.
, It must not remain just dreamy stuff. Do it: do amazing things to you.
 Concentrate your effort. Muscle it up. Make it go. Think as you go. Take breaks to see it. Work may cover it up.
 Habitual quitters "do less" than is needed. That usually leads to failure.
 Use movement, not dead weight.
 Get as strong as is needed.
 Exploit your situation. Expand your slice or niche into your full arena to open new vistas, wider views.
 Some steps may prove to work in cycles, reiterative processes, looping, repeating often, such as in each event or each day...

