 A three-strand braid is a very common way to braid, perhaps most associated with a classic schoolgirl hair braid. You can use this technique to make a strong braided rope. Braided ropes are appropriate for use in high-friction situations.You can use more or less any type of rope material for this method, including synthetic rope, natural rope and plastic cords. It just has to be flexible enough that you can work with it. If the ends of your strands are frayed, fuse them before you begin.


With a synthetic rope you can fuse the end by holding it over a candle so that it melts a little and fuses together.You can tie twine (dental floss works well) around the end portion of the strand to bind it together. This practice is known as “whipping.”You can also use tape to secure the ends of the strands, and prevent fraying.;
, Use a knot or some tape to securely bind the ends of your three strands. Electrical tape and gaffer tape are good choices, depending on how thick the strands you are using are. Once you have bound the strands together at the left-hand side, stretch out the rest of the rope towards the right-hand end.


The three strands should be lying next to each other and not overlapping to get your starting position.You may find it helpful to label the three strands A, B, and C.
You could also color-code the strands, or use different colors if you want to make a pattern.
 Start by crossing strand A over the central strand B. The order of strands will now be B, A, C. Next cross the other outside strand across the newly central strand, C over A. Now the order will be B, C, A. This is one basic repetition of the braiding pattern for a three-strand braid., Continue repeating this pattern of crossing one outside strand over the central strand, and then crossing the other outside strand over the new central strand.


In this example you would now cross B over C, so that B is the central strand.
Then you would cross A over B so that A is the central strand.
You can continue this pattern until you reach the end of the length of rope., Once you have reached the end of the rope, you can secure the braid by binding the strands together. You can do this by taping the ends together with electrical tape or gaffer, or by tying a strong knot at the end.

