 Most cats don't like the feel of large pieces of mulch, so they will avoid the areas with it. In addition, part of the attraction of a garden is the fresh dirt, which most cats view as a litter box. By covering up the fresh dirt, you make that area less inviting., You can lay this wire across the paths that lead to your garden. Cats do not like the openings in the wire on their paws and will usually stay away.You can also lay the wire across your beds and cover it with mulch. Use wire cutters to create holes for your plants, and bend the ends of the wire down, pressing them into the ground. This wire deters cats from using the dirt as a litter box and from clawing at the dirt., Criss-cross branches across your plant beds. Cats won't like walking on the branches, and you can place plants in the openings.An alternative to branches is lattice work. Plants can grow up through the holes of the lattice, and cats won't like walking on it., Though these mats sound malicious, they are not harmful to the cats. They have small plastic spikes on the mats that cats don't like walking on. You cut the mat into pieces and then set them along your beds., These types of repellants, which you can find at local gardening and hardware stores, come in granules or sprays. Cats do not like the smell, so it will keep them out of the area.Granules are better if you need to cover a large area. If you want to keep cats away from a certain plant, the spray is easier. You will need to renew this when you see cats coming back in your yard.Lion dung is an effective repellant that you can buy online. The cat is scared off because it thinks a bigger predator is around.
 Most cats do not like the smell of citrus. One easy method is to scatter citrus peels around the yard, though you will need to replenish them frequently.Instead of peels, you can use sprays that have citrus scents. You can also dissolve citrus essential oils and spray it around your garden. Simply dissolve 10-15 drops of oil in a cup of water, and place it in a spray bottle., For instance, cats don't like the smell of pipe tobacco or coffee, so you can spread the grounds or used tobacco around your plants to keep the cats out.Alternatively, you can spray a vinegar and water solution around the yard, or you can dissolve 10-15 drops of lavender or eucalyptus oil in a cup of water to spray the yard, as well. You will need to spray these periodically to keep the cats out., Some people have had luck with spreading crushed red pepper around the garden. However, you need to spread it around again after each rainfall., Cats avoid this plant because of its odor. Though it can be poisonous to cats, they will avoid it completely rather than chewing on it., You can use either ultrasonic or water motion detectors in your garden. You place them around your garden, and when a cat comes in, the motion activates a sensor. Depending on the kind you use, it either creates an ultrasonic sound that humans can't hear or sprays the area with water, both of which deter the cats. Some even combine the two approaches.If you see a cat while you're in the garden, you can try giving him a gentle spray with the hose to run him out.