 The RMV will require you to bring specific forms of identification to complete the application.


Bring your valid Massachusetts drivers license.
If you do not have a Massachusetts drivers license, bring documents that prove your date of birth, your signature, and your place of residence within the state of Massachusetts.
Bring your Department of Transportation (DOT) medical certificate. This certificate is required by all commercial drivers with the exception of those who drive state or municipal vehicles. The DOT can be obtained from your health care provider.;
, An application can be obtained from the RMV website or from any RMV full service office.


Visit the Massachusetts RMV website featured in the Sources section of this article, then click on the "Forms and Manuals" tab at the top of the website.
Click on "Licensing," then scroll down to the Learner's Permit section and click on the link for the commercial drivers license application.
Print the application directly from your Internet browser.
If you do not have access to the Internet or a printer, call the RMV Telephone Center at 617-351-4500 or 800-858-3926 to learn of the nearest full service RMV office from which to obtain the application.
 You can complete the form using blue or black ink.


Provide your personal information; such as your name, eye color, hair color, weight, height, date of birth, Social Security Number, and your address.
Indicate the type of commercial vehicle you plan on driving. You can choose from options that include a school bus, passenger vehicle, a vehicle that transports hazardous materials, and more.
Complete all other required information. The form will ask if you want to be an organ donor, ask for voter registration information, and other questions surrounding your ability to drive a commercial vehicle; such as your medical history.
Sign and date the commercial drivers license application.
 During your visit, you will take an eye-screening test, the written exam, and turn in the commercial drivers license application.


If you are transferring your commercial drivers license from another state, you will receive a Massachusetts commercial drivers license and will not be required to take the written exam or receive a learner's permit.
Bring 30 dollars (21 euros) with you to pay for the written exam fee. If you plan on adding endorsements to your commercial drivers license, such as an endorsement that allows you to transport hazardous materials, there will be an extra 10 dollar (7 euro) fee per endorsement.
Turn in your commercial drivers license application with the appropriate fee amount. The DMV will then have you complete the eye-screening test and written exam. After you have passed both tests, you will be issued a learners permit.
 To receive your commercial drivers license, you will be required to pass a road test later on that demonstrates your ability to properly operate a commercial vehicle.


Drive commercial vehicles with a sponsor. By law, you are required to drive with a passenger who holds a commercial drivers license with the same class as the vehicle you are driving. For example, if you plan on driving a school bus, your passenger must also be licensed to drive a school bus.
 All road test appointments must be made over the telephone with the RMV; appointments cannot be made in person.


Call the RMV Telephone Center at 617-351-4500 or 800-858-3926 to schedule an appointment for the road test. You will also be notified of the location for your road test.



Obtain another commercial drivers license application. The information you provide on the application will only differ in regards to your learner's permit information; such as the amount of time you have had the permit, and the license number of your learner's permit.
Bring your current drivers license and learner's permit.
Bring your DOT medical certificate or medical waiver, if applicable.
Bring your sponsor with you to the road test. Your sponsor must bring their commercial drivers license and a DOT medical certificate. The endorsements on their license must match those for the commercial vehicle you plan on driving for the road test.
Bring a commercial vehicle. The vehicle must be registered, insured, and fall into the class of vehicle you are applying to drive.
Bring 75 dollars (54 euros) for the license fee. Additional endorsements that you add to your license will cost 30 dollars (21 euros) each.
 During the road test, you will be required to demonstrate to the examiner how your commercial vehicle should be inspected; in addition to vehicle control and driving skills.


Bring all your documents and your sponsor to the road test appointment.
 After you pass the test, the examiner will stamp and sign your learner's permit.


Take the endorsed learner's permit to a full service RMV office. You will then be issued your Massachusetts commercial drivers license.

