 There are many different types of gardens and uses for a garden, so think about what your ideal type of garden would provide. Some of the different types of gardens include:Vegetable garden. This may be the most popular and practical type of garden. By growing your own vegetables, you can save money and increase the amount of fresh vegetables you eat.

Flower garden. A flower garden adds beauty to your yard and it can be a relaxing escape for you. If you are mainly interested in beautifying your property, then a flower garden may be the best choice.

Butterfly garden. You cannot grow butterflies, but you can plant flowers that will attract them to your yard. This can be a great type of garden to plan with kids.

Wildlife garden. A wildlife garden is one that helps to support the animals in your area by providing them with sources of food and shelter.;
, If you have lots of space, then you can plant a garden in the ground. If you have limited space or simply do not want to plant in the ground, then you can also plant a garden in containers. You can grow a variety of different plants in pots and keep them on a patio or in a sunny spot of your yard. Some plants even thrive in containers indoors, so using containers may also be ideal if you live in an apartment.If you live in an area with good soil that is not too rocky or sandy, then growing your garden in-ground is a good option.
If growing your garden in-ground is not a viable choice, then consider buying containers to grow your plants in or building above-ground beds. Above ground beds are great because they are easier on your back and can be moved around your yard if desired.
If you are limited on space, but still want to have your garden outside, then you can grow a vertical garden. These types of gardens use small planters or stacked crates and upright-growing plants.
 Most plants require around 6 to 8 hours of full sun to thrive. If you do not have an area that will provide this much sun, then you can still plant a garden. You will just have to choose plants that thrive in the shade or with less sun.Try checking the area where you plan to grow your garden a few times per day on a sunny day to see how long the sun is shining in that area. For example, you could check at 7am, 11am, 2pm, and 5pm, and make a note if the sun is shining on that area around that time. If the sun is shining on an area during two or three of your checks, then sun-loving plants will probably thrive there.

