 If you have an automatic payment option established with your account, accessing the account online will typically allow the cardholder to view the list of pending payments along with the scheduled dates. A quick review of the upcoming payments will make it easy to see if one or more need to be stopped and rescheduled for a later date.
 Many providers allow a time frame in which pending payments may be canceled, changed or rescheduled. Make sure to initiate the change within the required period in order to prevent possible rejections by your bank, a situation that would result in the assessment of late charges and other fees and penalties.
 Stopping a scheduled credit card payment requires nothing more than telephoning the provider, identifying the upcoming payment date and canceling that pending payment. Be prepared to provide information that confirms your identity and serves as authorization to make the changes. Alternatively, log into the account using your account credentials, access the pending payments and cancel the payment or payments that need to be delayed.


Keep a record of who you talked to, date, time, and outcome of call. Follow up with letter confirming conversation.
 Confirmation of the changes to your payment schedule are usually provided instantly in an online environment or follow shortly thereafter in the form of an official email confirmation. If the changes are made by phone, the customer service representative will confirm that the changes are complete before ending the call, and will typically offer a confirmation number. Write down the number and keep in on file, just in case the changes do not make it all the way through the system for some reason.
 If stopping a pre-arranged payment also means that you will be unable to make a payment on time, it is important to call the provider to notify them. This can help to potentially waive any late fees, and could establish good will.


For example, if you are postponing your monthly cell phone, call the provider and notify them you will be late. They may be able waive or negotiate a one-time reduction or elimination in your late fee.

