 While finding ways to generate an income online can be fairly straightforward, taking that from the spare change category to a full-fledged income takes some dedication. But the process isn't difficult if you do a little planning.
 If you're going to make money online, you're going to need to manage your time. Google Calendar is a great solution if you don't already have a calendar application.


Look at the month view. See all that empty white space? We're going to rectify that.
 Now, scroll to next week, and starting next Monday, create an event that represents the time you can spend working.


If you have coffee with a friend in the morning, a racquetball game at noon, or have to pick up the kids at 3pm, adjust your time accordingly—including commute and decompress time.
Repeat this step for every day of next week, until your calendar is filled:
Don't forget to give yourself a lunch break of at least a half hour. You—and your eyes—will need the break.
This will not only help you plan your work availability, it will also help you see where you might be able to recover some extra time for launching your online career.
 Launching a career requires hard work, but if your time is managed well you are exponentially more likely to become successful than if you dedicated an entire day but accomplished nothing.
 This may or may not come naturally to you, but it's a valuable skill to master for working online. As the saying goes, "On the internet, nobody knows you're a dog," but you do. Here are a couple tips to help you stay motivated:


Remind yourself at the start of the day what you are doing, why you are doing it, and what you hope to accomplish. Do that for the short term—today—and for the overall goals you have set for your online career. If you don't do any of the other steps, do this one. It not only helps direct your focus, it puts you into a "work" mindset.
Keep a morning routine as if you were going into a professional office. (On casual Friday. Let's not get carried away here!) Set your alarm clock, work out, shower, shave, have some breakfast—whatever your routine might be for office days, keep it going. It puts you in the mindset of "professional," rather than "homebody."
Don't sit for 8 hours at a time. Every couple hours—or whenever you finish a significant task—get up and take a walk. The latest reports say sitting all day is very unhealthy. It's hard to be motivated and at your best when you are ill.
Don't neglect your personal life. It can be very easy when focusing your energy on starting a career, but play the long game. Friends and family are important, and will be there long after you've retired.
 Starting a business—any business—is hard, and it's not going to make you rich overnight. You've probably heard the stories where the excited housewife went from living in a trailer park to owning a mansion in just a year, thanks to "Willy Billy's Patented GetRichNow™" program, but that's not reality.


Willy Billy, on the other hand, wrote and sold 50,000 copies of his book for $39.95 and raked in nearly $2 million.
He also planned a marketing and sales campaign that hooked a mere hundredth of 1% of the U.S. population. Willy Billy got rich, but he didn't do it overnight.
Exercise due diligence when looking at any online opportunity.

