 iPhone’s "Do not disturb" mode temporarily blocks all noises, vibrations, and lights so you can be distraction-free. When your iPhone is in this mode, it will receive calls and messages as normal but will not vibrate, ring, or light up.


Note: Alarms set in the iPhone Clock app will still sound as normal when your phone is in "do not disturb" mode.
Many people place their phones in this mode overnight so that they are not woken up by unwanted vibrations, rings, or lights from their phones., This brings up the iPhone control panel.
 This button, located in the upper portion of your control panel, enables "do not disturb" mode. If the button is white, "do not disturb" is on. Tap the button again (back to gray) if you'd like to disable "do not disturb".


You can also access "do not disturb" by going to Settings > Do Not Disturb. Change to toggle next to "Manual" from white to green.Control panel has another, similar icon which displays a crescent moon inside of a sun. This button enables a function called NightShift.
 If the "do not disturb" mode is a feature you use daily, you may program your iPhone to automatically enter and exit this mode at specific times of day. Select Settings > Do Not Disturb. Move the toggle switch next to “Scheduled” from white to green, then manually set the “From” and “To” times.For instance, you may wish to input your normal working hours (9AM to 5PM) to avoid distractions while at work.
 By default, "do not disturb" allows contacts that you've designated "Favorites" to get through and disturb you. You can customize these settings by going to Settings > Do not Disturb > Allow Calls From.


Click “Everyone,” “No One,” “Favorites,” or “All Contacts.”, By default, "do not disturb" is set up to allow a call through if it comes from the same person within a 3 minute window. This setting is designed with emergency situations in mind, but can be shut off.


Choose Settings > Do not Disturb.
Find the toggle next to “Repeated Calls”. Leave it green to keep this mode enabled or switch it to white to turn this option off.