 Add approximately 4 cups (946 ml) of water to a large pot. Place it on the stove, and heat it over medium-high to high heat until it comes to a full boil.If you like, you can add a pinch of salt to the water to help season it before you add the noodles.;
, When the water has come to a boil, add 6 ounces (170 g) of whole wheat spaghetti noodles. Allow the noodles to cook according to the instructions on the package until they are soft.You can substitute soba buckwheat noodles for the whole wheat spaghetti if you prefer.
In most cases, it will take approximately 8 minutes to cook the spaghetti noodles properly.
 Once the spaghetti is cooked, use a pair of tongs to lift the noodles out of the pot. Place them in a colander and shake well to remove all the excess water. Leave the cooking water in the pot on the stove.Be careful when transferring the spaghetti from the pot to the colander. The noodles will be very hot, so it’s easy to burn yourself.
 After you’ve removed the noodles from the pot, place ½ pound (227 g) of fresh asparagus that have been cut into 2-inch (5-cm) pieces into the same boiling water. Let the asparagus cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until it is cooked through but still has some snap to it.You can substitute your favorite vegetables for the asparagus if you prefer. Broccoli, green beans, and carrots are ideal substitutions.
 When the asparagus is finished cooking, drain the vegetable in the colander, shaking well to remove the excess moisture. Next, rinse the asparagus in cold water to stop the cooking process., Add 3 ½ tablespoons (52 ½ ml) of toasted sesame oil, ⅓ cup (79 ml) of lime juice, ½ teaspoon (3 g) of kosher salt, and ½ teaspoon (1 g) of freshly ground black pepper to a small bowl. Use a whisk to mix the ingredients until they’re fully combined.Be sure to use toasted sesame oil, not untoasted. The toasted oil has a bold, nutty flavor that really adds to the dish.
For the best tasting noodle bowls, use fresh lime juice.
 Place a large, nonstick skillet on the stove over medium-high heat. Spray the surface lightly with cooking spray to grease it, and let the pan heat for 3 to 5 minutes.You can substitute a drop or two of canola oil for the cooking spray. Swirl it through the skillet to ensure that it’s fully coated, though.
 When the skillet is hot, place 1 pound (454 g) of salmon fillet that’s been skinned and cut into 1-inch (2.5-cm) pieces into the pan. Allow the salmon to cook for 2 to 3 minutes on the first side, and then turn it over to cook it for another 2 to 3 minutes on the other side. Set the salmon aside for the moment.The salmon should be be cooked through, so the time will depend on the thickness of the pieces. Thicker pieces may require 3 to 4 minutes on each side to cook completely.
 Add the cooked spaghetti noodles, tender crisp asparagus, and the sesame oil dressing to a large bowl. Stir the ingredients together well to ensure that they’re thoroughly mixed., After you’ve mixed the noodles, asparagus, and dressing, mix 1 ½ cups (185 g) of cucumber that’s been cut into medium pieces and 1 avocado that’s been pitted and sliced to the bowl. Use a couple of forks to toss the ingredients together so they’re all fully blended.You can substitute for or add to the cucumber and avocado in the noodle bowl. Other vegetables to consider include bell peppers, onions, and shredded carrots.
 Right before you’re ready to serve the noodle bowls, add the cooked salmon to the bowl. Toss the mixture well so the salmon is evenly distributed throughout the noodles.If you’re preparing the noodle bowl mixture ahead of time, store the noodles mixture and the salmon in different containers in the refrigerator. Combine them just before you plan to eat.
 To serve the noodle bowls, divide the noodle mixture between 2 to 4 bowls. Use 1 teaspoon (3 g) of sesame seeds to garnish the bowls, and enjoy.Store any leftover noodles in an airtight container in your refrigerator. They should keep for 3 to 5 days.

