 This is a great option for those who do not have a lot of space in their homes. Seasonal decorations can take a lot of room. You can, however, limit your decorations to just the fireplace to save space. Your home will look festive without looking crowded or tacky. This section will give you some ideas.
 These decorations will also work for the winter season in general. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Use hooks to hang up Christmas stockings (use hooks if you are hanging them - tape will hold the empty stockings but full ones will fall from the weight).
Use rolled up tape or foam mounting tape to stick Christmas tree ornaments to the top of the mantle. Use large and small ornaments for balance. use ornaments, as used on trees, and use clear tape to stick it on the mantle.
If you celebrate Hanukkah, try including a menorah, a dreidel or two, and lots of blue and white.
If you don't celebrate any religious holidays, cut some evergreen branches, and spread them over the top of the mantle. You can also drape a pine garland or some string lights over the top of the mantle instead.
 There are some other items you can use as well, such as:


Place a cornucopia filled with dried corn, miniature pumpkins, and miniature squash in top of the mantle. If you have a large cornucopia, you can place it on the hearth instead.
Arrange some miniature pumpkins on the mantle for Halloween. As it gets closer to Thanksgiving, add some miniature squash and dried corn.
Make a spooky fireplace for Halloween by arranging candelabras, skulls, old candles, and potion bottles on the mantle. Place a cat statue or a jack-o-lantern on the hearth.
Drape a garland made out of fake fall leaves over the top of your mantle for quick, fall decorating. To make it more suitable for Halloween, add some fake cobwebs and plastic spiders.
 Softer colors, and bulb plants (such as daffodils, lilies, and tulips) will be suitable for most of the spring season. There are some holidays, however, where you might want to switch things up a bit. For example:


For Easter, place some colorful eggs into a basket, and place the basket on the mantle. You can also decorate the mantle with figurines of chicks, bunnies, and lambs. If the basket is large enough, you can also tuck it inside the fireplace.
For St. Patrick's Day, you could place a horse shoe (with the curved side down, like a "U" for good luck), or some plastic gold coins on the mantle. You can also add items that have Celtic knots on them.
For Valentine's Day, you could switch out some of the spring decor, and add some more red, pink, white, or ivory. You can also add lace doilies under candles for a more romantic look/
Most spring flowers, such as tulips and hyacinths, are poisonous to cats and dogs. You may want to consider getting fake ones instead., You can also use tropical plants, such as orchids and hibiscus. If you like candles, try to get ones with fruity scents, such as passion fruit, orange, or coconut. If bright, fruity, and tropical aren't your thing, consider using a sea-side theme instead, such as:


For a nautical theme, consider getting one o those bottles that has a model ship inside. You can also drape some netting over the top of the mantle.
For a seaside theme, try displaying some of the shells you found at the beach.
If you like candles, try getting some that have an "ocean" or "seaside" scent to them. They will usually be light blue in color.

