 You will be eventually baking the cobbler in a cast iron skillet. If you do not own a cast iron skillet, you can bake it in a 2-quart (2-liter) baking dish instead. In this case, lightly grease your baking dish, then set it aside., Sift 1¼ cups (125 grams) of all-purpose flour into a mixing bowl, then add ¼ to ⅓ cups (55 to 75 grams) white sugar, 2 teaspoons baking powder, ¼ to ½ teaspoon of ground cinnamon, and ¼ teaspoon salt. Stir everything together until evenly combined.


How much sugar you add depends on your personal preferences. If you like your cobblers sweet, use more sugar. If you like them tart, use less sugar.
How much ground cinnamon you use is up to you.
 You can do this using a pastry blender or two crisscrossing knives. You can also cut the butter into cubes, add it to the flour mixture, then pulse everything for a few seconds in a food processor.


Make sure that the butter is cold, or the mixture won't turn into "crumbs."

, Boil some water in a kettle, measure out ½ cup (120 milliliters), then pour it into the mixing bowl. Stir everything together with a rubber spatula until the flour mixture becomes moist and turns into a dough. Set the mixing bowl aside when you are done.


How much vanilla extract you add is up to you.
 Put 2 tablespoons (15 grams) of cornstarch into a separate mixing bowl, then stir in ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of cold water. Keep stirring until the cornstarch has dissolved. This will help thicken the juices released by the blackberries.


No cornstarch? Try flour instead!

, Pour ⅔ cup (150 grams) of white sugar into the cornstarch and water mixture. Next, add ¼ teaspoon of ground cinnamon, 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of lemon juice, and 4 cups (400 grams) of fresh blackberries. Gently stir everything together with a rubber spatula.


For best results, use freshly-squeezed lemon juice. For a twist, use 1 teaspoon of lemon zest.
For a fruitier cobbler, use 6 cups (600 grams) of blackberries instead., Stir the mixture often as it heats up. Once it comes to a boil, take it off the burner.


If you don't have a cast iron skillet, you can bring the mixture to a boil in a saucepan, then pour it into a lightly-greased, 2-quart (2-liter) baking dish.
 The dough won't completely cover the blackberries, but try to spread the clumps out as evenly as you can nonetheless.
 If you are using a baking dish, simply place the dish into the oven. The cobbler is ready when the dough turns golden-brown and the blackberry mixture starts to bubble. Another way to test for doneness is to stick a toothpick into one of the dough clumps; if it comes out clean, your cobbler is ready!, It tastes great at room temperature or chilled. You can serve it as is, or garnish it further with some whipped cream or vanilla ice cream!

,