 Physical withdrawals can be avoided by understanding the amount of nicotine in your e-cig compared to your normal cigarette usage. E-cigs use either nicotine cartridges or liquid nicotine. In order to maintain your current nicotine levels, you will need to know the rough equivalents between cigarette and e-cig nicotine amounts.You can always adjust this if you feel like you need more or less, but you should avoid unknowingly using more nicotine than your body is used to. For those who smoke filtered cigarettes, such as Marlboro, Camel, or other readily available brands at a pack a day, make sure you start at about 18 mg of nicotine or 1.8% concentration. This will help stave off any physical withdrawals.
For those who smoke more natural (or unfiltered) brands, like American Spirit or Lucky Strikes at a pack a day or more, 24 mg or 2.4% concentrated liquid nicotine is a good starting point.
If you smoke less than a pack a day and are used to a light cigarette taste, such menthol or cigarettes deemed "light," 12 mg or 1.2% e-cig nicotine liquid is good.;
, Part of the reason that e-cigs make an effective cigarette alternative is that they replicate a cigarette smoking experience, unlike the patch or gum. All e-cigs will be able to give you nicotine, but smoking is a more holistic experience. People become used to the ritual, taste, and feel of smoking. You can choose a e-cig that mimics a cigarette more directly, or choose a more technologically advanced model for a more intense vaping experience.Cigarette replicas are the most popular e-cigs for beginners. These are small, lightweight, and will generally look and feel like a cigarette. These are great for casual smokers who want convenience.
Buy a mid-size model for more vapor and options. These are generally larger and can be about the size of a cigar. They will have a longer battery life, produce more vapor smoke, and have more customizable options. Heavy, long-time smokers, tend to find larger vapor production similar to the experience of a cigarette, and therefore, a better substitute.
Choose an advanced personal vaporizer for advanced options. These require some basic knowledge of vaping and are much more technologically complex; however, they also provide the most customization options, ranging from nicotine levels to the amount of vapor smoke. These will be more complicated, too, and may frustrate first time users.
 You can customize your e-cig experience even more by choosing how much smoke you want your e-cig to produce, length of battery life, and flavors.


Choose a high vapor volume e-cig if you enjoy smoke. Many smokers enjoy the taste and feeling of smoke. Choose a model that produces a high level of vapor if this is something you enjoy about smoking.
Choose long battery life and discrete models to satiate rituals. You might be someone who likes to have a cigarette with friends after dinner, or out at the bar. You can choose a long battery life and e-cig that resembles a cigarette for this. Choosing an e-cig that most resembles your previous smoking habits will make it more likely you stick with it.
E-cigs can also come in flavors. If you are used to smoking menthol cigarettes, or just want a new taste altogether, look into flavored e-cigs.
 Although you shouldn't consider an e-cig a "healthy" alternative to smoking, there are some advantages you may notice right away.E-cigs are cheaper. They are not currently taxed like cigarettes and are cheaper to maintain than people who have a pack a day cigarette habit.
You have many more options with e-cigs. You can choose various flavors, nicotine concentrations, or even make choices based on aesthetics.

