 Cats rarely need full baths. Regular brushing and spot cleaning are usually sufficient to keep cats clean. If your cat gets into something sticky, rolls around in dirt, has a particularly nasty episode of diarrhea or does something else to foul large areas of his coat, however, you will need to bathe him.


If you don’t want to bathe your cat yourself, you can take him to a professional groomer.
 Your cat won’t get as stressed in the tub if you choose a time when he is calm and mellow. Try playing with your cat for a while to tire him out and then start the bath. If your cat seems agitated, wait until he calms down before trying to bathe him.
 Before you get your cat into the tub, you may want to trim his claws. If your cat protests during the bath, you won’t get scratched as much.Make sure that you do not trim them down too far, just trim the ends so that they are not so pointy. If you trim too far down, you may strike the quick, which will be very painful for your cat and may bleed as well.


If you are nervous about trimming your cat's nails, you can take your cat to a groomer or to your veterinarian to have them trimmed.
 Running a brush over your cat will help remove loose hair and debris. It’s important to remove mats as well, since shampoo could get lodged in a mat., Have a helper on hand to restrain the cat or hand you necessary items. Bathing a cat alone is very challenging, so don’t try to do it on your own unless you have no other option.
 Before involving the cat in the process, gather necessary supplies so you are prepared once you get your cat in the tub. These include:


Cat shampoo: Don’t use dog shampoo.
A plastic cup or pitcher
Towels
Washcloth
Rubber mat

, You can either bathe your cat in the tub or a sink if your sink is big enough. Place the rubber mat in the sink or tub. This mat will prevent the cat from slipping. Fill the tub with three to four inches of lukewarm water., Place the cat in the tub, and have your friend hold onto the scruff of your cat's neck. Then, use the cup or pitcher to thoroughly wet your cat's fur. Only wet your cat from the neck down and try your best to avoid getting water in your cat's eyes, nose, and ears.


Speak soothingly to your cat as you do this to help keep him calm. Reassure him and be gentle.
 Use a solution of one part cat shampoo and five parts water to wash your cat. Have your friend continue to cold your cat's neck scruff while you mix the solution. Pour the solution over your cat, avoiding the eyes, ears, and nose. Then, use your fingertips to gently massage the shampoo into your cat's fur.


If you need to clean around your cat's behind, wear a pair of latex or vinyl gloves.
 Using the pitcher or cup, gently pour warm water over your cat's fur. Again, avoid the eyes, ears, and nose. Make sure that you’ve thoroughly rinsed all of the shampoo residue off of your cat's fur. You may need to use several cupfuls or pitcherfuls to get all of the soap out of your cat's fur.
 When you are finished, have your friend gently lift your cat out of the tub and place him onto a towel. Then, wrap another towel around your cat to help him dry off and get warm. Take your cat to a warm room where he can dry off.

