 It should come as no surprise that looking clean includes making sure your clothes are clean too. Clothing builds up an excess of body sweat the longer it's worn without cleaning, and stains can occur for a number of reasons. How often you clean clothes depends on the article in question as well as your lifestyle. The same pair of pants may be worn for a few days before it needs cleaning, while underwear and shirts are generally ready for the laundry after one use.Give your clothes an inspection to judge for yourself how often you should be laundering them. If you have a physically strenuous job, your sweat will build up faster than someone who is never physically exerted.
 Polishing shoes wipes off the natural build-up of grime and replaces it with a healthy sheen. Take shoe polish and apply it to the shoe in a circular motion. Although the effect unfortunately doesn't last long before it needs to be done again, it's a great effect and will make you look nice and clean from head to toe., A clothes iron removes creases in your clothes through the application of heat. You'll need to invest in an iron and ironing board, but the effect it will have on your clothes will be worth it if you want to look as clean and well-kept as possible., Rain is an unavoidable part of living in many parts of the world, and it can mess up your hair and outfit if you're outside for long enough. A simple solution to this to bring an umbrella along with you when you need it. It may not keep every drop of rain off of you, but it'll deflect enough of it to keep it from affecting your appearance.
 Clothing can be as classy and well-laundered as can be, but it still won't look good if you haven't been wearing clothes that fit your form. Really baggy clothes look somewhat dirty by default. On the other hand, clothes that are far too tight look constricting and uncomfortable. Depending on your body type, you should pick clothes that give an accurate shape of your body. Don't hide yourself in your clothing.
 If cleanliness is a priority to you with regards to your appearance, you should take lengths to simplify your outfit. Needless accessorizing, patches, pins and jewelry serve to clutter up your appearance. Even if you're as hygienic as can be, some people may see this busy appearance as less appealing than a streamlined look.

