 Teaching your bird to talk enhances your ability to communicate with him and vice versa. Before encouraging him to speak, though, it is important to communicate your love to him. Scratching your bird behind his neck while saying ‘I love you’ will let him know you love him.You can also kiss his beak and say the word ‘kiss.’You can add his name to the ‘I love you’ statement so that your bird learns his name., It will be easier for your bird to learn words if he is able to link the words with a specific action. For example, say ‘scratch’ when you scratch your bird’s neck. You can also say ‘good morning’ and ‘good night’ as you respectively greet him in the morning and go to bed at night.When you feed him, say the name of the food as you are giving it to him.In time, you may notice your bird responding to your words with his body language (e.g., lifting his wing when you say ‘scratch’).
 Initially, your bird’s words will probably not sound very clear. He may make a mumbling or whispering noise. Even if you cannot make out the words, eagerly encourage him and repeat the words back to him to get him excited about saying them.Reward him with verbal praise and a treat when he attempts to say the words you are teaching him., Birds are more likely to learn words that are spoken enthusiastically. If there is a word or phrase that you don’t want your bird to repeat, do not say it in an enthusiastic voice around him—he will probably pick up on it and repeat it when it is socially inappropriate for him to do so.The words you want your bird to learn should be the only ones spoken in an enthusiastic voice when you are around him.
 Your bird may forget the words or phrases you teach him if you do not react to him when he says them. He may also forget them if you do not continue to say them to him.Your positive reaction to him will encourage him to continue talking to you. If there is a word or phrase that you do not want your bird to say anymore, do not react to him when he says it.