 Putting your eyeliner in the freezer before you sharpen it will prevent it from crumbling when you try to sharpen it. It should come out of the freezer harder than it was before. If you have a thicker eyeliner pencil, you may need to leave it in for a longer period of time (ten or fifteen minutes, or however long it takes to harden)., The alcohol is a disinfectant that will kill bacteria that live in your eyeliner pencil sharpener. These bacteria can be harmful to your eyes, so it is good to sanitize your sharpener before and after you use it.Open the eyeliner pencil sharpener.
 Stick the wet swab inside the sharpener. Gently swab. Using a new swab, clean the blades inside the compartment of the sharpener., It should feel harder than when you put it in. If it still feels soft or crumbly, put it back in the freezer for another five minutes.
 Put it all the way into the sharpener, but do not force it. Do not press extremely hard or force the pencil in. The pencil should slide easily into the hole.
 Turn the pencil in the sharpener a couple times (at least one full rotation). Sharpen your eyeliner over a trash can so that the shavings fall into the trash can.
 If you are happy with the sharpness of the tip, stop sharpening. If it still looks dull, keep sharpening. Repeat this process until you are satisfied with the sharpness of the pencil.


Eyeliner pencils do not need to be extremely sharp. They are, after all, going to be touching your skin!

, In a pinch, you can also sharpen eyeliner with a knife, such as an X-acto knife or a pen knife. Hold the pencil in your non-dominant hand, and the knife in your dominant hand. Point the pencil downward. Hold the knife perpendicular to the pencil, with the tip an inch or so from the point of the pencil. With the thumb your non-dominant hand, push the knife to the end of the pencil (to the tip). The shavings should come off in thin strips. Repeat this process all the way around the circumference of the pencil. Repeat until sharp., Draw a small line of eyeliner on the back of your hand. Make sure that you are happy with the line it makes. If it’s too thick, sharpen your pencil more. If it’s too thin, draw on your hand or a on piece of paper until the tip becomes more blunt. You should have a small but rounded tip., Sharpen in smaller increments to get just the right tip. Make sure that there are no sharp edges on the tip. It will be touching your eye. When you are finished, try testing the eyeliner on the back of your hand again, and then on your eye.
 Open the sharpener. Throw away the shavings into a garbage can. Dip a cotton swab in rubbing alcohol, and, again, clean the blades and the inner compartment of the eyeliner sharpener. Put the sharpener back together.