 Being able to prove your spouse committed fraud depends on documents and other objective evidence you can find that shows your spouse misled you or lied to you to induce you to marry them.You may be able to find documents that reflect deception or deceitfulness on the part of your spouse in your home. However, be careful not to put yourself in danger when looking for evidence.
For example, if your spouse owns investment accounts, real property, or other assets that they have kept from you, financial documents, account reports, or property deeds may be included in files your spouse keeps at home.;
, There are two sides to fraud, so not only do you need evidence of the lying itself, you also need evidence of what your spouse said to you. Any cards, notes, or emails you have from your spouse could potentially be evidence in your divorce case.For example, if you've found a property deed for real property that your spouse owns when you were told they did not own any real property, any written statements you have in which your spouse said they didn't own any real property are just as important as that deed.
At the end of a relationship, particularly if it is tense, it may be your natural inclination to destroy any cards or notes that were given to you by your spouse. However, it's important to save this correspondence as it may prove useful later on.
Keep in mind that often evidence of fraud is circumstantial rather than concrete. Although the most valuable evidence will be direct, concrete evidence that your spouse lied to you or defrauded you, typically you'll need to paint the court a full picture of your relationship.
For this reason, keeping all correspondence from your spouse is essential – particularly anything you have from the time immediately preceding the marriage or immediately after.
 Depending on the type of deceit, there often will be people close to you or your spouse who had knowledge of what was happening. While this can be difficult or even dangerous, getting witness testimony can be crucial to your case.Be careful when talking to friends or family members who are particularly close to your spouse – especially if your spouse doesn't yet know you're filing for divorce.
For example, even though your spouse's brother may know everything, you also should keep in mind that your spouse's brother typically will have loyalty to your spouse first, and what he tells you may not be reliable.
On the other hand, you may find information more trustworthy if the person came to you voluntarily and told you the truth without you asking about it.
 If you have difficulty finding information on your own, a private investigator may be able to uncover strong evidence of your spouse's fraud or deceit that you wouldn't be able to get yourself.Particularly if you're concerned for your safety or the safety of your children or other family members if your spouse finds out you're planning to file for divorce, a private investigator can help you get the information you need while protecting yourself and your loved ones.
A private investigator also may be helpful if you have information that points to activity or property far away from where you live or in another state.
Keep in mind that the fees for private investigators vary widely. You don't necessarily want to automatically go with the cheapest investigator.
Shop around so you can find someone whose background and ability to produce results will fit your needs, but whose fees will fit your budget.
 If you are concerned for your own safety or the safety of your children or family, you may want to get a restraining order against your spouse before you continue with the divorce process.Keep in mind that even if your spouse has never threatened the safety of you or your loved ones before, divorce can bring out the worst in people – particularly if you're accusing your spouse of fraud.
Getting a temporary restraining order typically is a relatively simple process that doesn't require a lawyer, and will keep your spouse from doing anything that could cause physical or financial harm during the divorce process.
Most courts have fill-in-the-blank forms you can complete and file to get a restraining order. There usually is no fee, particularly if you are the victim of domestic violence.
This restraining order is temporary in that it normally only lasts until the divorce is finalized. Any aspects of the restraining order that continue after divorce will be included in the divorce decree.
Even if you don't get a temporary restraining order before you file for divorce, you typically can file for one in conjunction with your divorce petition.
 Since fault-based divorce petitions are highly likely to be contested, do everything you can to find an experienced family law attorney who can help you build your case and represent you in court.An attorney also can help you decide whether you should consider filing for an annulment rather than a divorce. If you're able to get an annulment, it is as if the marriage never happened because it is considered legally void from its inception.
Annulment requires a higher standard than divorce, because you must be able to prove that you never would have consented to marriage absent the fraud – essentially, that your spouse deceived or defrauded you into marrying them.
An attorney is particularly important if you signed a prenuptial agreement. Most of these agreements aren't valid (and include clauses to that effect) if the divorce occurs because of one spouse's wrongdoing.
However, keep in mind that if you signed a prenuptial agreement your spouse is almost guaranteed to have an attorney – meaning you should definitely have one on your side.
While you may be in a precarious financial situation, most family law attorneys provide a free initial consultation. You can use this to explore your options.
You also should keep in mind that family law attorneys do understand the financial difficulties that can come with divorce – particularly if you are seeking a divorce due to bad behavior on the part of your spouse.
If you decide you want to hire an attorney, you probably should act fast. One tactic spouses sometimes employ when they want to contest a divorce is scheduling initial consultations with every family law attorney in town so they won't be able to represent the other partner due to a conflict of interest.
 The divorce petition is the document that initiates divorce proceedings in court. When requesting a fault-based divorce based on fraud, your petition must include factual allegations against your spouse.Your petition will include identifying details about yourself, your spouse, the marriage, and any children of the marriage. If you do have children, you must indicate how you want custody and child support handled.
For a fault-based divorce, you will specify that your grounds are "fraud" and then list factual allegations against your spouse that constitute fraud.
If you decided not to hire an attorney, the court may have forms that you can fill out to file for divorce.
Read these forms carefully to make sure they fit the needs of your case before you complete them. Filing the wrong forms can result in your case being dismissed or delayed.
Keep in mind that since you're using fault-based grounds rather than seeking a no-fault divorce, your court may not have self-help forms that you can fill out yourself.
 When your petition is complete, you and your attorney must take it to the clerk's office of the family court where you want your divorce case to be heard. While your attorney can complete this step without you, if you want to go also you typically can.If you haven't hired an attorney, you'll have to file your petition and any other required documents, such as cover sheets or local forms, yourself.
Typically it's a good idea to call the clerk's office ahead of time – or check the court's website – to find out what documents you'll need to bring to start a divorce case, what fees must be paid, and the methods of payment accepted.
Make copies of everything you need to file with the court beforehand. You'll need at least two copies – one for your spouse and one for your own records – but some courts may require additional copies.
Expect to pay a filing fee of several hundred dollars to initiate your divorce proceeding. If you can't afford the fees, ask the clerk for an application for a fee waiver.
The fee waiver application requires information about your income and assets. If they fall below the court's designated threshold, you won't have to pay any court costs for your case. You also typically automatically apply for a fee waiver if you are receiving public benefits such as food stamps or welfare.
 After your petition is filed, you have a limited period of time to have the divorce petition delivered to your spouse so he or she has sufficient legal notice of the proceeding.If you're representing yourself, ask the clerk what methods of service are recommended. In some states, you may be required to serve the initial petition by having it hand-delivered.
Technically service by hand delivery can be completed by anyone over the age of 18 who isn't involved in your case. However, most people use a sheriff's deputy or a private process-serving company.
Although you probably will have to pay a small fee for a professional server, it's better to serve the papers this way if you're concerned that your spouse may threaten or harm the person who delivers the papers.
Some states also allow you to serve your spouse using certified mail with returned receipt requested. The green card you get back in the mail when your spouse receives the papers will serve as your proof of service.
Once your spouse has the papers, you must file a proof of service document with the court. The clerk will have forms for this that you can use.
 Your spouse has a limited period of time – typically less than a month – to respond to the divorce petition after service is complete. If your spouse contests the divorce, the next step usually is discovery.Discovery is the process through which you and your spouse will exchange documents and information that has relevance to the divorce proceeding, including your assets and finances.
Financial disclosure forms must be completed by each spouse and typically are considered part of the discovery process.
You also can use discovery to get documents and information from your spouse that would provide proof of fraud.
For example, if your spouse has been concealing assets, a request to produce documents verifying all assets owned by your spouse would get you the documents you needed to show that assets had been concealed from you.
A particularly contentious divorce also might include depositions, which are interviews conducted under oath, typically by one of the attorneys in the case. Your spouse may want to have you deposed, or you may want to depose your spouse or close family members.
 Some family courts require couples to attempt to resolve as many issues as possible through mediation before coming before the judge. If you have a restraining order against your spouse, you typically can have this requirement waived.When mediation is required, there typically is little to no charge for the proceeding. However, in some states, both parties are expected to share the costs of mediation.
If you're representing yourself and your state requires divorcing couples to participate in mediation, ask the clerk for a motion form to have the mediation requirement waived.
You must ask the court to waive the requirement, and show that there's good cause that your case is not appropriate for mediation, such as that you fear for your safety or that there's a high level of conflict between you and your spouse.
If the judge agrees your case isn't appropriate for mediation, the requirement will be waived and you'll proceed to trial.
Despite the circumstances of your case, you may not be able to get out of a mediation requirement. Appear for the session and follow the ground rules set out by the mediator.
Go to mediation with an open mind and make a good faith effort to find compromises – you might be surprised by what you're able to agree on and get out of the way.
Even if you aren't able to resolve everything through mediation, you may be able to decrease the issues before the court at your divorce hearing.
 Before your divorce hearing, you and your attorney will work to build your case and line up the physical evidence you will introduce and the witnesses you will call to testify.The court may set a pretrial conference to determine what issues must be decided, how long the hearing is expected to take, and other procedural matters.
You also may have other hearings during the pre-trial phase of your divorce litigation, for example if your spouse files a motion challenging your requests for some information.
If you have witnesses that you plan to call at the hearing, they will need to be prepared to testify. Typically this means your attorney will ask them practice questions, as well as some possible questions they'll be asked by your spouse's attorney on cross-examination.
All documents connected with the case, including financial statements, account records, and other information you've gained through discovery will be analyzed, copied, and labeled to prepare them for possible introduction at trial.
 When the day of your hearing arrives, plan on being at the courthouse at least a half hour before your hearing is scheduled so you have time to get through security and get to your courtroom.If you have an attorney, you typically will meet them at their office and go to the courthouse together. You also may want to bring a close friend or family member along with you for moral support.
Check with the clerk, or on the court's website, to find out what items are prohibited in the courtroom. Leave things such as cell phones or pocket knives at home – they may be confiscated.
Depending on the amount of time the court has allocated for your case, there may be other cases being heard on the same day. Take a seat in the gallery and wait until your case is called before you proceed to the front of the courtroom.
 Since you are the one who filed for divorce, you typically will have the first opportunity to tell your side of the story to the judge. Through evidence and witness testimony, you will establish the fraud perpetrated by your spouse and show that you are entitled to a divorce and anything else you've requested, such as alimony or child custody.Establishing fault-based grounds for divorce can impact whether you receive alimony, and the amount you will receive. It also can impact any custody decision if you have children with your spouse.
If you signed a prenuptial agreement, demonstrating fraud – particularly that your spouse was concealing assets – also may invalidate that agreement.
Even if you have an attorney, you typically will be called to testify on your own behalf. Remember to answer your attorney's questions as you practiced and be ready for cross-examination.
Expect your spouse's attorney to attempt to trick you into saying something that might damage your case. The same goes for any other witness you call to testify in support of your arguments.
 After you've made your case, your spouse will have the opportunity to raise a defense against your allegations and introduce evidence and witnesses to contradict the statements you've made.Aside from the standard denials, your spouse may raise a number of defenses against your allegations of fraud. Defenses don't apply to a no-fault divorce, and aren't necessary. But in a fault-based divorce, you can almost guarantee your spouse will try at least one defense.
For example, if you learned about the fraud and then resumed marital relations with your spouse, they might argue the defense of "condonation," which essentially means that you forgave them for their actions.
Your spouse also may argue recrimination. If you did something that qualifies as grounds for divorce – and it doesn't have to be fraud – this defense argues that you should be barred from claiming fault-based grounds because you're just as guilty.
For example, if you started a romantic relationship before you filed for divorce, your spouse may argue that your adultery means you can't get a fault-based divorce based on fraud.
 At the conclusion of all evidence, the judge will decide whether to grant you a divorce and under what terms. You may not find out everything the day of the hearing. Rather, the judge typically will take the case under advisement and later enter a written ruling.In some cases, the judge may split various issues in your case. For example, the judge may be holding a separate hearing regarding child custody. In that situation, you typically must wait until the conclusion of all hearings to get a final decree.
Both you and your spouse have a period of time – typically around 30 days – to appeal the judge's ruling if you disagree with it and think the judge made a legal mistake.
For this reason, you typically can't take any actions on the order, such as changing your name, until after the appeals period has passed and the judge's decision is considered final.

