 Cockers need a lot of care for their coat, which is beautiful, but can be expensive and time-consuming. If you're not prepared for a lot of grooming, a cocker spaniel may not be the best dog for you.]


Cockers are famous for their beautiful, long fur. They are also well known as show dogs. However, their coat requires a fair amount of upkeep.
 This helps to keep their coat free of matted and tangled fur. A slicker brush is the best type of brush to use.Your cocker spaniel will take some time to get used to being brush. Be patient if they are skittish and pretty soon they will love it.
You can also keep their coat short to avoid having to brush their coat so often. However, you still need to send your cocker to a professional groomer on a regular basis.
Grooming your cocker yourself is possible, but can be time consuming and difficult. If you don’t want to groom your dog on a regular basis, a cocker spaniel is likely not the right dog for you

, Many owners have a professional grooming of their cocker spaniel every six to eight weeks. These grooming sessions can be expensive, since they are rather time consuming.


Groomers usually perform one of two cuts. The Classic Cocker is where the groomer shaves your cocker’s back, top of head, chest, stomach, and behind, but leaves long fur to grow on the legs and in between the legs. The Puppy Cut is where the groomer gives your cocker a full trim all over and leaves them having short hair., Have them groomed in small doses at first, so they become accustomed to it. Being in the room while they are being groomed as puppies also makes them feel more comfortable.


Cockers are often not cooperative with groomers, so give them plenty of exposure so they are not nervous when they go for a long grooming session.
 Cocker spaniels are prone to getting sick. They may come down with progressive retinal atrophy (PRA), cataracts, patellar luxation, and glaucoma. Have regular checkups with the vet to ward off any of these diseases.These dogs often come down with problems with their eyes. PRA, cataracts, and glaucoma are all serious eye conditions.
Cockers are also prone to skin conditions. They occasionally come down with itchy skin from allergies and can occasionally produce skin growths.
Ear infections are also common with cockers. Their ear canals are long and narrow, so wax buildup can be a problem for this breed.Loose knees, or patellar luxation, also happens occasionally with cockers. About 1 in 4 Cockers comes down with loose knees at some point in their lifetime.

