 cardstock, like the name suggests, is perfect for making your own cards. It's basically thick, high-quality paper that you can buy at any craft store in a variety of vibrant colors and prints. Depending on the kind of card you want to make, it's usually good to get a few different colors and layer them for a cool effect.


For a professional-looking card, it's common to get two different varieties of complementary colors to make each card. After cutting different shapes or sizes of cardstock (one smaller and one larger), you can paste the smaller evenly into the center of the larger to create a unique look. When you fold other, this creates a nice surface on which to write your message. You could even use basic printer paper on the inside to avoid bulking up the card.;
, Depending on what kind of card you're making, you'll likely need:


glue or a glue stick
fine-point pens
scissors
photographs or magazine clippings
a ruler
any other decorations you'd like to include

, Once you've selected the outside color for the cardstock, cut it to size. A standard-sized greeting card is a rectangular shape, about 5 x 7 when folded in half. Because you haven't folded it over yet, use your ruler to measure out a square roughly 10 x 14 and cut very carefully with your scissors. You want the straightest edge possible, so use a paper cutter if you've got access to one.


Also cut a piece or two from a different color of cardstock. Cut these a bit smaller than the card by an inch or two on each side and center it on the outer piece. Glue it securely with your glue stick and let it dry thoroughly before folding it in half.
You can also do the same thing on the other side of the card, give it both a unique inner surface with texture and an outer surface. Experiment with shapes and placements depending on your style, mood, and the season.
You could cut diamonds or other shapes from the interior piece to give it an extra flair. A snowflake would be perfect for a wintertime card, or a heart might be perfect for Valentine's cards.
 Make a sharp and even crease, then weight the card under a heavy book to make sure it stays sharp and as flat as possible. When you're done with that, you're ready to write your message on the interior of the card and decorate it!

, Alternatively, you could forego the complication of the fold and merely cut a piece of cardstock to the proper size and decorate one side, leaving the other side free for a personal message, address, and postage. Couldn't be easier.

