 A change-over-time essay asks you to analyze how over a specific time period, a culture or civilization has changed. Factors you could examine include: trade, migrations, cultural elements, the role of technology, or environmental change. You might be able to focus on the areas in which you are strongest. You have forty minutes to complete this question on the AP exam. Take a few minutes to map out your plan before starting to write., When answering this question, be sure to follow directive words. If the prompt asks you to look at migration and environmental factors during colonialism, be sure to talk about both factors. Make sure that you ground your essay in the historical context of the prompt. Show your mastery and understanding of the social or political climates during that time.


How did environmental conditions shift, for example, during the Industrial Revolution? What were the connections to technological development? Look for changes over time and things that remained the same or were continuous.
Include dates when relevant.When forming your thesis statement, make sure it answers the prompt and mentions both change and continuity. For example, "Although Christianity spread through colonialism, its impact in China was relatively small in comparison to other countries (e.g. X, Y, Z). In China, Buddhism remained as a mainstay because of missionaries' inability to connect with the local people in (location M, N, etc.)."

, Use examples you have learned from class and your studies to support your point. Choose stories that demonstrate change and continuity and the forces driving those processes. Aim to be relevant.


For example, if you are writing about the Crusades, drawing parallels to the Mongols and spirituality's influence on their wars is an interesting side-point. Unless you were asked to compare the role of religion in war, however, the point is probably not necessary to mention!

, Graders will look at the strength of your thesis and that you discuss appropriate global issues. You also must answer every part of the question. Use relevant evidence that you have learned in class or studying to back up your claims. Make sure to convey the continuity or change elements of this essay. While your last essay (comparative) focuses heavily on making comparisons, you should seek to have a linear argument for the continuity and change essay.


Good essays tie change and continuity together. For example, an important agricultural change could lead to a technological innovation that becomes a continuity.

