 You can't be sexy if you smell bad and have greasy hair. Use a good cleansing shampoo, and a hydrating conditioner. Leave the conditioner in for about a minute, and shampoo twice if you have naturally oily hair. Shave your legs, under arms, and bikini line everyday. Wash your face 2-3 times a day to prevent breakouts, and use acne creams and moisturizers day and night. Make sure to brush your teeth and floss twice a day to have glowing teeth!;
, A smoky eye is always hot, along with dramatic eyelashes. Put some blusher on your cheek bones, and finish off with pale lipstick and lip gloss. Make sure to wash it off as soon as your home though, or it can clog your pores and make you breakout.
 Push up bras are nice, as long as your boobs aren't about to fall out of your shirt. And please, please, PLEASE, keep your shorts over your booty!!! Don't flash your thong to everybody, and don't wear a leopard bra under a skimpy white tank top. Own a couple pairs of dark wash jeans, shorts for the weekends, spaghetti straps to put under some v-neck shirts, and a tank top or two. Have an endless supply of high heels. Keep a few designer sunglasses and purses on hand.
 At least 6, so you can switch them around. Straight, use heat protectant though. While it's straight you can put it in a sleek ponytail. Scrunch it by tousling your hair with a bunch of hair gel, mousse, and hairspray. Wear this dramatically parted. You can do a preppy side ponytail high on your head, and a messy bun right on top for casual days. Play around and make some hair styles. Don't be afraid of VOLUME!

, You want guys all over you, and that's okay. As long as you don't get with every guy you see. That's where not being a slut comes in. Don't have a new boyfriend every week. Also, if you choose to be sexually active, let it be with a guy you've dated for several months, and BE SAFE! But do realize, sex is NOT necessary for being sexy!!!

, Hang out at the mall, and get some numbers! But don't forget your girls. Go on double dates, or go to a teen club with your best friend. Go get your nails done, (can't go wrong with french tips!) All of these things are sexy, but subtly. You have your girls, but you have some potential boyfriends.

