 Many people find it helps to meditate first thing in the morning in order to start the day fresh and with a clear mind. Others like to meditate in the evening to help them relax and clear their mind before bed, or to meditate in the middle of the day in order to manage work stress. Any time is a good time to mediate. Pick the time that works for you., Meditating requires concentration and focus. If you're tired, it will be much more difficult. This is another reason why many people prefer to meditate in the morning., The goal of meditation is to calm your mind and to transcend negative emotions. Loose, comfortable clothing will help to ensure you are distracted as little as possible by physical discomfort., You will want to find a room where no loud noises or sudden interruptions will disturb your meditation.


The room should be a comfortable temperature.
Tibetan monks begin meditation by cleaning the room. You can make the room more relaxing and conducive to meditation by keeping it free of clutter., Turn off your cell phone or pager. If you have a landline, turn off the ringer. Ask your family not to interrupt you during your session.
 The classic mediation pose is with the legs crossed before you, hands folded in your lap, but it does not matter you sit does not matter so long as you are comfortable and your back is straight to allow you breathe deeply and fully.You may choose to sit on a pillow for comfort.
You can also sit in a chair if you find that more comfortable or if you need back support.
 Adopting the proper pose can help you to remain comfortable and relaxed as you meditate. Keep your head slightly bent forward, your teeth slightly apart, and your shoulders relaxed. It is best to keep your eyes half-closed, but if that is too distracting, you may close them.Put your tongue on the roof of your mouth and swallow. This will create a slight vacuum that will reduce saliva and the need to swallow., Start with 15 minutes. Use a timer; you don't want to be glancing at the clock repeatedly. Try to last the entire time you have allotted, but if you get tired or too distracted, it's ok to stop., You may have particular reasons you are meditating: to help you move past negative actions – e.g. fighting with your wife – or to deal with stress. Meditation can help by calming your mind and helping you to set aside negative emotions, particularly if you focus on one emotion at a time. In addition to considering your own reasons for meditation, you might consider starting your session with one of prayers that Buddhists use to remind them why they are meditating:Generating Bodhicitta:

By virtue of giving and so forth,

may I become a Buddha for the benefit of all sentient beings. (3x)


The Four Immeasurables:


May all sentient beings have equanimity, free from attachment, aggression and prejudice.May they be happy, and have the causes for happiness.
May they be free from suffering and causes for suffering.

May they never be separated from the happiness that is free from suffering. (3x)


The Seven-Limbed Prayer

Respectfully I prostrate with body, speech and mind;
I present clouds of every type of offerings, actual and imagined;
I declare all the negative actions I have done since beginningless time,
and rejoice in the merit of all Aryas and ordinary beings.
Please teacher, remain until cyclic existence ends
and turn the wheel of Dharma for all sentient beings.
I dedicate the virtues of myself and others to the great Enlightenment.



