 That way, if your plan changes (and it very well could), you've done all the important fixes and you only have minor fixes to maneuver around. Also, if your budget becomes bloated, you won't be missing essential fixes like kitchen spruce-ups or basic yard work, and you can push to sell quickly.


Major fixes are things like rewiring the house so that it doesn't fault and cause a fire or electrocution; fixing broken fixtures such as bathtubs, showers and sinks; re-flooring tired carpets or bumpy linoleum; patching up wall/ceiling/door holes; replacing hinges/brackets/fittings, etc. that are loose or broken; repainting peeling or poorly done paintwork; replacing broken tiles/pavers/steps, etc.; renovating anything that is dirty and broken––tired things are less of a concern than dirty things, so prioritize what needs doing most.
More minor fixes include changing paint colors on already decent paintwork; changing working fittings to more modern ones; fitting better storage inside cupboards, etc. All nice to have but not essential if you're squeezed for time and money.
Read books written about what buyers look for in a home. A lot is about presentation––if you can use a few shortcut tricks to enhance the house's look, then you'll save time and money. Of course, you also need to pass the builder's inspection, so this needs to be taken into account for any structural issues that need addressing.
Typically cleaning, paint and plants are the cheapest way to boost the value of a home. A deck also raises the value more than the price of the deck. Replacing electrical and plumbing fixtures and fixing anything broken is also a cheap way to get a good boost in home value.
Remodeling kitchens and bathrooms typically do not raise the value of the home enough because owners tend to pay too much for the remodel.
 Will you do the work yourself on the cheap or do you need a General Contractor or "GC" to do the work. If the repairs are minor, then it may be best to go it alone to quickly and cheaply improve the property. For larger projects that require building permits, it's best to hire a GC. As already noted, the key is to make improvements, often merely cosmetic ones, that make the house look much better but won't cost you too much.


Things you can probably do yourself: Repaint. Tear out old carpet to find hard wood floors or re-carpet. Touch up old fixtures. Paint minor areas. Change fittings. Repave patio and entrance areas. Change the color of the front door. Add new handles.
Seek out the cheapest labor you can find (college kids, or even yourself) and have the property immaculately cleaned up and repaired. If there's any money left over after this, put it into a high-interest liquid savings account; do not use it to pay off part of the loan yet.

