 Different writers find inspiration through different means. Some listen to music while mentally brain-storming setting ideas; some take a walk, waiting for inspiration to come from the real outdoor world; some simply sit in a quiet, peaceful place and think. Find what works best for you, and let yourself get lost inside your imagination.
 It doesn't have to be anything ground-breaking. You don't even have to write in full sentences if you don't want to - sometimes, writing down single words to describe your setting in the early stages of development is better than writing big chunky paragraphs. Write down anything that comes to mind, even if you're not sure it will work. You can easily scrap any ideas that you don't need later on. You could even roughly sketch your mental images of the setting, if that works better. Remember, do whatever feels right to you. There are no rules to follow. Let your ideas flow freely.
 You need to create a gaping hole in the page that drops us into your world. If your setting is a rainforest, your animals need to roar and shriek and squawk; we need to be able to smell the cloying scent of exotic flowers, feel the wind and the rain against our skin, taste tangy juice dancing and singing in our mouths as we take a bite out of a strange but wonderful piece of fruit. Always take all five senses into account, even if you don't plan on making a note on them all, and if you feel that it would add to the scene, comment on the weather. It's completely up to you.
 Writing something like "It was warm" doesn't leave much to the reader's imagination and will make it difficult to really connect with your novel. Instead, try experimenting with different language devices or unusual imagery ideas. Saying "A cloak of balmy sunlight embraced me lovingly" sounds much more interesting and engaging than "It was warm", doesn't it?

, When writing an action scene, you need to keep your description of the setting and what's going on clear but concise. Too many language devices at one time tends to get on the reader's nerves and distracts us from the main plot, so don't over-use them. Once you really get into your setting, it becomes much too easy to ramble on and on about the scene. Remember that you have an actual story to tell. Stay focused on the plot and the characters.
 If you're not 100% immersed in your novel's setting yet, you can always do a little warm-up exercise. Write a page or two about your setting as you explore it. Use whatever perspective that comes most naturally to you. You could take on the role of an existing character in your book, make up a new character, or you could even write an account of the expedition from YOUR point of view. Let yourself get lost in the setting that you've created, and, more importantly, have fun with it.
 You as The Writer don't always spot the same mistakes and inconsistencies that The Reader would. Show what you've written to someone you trust and ask them if your scene building is effective enough, or join an online writing forum.
 Most good writers go over certain pieces of their writing so much, they come to know it off by heart. You can cut details that don't work, add more details that you think would create a more vivid scene, or simply read.
