 As with a basic notice, you should begin with the person’s name and the date they died. Include the age if you want.


For example, you can write: “Ken Jones, 68, died on Sunday, July 17, 2016 in Any City, USA.”, In a longer death announcement, it is appropriate to identify the date of birth as well as the loved one’s parents. You don’t have to include this information, but you may want to.


For example, you can write, “He was born June 22, 1948 in Los Angeles, California, to Kevin and Charlotte Jones.”, A longer announcement lets you provide details about a person’s accomplishments, such as the schools they attended.Mention any that seem appropriate. People who went to school with your loved one might notice the school name first and your loved one second.


For example, you can write, “He attended Middle Town Community High School and the University of Michigan.”

, Provide some details about who your loved one was married to and the children they had. Also mention whether their spouse or children predeceased them.


For example, you can write, “In 1970 he married Carol Johnson and is survived by his wife and two daughters, Jean and Joan.”If your loved one is predeceased by a spouse, you can write: “He is survived by his two daughters, Jean and Joan, and pre-deceased by his wife Carol, whom he married in 1970.”

, With a longer announcement, you can remind the reader of your loved one’s professional accomplishments.Mention highlights and any award they received. Remember that this isn’t a resume, so stick to a sentence or two.


For example, you can write, “Ken served for 35 years in various government jobs, rising to the office of City Hall Manager, where he served from 2000-2008. Upon his retirement, he received the Outstanding Citizen Award from Any City’s mayor.”

, Your loved one touched many people’s lives, and you can use a longer announcement to mention one or two details about their personality.This kind of detail can bring a smile to the face of whoever reads the announcement and remembers the deceased.


For example, you might write: “Ken’s colleagues and family will miss his unique sense of humor, which saw him dress up in costume on holidays, whether as Santa or as the Easter Bunny.”

, State the location, date and time. Identify whether it is a memorial service, mass, or other religious observance.


For example, you can write: “A memorial service will be held at Castle Funeral home on July 27, 2016.”, Your loved one might have belonged to an organization that accepts charitable contributions, or they may have contributed to a favorite charity. You can direct people to donate in your loved one’s name.


For example: “Donations may be made in Ken’s name to the city’s Recreation Fund.”

