 You can use gentle discipline if you channel a child’s attention away from something negative or harmful and to something appropriate.Sometimes you can prevent a problem from occurring by shifting the child’s focus a bit.


For example, you might tell a toddler, “We don’t knock those over. But, here are some blocks you can knock over.”
Or, you might take a book that a child is drawing on and say, “We write on paper, not on books. Here’s some blank paper for you.”;
, You can prevent problems and practice gentle discipline by responding to children with affirmative statements when possible.


For example, you’ve just started cooking and your cranky child wants to know if dinner is soon. You might say, “Yes, I know you’re hungry. We’ll be eating as soon as we can. Why don’t you help me?”
Or, for instance, if they want to know if they can have some candy, you could tell them, “Yes, you can. Right after we finish eating our meals.”

, Another way to say yes and prevent problems is by removing objects that you might have to tell children not to touch or to leave alone.When you practice gentle discipline this way you don’t give young children the opportunity to get into certain types of trouble.


For example, putting away your glass vase protects your property and keeps you from having to say “no” or “stop.”
Try replacing the things children can’t have with things they can interact with. For instance, you might want to put your porcelain squirrel collection in storage and replace them temporarily with alphabet magnets.
 Toddlers and young children are excellent at escalating a situation from peaceful and calm to hectic and frustrating in an instant. One way to prevent problems with young children when you are practicing gentle discipline is to lighten the mood a bit.Humor can help calm a young child, as well as you. It can also help you redirect a child.


You don’t have to tell an elaborate joke. With toddlers and young children you can even make a funny face to break the tension.
Try answering the child in a funny voice. For instance, you might try a nasally twang when you say, “A toy? You want a new toy? Well, let’s talk about that.”

