 This therapy was primarily created to help people with borderline personality disorder. However, it can also be an effective treatment for many other problems. You may benefit from DBT if you have any of the following symptoms:Emotional instability including bursts of anger, anxiety, depression, or hostility
Suicidal thoughts and behaviors such as self-injury
Risky or impulsive behaviors such as overspending, substance abuse, risky sexual behavior, or legal troubles
A sense of worthlessness and insecurity, or an acute sensitivity to rejection
Social isolation and/or impaired social relationships;
, DBT programs are often intensive and take many weeks or months to complete the whole program. They are designed to give you the skills and support so that recurring feelings of mood swings, suicidal thoughts, and impulsive tendencies are reduced. Think about the following as you decide to undergo DBT:


Your commitment. DBT is intensive therapy that could be one or more weekly sessions with a therapist or skills group.
Your schedule. Find programs that are available when you are. Many of them take place in the evenings after school or work.
Your budget. Identify programs that may be in your health insurance network. Find out if there are other programs out there for reduced fees.
Connect with mental health support groups via the National Alliance on Mental Illness. Find support through your local NAMI Chapter: https://www.nami.org/Find-Support. You can also contact the NAMI Helpline at 800-950-NAMI.
 Undergoing dialectical behavior therapy is done under the supervision and guidance of a trained mental health professional. To determine if you may benefit from this therapy, get in touch with a local behavioral health center or counselor.Even if the first counseling center you contact does not offer DBT, they can likely point you in the right direction. They may also know of the best outpatient and inpatient programs that can best serve your needs.
If you’re a student, reach out to your counseling center through college, or your high school counselor.
If you’re working and have health insurance, consider finding a counselor that takes your insurance. Your health care provider will likely have a list of mental health professionals in their network. They may be able to assist you, or can make a referral to another appropriate resource.
If you are planning to do private pay, there may be sliding scale fee options available to make counseling more affordable. Search online for mental health service providers in your area for next steps about low-cost options available.
 One-on-one therapy can help you to focus on your specific needs and concerns. The therapeutic process is one of self-discovery. In conjunction with a trained therapist, you can focus on your strengths and how to navigate your emotions.If you are in a DBT program, you may meet once or twice a week for individual therapy. In some cases, intensive inpatient programs may have daily therapy sessions.
The focus of the therapy session is to delve into your personal goals and challenges.
If you are already seeing a therapist before starting DBT, you could consider continuing with your current therapist, while participating in a separate DBT skills group.
 In a group setting, you have an opportunity to learn from others’ experiences as well as develop further interpersonal skills. The skills group can operate in some ways like a class or seminar, in which new coping skills and topics are introduced over the course of the program and homework is assigned.You need to make a commitment that you’ll attend the group over a three or four-month period, or about 12 to 16 weeks.
Groups are about 90 minutes long and are held usually once or twice a week. The groups are often available at various times of the day, particularly in the evenings to accommodate school or work schedules.
The groups are small, usually about 5-8 group members, to foster stronger connections among group members.
The skills you'll learn include things like interpersonal effectiveness, emotional regulation, and mindfulness.
 One aspect of DBT therapy is the opportunity to stay connected to your therapist and treatment team outside of the individual and group therapy sessions. This is to help you during difficult or stressful times when you’re away from your group or therapist.See this is an added support, but understand that your therapist or treatment team is not expected to be available 24/7 as part of the program usually.
Calls can help to alleviate stress or anxiety between sessions if you are concerned about something that needs to be addressed before the next therapy meeting.
For example, maybe you are having thoughts of self-harm, but have not made an attempt. Reach out to your treatment team for support and call them. Or perhaps you had a big fight with your parents or your partner, and feel like you can't handle it alone. Reach out to your treatment team by phone.
 Like being a student, homework helps to solidify the skills and knowledge you’re gaining from your individual and group therapy sessions. Over the course of a DBT program, you may have assignments that include the following:Journal writing. This could include a daily log of your thoughts, feelings, and behaviors.
Writing assignments. These could vary from responding to a person in a stressful situation to effectively naming emotions.
Behavior assignments. These could include exercises like observing your breath or using mindful distractions to manage urges.
 By being able to recognize and label your emotions, this therapy program helps you to reduce outbursts of anger and heightened anxiety. It focuses on adjusting those emotions through self-awareness and self-acceptance.DBT helps to take the focus away from emotions as being good or bad. Instead, they simply exist. It is less helpful to judge them.
Therapy helps to teach you that when a strong emotion comes, you don’t have to act on those feelings. You can simply recognize and feel it.
You might be having difficulties with classmates at school or with co-workers about a team project. You may feel upset and anxious to the point that you want to yell. By acknowledging and recognizing these feelings, you can feel more in control of your emotions rather than overwhelmed and upset with yourself.
 Learning distress tolerance means you can better handle and redirect emotions that feel overwhelming or unbearable. If you feel easily upset or anxious about a situation or person, you may have low tolerance for distress. This therapeutic approach helps to build the following skills:Self-soothing. For example, let's say that you are stressed about a recent upsetting conversation with your family. You could engage in self-soothing by listening to music or drawing.
Distracting
Improving the moment
Focusing on both the pros and the cons. Maybe you feel anxious about going to a party with some friends. Maybe there are some other guests who you're worried about seeing. Think about the pros and cons of going or not going.
 There are many different approaches and exercises that can help with mindfulness both as part of DBT and with other therapeutic approaches. Mindfulness is about slowing down and paying attention to the small things that often go unnoticed or unappreciated. Here are a few examples of exercises used in DBT programs:Engage in deep breathing or meditation. Instead of focusing on your thoughts, you are paying close attention to your breath. You slowly inhale and exhale for several minutes. You notice the tension in your shoulders, arms, and back, and learn to slowly release that tension. Your racing or overwhelming thoughts are instead focused inside on your mind and breath.
Do a mindful eating exercise. This helps you to eat intentionally and focus on each bite. Your focused attention helps to cultivate satisfaction in the smallest things. You could use a piece of fruit that’s been cut up into pieces such as an orange or apple for example.
Observe a leaf. Pick up a leaf from a tree for example. Notice the textures, colors, and shapes. Instead of judging the leaf as good or bad, beautiful or ugly, you are simply observing and accepting the leaf for what it is. Do this for several minutes.
 This part of the therapy helps you to better interact with others including family, partners, and co-workers. It also gives you an opportunity to practice in a safe space with other people who have experienced similar challenges. This aspect of the DBT program helps you with the following:To ask for what you want effectively
To say no effectively, and know that this is taken seriously
To maintain or grow your relationships
To maintain a healthy self-esteem in interactions with others

, This therapeutic approach is centered around validating your behavior and responses as understandable in relation to your current situation. This approach does not see yourself as wrong or bad, but instead promotes understanding. In this process, you can feel more in control through acceptance of yourself and the difficulties you’re facing.DBT focuses on self-acceptance and skills training together to boost your sense of self-control in life.
This process is about being empowered to recognize your emotions and cope with them in an accepting rather than judgmental way.

