 Making a simple honey lemon mask is easy, and you may already have everything that you will need. Make sure that you have:








one tablespoon of honey
one tablespoon of lemon juice
a small dish
a spoon;
, To make a simple honey lemon mask, you will need frozen honey. Freezing the honey will give it texture, so that you can exfoliate your skin. Put one tablespoon of honey into a freezer safe container and place it in the freezer.








Leave the honey in the freezer until it is frozen. This will take a few hours. You can also place the honey in the freezer before you go to bed and it will be frozen in the morning.
 You will also need a tablespoon of lemon juice to make a honey lemon mask, so cut a lemon in half and squeeze the lemon over a dish. Measure one tablespoon of the lemon juice and add it to the frozen honey.








Make sure that you remove any seeds from the juice before you use it.
 Use a spoon to mix together the frozen honey and lemon juice. Make sure that the ingredients are well combined, but that the frozen honey is still chunky and textured.








Do not allow the mixture to sit for too long or the honey may melt and lose its texture.
 When you are ready, apply the honey lemon mixture to your skin. Make sure that your skin is clean and free of makeup before you apply this mask. Gently massage the honey lemon mixture into your skin using circular motions.








Apply the honey lemon mask to your neck as well.
Avoid applying the mixture to your eyes or too near to your eyes. Lemon juice will sting if it gets into your eyes.
 Allow the mixture to sit on your face and neck for about 10 minutes. You can take advantage of the time to sit back and relax for a while. After 10 minutes, rinse away the mask with some lukewarm water.








Use your fingers or a washcloth to wipe the mixture off of your skin.
Pat your face dry with a clean, dry towel when you are finished.
 Avocados contain healthy fats, vitamins, and minerals, which can offer UV protection and may also slow the effects of aging when you apply it to your skin.If you have dry skin, sun damaged skin, or fine lines, then avocado may be a good addition for your honey lemon mask.









Try adding a tablespoon of fresh avocado to the honey and lemon mixture right before you apply it to your skin. Allow the mask to sit for 10 minutes and then rinse as usual.
 Yogurt skin treatments can help skin to retain moisture, look brighter, and maintain elasticity.It can also even out your skin tone and help to calm your skin after sun exposure.








Try adding a tablespoon of plain yogurt to your honey lemon mask right before you apply it. Then, leave the mask on for 10 minutes and rinse it away.
 You can add egg whites to your face mask to help tighten your pores. If your pores are large and you’d like to tighten them up, add one egg white your mask mixture. Stir the egg white into the honey and lemon and then apply it to your face. Leave the mixture on your skin for 10 to 15 minutes and then rinse it away.









Keep in mind that although egg whites may tighten pores, they can also clog them. If you are prone to acne, then an egg white mask might not be a good idea.
Be careful not to get any raw egg whites into your eyes or mouth. Raw eggs can cause salmonella.You may also want to follow up your mask by washing your face with some gentle cleanser and water to remove any leftover bacteria.
 Oats add extra texture to a face mask for exfoliating, but they are also good for sensitive skin.If you want to exfoliate your skin without irritating it, try adding a tablespoon of oats to your face mask. Exfoliate your skin for a few minutes as you apply the mask and then leave it on for about 10 minutes.









You may need to use a wet washcloth to remove the mask because oatmeal can stick to your skin.
 Bananas can add moisturizing, soothing properties to your face mask. They can also help to even out your skin tone.Try adding a tablespoon of mashed banana to your honey lemon mixture. Then, apply the mixture and leave it on your skin for about 10 minutes before you rinse it away.








