 The NHSC provides certain amounts of loan repayment in exchange for commitment for service in approved areas with proven health professional shortages. You can receive up to $50,000 in loan repayment in exchange for a two-year commitment or an even larger amount for longer commitments., Under the PLSF program, doctors who work in the public service sector while making 120 repayments to their loans may qualify to have the balance of their medical school debt forgiven.The program applies only to federal loans. However, this may include both subsidized as well as unsubsidized Stafford Loans, as well as Perkins Loans., Competitive hospitals may include loan repayment options in their benefits packages. When applying for positions, be sure to ask about tuition reimbursement or loan forgiveness programs offered by the hospitals you are considering.
 Though you may have to decide before finishing medical school, most branches of the military will pay some or all of your medical school tuition in exchange for the commitment to military service once you complete your education.


The Air Force scholarship covers tuition, books, fees, and a living stipend. Students are required to work for one year for each year they received the scholarship with a minimum service requirement of three years. Active duty begins once internship and residency requirements have been met.The Army offers a full tuition scholarship for a variety of medical professions and also provides a $2,000 per month living stipend and a $20,000 signing bonus. In return, candidates must serve an equal number of years in the Army as they received the scholarship with minimums being determined by profession.The Navy offers a number of options to help pay for medical school, including scholarships and stipends for current students as well as loan repayment for existing medical professionals. Residents may also be eligible for supplemental income while they complete their training. Signing bonuses are available. Service requirements vary based on the type of tuition assistance received.