 In order to beat the game, you should familiarize yourself with the game’s controls. Luckily, if you have played the game’s predecessors, you will have an easy time getting used to the controls since it is similar to the previous layout.


Regardless of your system, you can configure the controller's setup to your liking.;
, Without a doubt, this game is huge. You can easily get lost when you don’t pay attention to what the map indicates. The map is very important because it shows you the exact locations of places where you should go next.


The map is especially useful in completing game collectibles and side quests.
 The fluid combat system returns in Batman Arkham Origins, but this time, there’s a bit of twist. It’s not mere button mashing but instead, timing of the attacks is required to successfully land those deadly combos.


One of the most effective ways of attacking is to counterattack enemy attacks. Find each enemy’s vulnerable points in their attack flow and know when to strike when you see an opening.
Learning to continuously chain combo attacks can be enhanced by using your batarang and vault-dodge.
You can use the bat grapple to take down enemies easily. While they are dizzy, you can apply a melee attack on them to totally eliminate them. Just make sure these enemies are away from the group so you won’t get bombarded with enemies afterwards.
Sometimes it helps to use detective mode while in combat just to fully see your surroundings.
Predator takedowns in Batman Arkham Origins are better than ever before! Usually triggered by the triangle button, these takedowns are expanded and should help your stealth kills improve.
 Different types of enemies have different weaknesses. It will be helpful if you can identify which enemies you are dealing with so you can adjust your fighting style accordingly.


Certain enemies should be prioritized to be eliminated first such as enemies with weapons. Taking down these enemies will make it easier for you to eliminate regular enemies with combos even in groups.
 Batman’s gadgets are back in this game like the batarang, bat claw, and the explosive gel just to name a few. These gadgets are necessary to get pass through certain puzzles and some can be used to eliminate enemies.
 Like the previous Arkham games, Arkham Origins also allows you to upgrade you weapons and skills with experience points.


It is advisable to prioritize improving your melee skills and your health. These two aspects will be very important especially as you reach the game’s final parts.
Some of the skills that you might want to unlock are the ability to disarm enemies with shields and some stealth predator skills which are again, melee based.
 Defeating bosses in Batman Arkham Origins is really challenging. Among the most difficult ones is Deathstroke. He may be hard to beat at the beginning but with proper strategy – you will eventually win the encounter.


At the start of the battle, just keep on attacking him since at this point he won’t pull off any fancy moves on you just yet.
After a while you will have to wait for him to initiate attacks. When he does so, that’s the time you should counterattack! This is the most effective way of inflicting damage to Deathstroke at this point of the battle. Be sure to recognize if he’s already done attacking before executing your counterattack.
When Deathstroke finally uses his smoke bombs, you should mash the triangle button (or Y button on the Xbox). Remember, mash the button – not press.
 Arkham Origins offers collectible-hunting as bonus when trying to complete the game 100%. Some of the collectibles are really hard to find so better keep your eyes peeled as you explore this game’s vast locations.


There are four collectibles in Arkham Origins, namely Enigma Data packs, Anarchy Tags, Cyrus Pinkney Plaques, and Network Relays.
There are also a bunch of things that you can unlock upon completing challenges in Arkham Origins. Some of these are unlocking costumes, trophies (PS3), and achievements (Xbox).
Completing challenges such as Predator, Combat, and Combat Training challenges are some of the challenges that should be cleared in order to unlock trophies/achievements.
 Multiplayer is a brand new addition to the Arkham series. On this mode, two gangs battle it out for turf supremacy. You can apply what you have learned in playing the campaign mode when battling it out with other online players.


One good strategy to win online matches is to avoid being isolated. You should stick with your group especially if you are on the evil side of the match.
Chatting with your teammates can also help your team execute a solid plan on defeating your opponents.

