 Open a new web browser and go to “pinterest.com.” Click the “Log in” button on the middle box, and you will be brought to the login page. Enter your email and password, then click the “Log in” button to proceed.

You can also log in with your Facebook, Google, and Twitter accounts. There are three separate buttons for connecting to your social network and logging in with that account. Click on the respective button.;
, Once logged in, you will be directed to the Home Feed. Here, all your recent pins as well as recent pins of users and boards that you have followed will be displayed. Depending on how many pins and boards you have followed, the list can be very long. Scroll down the page to see if any catch your interest., If you would like to view a pin, just click on it. The photo will expand on your screen, with a description at the bottom. If you click the expanded image, you will be taken to its source website., If you would like to save the image in one of your boards, click the red “Pin it” button at the top left. This will open a list of your existing boards. Hover over the one where you want to pin the image in and another “Pin it” button will appear to the right. Click the button to save the image to the selected board.

If you want to save the pin into a new board, just scroll to the bottom of the list of boards and click “Create a Board.” Enter the name of the board in the field provided and click “Create.”

, If you are unable to find what you’re looking for in the Home Feed, use the search box at the top of the main page. Enter what you’re looking for here.

For instance, if you’re interested in vegetable gardening, type “vegetable garden” in the search box.
 Photo titles matching your search parameters or selected category will be displayed. Go through them to see if what you’re looking for is here., There are also buttons of related topics right under the search box to further streamline your search. Clicking on any of these buttons will add this term in your search, filtering the results.

For instance, the “vegetable garden” search will show filters like “how-to,” “container,” “small,” among others. If you select “container,” the search will refresh and show results on container vegetable gardens.
 If you see something you like and would like to pin it to your board, hover over the photo. A “Pin it” button will appear. Click on it., The photo box will appear with all your existing boards. Hover over the board where you’d like to pin the photo. A “Pin it” button will appear here too. Click on it. The photo will be added to your selected board., You will be brought back to the results page after pinning your first image. Continue scrolling through it, and repeat searching, filtering, and pinning photos that interest you to your boards., If you’d like to find grouped items related to the keywords you searched for, you can check the Pinners and the Boards tabs at the top of the search results page.

Browsing Pinners—Right under the search box are several small tabs. By default, it’s set to “All Pins.” If you’d like to see Pinners, click the Pinners tab. Pinners are users just like you. If they’ve made their boards public, you can browse through their boards. There’s a chance you will find someone with similar interests, and you can check out his or her boards to find what you want.
Browsing Boards—If you’d like to see Boards, click the Boards tab. Boards are the boards on Pinterest created by users, or pinners, like you. If the boards are public, you can browse through them.
 If you see a Pinner or a board you like, click the “Follow” button at the top. The selected Pinner or board will be added to the items you’re following on Pinterest.

When you follow a Pinner or board, any new pins will be added to your Home feed pins. This will ensure that you always get to view things that interest you as soon as you log into your account.
 Click the board you want to view. You don’t need to be following a Pinner or a board to open it. The photos pinned under the board will be displayed., Scroll through the photos under the selected board. If you see something you like, you can pin it to your board. Hover over the photo and a “Pin it” button will appear. Click on it to pin it to one of your own boards. You can then continue pinning other photos under the same board., If you would prefer to search by topic category rather than using keywords or the Home Feed, click the three-bar icon to the right of the search field. A list of categories—Animals and Pets, Arts, DIY and Crafts, Gardening, Health and Fitness, Photography, Travel, to name a few—will drop down., Images will be displayed below the search field relating to the category you selected. Scroll through these pins to see if what you’re looking for is there., Under the search field will be a horizontal list of related topics. You can click on any of these to filter down the category. For instance, if you selected the “Gardening” category, related topics could be “Annual Plants,” “Fruits,” Garden Planning,” “Vegetable Gardening,” etc. Selecting on any of these related topics will refresh the page to show pins more related to the filtered category., If you hover over a pin, you will see a “Pin it” button appear at the top left. Click this, select a board to pin the image to, and click “Pin it” again to save the pin.