 You'll need a variety of music when using music therapy. Since songs create different feelings, it's a good idea to have music for different moods. Look for songs that the person has a positive association with. You can choose music that:Was their favorite song growing up
Was a special song the person shared with someone special
Was a song played at a special occasion
Was played during the time the person was between the ages of 18 and 25 years old;
, Unfamiliar music can be useful for several reasons. It can develop new responses since the person with AD has no memories associated with it. For example, a new slow-paced song may calm the person and help bring on sleep. Or, a new pop-song can energize the person with AD.


Turn off the music if the person isn't responding well to the music. The person might seem upset or wring their hands.
 Make a playlist of music that is energetic and that encourages movement. You should feel like dancing or swaying when you listen to these songs. Look for songs with solid rhythms, quick tempos, and catchy beats.


You may notice the person with AD tapping their toes or clapping along to the music when listening to these songs., Consider using classical music to calm or relax a person with AD. If the person is agitated or having trouble sleeping, you should have music that acts as a sedative to help them. Sedative music usually doesn't have a particular rhythm. It's usually slower paced.Sedative music has been found to reduce aggression in people with AD.
 Since music can create a powerful emotional response in the listener, pick music that's appropriate for what the person is going through. Each stage of AD has its challenges:Early stages: play music the person grew up with or favorites and take the person out to concerts or live shows.
Middle stages: choose relaxing music and play music throughout the day to improve mood. You can start playing songs as part of the daily routine.
Late stages: exercise or interact using music. Play music that soothes the person and try singing along to songs.
 Music therapists are trained in using music to help each individual patient. Their goal is to play or make music that improves the quality of life for the person with AD. A music therapist will determine the strengths and needs of the person in order to make a treatment plan.Most music therapists are part of an AD health care team. The person with AD can work one-on-one with a music therapist or as part of a group.
 In stage 1 or 2 of AD, get the person to listen or dance to music. You can encourage the person to play their own music too. In order to help later on, you should start playing certain songs when specific people are around. When the person struggles with memory in later stages, a specific song can help the person remember someone they associate with that music. During stage 1, most AD are still functioning normally. In stage 2, there may be subtle changes in memory, speech, and cognitive ability (although sometimes it's hard to distinguish between AD and old age causes)., Just as you can create associations between songs and people, you can use music to create daily habits. During the middle stages of AD, many people struggle with everyday functioning (like getting dressed, brushing teeth, or showering). To distract and relax the person, play songs that the person responds well too.For example, if the person is fighting against doing something like getting dressed, you may be able to distract by playing their old school song or a song the person grew up with.
 During the middle stages of AD, the person can become frustrated or moody, be more likely to wander, and be confused. People with AD begin experiencing sundowning. This is the worsening of symptoms late in the afternoon. To soothe the person, play calming and relaxing music.Refer back to the sedative music you assembled.
 Try playing karaoke or play music during any physical therapy. You can also encourage the person to learn an instrument or pick it up again if it's been a while since the person played. In later stages of AD, you can encourage simple music participation like clapping along or tapping toes to music.Listening and getting involved with music can improve emotional closeness with family or caregivers. Music can make the person feel happier or more secure.
 Use the person's favorite songs to calm agitated moods. Since people with late stage AD have trouble moving, playing upbeat, stimulating music could encourage the person to get up and dance or move around a little. With music, the person may seem expressive.By stages 6 and 7, the person with AD has severe difficulty with everyday functioning and memory. The person will have extreme trouble in communicating with others.
Individualized music was found to be more effective at calming late stage agitation than classical music.You can also try playing music during routine activities, such as bathing, which has been shown to help ease agitation., Since music means different things to different people, pay attention to how the person with AD is responding to the songs you're playing. Turn off the music if the person seems more agitated or upset. To avoid sensory overload, keep the music at a moderate volume and turn off any other music or television.Try to play music that doesn't have commercials. Commercials or interruptions in the music can confuse the listener.
 You should listen to music too if you're caring for someone with AD. It's easy to completely focus on the other person and neglect your own needs. But, research shows that listening to music can regulate your mood.Try listening to relaxing music before you sleep. Creating a simple habit like that can make it easier to fall asleep and make you calmer.

