 At least three times a day, move your arms through their full range of motion. Arm exercises will help your balance when you are walking as well as your ability to pick up and lift objects again.


First, stretch out your affected arm until you can feel a slight burn. Hold it for 60 seconds (or as long as you are physically able) before relaxing.
Make a wide circle with your arms. Go slowly, and try to reach out as far and high as you are able.Raise your arms above your head before lowering them. Repeat this motion at least five times. If you cannot raise your arm high, ask your physical therapist or caretaker to move it for you., Lie on your back with your hands clasped beneath your breast. Gradually raise your arms until your clasped hands are above your shoulders. After a second, lower them back down again. Repeat five to ten times., Use dumbbells of a low weight that you can lift. This may be something small like five pounds or less. While sitting down, grip one dumbbell in either hand. You can do the following exercises:


With your elbows straight, lift your hand above your head and slowly lower it to your lap. Repeat ten times with each arm.
Lift a straight arm up to the side until it is shoulder height. Lower it down again. Repeat ten times on each arm.
With both hands, bend your elbows up to your chest and slowly lower them until they are straight. Repeat ten times., You can use pennies, marbles, pencils, or other small trinkets for this activity as long as you have a couple to work with. Pick up each small item with your affected hand, and place it in your unaffected hand. Hold them there until all of the small objects have been picked up. Next, take each object one by one out of the unaffected hand, and place them back in their original position., Loop a rubber band around one of your fingers and your thumb. You may want to start with your index finger and move back towards your pinky. Stretch the rubber band with your fingers before relaxing the band. This will help you regain fine motor control.