 Stretching can both prevent and relieve back pain, as well reduce the chance of injury. Consult your doctor before undertaking a major stretching routine of any sort. There are a few safe, reliable stretches you should begin doing to increase your flexibility and facilitate movement in the muscles and joints of your lower back.The goal of passive stretching is to gradually relax and lengthen your back. Stop immediately if you feel any pain or tingling anywhere in your body.
Stretching exercises improve flexibility and relaxes your back muscles to decrease strain and tension on your back.
Stretch several times a day, perhaps upon waking and before going to bed.
 Lie on your back and extend both of your legs straight out. Bend one of our legs at the knee, and raise the other leg straight up in the air without allowing it to bend. Loop a towel around the arch of your foot on the extended leg and gently pull towards you as you push into the towel your foot. Make sure you’re feeling the stretch in the back of your thigh, in a muscle called the hamstring.Hold the stretch for 30 seconds before relaxing the leg and allowing it to rest on the ground. Switch to the other leg and repeat.
Do each leg three times, and repeat this stretch 2 or 3 times per day.
 The piriformis is another muscle that can contribute to back pain it if is not kept limber. Stretch it by lying on your back and crossing one leg over the other with the knee bent. Pull the knee toward your chest until you feel a stretch between your butt and hamstring areas.Hold the stretch for 30 seconds before relaxing and switching to the other side.
Do each side three times, and repeat the stretch 2 or 3 times per day.
 Many yoga poses will also beneficially stretch you back. Do the “cobra” by lying on your stomach and placing your hands palms down just beside your upper arms. Push your upper body off the floor and stretch your neck and head outward from your body. Hold the position for 30 seconds before relaxing your back and lowering your upper body to the floor.Do the cobra several times throughout the day to stretch your back out.

