 Feeding your cat is an essential part of responsible cat care. Make sure that you feed your cat a nutritional diet and that your cat has access to food on a daily basis. You may decide to feed your cat at specific times or let it graze throughout the day. Either option is fine. Choose the one that fits the best with your lifestyle.If you ever go away make sure to arrange for someone to feed your cat.
 Cats should have access to water at all times. Although your cat may not drink a lot of water, it is very important that water is available throughout the day., Although this is not the best part of cat ownership, it is essential! Not only will a dirty litter box smell, but your cat may avoid it if it is not cleaned. As a result, it is important that you clean the litter box at least twice a day, or after each use. To clean the box, scoop out the excrement and place it in the garbage.The litter box should be placed away from your cat’s food and water, preferably in a quiet location.
 Cats are relatively clean animals and you will notice your cat grooming itself on a regular basis. However, you should still brush their coat at least once a week. This will help reduce shedding and prevents the likelihood that your cat will choke on a hairball.You should also cut your cat’s nails every two to three weeks to prevent your cat from damaging furniture or clawing you.
 Your cat needs attention and stimulation throughout the day. You should play with your cat at least once each day. You can use toys, such as wand toys, to mimic different forms of prey. This will keep your cat active and engaged. Always let your cat catch the toy a few times during each play session.


Do not tease your cat or play rough with your cat. This can cause aggressive behavioural issues.
 Cats like to have a little space to call their own, where they can curl up and enjoy the quiet. Set up a comfortable cat bed in a spare room in your home, or tuck it into an out-of-the-way spot with little human traffic.