 You'll need a couple of small toys with you to help keep your child entertained while you're shopping. It can help to let your child choose which toys they'd like to take so they'll be more likely to be entertained by them. You can also buy a small new toy to keep them distracted., Normally, you probably limit your child's interaction with a screen. However, a big shopping day may be good time to lift that rule a bit. If you let your child have more screen time than they normally do, they'll likely be enthralled, leaving you free to shop while they chill in the cart.Make sure the devices you bring are fully charged, and try to bring a charging bank if possible, so you don't run out of battery power halfway through the day.
 Snacks will help if your child starts to get cranky from hunger. Even better, take something that you normally don't let your kids have, such as chocolate, so they are even more distracted by the snack., If you bring blankets and pillows with you and go early in the morning, you may be able to get your kids to sleep while you shop. Of course, it's never a sure thing that your kids will sleep, but it's worth bringing the pillows and blankets along just in case.While some strollers aren't big enough for blankets and pillows, you can make use of a shopping cart in some places. Either way, the key is to make your kid comfortable, though this advice will likely only work for babies and toddlers.
 You know the toys you'd rather your kids not have, such as the noisy ones or weapons. Try to avoid those sections if possible. If it's not possible, go by them more quickly and land on another section where you can distract your child with something they like (such as dinosaurs)., Try having a store tote on hand that you can slip your kid's gifts into. When you need to pick one up, distract your child by pointing at something else they'll like, such as "Aren't those dresses pretty?"You can also get the cashier on board by asking them to scan the gifts without letting your kids see while you do something else to distract your kids.

