 In a court of law, it is the judge's (or jury's) opinion of you that matters. Outside of court, there is typically a person or group whose opinion of you is affected by the false accusation. Identify who is judging you in this situation so that you can focus your efforts on repairing your reputation with that person or group.


For example, if you are accused of stealing at work, it is your boss's opinion of you that matters, because your boss has the authority to investigate the accusation and fire you if he or she believes the accuser's story.
Sometimes, your only judge is your accuser. In these cases, the only consequence of the false accusation is the harm to your relationship with the accuser. You will need to respond to that person by acknowledging the pain they have suffered, explaining your innocence, and working together to repair your relationship.
 The appropriate response will depend upon your situation. Some false accusations arise from miscommunication, such as an accusation that you made a promise and did not keep it. Others arise from mistaken identity, such as an accusation that you harmed someone when in fact they were harmed by someone else. Some false accusations are completely groundless, like a made up story created by someone who wants to get you in trouble.


Sometimes, an alibi is your best defense. Try to establish that you were not present when the wrongdoing occurred.
Offer an alternative explanation if you can. You can try to resolve cases of miscommunication or mistaken identity by identifying the guilty party or pointing out where the accuser made a mistake. It's not entirely fair to expect you to solve a problem you didn't create, but if you are able to solve the problem, you can resolve the controversy yourself. However, avoid making any false accusations of your own.
In some situations, all you can do is plead ignorance. For example, "I don't know why Mark would accuse me of making a rude comment to him in the hall. I did speak with Mark in the hallway that day, but I did not make the comment he said I made."

, You may need to back up your story, especially if there is going to be some legal action or other formal inquiry. Look for documents that show that you were not involved in the incident, such as receipts or photographs showing that you were somewhere else. Find witnesses who observed the incident or who were with you when the incident occurred.


You can also use character witnesses who are willing to say that they know you well and know that you would not have done what you have been accused of doing.
 The process of defending yourself against a false accusation may be brief, or it may drag on while the someone conducts an investigation. Stick to your story and rely on your evidence and witnesses to corroborate your account of the events. Most importantly, remember to reflect on your mental health. If the controversy is dragging you down, talk to someone about it and make time for the other important things and people in your life.

