 Labeling sexual body parts with fake names or nicknames may only confuse or delay your child’s understanding of their body. It also makes the act of sex and the body seem more private than it should be. You want to foster an open conversation. Call the sexual body parts by their proper name.For example, you might say, “Girls and women have vaginas. Boys and men have penises.”
Of course, how you describe your child’s body may change as they mature. Many people feel more comfortable employing body part nicknames until a child reaches the age of 3 or so.
 When your child asks for a description of how sex occurs it is best to offer a quick, clear description that leaves room for them to ask follow-up questions. You might talk about how the sperm can join with an egg and then that egg becomes a baby. This is a better way to approach the subject when compared with a “stork” discussion.For example, you could say, “You can get pregnant after having sex only once, as it only takes one time for a sperm and egg to join.”

, If you just talk about sex as a biological act, then your child may grow to view it as such. Make sure to emphasize the way that love often plays a part in sexual relationships. This is a great way to acknowledge the strong feelings that your child may be experiencing while also telling them that you can express love in other ways aside from sex.You might say, “What are some other ways of showing a person that you love them?”

, Your child may ask you directly about diverse sexual relationships. Talk about how some people of the same gender also partake in sexual and romantic relationships. If they are curious about these relationships, go online and research LGBT+ issues alongside your child.


You could ask, “Do you have any questions about LGBT relationships?”

, Sexual bullying is, unfortunately, becoming increasingly common at schools. Teach your children how to identify sexual pressure, as connected to peer pressure. Emphasize the benefits of saying, “No,” in uncomfortable situations. Let your child know that unauthorized touching or sex is never okay and that it is never their fault if something does happen.For example, you might tell your child, “No always means no. If someone asks you to stop, do so. And, if you ask someone to stop, then they should respect your words.”
Both girls and boys need to understand the problems associated with sexual peer pressure. Make sure to have this conversation regardless of your child’s gender.
 Tell your child that their safety is your first and foremost concern. Make safe sex a non-negotiable point in your conversation. Explain to them that sexual transmitted diseases can be carried and transmitted very easily unless sexual partners take the proper precautions, including testing. Discuss the use of contraceptive methods and how to prevent an unplanned pregnancy as well.You might say, “The decision to have unprotected sex can have many long-term consequences. Some STDs can stay with you for a lifetime.”

, You and your child can always sit down at the computer and search “sexual education materials” online. Then, you can both go through the information that your search turns up. Offer to purchase or download any books that your child expresses interest in.As you look through various books online, you might ask, “Would you like to order a few of these, so that you can look through them on your own as well?”

