 Salespeople at new furniture stores often have to meet monthly or quarterly quotas. You’ll be more likely to successfully negotiate a lower price if you shop at the end of these periods.In addition, furniture retailers typically offer their biggest discounts during common vacation times, like in December and between May and August., When shopping at a furniture store, be sure to look for its clearance section. You can find discounted older inventory that the store wants to move quickly. Look for a scratch and dent section, where you can find discounted pieces that might only have slight, inconspicuous damage.You can also typically purchase floor models cheaper, so ask the salesperson if a floor model is for sale. If you see any imperfections, try to get them to lower the price by another 5 to 10 percent.
 Keep an eye out for local going out of business advertisements in newspapers and on television. If a retailer announces that it’s closing its doors, you’re bound to find deep discounts in excess of 50 percent.You’ll find the lowest prices during the last week or two of operation, so take note of when the retailer is officially going out of business.
 It never hurts to bargain, even if an item is already discounted. You’re more likely to bargain successfully with smaller, mom and pop furniture stores.When negotiating with a big chain, try to get them to lower the delivery fee.Ask, “Is this the best price you can do for this piece?” Try to knock at least five percent off the price.
If you’re negotiating with a smaller, locally-owned shop, tell them, “I really prefer to shop locally, and coming down a bit on this price would help convince me to become a regular customer.”

, Interest-free financing might sound tempting, but most of these agreements are actually deferred interest plans. If you don’t pay the price in full within a set period of time, you’ll end up having to pay a high interest rate (typically 20 to 30 percent).For example, if you have 12 months to pay for your sofa in full, but it takes you 13 months, you’ll have to pay another 20 to 30 percent of the sofa’s value in deferred interest.

