 Use a pair of kitchen scissors to divide each frog leg in half at the knee joint.


If you do not have a pair of scissors set aside for kitchen use, you could use a sharp knife, instead. Just be careful to avoid cutting your fingers while trying to cut through the joint.;
, Place the frog legs in a bowl and pour the milk on top. Cover the bowl loosely with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 30 minutes.


Do not let the frog legs marinate at room temperature. The milk could spoil, and room temperature range is ideal for triggering bacterial growth in raw meat.
 After marinating the frog legs, let them drain on clean paper towels. Pat dry and sprinkle with salt and pepper.


If you are not sure about how much salt and pepper to use, try using about 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) of each.
 Dump the flour onto a plate or shallow bowl. Place each frog leg in the flour and turn as needed to coat all sides.


Gently shake off excess flour when done.
Place the coated frog legs on a separate plate when done.
 Heat over high heat, letting it come to a sizzle.


The butter should begin to sizzle, but avoid letting it smoke. When butter becomes hot enough to produce smoke, it begins breaking down, which can affect the flavor of the end dish.
 Add half of the frog legs to the sizzling butter and cook for 3 to 4 minutes.


Flip the legs over using tongs in the middle of the cooking process so that both sides are evenly cooked.
 Discard the remaining butter in the skillet and add a fresh 6 Tbsp (180 ml) more. Cook the remaining frog legs in the hot butter for 3 to 4 minutes.


As before, flip the legs over in the middle of the cooking process to cook both sides evenly.
 Discard the butter currently in the skillet and add the remaining butter. Once it sizzles, add the garlic and cook for about 1 minute.


Stir the garlic continually to avoid burning it.
When done, the garlic should be lightly browned and very fragrant.
 With the skillet off the heat, add the lemon juice and more salt and pepper. Stir to combine well.


As before, if you are not sure about how much salt and pepper to use, try using about 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) of each.
 Place the frog legs in the center of a serving plate and drizzle the garlic sauce over or around them.


Garnish with fresh parsley, if desired.

