 Take 1 pound (454 g) of elbow macaroni or another tube-shaped pasta, and place it in a large bowl. Pour enough hot water over the pasta to cover it, and add salt to taste to season the mixture. Let the pasta rest in the water while you work with other ingredients.Hot water should reach a temperature between 130 and 135 degrees Fahrenheit (54 to 57 degrees Celsius). It should be too hot to touch comfortably.
While you should let the pasta sit in the water, make sure to stir it twice during the first 10 minutes that it’s soaking. That will keep the macaroni from sticking together.;
, Pour 2 28-ounce (794 g) cans of whole peeled tomatoes into the pitcher of a traditional blender or into a bowl that you can fit a hand blender into. Blend the tomatoes until they are almost entirely smooth and then set aside for use later.If you don’t have a blender, you can use a potato masher to pulverize the tomatoes into a thick, smooth puree.
 In a Dutch oven or 5 quart (4.7 L) saute pan with straight sides, place 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of extra-virgin olive oil and 2 tablespoons (28 g) of unsalted butter, and heat on medium-high. Swirl the pan regularly until the butter is almost completely melted.While the combination of olive oil and butter usually provides the best flavor, you can use only one if you prefer. For example, opt for 4 tablespoons (60 ml) of olive oil or 4 tablespoons (56 g) of unsalted butter.
 Once the olive oil and butter are heated, add 1 large onion and 1 large green pepper, both finely diced, to the pan. Continue heating the onion and pepper over medium heat until they are softened but aren’t browned. It should take approximately 7 minutes. While the onion and pepper are heating in the pan, make sure to stir them frequently so all of the pieces cook evenly.
 Once the onion and peppers are softened, stir 4 cloves of garlic that have been minced, 1 tablespoon (3 g) of dried oregano, 1 teaspoon (5 g) of crushed red pepper flakes, and ⅛ cup (29.5 g) of finely minced fresh parsley leaves into the pot. Allow the ingredients to cook for approximately 1 minute until the mixture becomes fragrant.Make sure to stir the contents of the pot while you’re cooking them for that minute so nothing sticks to the bottom and it all cooks evenly.

