 As a hiring manager reviews your application, they will look for certain red flags. These won’t necessarily prevent you from getting the job. However, you’ll need to address them. Identify if any of the following apply to you:


criminal history
financial mismanagement, such as bankruptcy
plagiarism in school
poor academic performance
gaps in employment

, Having a criminal conviction will make it harder for you to get a job. Nevertheless, you must address the convictions. Most applications request your criminal background information, and you must be honest.


Try to put them off until the middle of the interview. Hiring managers remember the first and last things you say the most.Acknowledge the crime but then explain what you’ve learned. For example, “That DUI was a huge mistake. But it was the wake-up call I needed. I started AA and began to focus more on my future, which is why I entered school shortly afterwards.”
Pivot to your current and future plans as much as possible. For example, you should discuss your educational goals and any job training.
 You can expect an employer to perform a background check on you at some point in the interview process. Accordingly, they will find out your terrible credit score or bankruptcy. Provide context for your financial struggles.


For example, a family member might have been ill and you racked up large medical bills. You needed the bankruptcy to wipe out your debts.You can also explain that a family member had a period of extended unemployment, which caused you to rely on credit cards.
The worst answer is to admit that you blow money in an irresponsible manner. If that’s why your credit is bad, you can focus on what steps you’ve taken to correct the problem: “I lost control of my credit situation, but I’ve been focused over the past three years building it back up. Credit counseling has helped.”

, You might have struggled to graduate, with many failed courses along the way. Or you might have been punished for academic misconduct, such as plagiarism. In either case, you should prepare to discuss how you grew from the experience.


To explain bad grades, you can say, “It’s true, I struggled my first year in college, but I was unprepared at 18 to live away from home. After transferring closer home, my grades soared.”
Or, if you were caught plagiarizing, you can say, “There’s no excuse for that. But I did learn that there’s no substitute for hard work. And I joined the student disciplinary council the next year.”

, You’ll need to spin any gap and put it in a positive light.Don’t hope that the interviewer will ignore the gap. Instead, try the following:


Talk about new skills you learned. For example, you might have been freelancing in a new field or volunteering. You can say, “I volunteered at a woman’s shelter for the past year as I searched for jobs. I’m glad I did. I’ve become much more skilled at listening because of the experience.”
Discuss how the gap clarified your focus. For example: “I actually traveled to India for six months. It was really eye-opening. I realized that my passion for law was stronger than ever, so I came back to re-enter the legal field.”
Acknowledge you were let go. If there’s a reason, e.g., the company downsized, then make sure to mention that.