 This will remove the excess oil that's clogging your pores. Dermatologists agree that using a basic face cleanser every morning and night is the best way to prevent oily skin.Choose a gentle face soap that cleans your face without drying out your skin. Don't use a moisturizing soap that adds oils or moisturizers to your face.
Use warm water when washing your face. Hot water may dry out or irritate your face.
Dry your face thoroughly with a soft towel after washing.
Stay away from harsh soaps or facial cleansers designed to dry out skin. The purpose of washing the face is to physically remove oil and dead skin cells from your face and pores. If you choose a soap designed to dry oily skin, choose the mildest one you can find and only use it when needed.
If a basic cleanser doesn't work, try a product that has acid like benzoyl peroxide or salicylic acid. These products are usually for acne, but they help to fight oily skin too.;
, There are many kinds of toner. Use either an astringent or freshener to fight oily skin. Check the ingredients: astringents have alcohol while fresheners usually have ingredients like caffeine or green tea. Generally stay away from skin tonics and skin bracers because they are only for normal or dry skin.









Apply the toner on the "t-zone" of your forehead and nose. Those are the oiliest spots on your face. Apply the toner very lightly or not at all to your cheeks, where it can easily cause over drying.
Use cotton balls to apply to toner. Brush the cotton balls lightly over your face.
After the toner dries, wash it off with a face towel and use an oil-free moisturizer to prevent over drying.
 Blotting paper is great because it doesn't dry out skin and it only takes 15 to 20 seconds. Medicated pads usually have salicylic acid or glycolic acid and are easy to use on the go. Since they're acid-based they're a great treatment for acne too.









Apply blotting paper to your oiliest areas such as nose and forehead. Make sure you don't scrub it. You just have to press it on the oily area for a few seconds so it can absorb the oil.
Some blotting paper includes powder, which fights oily skin even more.
Carry medicated pads in your purse or bag. These pads are typically acid-based so they fight acne too.
Be careful not to use medicated pads as needed, but don't use more than three a day as they can over dry your skin.
 Facial masks give you a deeper cleanse than an ordinary face wash. They go deeper to remove impurities and draw out the oil in your pores. However, there is a greater risk for over drying with facial masks. Use them sparingly.


Only use a mask after using your regular face cleanser.
Your skin and hands should be damp when you apply the mask. Try doing the mask in the bathtub for maximum relaxation and minimal cleanup.
Keep the mask on for 10 to 15 minutes. Use water and a washcloth to gently remove the mask.
Your best bet for absorbing oil without over drying is a mask containing purifying ingredients like clay as well as soothing ingredients like shea butter or honey. You can also use a mask made of sandal and turmeric for removing oil and acne from your face.
Use a mask once a week or before important events like a wedding or a big date. If you use it too much you risk over drying.
 Read the ingredients carefully on any products you use. Choose only water-based, noncomedogenic cosmetics.


Some people with oily skin don't use moisturizers or sunscreen because they think it will add to their problem. If you use the right products, however, they can be enormously beneficial to your skin. Oily skin still needs to be moisturized and protected from ultraviolet radiation.
Get in the habit of checking the ingredients of every product you use on your face. Make sure none of them are oil-based.
Sunscreen gels or facial powders can protect your skin without adding oil or clogging your pores.
Avoid oil-based cosmetics, and wash all makeup off before going to bed. Makeup settles into pores and will clog them if it's not completely removed. Never apply additional makeup without first removing the old makeup.
Don't use cold creams or lotions for makeup removal if you have oily skin. These products are designed to moisturize dry skin and may leave a greasy film on the skin, contributing to clogged pores, oil buildup, and acne.
 Use products with benzoyl peroxide to kill the bacteria that builds up on the skin and causes acne. It also cuts back on dead skin cells which clog your pores.


Acne creams that contain resorcinol, sulfur or salicylic acids also help to unclog pores. These products are designed for use after acne blemishes appear on the skin and to help sores heal.
Follow all manufacturer usages instructions when using over-the-counter acne products.
Make sure you wash your face with soap in the shower too. Just don't wash your nose as that can cause more clogging.
There are many different acne products. If the first one doesn't work, try another.
If over-the-counter medications don't work, see your dermatologist for more treatment.

