 Adults should sleep 7-8 hours a night. Children and teenagers need closer to 9-11 hours of sleep. Getting more or less sleep than you need can cause you to wake up feeling sleepy. Your sleep should be consistent: avoid waking up at night if possible. You might need to get a little extra sleep if you have been sleep deprived, but try to generally keep the same bedtime and same waking up time.All adults need 7-8 hours of sleep, but older adults may need to spend more time in bed, and may need to take naps. As you grow older you will sleep more lightly, and wake up more frequently.
Infants and toddlers need 9-10 hours, plus roughly 3 hours of naptime.;
, Close the curtains if you live in a neighborhood with lots of streetlamps. Turn LED clocks away, computers and televisions off, and skip the nightlight. Avoid exposure to bright light in the hours before you sleep. Try reading a book instead of watching TV or using your computer before bed.Consider earplugs if your room is always noisy. Ask your neighbors and everyone who lives in your house to respect your bedtime and keep the volume down.Avoid looking at your phone before bed, as it exposes you to light and is likely to contain distractions that can keep you up.
Wear a sleep mask if you cannot keep your room dark enough in the morning.
Consider hanging blackout curtains for a deep dark effect.
 You will sleep more soundly if your body is cool and temperate. Being too warm or hot can disturb your sleep. Sleep in the nude if you can, as this will help your body naturally regulate its temperature.Keep a few layers of sheets and blankets on your bed, so you can adjust for warmth.


Regulate temperature with heat or air conditioning, but consider lowering the power. Your house may cool down naturally at night during the summer, and doesn't need to be as warm at night during the winter.
Your body does not need as much heat at night, as its core temperature lowers in your sleep., Dance, walk, ride a bike, or take yourself to the gym. Getting your daily exercise in will help your body rest at night. Do not, however, exercise in the two hours before you sleep, as your body will be too excited to rest. Gentle stretching is acceptable.


Being fit and healthy is a key part of sleeping well. Quit smoking, and avoid smoking before bedtime., Eat your final meal a few hours before you lie down, or earlier, if you are prone to stomach acid. Go to bed sated. Being hungry will disrupt your sleep. Drink plenty of water during the day, but do not try to compensate for a dry day right before bed. Drinking a lot before sleeping might make you wake up in the night for bathroom visits.


If you drink caffeine, avoid drinking it in the six hours before you sleep. Dark chocolate should also be avoided as an after-dinner dessert. Caffeine stays in your body for up to 12 hours, and can make it hard for you to sleep.Opt for herbal tea, warm milk, and other relaxing beverages in the evening.
 Try not to drink before bed. Alcohol at night can help you feel sleepy, but it actually interferes with the depth of your sleep.Many drugs will make it hard for you to sleep, including uppers and hallucinogens.


Sleep medication can interfere with your healthy sleeping patterns. Keep it to a minimum.If you do drink alcohol at night, drink plenty of water, at least a cup for every boozy drink you have. It's better to wake up in the night to visit the bathroom than to wake up in the morning with a hangover.
 Naps can interfere with your sleep routine. Long naps can make it especially difficult for you to settle down at night. When you do nap, during the day, try to keep it under 30 minutes. Mid afternoon is the time least likely to mess up your sleep schedule.