 Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 C). Spray a 10-cup capacity Bundt pan with baking spray. Ensure that you completely spray the inside of the pan, especially if your pan has an intricate design. Set your prepared pan aside while you make the cake batter.If you don't have baking spray, rub the inside of the pan with butter or coconut oil. Sprinkle about 1/4 of a cup of flour into the pan and shake it so that the inside is completely greased and floured.;
, If you have liquid coconut oil, pour 1 cup (200 g) of it into a large mixing bowl. Add 2 cups (450 g) of sugar, 1½ cups (350 ml) of milk, 6 large eggs, 1 teaspoon of vanilla, and the zest from 2 limes into the mixing bowl and whisk until the wet ingredients are completely combined. Set this mixture aside.If your coconut oil is hard, measure it out and melt it in a small saucepan on the stove over low heat. You could also microwave it to liquefy it.
 In a separate mixing bowl, place 3½ cups (440 g) of flour, 3½ teaspoons of baking powder, ¼ teaspoon of grated nutmeg, and ½ teaspoon of salt. Whisk the dry ingredients together for about 30 seconds. Set the dry mixture aside.Whisking the dry ingredients ensures that they absorb the wet ingredients evenly. If you don't have a whisk, try sifting the dry ingredients into your bowl and stirring them.
 Sprinkle half of the dry mixture over the wet mixture. Take a spatula and fold the dry ingredients into the wet. Use your wrist to make a circular motion as you mix the ingredients. Add the rest of the dry mixture and finish folding the ingredients just until they're combined.Avoid stirring the batter too much or your cake will be tough and lose volume.
 Pour the batter into the prepared Bundt pan and use a spatula to smooth the top. Place the cake into the preheated oven and bake for about 1 hour. The cake will be golden brown and a tester will come out clean when the cake is finished.Since Bundt pans come in a variety of styles, your cake may take more or less time. If you need to add more time, set your timer for 5 minute increments. Keep checking until your cake is baked.
 Remove the cake from the oven and leave it in the Bundt pan for 15 minutes. You can then flip it out onto a cooling rack to let it finish cooling completely. You can serve the cake immediately or glaze it with a topping of your choice.For an optional coconut glaze, toast 1/2 cup of flaked coconut and add 1/2 cup of sugar, 1 cup of water, and a pinch of salt. Bring the mixture to a boil and stir until the sugar dissolves. Spread this coconut glaze on the cooled cake and let it set before you slice it.

