 Be prepared to be on the receiving end of most conversations. It's not enough to simply hear what the narcissist has to say, though. You need to show that you're actively listening, as well.


It may not be enough to merely smile and nod. To really win the narcissist's favor, you need to respond to the things he or she says in a way that demonstrates how much you're paying attention.
Keep an eye on the narcissist's reactions. If the way you've engaged him or her is unsatisfactory, you'll likely know in a short amount of time.;
, Narcissists will think they're great whether you tell them so or not, but that doesn't mean they don't enjoy hearing compliments from others. When you offer praise, though, make it as genuine as possible.


Bonus points if you praise the narcissist in front of other people. The more attention you give that person, the more pleased he or she will be to spend time in your company.
Your praise does need to be genuine, though, or you might be in for a bigger headache than before. In their efforts to be noticed and admired, narcissists will do nearly anything. If there is a behavior you frequently praise them for, that will be the behavior they are most likely to repeat, so make sure it's a good one.Don't worry about making the problem worse. For the most part, narcissists become the way they are at an early age, and any praise you offer will not inflate their egos any more than they're already inflated.
 Occasionally, you will have a dispute with the narcissist in your life. That individual will likely be offended if you bluntly criticize him or her, but that doesn't mean you need to back down completely. When you point out what the narcissist has done wrong, simply phrase it as a personal and subjective opinion instead of an accusation.


In general, "I" language reduces defensiveness, aggressiveness, and rage. Narcissists, especially, are known to demonstrate these traits in excess, so mastering "I" language will give you significant leverage.For example, say "I feel hurt by your actions" instead of saying "You just did something really cruel and careless."

, When the narcissist gets upset with you, address the concern by naming it specifically. Instead of accepting the blame for that difficulty, though, explain that you have a different opinion on the matter.


For instance, if you're working with a narcissist on a report at work, and certain figures are off, don't say, "You were in charge of the calculations so this is your fault, not mine." Chances are, he or she will actually believe that it's your fault, and may even say so. As such, you should reply with something like, "So, you think that I'm the one who messed up. I don't see things that way, so I'm really not comfortable taking the blame for this."

, When the narcissist engages in a behavior you dislike, point out the behavior by explaining how much better some positive attribute of the narcissist's would be if that behavior was remedied. Emphasize the positive attribute over the negative behavior.


Narcissists tend to cross into your personal space without even realizing that what they're doing is wrong. This stems from a belief that others exist to serve them.
For example, avoid saying things like, "Stop interrupting me! I don't have time for this." Instead, say something more along the lines of, "You're very intellectually stimulating, but I can appreciate your insights and cleverness much better when you stop by my desk once or twice a day, rather than five or six times."

, If you need to tell the narcissist about a decision that has recently been made, place as little emphasis on the problem as possible and emphasize the solutions that have already been decided upon. Narcissists are likely to go back over the problem and try to come up with their own solutions, so if you want to save time and prevent discord, you need to stop the narcissist from zeroing in on the problem at all.


The same principle applies when you only have possible solutions instead of one determined solution. Present the narcissist with your possible solutions, only explaining the problem they address afterward.
 Direct challenges to the narcissist's opinions will likely be perceived as a threat to his or her authority. Once you challenge this sense of authority, you will likely make the narcissist cling to it more stubbornly than ever before.


Directly saying “I don't like your taste” or “Let's not do what you want to do” will probably cause a major fight. Avoid challenging the narcissist when possible. When not possible, make your challenge as subtle as possible to prevent him or her from getting defensive.
 When things go wrong, don't point your finger at the narcissist—even if it does happen to be his or her fault—and don't let the narcissist point any fingers at you. Cut off any discussion of blame by immediately redirecting the narcissist's attention to something else. The narcissist's ego won't allow you to even imply that he or she is a guilty party, so you're better off avoiding that discussion altogether.


Building off an earlier example, consider a situation in which sales figures are off due to a miscalculation on the narcissist's side. That individual will not accept blame and will likely try to push it off on you. After quickly defending your belief that the error does not lie on your own shoulders, turn the conversation by stating that the more important thing to worry about right now is correcting the error.
This will be even more effective if you can find a way to compliment the narcissist as you shift the conversation. For instance, you can say something like, “Regardless of what happened, the figures are wrong and need to be fixed. I know that things would go a lot smoother and quicker if I had your insights to help with this.”

, One of the easiest ways to persuade narcissists to choose a certain course of action is to suggest that it will be a benefit to them. The narcissistic mind views everything in terms of self-interest, so it assumes that anything good for the narcissist will be good overall.


To make this even more effective, figure out what the narcissist's proudest attributes are and appeal to that attribute.
For instance, if a narcissist is particularly pleased about his cleverness, and you need to convince him to accept a certain policy at work, try talking about other intelligent people who made similar decisions at other companies with great success while mentioning others who did not accept such changes and appeared foolish as a result. The narcissist may then view that policy as another way of demonstrating his superior intelligence.
 Since the narcissist needs to feel a sense of control, you need to let that individual think that he or she has power over the decision making process of any given situation. Instead of telling the narcissist that he or she must do something, ask the narcissist which option out of several he or she would prefer.


For example, instead of saying, “We're going to have the project meeting Tuesday afternoon at 3:00 PM,” ask, “What time on Tuesday afternoon would you like to have the project meeting?”

, Anyone who knows a narcissist also knows that he or she will tend to take credit for a solution, even if someone else arrived at it. As annoying as it may seem, you should let the narcissist do so when possible. In fact, another highly effective way to convince a narcissist to do things your way is to trick him or her into thinking that things are actually being done the narcissist's way.


If you're concerned about losing credit with someone important, like a manager, try talking to that individual alone about the way things really happened.
You might lose credit with people initially, but as more people within your social or professional group become acquainted with the narcissist, they will all come to understand that the narcissist does not do half the things he or she claims to do. Once this realization sets in among people, most will learn to read between the lines and see when you were the one who actually arrived at the solution instead of the narcissist.
 As irritating as it might be dealing with your narcissist acquaintance, understand that his or her behavior is no reflection on you. The narcissist is non-exclusive and behaves in a selfish, egotistical way to everyone. You alone are not being singled out.


This has limits and exceptions, though. Sometimes, a narcissist will latch on to one specific person. He or she may give that person the same treatment that any other person would get in the same position, but it might be worse treatment than a casual acquaintance receives. If the narcissist exhibits destructive behaviors instead of annoying ones, you need to forget about staying detached from the situation and worry about protecting yourself from harm.
 Another thing you should understand is that the narcissist will never be able to provide a source of emotional support or civilized debate. Narcissistic personalities are quiet stuck in their own habits. You can control a narcissist from time to time, but you will never be able to break these habits completely.


For this reason, it is often ill-advised to pursue a romantic relationship with a narcissist.
If you do make your own feelings known, prepare yourself for criticism, especially if your feelings clash with the narcissist's.
 When you encounter a frustrating situation, take a step back out of yourself and try to visualize the matter from an external, objective perspective. Ask yourself what you would advise someone else to do in your place instead of allowing yourself to get emotionally overwhelmed.
 The narcissist is a human with weaknesses and strengths, just like anyone else. The weakness of the narcissist is regrettably obvious, but before you turn this individual into an irredeemable enemy in your mind, understand that he or she has positive points, as well.


Nonetheless, it is advisable to be somewhat emotionally detached regarding the narcissists in your life. You can pity their weakness and admire their strengths, but people who become too intimate have a tendency to think they can “correct” the individual's narcissism, only to find out too late that it simply will not happen.
Pity the narcissist when you can. Narcissism is an unhealthy emotional state, which means that a person suffering with it is deprived of the full richness of human feeling. Don't let that pity show, however, since the narcissist may take it as an insult.
 Breathe deep and stay calm, no matter what else you do when dealing with a narcissist. The narcissist will always seek to control you, but as long as you can stay in control of yourself, you just might be able to turn the tables in your favor.

