


Some mothers mistakenly believe that they can pass the infection onto their baby via milk, so they try to limit nursing.
Fortunately, the infection is not passed on to the baby and nursing should continue. In fact, you should try to nurse more often than usual to assist in emptying the problem breast as much as possible.
 This will aid in increased milk flow.


Place warm compresses on the affected area. Use warm, damp washcloths or a heating pad if necessary.
Try standing under the warm water stream in the shower, directing the water to the affected area as best as possible. Adjust the temperature to be as hot as you can stand it.



Allow baby to start on the unaffected breast for a minute or two just to get the milk flowing to the breasts.
Switch your baby over to the breast with Mastitis. Allow baby to empty the breast as much as possible before switching back to the healthy breast.
Do this for every feeding until the Mastitis is gone, then switch back to alternating breasts as normal.
 This will relieve some of the hardness in the affected area and make it easier for baby to latch on.
 The flavor of breast milk can be slightly changed due to the infection and baby may not want to nurse from it.
 Your body is trying to fight an infection. Allow it to do so. Nap with baby as often as possible.
 Find ways to relax when not sleeping.


Read a book.
Watch a favorite television show or a movie.
Call a friend.
Take a stroll.
 Add vitamin supplements if you are not already taking them on a daily basis. These can help speed your recovery and lessen the severity of your symptoms.
 This will help bring down painful inflammation.
, Garlic acts as a natural antibiotic and can speed healing.
 This is known to aid in the body’s ability to fight infection.
 Orange juice, citrus fruits, green peppers and broccoli are excellent immune system boosters.
 If your fever continues to rise or you feel worse as time goes on, chances are you will need an antibiotic treatment.;
,,, You may require a different medication or further assistance to rectify the situation.
 If this happens, your health care provider will have to drain the abscess or remove it surgically.
 The healing process takes approximately one week. Rarely, women are advised to stop breastfeeding all together due to complications.

