 There are plenty of jobs you can do with only a high school diploma. To defend your decision not to go to college, it’s best to explore those options before you graduate, so you can defend your decision not to go to college by listing the jobs you’ll be applying for.

For example, electrical power line installers and repair workers, millwrights, industrial machinery mechanics, community health workers, physical therapist aides, restaurant workers, and hospitality managers are all jobs that only require a high school diploma and some on-the-job training.
 Applying and interviewing for jobs can take a few weeks. If you're looking to make some money while you figure out your next steps or apply for jobs that require some training, consider working in retail or service. You'll likely get hired quickly and won't need any training., If you’re thinking about attending a vocational or technical school instead of a four-year college, talking to an advisor who is familiar with the programs offered at those schools can be really helpful. They can tell you what courses you’ll need to take, what their admissions requirements are, and what sort of employment rate their graduates have.There should be an admissions page on the websites of the schools you’re interested in. You can usually find contact information for advisors there, or you can make an appointment to see someone in person.
Start your email by saying: "Dear Ms. Smith, I am considering applying to your school's IT program, but I have a few questions first. I'm available next Wednesday and Thursday between 10 am and 2 pm. Can we set up a time to meet? Thank you!"

, Everyone has heard the stories about super rich and successful people who never went to college. To help you figure out an alternative path after high school, talk to people you actually know who didn’t go, and ask them lots of questions. It can help you find something fulfilling that you never knew existed.

For example, you can say something like, “Uncle Jerry, I know you didn’t go to college after high school. Could you talk to me about it? What made you decide not to go? What did you do instead?”

