 The cafeteria can be a loud and rowdy place. The perfect place for getting into trouble. If you want to get busted into detention, here are a couple of ideas:


Throw any kind of lunch bag, piece of tinfoil, or an empty bottle at somebody. If a nearby adult catches you, you might get kicked out of the cafeteria.
Take food off of someone's plate and just start eating it. Wait for them to tell on you.
If there is a huge crowd of people entering the hallway from the cafeteria, and you're one of those people, find a couple of people and bang into one another. Shove people out of your way. If a nearby adult sees you, you will be given a verbal warning. If it continues, you could get a detention.
 If you have to sit around with a bunch of other kids, it's probably an important time to sit quietly and learn something important for everyone. Or it could be a great opportunity to get busted. If you want a detention, try out the following:


When the principal walks in and starts talking, shout, "Who IS that chump?"
Start asking any students who have to speak or get up on stage. Just yell weird or random stuff: "Voldemort loves you Mr. Douchebag!"
Squeak your chair loudly, or talk loudly to your neighbors. Keep doing it when you're told to stop.
Tell a speaker to shut up, that you're trying to sleep.
 If you have to sit through a band concert or a choir concert at your school, it's important to be on your best behavior. Unless you want a detention. Here's how to get one:


After the song, yell out "BOO!" to the performers. Or don't clap to the performers and stand up and start asking them questions instead.
Comment inappropriate things to your friends about the song. Be aware that this may distract the rest of the audience.
Laugh at the performers during or after the song. Or disrupt them by shouting/saying inappropriate words that make the lyrics funny, or making jokes about how they look.
If you have an assembly before your lunch period, bring out some small candy from the cafeteria. People may ask for some. Better yet, chuck them at the performers instead.
 Technology class is a great place to learn and interact with technology. It's also a great place to get detention. If you want to stick around before/after school or during lunch, try out these ideas:


If you need to use a computer in class, go on another website instead of what you’re supposed to do. Tap friends’ shoulders and show them what you're doing.
Start playing a computer game instead. Scream Yeah! if you get a point. If you lose a point, shout something inappropriate.
Crank the sound on a YouTube video and start blasting it. Play Lil Wayne's "A Milli" or anything that would get you into trouble.

