 One of the main reasons that toddlers get so upset is that they do not have a name for what they are feeling. Helping them to give their emotions a name will allow them to express themselves plus expand their growing vocabulary as well.


Knowing the names for their emotions will help toddlers become ready for the transition to preschool as well. It will be even more important for your toddler to be able to express themselves through words when they are angry or frustrated with the other children they are exposed to.
Keep the emotional names simple and direct: mad, sad and happy are good starter words for your toddler to master.;
, You can ask reflective questions to help the toddler decide the emotion he is feeling at the moment. For example:


“Are you mad because Billy has the toy you wanted? Do you feel sad that Billy had to go home?”
Once the child has figured out the correct emotion, you can discuss ways to help him feel better.
 Let your toddler come up with a specific scenario and then ask them which emotions would correspond to it.


For example, the child might suggest a scenario where he does something mean to his little brother or sister, causing the little brother or sister to be sad and mom to get angry.
This exercise not only helps to work on emotional identification skills but increases creativity and language development skills as well.
 You can also make a face and then have your toddler make the same face. As they get better at the game, you can keep a neutral face and then have your child make the face themselves, then you have to guess.
 The most common song about emotions is “If You’re Happy and You Know It”, but there are plenty of other songs that deal with different emotions, which you can find on parenting sites online. These songs allow you to go through all of the emotions and possible physical reactions.
 Reading stories is a great way to discuss the topic of emotions, and many books also have illustrations that will help the child to make a visual connection.


"Zero to Three", a web based resource site, has a listing of books about emotions and feelings perfect for this age group.
 While you can point out emotions while you are running errands with your toddler, having them point at strangers and announce that “That man is mad!” may be embarrassing.


An even better and less public idea is to use magazine articles or online pictures showing various emotions.
Let your toddler tell you what emotion the face is conveying and then ask them questions such as “Why is the baby sad?”

, The terrible twos is so named because this is the age when tempers and angry outbursts become more common. When a child of this age is upset they may have no idea of how to express themselves and even if they do have the names for their emotions, they may not have the maturity to self-calm and then express themselves.


If a child is upset already, the littlest thing could send them over the edge into a full blown tantrum. Things like being overly tired, hungry or bored can also cause behavioral upsets and often happen at places like the grocery store.
It is important to handle the behavior with as much calm as possible without making it worse, but without ignoring it either. The worst thing you can do is give in to the behavior itself.
Never reward negative behavior just to avoid an embarrassing situation. You will only reinforce that the behavior works and that it should be repeated in the future.
 Quietly tell the child that you understand that he is upset but that you will have to remove him from the situation until he calms down.


If you whisper the child will have to stop screaming long enough to hear you. This may be enough to defuse the situation. If it does not, be prepared to carry through with your words - carry the child out of the store or wherever you are.
If the child is flailing and carrying him will be dangerous to yourself or others, give him a moment, while monitoring him closely to make sure that he is not going to harm himself or cause any damage in his anger.
Once he has tired out slightly you should be able to pick him up and remove him from the area without a problem.
 When the child has calmed down, speak to him about what happened, again, remaining as calm as possible. Use emotion words like “angry” “upset” but do not use the word “tantrum”. Do not minimize the child's feelings at all.


Talk about expectations for the next time you go out and how you can help the child to meet those expectations.
 Being two is kind of a rough deal. Not a baby but not a big kid, children in this age group can find themselves overwhelmed, especially when they are not feeling their best.


Be prepared with snacks, toys or other items to ward off any potential behavior problems.
As soon as the child starts being fussy or acting up remind them of their behavior and what your expectations are.
Give them a task to do to derail the train of thought that could take them to tantrum town.
 For some it is a favorite toy or a blanket. A teddy bear (or other stuffed animal) can be the perfect way to help a toddler learn self-calming techniques.


Tell your toddler to tell the teddy bear how he is feeling when he is angry or upset.
When you see your toddler getting emotionally worked up remind him to “talk to the teddy bear”.

