 This will 9 times out of 10, bring out the first juggernaut. He will come down the hill between the main house and the boathouse. Kill him with your sniper rifle, and if you have trouble, just remember that flash-bangs stun juggernauts and can buy you some time. After this first juggernaut, there may be some stragglers that come down the hill as well and hide behind the trees. Take these guys out first.;
, This will provide you with cover as you "slice the pie" around each side of the log pile. First, with your sniper rifle zoomed in, slice the left side (do this SLOWLY as bad guys will fire on you as soon as they catch a glimpse of you) from your far left to right.


There is sometimes a bad guy to the right side of the house near the rolled-up garden hose and a pillar that holds up the back deck. He will pop his head up momentarily so when you get a chance, shoot him. If, after a few seconds of watching the base of that pillar, you don't see anyone popping their head up, then he isn't there.
Continue slicing from left to right on the left side of the log pile. You will slowly slice until you see the white fence end and a farmhouse begin. At this point, it's easier to switch to the right side of the log pile and begin slicing from right to left.
Usually, the only bad guy is a sniper in the far distance. You can locate him by "turkey peeking" (sticking your head out quickly, then returning to cover behind the log pile). This method will help you locate the muzzle flash or the glint of sunlight off the enemy sniper's scope. Once you've located his position, you will notice that 9 times out of 10, he is beneath the red and white electrical tower, near the ground.
Specifically, if you follow the left red leg of the tower down towards the ground, it will eventually cross with a white tree with a bush to the left of the tree. If you fire along the top of the grass, you can usually hit him in the head (you will know because your hostile count will reduce by one).
 Get down, and as you watch your map, you can locate more bad guys.


By turkey peeking as you did before, or by using only your map, get the location of the bad guys and scope in on them. Usually there are 2, sometimes only one. One of them is kneeling and moving out from cover then right back again. Watch where he rolls back to and you can fire your .50 cal through the fence he hides behind for another kill.
 Sometimes he's there and sometimes he's not. You can also pause outside before rushing in and clear the room from outside by aiming through the window, but he may be in the hallway, so just be prepared. Run into the armory and pick out one the WA2000 with thermal scope. This makes finding the enemies out in the woods much easier.
 Do this slow enough and the enemy won't even know you're there until you've shot one of them. You'll come across an open area below with a solar panel array. There will be several bad guys here. After clearing this side of the house, go to the right side.
 The spawning of the bad guys are also random on this side and they are deadly accurate. Using the WA2000 with the thermal scope helps somewhat, but it can't see through the brush very well.
 There is a bad guy to the left and up near the grass line. Be careful on this area, as well because the guys are hard to locate. Once you've cleared this area, head back inside the basement. If you want, set a claymore at each entrance to cover your back.
 When you get near the top, slow down and crouch. The snipers outside can see you walk by the windows and they will shoot at you.


As you near the top, aim towards the front door and entryway of the house. If there isn't a guy behind the wall then be patient. Some guys will come in from outside and run past your aim point. As you make your way into the kitchen area, be cautious when slicing to the right because there MAY be a bad guy facing the stairway where you are and he's right in the middle of the kitchen. Sometimes he's there and sometimes not. Sometimes there's a guy all the way to the left of the doorway, inside the kitchen.
 Watch out for a possible bad guy in the back room of the bottom floor. As you begin to exit the back room, head towards the front room, clearing bad guys as you go. Watch out for bad guys gathering outside the front door. Now head upstairs and clear out both rooms.


Sometimes there is a bad guy in the room to the right in the back left corner. You can snipe from the second story if you want, but remember that if you hear the bass sound of an incoming juggernaut, it will take longer to head out to the boathouse.
Clear the house and setting claymores, then going back outside to clear the hostiles from the ground. This way you have an advantage when the juggernauts come.
 Head to the back of the house and place claymores behind trees where you have seen hostiles hide earlier in the level. Once you reach 5 guys or less, the strategy of the enemy changes from "wait and see" to "attack". At this point, it is best to be at the back of the house and near the boathouse. This gives you an open area to work with.


As the hostiles begin to advance on your position, hopefully they will walk right into the claymores you have laid. When you get down to 2 or 3 left, you will hear one last juggernaut. Hopefully he will walk into a claymore or 2 and when he is stunned, you can fire on him multiple times with your .50 cal. Once he is dead, you've completed the mission!

