 If you look at your room and see that all your clothes need to be put away, the carpet needs to be vacuumed, the mirror and windows need cleaning, the bed needs to be made, and your dresser needs dusting, this will look like a huge, insurmountable task! Instead of looking at all of this and feeling overwhelmed, focus on a small task. Simply plan on putting your clothes away to start with. Then once you accomplish that, you can tackle another small task. Over time, your whole room will be cleaned without overwhelming yourself in the process., Include each small task that you need to accomplish. A list is a powerful motivator, especially when you cross tasks off as you complete them. Don’t underestimate the power of that checkmark next to your task! This shows your accomplishment and will help you to be goal-oriented. Knowing that you only have five more checkmarks to go will help your goal be more tangible.If the list is unrealistic for the timeframe you have available, break it up into sections that can be tackled in each session. Rank in order of priority. Uniforms have to be washed for Monday morning, but the cutlery can wait to be polished.
If you think of more things that need to be done as you work, add them to another list. Keep your mind on completing what you have started.
 As the day goes on, it gets progressively more difficult to accomplish unpleasant tasks. By getting it out of the way first thing in the morning, you will accomplish it more quickly and carry this sense of accomplishment with you throughout your day. This will create more motivation for you to clean the next time because you will remember how great that sense of accomplishment feels.Cleaning first thing also helps you to avoid procrastinating. Get started before you turn on your computer or phone. This will help you to eliminate distractions that will compete for your attention.
 Sometimes the first step is the hardest. By simply making yourself put that one shirt in the clothes hamper, that might be all you need to get going. By completing a small task, you will see that it really wasn’t that bad, which can motivate you to do the next task. A clean room is the result of many small tasks being completed. Start with one, and move on from there.Focus on one task for 10 minutes and see how far you get during this time. Then turn to another task for ten minutes. You’ll be surprised how much you can clean in a short amount of time.

