 Before you can register your Nook Simple Touch, you need to create a BN.com account first. To create and account, simply go to https://www.barnesandnoble.com/register.;
, Type in your personal information such as your full name, e-mail address, password for your account, and a security question (which you can choose from the drop-down list on the page).


Once you’ve entered the necessary details, click on the “Create Account” button to create your BN.com account.
 After your account has been created, click on the “Account” button at the upper part of the page and select “Account Settings.”

, Under Account Settings, select “Manage Account Settings” to open additional menu options, then select “Other Account Settings” from the menu and click on “Manage Credit Cards.” Here, you need to enter your billing and credit card information.
 Click on “Save” to add the payment method to your account and complete the account creation.
 Press the Power button at the top side of the Nook Simple Touch to switch it on.


The Welcome screen will be displayed at start. Press the “Next” button on the screen to proceed.
 Set the device time by selecting your area’s time zone from the drop-down list.


If you’re not sure what time zone you are in, you may look for your area in this site to confirm: http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/.
 On the next screen, you’ll be prompted to connect to a Wi-Fi network. Registering your Nook Simple Touch is done while it’s connected to the Internet. Choose the network you want to connect to from the list of available connections.


If the Wi-Fi network you’re about to connect to is password protected, simply type in the network password on the log-in prompt that will appear.
 Next, the Terms of Service agreement will be displayed. Tap on “Agree” to proceed to the next screen.
 Up next is the Device Registration screen. Simply type your BN.com account e-mail address and password on text fields provided, and press “Sign In” to complete the registration process.

