 You'll want a can that's between 12 and 28 ounces. Most soup or large coffee cans work just fine. You need to make sure that the inside of the can is completely smooth, otherwise the contents of the can won't be propelled smoothly upward.The hole should be about the size of your fuse (usually about 2-3 millimeters).;
, It's easy to find firework fuses at a hardware store or hobby store. The Visco fuse is one of the recommended fuses for home firework displays.


Put the can on the ground once you've attached the fuse.
 You can find this at Walmart or make it yourself. Make sure that the black powder is spread evenly across the bottom of the can. You need enough of the powder to completely cover the bottom in a layer about 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) thick.


The best way to figure out how much black powder to use is to find out how much 0.1 ounce per square inch of container bottom. For example, a 6 inch (15.2 cm) diameter will yield about 2.8 ounces.
To make black powder: spruce/pine/fir (SPF) wood, or "whitewood" is considered the best wood for making charcoal, and has long-lasting spark trails. You'll need a backyard firepit, or inside fireplace to burn the wood. Fill a stockpot with SPF wood and put it on the fire. It'll take 2- 2 1/2 hours for the wood to reduce to charcoal. You'll know it's done when the flaming gasses stop coming out of the lid. Allow to cool before crushing (usually overnight). One the charcoal is crushed, you're ready to use it., The tissue prevents the flammable powder from mixing with the black powder, which slows the black powder's burn rate. The black powder has to burn quickly so that it builds up enough force to force the flammable powder into the air

, Although this type of firework is named after the milk substitute Cremora, it's actually quite difficult the find nowadays, so people use a variety of substitutes. Make sure it's well sifted and not clumpy.


As substitutes for Cremora, you can try Coffee Mate, Kroger brand creamer, powdered sugar or even a fine sawdust, or wheat flour.
The flammable powder should work as long as it is sifted very fine. If it's clumping, sift it through a wire mesh kitchen colander before using it. That will help break up the large granules and clumps.
 The bigger the can, the farther back you're going to need to be. It's also best to test out a few of these before you show all your friends. That way you'll have a better idea how they work and what changes you need to make and will be less likely to have an unfortunate accident or have anyone get hurt.


Make sure that you put it away from flammable items like dry grass or wood, or your house (or your neighbor's house).

