 The first thing to do if you are trying to keep your private life private at work is to determine where exactly you want to draw the line. This will vary from person to person and according to the particular culture at your workplace, as well as what kind of balance between work and home life you are looking for.Whatever the norm is in your office, you can still draw up your own boundaries. Start by making a list of the things you don't want to discuss with your colleagues.


This might include things such as your love life, any medical conditions, religion and political views.Think about what things you are not comfortable with or just not interested in discussing with your colleagues.
Don't publicise your list, but keep it as a mental reminder to yourself so you can excuse yourself from conversations you would rather avoid.;
, There are a number of questions that, by law, your employers cannot ask you about. These are questions about your background and life which could lead to discrimination. For example, your employer cannot ask you how old you are, whether you have any disabilities, or whether you are married or not. If someone does ask you these questions at work, it is your right not to answer them. Other questions you don't have to answer are:


Are you a US citizen?
Do you take drugs, smoke or drink?
What is your religion?
Are you pregnant?
What is your race?, If you are trying to keep your work and private life separate then you need to avoid bringing your private life into the office with you. This means cutting downs on private calls and emails from the office. Occasional calls to make an appointment with the hairdresser or dentist are fine, but if you are frequently heard on the phone talking about your private life, not only will your colleagues most likely overhear you, but they may ask you about the conversation.Excessive personal calls may also displease your boss and colleagues who think you are not working hard enough.
If you don't want to receive work calls at home, don't get into the habit of making personal calls at work.
 It can be easier said than done, but you should try to leave your home life at home and switch to the strictly professional version of you at work. You might find that getting a routine or daily habit to mark the transition between work and home life will help you to do this. For example, a short walk before and after work could have you mentally separate these two spheres of your life.Your commute could be a time in which you try to switch your thoughts from home life to work.
Just like limiting personal calls at work, if you walk in each morning with a clear mind not thinking or talking about your personal life you will not invite questions from colleagues.
If you look stressed or upset, or you walk into the office while on the phone to your partner, don't be surprised if your colleagues ask you about it.
Think of this as actively managing your relationship between work life and home life.