 If you want to be any kind of DJ, you need the hardware to get started. Whatever your ambitions for your career, make sure you've got the hardware to make it happen:


For a traditional vinyl set-up, you'll need two direct-drive turntables, with pre-amp, if necessary, a mixer, speakers, and a tasteful stack of vinyl LPs to scratch.
For a more contemporary digital set-up, you'll need a laptop, a mixer, a CD-style turntable, and speakers.;
, The only difference between a DJ that plays hip-hop and a DJ that plays other kinds of music is whether or not you've got an MC rapping over the top of the sounds. The skills are transferable, which means you've got to learn how to get started like anybody else: building songs from break-beats and samples, playing full songs, and mixing them together on the fly. You need to practice the following skills, to DJ in any genre:


Beat-match the intros and outros of songs, to keep the BPM consistent in your transitions
Cross-fade the songs seamlessly
Scratch and improvise sound effects
Structure a set of music

, A good DJ is a music collector. Whether you're going analog or digital, you need to start building up a diverse music collection, featuring all sorts of different artists, genres, and styles of music, from all eras. Good DJs are music lovers, able to appreciate super-bleak strains of Norwegian black metal, as well as Flamenco guitar recordings, folk music, and classical. Start collecting like you work in a museum.
 Lots of bands incorporate scratching and other live DJ elements into their performances and their overall sound. If you're interested in a primer on using DJ sounds in a variety of styles, check out the following artists:


Joe Hahn (Linkin Park)
DJ Panko (Ojos de Brujo)
DJ Homicide (Sugar Ray)
DJ Spinobi (Ozomatli)
Cut Chemist (Ozomatli, ex-Jurassic 5)
DJ Radar (Red Bull Artsechro)
DJ Starscream (Sid Wilson of Slipknot)
DJ D-Zire (Jamiroquai)
DJ Z-trip (Gorillaz)
DJ Muggs (Cypress Hill)
Mix Master Mike (Beastie Boys)
DJ Premier (Gang Starr, Christina Aguilera)
DJ Swamp (Beck)

, Most DJs work as party-starters, playing dance music to club goers. It's part art, part skills, and all fun. A good DJ is a people-watcher, paying close attention to the crowd that's listening. Learn to watch closely for signs that you're gaining dancers, or losing people to the bar, and tailor your set accordingly.


It's best to go in with a short set planned out, 3-5 track to get a feel for what people will like. Do subtle variations in style in those songs, playing a bit of pop-dance style music, as well as more experimental jams to see what gets people popping. Follow them.
 Even if you want to be an artist, that bar full of college kids is still going to want to hear the newest pop song, even if you can't bear to hear it again. A good DJ wants to please the crowd and get people moving, not play super-obscure tracks because it's on your set-list. Being a specialist can make your gigs much more rare.
 Most DJs tend to specialize, spinning house, jungle beat, or trance primarily, but lots of DJs move fluidly between genres, spinning lots of different styles of music seamlessly, and taking pleasure in being schizophrenic in terms of taste. If you want to stand out as a non-hip-hop DJ, it's important to familiarize yourself with lots of kinds of music.
 Again, even if you're an instrumentalist and an artist, it's important to pay attention to what's peaking on the charts these days, in the case that you'll need to drop some Top 40 bombs on the dancefloor. Being a club DJ is artistry, even if you're playing commercial pop music part of the time. It's an essential skill, being familiar and comfortable playing that kind of music.
 It's also important to be just as well versed in Jackson 5, early Stevie Wonder, disco, and more contemporary dance music and pop. Good DJs will have to play for a variety of crowds, even those who may be less familiar with and receptive to contemporary dance music. These people will be appreciative of more traditional dance music, which you should also build a considerable library of.
 One great way to get a club moving with surprising tunes is to make them yourself. If you think you've got what it takes to do more than scratch the songs other people make, consider building your own songs and collaging dance music and melodies yourself. Check out the following wikiHow articles to learn the skills necessary to make electronic dance music:


Learn to make your own beats
Learn to mix and master recordings
Hire out your production skills as a producer
Remix popular songs
Put it all together into songs

