 Measure out one tablespoon of unbleached beeswax and drop it inside a small saucepan. Add in two tablespoons of almond, sunflower, castor or jojoba oil to the pot, as well as one tablespoon of shea butter.Beeswax is often sold in blocks or in little pellets called pastilles. Try to buy beeswax in pastilles, because it is easier to measure and weigh small amounts of the beeswax when it’s in pellet form.
For a vegan recipe, use combine 3 tablespoon of carrier oil, ½ teaspoon of candelilla wax, and 1 tablespoon of shea butter in the saucepan.;
, Take a large saucepan and fill it with about one inch of water. Then put the smaller saucepan that you filled with the beeswax, oil and shea butter inside the large saucepan. You effectively created a double broiler., Place the double broiler you made on the stovetop. Turn the heat up to medium low and heat the ingredients, constantly stirring until the beeswax and shea butter have melted. When they have completely melted, take the saucepans off the stove., Drop in one teaspoon of honey as well as 5-10 drops of your choice of essential oils. Then stir to combine the ingredients into the mixture.You can skip this step if you prefer plain chapstick.
Good essential oils to use are peppermint, vanilla and lavender.
Peppermint adds a tingly feeling to the chapstick when you apply it.
 Many people enjoy a chapstick that tastes slightly sweet. If you want some extra flavor and sweetness to your chapstick, drop in a pinch of stevia.Don’t add stevia if you prefer a more traditional, unsweetened chapstick.
 If you want to give your chapstick a pink or red tinge, drop in a teaspoon of beet or alkanet root powder. These powders are an all-natural way to color the chapstick. Stir the powder in gradually until the mixture reaches your desired shade.You can also use food coloring if you don’t have access to the root powders.
The color that the root powder or food coloring makes is enough to color the wax, but it won’t tint or color your lips.
 After you have finished mixing the ingredients, pour the chapstick mixture into a measuring cup or another container with a spout.<https:


Make sure that you pour the chapstick mixture right away, because if you don’t, the mixture will harden and become cemented in the saucepan.
 After you have poured the chapstick into a spouted container, pour the mixture immediately into chapstick tubes or tins. There should be enough chapstick for around 8 tubes. You can buy chapstick tubes and tins online, or simply re-use empty chapsticks you may have around the house.Again, don’t delay before pouring the chapstick into containers.
If you wait to pour the chapstick and it ends up hardening inside the measuring cup, melt the chapstick in the same way that you melted the beeswax and other ingredients by creating a double broiler and submerging the Pyrex measuring cup in a pot that contains an inch of hot water.
If you didn’t use a measuring cup, you can melt the hardened chapstick in the microwave, checking every five or ten seconds until the mixture has melted.
If you used a container that can’t be microwaved, scrape the chapstick out with a spoon and put it into a container that can be heated, then microwave.
 After you pour the chapstick into tubes or tins, let it sit and harden for at least twenty minutes with the tops off to give the chapstick time to get firm., After you have waited around twenty minutes, or until the chapstick has cooled, place the caps on the tubes or tins of chapstick. This will stop anything from sticking to the your new chapstick. Your chapstick is now ready for use!