 Above the list of your stations is a small button with a pair of crossed lines that says "Shuffle." This will combine the music influences from all of your stations into one giant playlist.


On a computer you can check and uncheck stations that you want shuffled. You could, for example, uncheck the box next to "Christmas Songs" when listening in July.
Click the name of an individual station to end Shuffle mode.
 There is a 100-station limit on all Pandora accounts, so if you've hit that level, or if you just want to remove a station you don't like, you'll need to delete it.On the computer, move your cursor over the station you want to get rid of. Click the arrow to the right of the station name and pick "Delete this station."
On an iPhone or iPad, swipe from right to left on the station name, and then hit "Delete".
On an Android phone or tablet, touch and hold the station name until a menu appears. Then hit "Delete Station."
You can't delete stations while you're in Shuffle mode.
 Next to the "Now Playing" tab at the top of the player you will see two other options: "Music Feed" and "My Profile." These social features allow you to interact with other Pandora users. On mobile apps they are found at the bottom of the home page (hit the "<" button in the upper left corner to return to the menu).



Music Feed: Lets you automatically import your Facebook contacts or input contacts via their name or email address. Once you're "following" another user, you'll be able to see what s/he has been listening to (and vice versa).

My Profile: This page contains information other users will be able to see about you — depending on what you're comfortable sharing, you can display your name, picture, stations, personal info, and more!

, Want to tell your friends what you've been listening to? Below the current song's information in the player, you should see several options for sharing your music. These include:



Publish to Facebook: Lets you sync your Facebook account with your Pandora account so that your Facebook friends can see the songs and stations you listen to.

Share: Lets you make a single post about the station or track you're listening to on Pandora and the social network you choose (including Facebook and Twitter). People who view your post will have a link to listen to the track or station.
 The Settings menu is where you can fine-tune your Pandora experience and change your account settings. On the computer it is located at the top of the page, on mobile apps it is at the bottom of the homepage, (hit the "<" button in the upper left corner to return to the menu).



Notifications: Changes when and how Pandora notifies you of new songs or friends in your Music Feed.

Privacy: Changes how much of your activity other Pandora users can see.

Advanced: Changes your sound quality, Bluetooth functionality, energy-conserving options, and more.

Alarm Clock: Allows you to set a time for Pandora to start playing music.
 If you're interested in taking your Pandora experience to the next level, consider paying for a Pandora One membership. Click on the "upgrade" button in the upper right corner. For $4.99 per month, you get:No ads
No daily skip limit (however, the six-skips-per-hour rule is still in effect.)
Longer timeout limits (your station will pause less frequently if you listen to it with no activity)
High-quality audio (web version)
Personalized "skins" or designs for your player

