 How can you achieve what you want if you don't even think it's possible? Keep an open mind and remind yourself what you're capable of everyday. If that doesn't work for you, try relaxing yourself by taking a nap or doing a quiet activity. Steer clear from noise and electronics; although it doesn't seem like it, being around them actually doesn't give you much rest at all. Also keep in mind that comfort is key, recline on a bunch of blankets and pillows, or if the weather is nice, hang out in your backyard if no one else is already out there.;
, What does she look like? How does she act? Why do you like her? What would she do if she was in your shoes? Writing down your opinion does help. Looking at pictures of girls or knowing a character from a book or movie also helps you give a better idea of what you want. For example, Bella Swan from Twilight is a very content, thoughtful person. To get her look you'd need to have loose waves and to look very natural and effortless. However, it wouldn't be effortless at first because you wouldn't be used to looking how she does. Boys think she's hot and maybe for you looking hot and natural will be a struggle.
 If the girl you want to be is a character, read over her parts carefully about how she looks and if she's an actor or someone from a movie look at many pictures. Go on youtube and sites where they have "How To tutorials. You may find that you do not have the clothing articles you wish you had and in that case, make your image a priority for a while. Get a job and visit stores that are cheap but while make your look good for a season.
 Wash your face 3-6 times a day with the following; Facial gel (That removes acne), facial scrub, facial mask. Also always apply lotion to your face constantly with no perfume or odd items that make it smell or look "pretty." This will keep your face soft and give it a glow. Apply hot water on a pad to your acne and hold it down for a minute each with a lot of pressure to decrease the size of the pimples. As for the makeup, this may seem like a lot but it's not. You need to apply concealer, liquid foundation AND a powder foundation, mascara, blush and lipstick or lipstain. Lipgloss is cute but it doesn't last very well. Also, it looks pretty when girls where eyeshadow that's a shade brighter/lighter than their skin tone but that depends on who you want to be. If you like eyeliner and have fair skin wear brown and don't wing it out, and if you're dark and like to wear eyeliner, gray is recommended. As for hair, every girl probably wants nice hair so everyday wash your hair which leads me to everyday wash your body. Wash yourself with shampoo, conditioner, soap, body scrub and obviously water. Apply lotion right after that. Natural hair should naturally dry up and then blow dry it after its dry. Give is loose waves if you have straight hair or straighten it if your hair is curly and you don't like it or cannot wear it out. Only curl/wave/straighten you hair lightly so if your hair is naturally straight/curly you should still see parts (most) of it. Wear your hair out for a natural look For the pin straight look straighten your hair even if its straight and sometimes put it in a perfect ponytail or do a half up do.
 Your clothing and your accessories depend on you but make sure that they are still reflecting you and not just your character.
 Once you're in the habit of being the you you want to be it will become your first nature. You can't not be you because you'll always be you, if that makes any sense. If it's a character, list down all the things you like about them that you wanna do as well and if you want to improve yourself start off with the things you are NOT going to do and then the things you are going to do.
 Overnight transformations do not happen in reality. Don't lose sight of who you are because you were born original. Becoming someone better and will make you happy is great but by the end of this transformation we should still see you.
, If you do how will you ever become that beautiful girl you admire? One day that girl will be you! Also keep in mind you will still have flaws because no ones perfect and everyone has things they want to change about themselves.
 Got it? You are trying to be the part of you that needs help coming out.

