 Not all curly hair is the same. Curly hair can range from loose waves to tight, kinky curls.Hair that is wavy will tend to fall flat on the crown. This is the ideal spot for shaping your wavy hairstyle.
Kinky hair needs to be cut without pulling on the strands. Cutting the hair while it still forms a curl is the easiest way to get the desired shape.;
, You should arrive for your haircut with clean, dry hair. Since the best way to cut curly hair is dry, you should have already taken steps to clean your hair before showing up.


Try to have your hair in the best moisturizing condition. Consider doing a deep moisturizing treatment the week of your appointment. This will enable your stylist to see your natural curl in a healthy, ideal state and sculpt your hair with a clear idea of how it will look.
 Unlike with straight hair, curly hair should be cut dry before any coloring or highlighting is done. Coloring or dyeing may leave the hair damp and not as curly as is typical.
 If curly hair is all one length it gets weighed down and the top is flat while the bottom flares out in all sorts of directions. The layering doesn't have to be to intense, but the longer the hair is, the more layers should be added.
 Curly hair lacks keratin, which is the "ingredient" in straight hair that keeps it frizz free and straight. To help reduce frizz and add shine, find a shampoo and conditioner pair that is made for curly hair. Check the label and make sure keratin is a top ingredient.
 When you are showering don't rinse your hair thoroughly after applying a conditioner. It is okay to leave some of the residue on your hair to help keep it conditioned throughout the day.


Leave-in conditioners are also a great option. Especially on days that are very dry it is good to carry a leave-in conditioner. They can help keep your hair moist throughout the day.
 Do not use a towel. A towel can create too much friction and static. This can result in frizzy hair. After taking a shower put a shirt on over your head. You can simply keep your forehead in the neck opening of the shirt and wear it on your head. You hair will rest in the body of the shirt.
 Before deciding how to wear your hair, it is a good idea to check the weather each day.The daily changes in the dew point outside can have a huge impact on your hair and the amount frizz you may need to prepare for.
 Headbands, updos and braids can be a great solution when you are short on time or your hair is just not cooperating. If you have curly hair it is a good idea to look into getting a hair accessory you like to tame your hair, or learn how to do various braiding patterns to keep your hair under control.
 If you want to tame curly hair, don't brush it. This may seem like the opposite thing to do when trying to eliminate frizz, but it really works. When you brush naturally curly hair, the brush is essentially splitting apart those curls and turning them into individual hair strands. If you take a shower, then let your hair air dry without brushing it, those curls will stay compact and less frizzy.
 You may choose to use a humectant product that attracts and absorbs moisture when the weather is dry to fight frizz, and an anti-humectant that repels moisture when the air outside is damp. You may find that you need to have alternative products on hand for those days when the weather is not on your side. The dew point, or the point when water vapor would condense, has the strongest impact on your curls.During the winter months dew points will drop as low as below 30 degrees depending on your location. Avoid using humectants, your hair will need all the moisture it can get. Use leave-in conditioners and light hold products.
When the dew point range 30-40 degrees you will need to do some experimenting to see what products work best. Humectants may or may not benefit your hair.
The best dew point for manageable curls is between 40-60 degrees. Regular moisturizing treatment should help keep hair in the best condition. Humectants can be helpful in keeping hair moisturized as well.
A high dew point is anything over 60+ degrees. You may want to avoid using a leave-in conditioner. Stick to firm hold products like pomades to keep your hair manageable. You also may want to avoid humectants as there is lots of moisture in the air.
 When your hair is wet put a dab of product in the palm of your hand. Start by applying product to back of the head where the hair is thicker, than work your way to the sides and top. You can add small amounts of product as you go.


You may want to drape a towel over your shoulders if you have longer hair to keep your clothes clean.
 Your hair may still appear wet and seem crunchy. Resist the urge to touch your hair. Touching your hair will cause friction between the hairs and create frizz in your hair.


Use a diffuser to dry your hair faster. Set the diffuser to high heat and low speed.The high heat will help to dry the hair quickly. Keeping the speed on a low setting will prevent the hair from being blown around.
 Once the hair is completely dry, scrunch curls to break the gel layer. Grab and handful of your curls and scrunch them using the same motion you would to crumple a piece of paper. Do this until the hair feels soft again then stop. Excessively touching the hair will be more likely to give you frizz.
 If there's one curl that isn't following directions, just pop out your curling iron and fix it. But, remember heat is very damaging to curly hair, so you should always use a heat protectant and avoid using heat whenever possible.
 If your product seems to be wearing off, try spraying them with a mixture of water and leave-in condition. This will help to reactivate the product in your hair and keep your curls bouncy for the rest of the day.,