 Common reasons for changing a minor child's name include marriage, partnership, divorce of the parents, and adoption. A child's name can be changed for other reasons as well.
 The process for changing the name of a minor child is substantially the same as petitioning for a name change as an adult, and you can follow the same steps. When completing Part 7 of the Petition for Name Change, both biological parents must sign the Petition before a notary public.


If one biological parent is deceased, you will need to present a copy of the death certificate to the notary and court clerk., Take your Petition copies to a notary public and sign them in the presence of the notary, who will notarize them. Bring a valid photo ID.
 Bring your notarized copies to the clerk's office, along with a valid photo ID. The clerk will stamp you Petition and issue a case number. The clerk may instruct you to complete additional county-specific forms. If a hearing is required to inquire into the reasons for the name change or to permit another parent to object, the clerk will give you a court date.
 If one parent is not available (the parent's location is unknown, or he or she does not consent to the child's name change), the parent must be given notice of the Petition.To give notice, send a certified letter with a copy of the filed Petition with the court date to the parent's last known address.You will be asked to provide proof of that notice at your hearing. The parent will have an opportunity to object to the name change., Change the child's name on Social Security cards, driver's licenses, bank accounts, medical records, passports, and others, as applicable.


To get a new Social Security card, locate your local office here. Mail this application or deliver it in person, along with the court order, birth certificate, and photo ID.
To change the name on the child's driver's license, visit your local DMV with the new Social Security card and old driver's license. Also bring the court order and some proof of residency, such as a postmarked letter with the name and current address. If the child is a licensed driver, he or she is required to notify the DMV of the name change within 10 days of the date of the court order changing his or her name.