 Many smartphones have passwords and are pin or pass code protected, rendering them otherwise inaccessible. In relationships, suspicions tend to arise when their significant other has a password on their mobile device that you don't know. Simply ask for the password, your reason being: in case you have to use their phone during an emergency or when yours is inaccessible. Dead, no service etc. If they have nothing to hide they will usually gladly and freely offer the information, If not, certainly seek other means of obtaining actual proof, before accusations.


Do not delete any texts, call logs, or other data. Not only will this provide evidence of your spying, but can be considered theft and lead to criminal charges. Try to leave no trace of your spying, this can be difficult but always remember to mark messages you've read as unread and to close tabs that you've opened (that they haven't.)
View and scan the target phone's web history, texts and all calls visually at first. Only visually. If you must take notes for memory, take mental notes only or capture "screenshots." Then send the screenshots to yourself, always be sure to delete the screenshots and messages that you sent! (The screenshot method is effective.) Do not create a paper trail by writing anything down, ever! Even if you intend to throw out any notes, you run the risk of being implicated in a privacy violation. Capturing the screenshots and sending them to yourself via text or email is a much safer method of visual note taking and viewing. It also makes it much harder for anyone to track (delete at will), So long as you delete the screenshots and messages that you send!

, Again, If they're up to no good then they more than likely take the time to regularly delete any incriminating evidence i.e. texts, calls or instant messages. Try this trick out: Intentionally leave your phone at home or claim that it is dead or malfunctioning. This gives you the perfect opportunity to ask if you can borrow theirs. Use it to make a call or send a message. This may catch them off guard and unprepared, with evidence still on the phone. They will probably seem antsy and reluctant to give it to you if their is something incriminating on the phone. Do feel free to walk away for some privacy, especially if you are pretending to make a phone call, or you need to use the rest room or even need to check an account balance. Open internet tabs that would interest you and do not close them. This will assert to them that you were using the phone instead of snooping through their stuff. Be aware that if you are caught, there may be personal, as well as legal implications.


If they act strange, and seem very nervous, be suspicions. If he/she suddenly says they need to do something first on the phone, "real quick," you watch them, closely. They may be deleting evidence.
If they flat out refuse, that's weird and seems like they definitely have something to hide. Go straight to method 3 in that case. You should never refuse your spouse or significant other your phone. That looks bad, it sounds bad, and it is bad. How could you ever trust that?

, Though any evidence is probably deleted at this point, it never hurts to check, especially when you're deeply troubled. Only resort to this if any of the other options have been unavailable. Be aware that if you are caught, there may be personal as well as legal implications against you. Read on:


If caught, unless you are afraid the other person may become verbally or physically violent, be honest as to why you are searching the texts. People often send texts without thinking, and they can be construed in ways other than their original meaning. You can also play this off as "checking the time" or saying that your own phone is dead, or you couldn't sleep and wanted to search the web a bit. Have a fall back plan (open links on the web to something you're interested in; this will make it seem like you were just browsing the internet).If you find something incriminating, always allow the other person to clear--up any misunderstandings. If you still mistrust them, try method 3. If you find incriminating evidence of adultery you should think about contacting a lawyer, if you are married.
 If you know someone you can trust who has easy access to the person’s phone you want to search, ask them to visually search the phone history. It is your responsibility to inform them of all personal or legal risks prior to obtaining their consent. This technique is risky, you are bringing another person in on your spying and run the risk of them telling.

