 This kind of discussion is a difficult one, especially if you aren't sure how your parents will react. Wait until you feel comfortable having the discussion. It can be hard if you're questioning your sexuality, as your parents may try to convince you're actually not gay.If you show any hesitation about your sexuality, your parents are likely to ask questions such as "Are you sure?" It's okay to discuss your feelings and reservations with them. – Just realize that they may want to ask if you're positive about your feelings. If you're not 100% sure, it's okay. You can have feelings for another guy now, yet decide later that you prefer women. Sexuality can change over time., While coming out to anybody is difficult, try coming out to someone who you know is sympathetic first. For instance, if you have a gay friend or know someone who is a gay ally, talk to him or her about your sexuality before addressing it with your parents. It's very hard to say the first time, so trying it out on someone else first can make it slightly easier on you when you do go to your parents. Plus, the person may be able to give you some tips if he or she is gay. Just be sure you completely trust the person first., If you need to convince your parents, try presenting them with facts about homosexuality.You can find many good resources out there about homosexuality, such as Planned Parenthood's website on the LGBTQ community.It's also good to have materials to give them or websites they can visit to read more about it., Many parents need time to adjust to this announcement. Because most parents expect their kids to be straight, they have to change their own thinking about who you are. Let them know it's okay to take time to adjust.For instance, you could say, "I know this announcement is a big one, and I understand if you need some time to adjust to the idea. I know I did."

, If you know your parents will react very badly because of their beliefs, you may want to rethink coming out to your parents. That is, if you think your parents may kick you out or even be physically violent with you, it's best to wait until you are able to support yourself.You may also not want to tell them if you are emotionally insecure, and you know they would come down very harshly on you.