 They key to getting a healthy glow with makeup is making sure the palette—your face-- underneath is clean. Use a gentle, pH-balanced cleanser to clear any dirt or excess oil off of your skin.You may want to consider using a gel cleanser, which is often gentle and doesn’t have excess oils that could exacerbate your oily skin.
Avoid using products that are heavy in chemicals, which may irritate your skin and increase oil production.
You can find gentle skin cleansers at most pharmacies, department stores, cosmetics stores, and large retailers.;
, Rubbing water off of your skin too harshly can irritate your skin, strip away its oils and may increase oil production. Gently blot your face dry after washing it with a soft towel.A good way to blot your face is to pat from one side of your face to the other. This can ensure that remove the water and may also help stimulate circulation.
 Occasionally, you can leave some residue on your skin after washing it. Pat a toner on your skin with a cosmetics pad to remove any left over cleanser, dirt, or oil.Lingering residue on your skin can stimulate oil production and can keep your makeup from adhering to your skin or looking fresh.Just as you gently blotted your skin dry, be gentle as you pat on your toner.Try using gentle toners with ingredients such as rosewater, chamomile, or calendula. These can effectively remove residue while soothing your skin.You may also want to purchase a toner specifically designed for oily skin.
Avoid using astringent toners, including witch hazel, which can irritate skin and stimulate oil production.You can get toners at pharmacies, cosmetics and department stores and some larger retailers.
 Even oily skin needs moisturizer and applying one can help even out and plump up your skin for makeup application.After putting some moisturizers on your fingers, gently press the cream across your face and avoid rubbing it in a harsh manner.


Make sure to press your moisturizer into your skin. You may want to even roll your fingers across your face as you press the moisturizer into your skin. This can help ensure you don’t apply too much and may also stimulate blood flow, giving you a natural, healthy glow.You may want to buy an oil-free moisturizer or one specifically designed for oily skin.
You can purchase moisturizers and many pharmacies, cosmetics and department stores, and many large retailers.
If you are a woman with combination skin, which means you have some oily areas, such as the T-zone, and some dry areas of skin. In this case, you may want to consider purchasing two different moisturizers. You would use a heavier cream on your drier skin while applying an oil-free product on your oilier skin.
 Before you apply any makeup to your skin, lightly spray on a water or rosewater mist.This can give you extra hydration and absorb oil as well as helping makeup meld on your face more effectively to give you a “natural” glow.You just need to lightly mist your face so that you have a dewy glow. Spraying too much will only cause your moisturizer to melt off.
Once you’ve spritzed on your mist, allow it to dry naturally for a few minutes before you put on your makeup.You can get water or rosewater mists at cosmetics and department stores, some pharmacies and large retailers.
 If you are going to apply foundation, you may want to use a makeup primer after you’ve finished prepping your skin. This can help boost your natural glow and can minimize your makeup from wearing off throughout the day.


Primers are light formulations that “prime” your skin for makeup. They help your makeup go on more evenly in addition to giving your skin a little bit more of a glow.
You can get makeup primers at cosmetics or department stores and some large retailers.
 If your oily skin is properly prepared before applying makeup, you may need less makeup and will get a more natural look this way. Consider using lighter formulas or tinted moisturizers.You may want to use makeup sponges to apply your makeup. This may help minimize your skin’s exposure to bacteria on your fingers. Just make sure to wash the sponge after each use or use a new one each time you apply makeup.
With oily skin, you may want to consider purchasing one of the following kinds of foundation, which can offer coverage without exacerbating oil production: mineral makeup, cream-to-powder foundations, pressed powder foundations, and different matte-finish liquid foundations.You may also want to consider using a pressed or loose powder to help “set” your makeup or occasionally cut down on any shininess.
 It’s important to wash your skin regularly to remove excess dirt and oil. This can help prevent the production of excess oil and acne.Use a gentle cleanser with a neutral pH.Most grocery stores and pharmacies carry skin cleansing products that won’t irritate or strip your skin, which can cause it to produce more oil.
If your skin is very oily, consider using an oil-free cleanser.Don’t use bar soaps as their ingredients can strip skin of natural oils, causing it to produce even more oil.Use lukewarm water to wash your skin. Water that is too hot can strip your skin of oils and irritate it., Just as it’s important to wash your skin, it’s just as important to avoid washing it too much. Cleansing too often or too vigorously can irritate your skin, strip its oil, and lead to an overproduction of oil.Washing oily twice a day is sufficient to help keep it clean and prevent acne., Use a moisturizer formulated for oily skin after you have washed your face. Having properly hydrated skin can help prevent overproduction of oil and may also help you avoid acne.Even if your skin is oily, it probably needs a moisturizer. Choose an oil-free and non-comedogenic product.You can buy products for oily skin at most pharmacies and at many retailers, including department stores.
 Dead skin can clog pores and stimulate the production of oil as well as cause acne. Gently exfoliating your skin on a regular basis may help clear dead skin and bacteria and may help control your oily skin.Be aware that an exfoliator will only remove surface skin.
Choose a gentle exfoliator with either synthetic or natural beads that are a uniform shape. Harsh scrubs can cause irritation and lead to oilier skin and acne.A soft washcloth can also gently exfoliate your skin.
 Apply a topical product to absorb excess oil. These preparations can not only help remove oil, but also keep bacteria and dead skin that cause acne at bay.You can use an over the counter salicylic acid treatment or have your doctor prescribe one.A weekly clay mask may help absorb excess oil and purify your skin.You can use oil blotting papers to soak up excess oil on your face.
Be sure to follow your doctor’s or package directions to help ensure that you don’t overuse the product and irritate your skin.
You can purchase most oil absorbing products at pharmacies and some grocery stores. Online cosmetics retailers also offer these products.
 If you use cosmetics or other types of skincare products such as moisturizer or sunscreen, choose oil-free options. These won’t clog your pores and may help control your skin’s oil production.Products marked oil-free do not contain any oils that can make your skin feel greasy.Products marked “non-comedogenic” have been tested for acne-prone skin and won’t exacerbate oil production or acne.Any product marked “hypoallergenic” has been tested for sensitive skin and will not irritate your skin.
There is a wide range of oil-free, non-comedogenic, and hypo-allergenic products available including makeup, sunscreens, moisturizers, and toners. You can purchase them at most pharmacies, large department stores, online retailers, and even some grocery stores.
 Wearing makeup to bed can clog your pores and may even make your skin oilier. Remove all makeup with a gentle cleanser or make-up remover before you go to sleep.You can use a specific makeup remover, especially if you use waterproof products, or your gentle cleanser before bed. Most cleansers are effective at removing makeup and shouldn’t irritate your skin.Every month, you may want to consider cleaning your makeup applicators or cosmetic sponges with some soapy water., If you participate in sports or other activities, shower after them. Sweating can lead to excess bacteria and oil on your skin.Don’t wash your oil skin with harsh bar soaps. A gentle, pH balanced skin wash will suffice., There is some evidence that a nutritionally well-balanced diet may affect your skin.Avoiding unhealthy and junk foods may help prevent control oil production and prevent pimples from forming.Dairy and carbohydrate-rich foods may affect your skin, including causing acne and making your skin oilier.Foods high in vitamin A and beta-carotene, including fruits and vegetables such as raspberries and carrots, may increase cell turnover for healthier skin.Food high in essential fatty acids, such as walnuts or olive oil, may help skin cells stay hydrated and control oil production.Unhealthy foods also take the place of foods you could be eating that provide the necessary vitamins and antioxidants to promote healthy skin.
Part of any well-balanced diet is proper hydration. Aim to drink about 8-9 cups of water every day to keep your body healthy, which may help your skin stay healthy.,