 An engineering degree will give you the type of deep insight into the industry that would be beneficial as a bid manager. With a relevant engineering degree in hand, you will be more marketable as a bid manager within your chosen field.


It is typically impossible to become a bid manager without having in-depth knowledge of a particular field or equivalent experience.;
, The high-stakes world of bid management calls for many of the skills that could be obtained in a business administration program. A bid manager will need, for instance, to understand the request for tender (RFT) or request for proposal (RFP) processes; to develop strong presentation skills; and to develop strong personal and professional networks. These skills can be learned by obtaining a business degree.
 Bid managing favors individuals with writing backgrounds, since a large part of the job is in reading detailed directions and submitting a carefully written proposal for a bid. It also requires completing pre-qualification questionnaires and reading service specifications.Reading and writing carefully and thoughtfully are skills best developed while obtaining an degree in English, Comparative Literature, or a similar field.
If you don’t want to get either an engineering degree or a business degree, a degree related to writing coupled with relevant experience could be a useful alternative if your goal is to become a bid manager.
 How much experience qualifies as significant experience? That depends on the company you go to work for. The company that hires you will probably want a minimum of about five years. As a bid manager, you will use your knowledge of that industry and the input of your partners to determine what a reasonable bid should look like.While bid managers are more prevalent in the construction industry, they can be used by almost any company that competes for major contracts. For example, if you plan to be a bid manager for a road construction company, then you would need to know as much about road construction and civil engineering as possible in order to adequately address the needs of the client.
Printing, road construction, education, and manufacturing are examples of other industries that may use bid managers. Having five or more years of experience in that industry will allow you to be better able to submit accurate bids.
 Bid managers will be required to work closely with estimators, and the two positions often overlap in their skills and abilities such as ability to work with a team, communicate clearly and effectively, and coordinate with clients and partners.


Estimators may lead the bidding team at the tender stage (the point at which the company or agency develops a potential solution for a given project), especially if the bid is for a small project.
Estimators are familiar with the necessary steps to complete a job to a client's satisfaction, and must have a general knowledge of the materials and hours needed to complete a job.
Becoming a bid manager is a natural step in the professional development of an estimator.
 As a project manager, you will be able to come to bid managing with an in-depth understanding of what a major looks like. Project managers might lead the tender team during the bidding process, and thus require many of the same skills as a bid manager., You should also be able to make use of all the modern forms of communication like email and text messaging.


Additionally, you will need to coordinate with your team both in person and through digital calendar and planning software.
 Bid managers must be able to meet deadlines and work with minimal supervision. This means that time management skills are one of the most important traits necessary for success as a bid manager.
 Bid managers need to coordinate with support staff, associates, clients, and partner agencies in order to manage the company’s bids. A bid manager must maintain good working relationships and use his or her charisma to ensure customer satisfaction. They must also be willing to listen to other people and ensure all points of view are acknowledged and respected when developing the bid.A good bid manager will be well-connected within his or her particular field.
 Bid managers often need to work under tight deadlines and manage many shifting conditions. As a submission deadline approaches, you might need to work long hours or adopt to rapidly changing circumstances -- for instance, your company is dealing with a strike, or you get word that your company’s original estimate was too low.
 You will need to develop detailed estimate sheets, timetables, and contingency plans. The bidding process is often burdened with difficult language and rules that you’ll need to familiarize yourself with. Being able to dig in to the bid management process and review the final product with microscopic attention will make you a better bid manager.

