 Use an emery board if necessary to file off any broken pieces and for daily nourishment, always wash and moisturise with a rich hand cream.;
, Only bother with Pedicures if you are going to maybe be barefoot or feel like it as nail polish on your toes can sometimes be forgotten and chipped nail polish,anywhere, never looks good. You could try having an indulgent manicure once a week. Start by washing and moisturizing hands with soap or cream. Cut nails and file, but be careful not to trim to deep or cut your fingers, as they can feel sore the next day. If you are going to be wearing very dark or bright nail polish, try to use a base coat ( clear nail polish- you can use for top coat if needed too) and leave to dry. Remember to sit still! Now paint on your chosen color (if added) and wait to dry again.
 For smudge free nails, sit still for at least 10 minutes and always remove polish with nail varnish remover as soon as the paint starts to chip. -

, Just keep your hands nice if nail polish isn't allowed. Wash, moisturise and trim ( long nails get in the way of your busy day and class schedule) then paint on your nail polish by doing one thick stripe in the middle and two thinner ones at the side. Do one hand, wait to dry than the next. This look is really subtle but still really pretty.
, Cutting nails is very important for this as long oval nails can take away the effect and small splashes of color. Use the same nail painting technique as before and leave to dry.
, Both of these looks are just paint effects.
 Using a green nail polish, do some soft zigzags round the top of nail and leave to dry. Next, very carefully ( maybe using a cotton bud or cuticle stick, depending on the thickness), dot white spots over the red but still so its more of the shade underneath. This is the fruit, the leaves and the seeds. Repeat all.
 Take one color and paint one thick stripe through the middle of the nail. Now with two different shades, do two thin stripes down the side. Repeat all.

