 These challenges vary widely from individual to individual, because they are directly related to the specific areas of your brain that are affected by the condition.;
, Most people have a blend to the two challenges (called "expressive" and "receptive" language skills), with one being more of a problematic than the other (however, which one is more burdensome could change as the condition progresses).


Depending upon the type of language challenge you are faced with, some people find it helpful to learn alternate modes of communication such as gesturing and/or pointing.
The mainstay of treatment is to focus on the strengths you have (i.e. the skills you have preserved) when it comes to language and communication, and to adapt your form of communication to rely as much as possible on your strengths, while avoiding your weaknesses. This is because your weaknesses will likely only continue to deteriorate with time, given that they signify the area with brain damage.Unfortunately, sign language does not work as an alternative mode of communication for people with progressive aphasia, as it relies on the same areas of the brain that are already damaged due to the disease.Using apps on an iPhone or an iPad that can speak for a person may be of help.
Having family members and friends communicate simply and clearly can also aid with comprehension.
 All she can do is help you to develop strategies to manage your condition most effectively, and to preserve your language and communication abilities for as long as possible by working with you on adaptive techniques.


It is important to know that the condition cannot be cured, so as not to have unrealistically high expectations of the therapist you are working with.
 Not only does it aid in not feeling alone, but you may also pick up valuable tips and strategies by seeing how others have coped with their illness.


Check to see if there is an Aphasia Community Group in your area.
 To avoid the confusion of others not understanding your difficulties, some people find it helpful to carry printed information about their illness and to bring it with them to public or social situations.


You may wish to carry an ID card with you, if introducing yourself clearly and coherently is a problem.
You may also wish to carry a small amount of printed information detailing your condition and explaining how it is best for people to interact with you, as this can help to smooth your ability to fit in socially.
 Because progressive aphasia is a condition that is usually mild at the start, and progresses at a slow rate, many people can continue working for several years even after being diagnosed with the condition. You may wish to let your boss know that you have the condition, and/or to ask for modified duties should you find that it is interfering with your ability to effectively communicate (either in written or spoken language) in your current job.


You may also wish to look into whether you have any employee insurance or other health care coverage that can help with medical appointments, and/or with paid time off work.
 In progressive aphasia, you will have only language and communication deficits on exam. You will have no other mental challenges, such as problems with your memory, with your physical ability to perform day-to-day tasks, or with any of your other thinking processes.


Your doctor can run through a series of cognitive tests with you to rule out other common conditions, such as Alzheimer's dementia.
 Your doctor will be able to rule out other conditions such as a stroke or a traumatic brain injury by performing a neurological exam, as well as by offering you a head CT or MRI which can give further insight into any anatomical or structural problems.


Progressive aphasia will show shrinkage of certain brain tissues (related to the language functions) on CT scan.
However, the appearance of progressive aphasia can be differentiated on imaging from a stroke or a traumatic brain injury.
 Progressive aphasia occurs when brain cells in the areas related to language malfunction and die. It is usually caused by frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) and Alzheimer’s disease (AD). (It is important to note that Alzheimer’s disease is not the same as Alzheimer's dementia.)FTLD occurs when parts of the brain atrophy or shrink,and AD is caused by microscopic abnormalities in the brain.When FTLD and AD occur in the areas of brain that control speech and language, the person develops progressive aphasia.Progressive aphasia is caused by FTLD in 60–70% of cases and AD in 30–40%. Whether progressive aphasia is caused by FTLD or AD can only be determined by autopsy.In most cases, progressive aphasia is not genetic.Remember that progressive aphasia is not the same as Alzheimer's dementia — while language skills degenerate, the person should be completely functional otherwise. A person with progressive aphasia usually can continue taking care of himself and pursue hobbies and interests.A person with Alzheimer's dementia will experience a progressive loss of all cognitive function, not just speech.Progressive aphasia is also not caused by brain trauma, stroke, tumor, or infection., This condition is one that is not curable, and can only be managed as best as possible as it continues to progress gradually with time. (This is another feature that differentiates it from a stroke or a traumatic brain injury, as both of these can show improvements with time and a slow regaining of function, rather than a continual deterioration.)


When you understand that the goal is to effectively manage the condition, rather than to cure it, it can help you to go into your doctor's and therapist's appointments with realistic expectations in terms of what they can do for you.

