 This will help narrow your options when you shop.


Decide whether you want a top-and-bottom door style or a side-by-side door style. Refrigerators with side-by-side doors are usually wider in length.;
, This process may be essential if you need a refrigerator in a specific color that matches your kitchen theme or a stainless steel model that matches your other appliances.
 Some examples of special features may include a built-in ice and water dispenser on the front of the refrigerator, an automatic ice-maker in the freezer, or settings for your crisper.
 This will prevent you from buying a refurbished refrigerator that is too large for the space in your home.


Use a measuring tape to determine the width, height, and depth of the space in which you will place your refrigerator.
 Buying a refurbished refrigerator from a local seller may allow you to see the refrigerator in person and verify that it works.


Look for classified ads in local newspapers or online at a classified ads website.
 In most cases, dealers or businesses will offer you a warranty on refurbished refrigerators or their parts.


Browse through a phone book or online business directory to locate businesses or dealers in your local area.
 Some websites may provide you with explicit details about the features or history of a particular refurbished refrigerator, in addition to offering a product warranty.


Perform an Internet search for online companies or major retailer outfits that sell refurbished refrigerators.
 Making telephone calls or sending email inquiries will help you determine if a refurbished refrigerator is worth purchasing.


Ask the seller about the energy efficiency of the refrigerator. Some older refrigerator models may require higher amounts of energy and cost more to operate. If the refrigerator contains an Energy Star logo or a similar logo for the energy rating systems in your country, it may result in lower energy bills.
Ask the seller how long the refrigerator has been unused or unplugged. Most refrigerators need to be plugged in continuously to maintain internal working parts, such as seals.
Ask the seller why they are selling the refrigerator. This will help you determine if they are replacing the refrigerator with a newer, improved model or if the refrigerator does not work properly.
Ask the seller about problems the refrigerator has experienced in the past. This will provide you with insight regarding any potential future issues you may have with the refrigerator.
Ask about the environment in which the refrigerator was used. This will help you determine the wear and tear of specific parts. For example, if the refrigerator was stored in an outdoor garage, the compressor most likely worked harder in the summertime during extremely warm or hot temperatures.



If you are purchasing the refurbished refrigerator online or from a far-away location, verify the refrigerator comes with a product warranty to protect yourself in the event the refrigerator doesn't work properly.
Test the door seals. Place a piece of paper between the refrigerator and its door, then try to pull the paper out. If the paper slides out easily, the hinges on the door may need to be adjusted, or the seal need to be repaired.
Test the inside racks and drawers. Pull each rack and drawer out, then slide them back in. This will allow you to determine if these parts can be removed for cleaning or allow easy accessibility to foods you place in the back.
Turn the knobs and switches for lights and temperature controls to make sure they can be adjusted.

