 It might be hard to choose from among your most interesting qualities, but sticking to the most intriguing information is crucial when it comes to personal blurbs. You only have room to write a few lines that will grab people's attention and make them want to know more.


The information you provide should be relevant to the venue on which you're publishing the blurb. If you're using your blurb to promote yourself as an artist or sell a service you're providing, for example, you'll need to clearly state what it is you're offering. Introduce yourself as a journalist, guitarist, freelance writer, photographer, etc.
You could also go the route of offering information about you as a person that you want the world to know. If you're creating a blurb for a blog, for example, the point is to help people get to know you better. Talk about your most creative endeavors and fascinating hobbies.
 If you're using your blurb for professional purposes, like on your professional website or networking page, include a few details that will let people know you're someone with a lot to offer. Add a line about prestigious awards you've received, high level experience you have in the field, or other ways you've been honored. Just remember that mentioning honors and awards could be perceived as bragging if you're using the blurb in a more informal setting., Your blurb is meant to tell the world everything they should know about you in about ten seconds. That doesn't give you much time to reveal the depths of your personality, but you can still choose words that reveal a little about what kind of attitude you have. Again, the tone of your blurb should match the space where it's going to be published.


Use humor wherever possible. Funny blurbs are sure to capture people's attention; if you can find a way to entertain people, they'll want to know more, and that's the point!
Professional blurbs should be more reserved in tone, but you can still show some personality. Add a dry joke at the end or include one personal fact about a hobby or pastime that doesn't fall into the professional realm.
Tell people what they'll gain from getting to know you better. This is the object of any blurb; you've got to intrigue people so they have the desire to keep reading your posts, listening to your music, following your Twitter feed, and so on.
 Personal blurbs can be written in first person, with "I" statements, to create an intimate feel. Alternatively, writing your blurb in the third person will make it seem more professional. Choose the approach that works best for you and the purpose of your blurb.
 If your blurb is more than a few sentences long, people will get bored and start skimming. A blurb should be no longer than two short paragraphs, and even that can be a stretch. Limiting yourself to a few hundred words will help you make sure you're including only the most important and interesting facts.


Read over your blurb after you write it, and try to take an objective point of view. What information can you eliminate to make it punchier?
Ask a friend to take a look at your blurb, and have him or her give you honest feedback. Information that seemed crucial to you may read as bland to someone else.
 If you have the option to include a picture next to your blurb, do it. Your blurb will resonate more with people if they can see a picture of the person who wrote it. Choose a picture that matches the mood of your blurb, whether it's quirky, wholesome, hilarious or polished.

