 Lying on a resume or CV is never a good idea. You may feel as though you don’t have enough experience for the job, and be tempted to stretch the truth, to invent a position that never existed, or to exaggerate your education. This will almost certainly backfire.Don’t assume that companies “don’t check these things anyways.” If anything, employers are more careful than ever in looking into potential hires and their histories., Think hard about the skills that you have. You may be forgetting or undervaluing them. Even skills that we sometimes take for granted can be valuable in the workplace. Are you computer literate or proficient in certain programs like Microsoft Word, Powerpoint, or Excel, for example? Say so in your resume!There are many skills that you have picked up in your education or previous job experience that can be useful, even if they don’t seem immediately related to the job you’re applying for. Do you have past experience in public speaking? Can you read Spanish? Did your previous job in sales require you to work in a team? These can all be marketable skills.
 If you have the chance, do an unpaid or paid internship. This will show potential employers that you are actively looking for career opportunities. It also counts as on-the-job experience that you can mention in a resume.


To better highlight internships, you might try creating a subsection under your personal info or before your education called “Internships and Work Placements,” or something similar. This formatting will highlight your experience and show an employer that you have more than just a degree.Remember to note your relevant volunteer work, as well. In some sectors like non-profit organizations this kind of work is highly desirable. If you are applying for a job with a women’s advocacy charity, for example, include the fact that you volunteered at a local women’s shelter.
 For new graduates, a gap year can be a way to develop so-called “soft skills” that can also be valuable for employers. While a year working with a non-profit organization in South America or India might seem far removed from a job in business, it shows an employer that you are adaptable, flexible, resilient, and can work with diverse people. Maybe you also learned a new language. Do not underrate an experience like this. It may seem like a small thing, but actually it demonstrates that you have desirable character traits., Don’t forget to make the most out of any special recognitions that you’ve won, whether it was making the Dean’s List, winning first-in-class honors, or being named employee of the month for your sales. These honors can show your motivation, leadership, and how you can be an asset to a company in the future.For an academic CV, awards and honors are even more important, as they show that you have been recognized by peers in your field for excellence. Here you will want to provide the name of the award and granting institution. In some fields it is also usual to include the amount of money, if you received any., This advice applies specifically to academics. The best way to improve your academic CV is to have concrete experience – that means teaching courses and publishing articles. These are often what make or break candidates for university and research jobs. You’ll therefore want to get started as early as possible on them.Try to get inside the classroom. Some graduate schools give you experience as a teaching assistant or even in teaching your own course. Others do not. Make the most of your opportunities. Talk to your professors and mentors. See whether they will let you give a guest lecture in one of their courses.
Talk to your advisor. Advisors can be “gateways” to your first publications. They might be able to recommend you to a journal editor for a book review, or ask you to contribute to a volume that they are editing. Let them know about your desire to publish. At the very least, they can advise you on how to turn your research into your first published article.

