 Your firewall is an option which helps protect your passwords and computer security. You can think of it the same way you think of a lock on your door. If your firewall is down, you open yourself up to hackers who can take or delete information, steal your passwords, and wreak all manner of other havoc. Do not, therefore, switch the firewall off.


Grant access to the firewall only for authorized programs which require it like games or video streaming services.
 A virtual private network (VPN) essentially acts as a middleman between the web and your computer, and provides an extra layer of encryption to your interactions online. The VPN server might be located in a different city or even a different country than the one you reside in, and means that tracing your data back to you is almost impossible.


For a double-whammy of internet privacy, combine the VPN with your browser’s incognito or privacy mode. Privacy mode prevents data, cookies, your download record, and other info from being saved on your computer.
 Spend a minimum amount of time logged on to public wifi.


Be sure what the name of the public wifi hotspot is. Logging into the wrong one, or one with a similar name meant to deliberately deceive public wifi users, could mean your online communication -- including passwords, emails, and bank info -- is being lifted by a hacker.
Keep your home wifi connection encrypted. Open wifi makes it easy for hackers to access your computer and download illegal files.
Purchase a new router every few years. Some routers have vulnerabilities which never get corrected., Use long passwords (greater than eight characters) with a mix of upper and lower case letters, numbers, and (if possible) other characters like underscores and dollar signs.


Make each password unique and write them down in a notebook that you always keep in one place. You’ll remember the most important and most common ones in time; the less common ones will be accessible with your password notebook.
Add passwords to your devices, too. Your computer, phone, and tablet should all be password-protected.
Don't use something obvious as your password like your lover's name, your date of birth, or your name.
 Many services have begun using two layers of security, a process called two-step authentication . For instance, Google offers its Gmail users the option to receive a text message containing a random logon key after entering a password on unknown devices. This way, if someone does gain access to your password, they will be unable to use it except on the devices you have selected as safe.
 If your operating system or internet browser does not incorporate fixes for the latest security glitches, you leave yourself vulnerable to hackers. Set your system and software to automatically update when new updates are available. This will keep your system safe.


Most software will ask you when you first install it whether you want it to auto-update. Indicate that you do to save yourself the hassle of figuring out how to manually update later.
 Hackers and phishers will often send mass emails out to unsuspecting users with worms (malicious data-gathering programs), viruses, or other malware. Users who download email attachments without first scanning them or checking them against known bad files put themselves at risk for a security breach. Do not download attachments in online links, emails, or messages from sources you do not trust.
 Antivirus software can keep unwanted programs and potentially harmful files off your computer. Reputable programs include McAfee Antivirus, Webroot Antivirus, and Bitdefender are among the top antivirus programs.If you’re looking for a more affordable option, Bitdefender has a free antivirus program; Panda Free Antivirus and Avast Free Antivirus are also good options.Keep your antivirus software -- like all your software and your OS -- up-to-date. The difference between free and paid antivirus software is usually that free versions do not update as regularly or completely as versions you pay for.
 Many people choose to leave their computers on all the time. But the longer your computer is on, the more likely it is that you become the target of a hacker. A computer which is not transmitting or receiving internet data cannot be accessed by hackers, spyware, or botnets.

