 Country style utilizes a lot of reds and blues. Lighter colors are usually better in a sunnier climate. Brown leather is often better than black. Match, but create contrast. If necessary, use a color wheel to determine what works best.


Darker shades are less suited for warm climates but hide dirt well. Plan accordingly.
 A plain colored tee or a well-fitting button-down top are simple and effective. Sleeve length, neckline, and material are all factors to consider. Women's tops are highly variable, and you can show off as much or as little skin as necessary to suit your individual style.


For the tried-and-true cowgirl, nothing beats a snap-button plaid or red-and-white checkered shirt. Graphic tees can be stylish, but choose a design carefully, and don't make the mistake of assuming that a beer logo or a Confederate flag automatically makes the wearer country.
 Nothing says country quite like blue denim. Straight or boot cut jeans work best. Levi's and Wrangler are classic western brands that won't break the bank. Gold or white threading complements a good pair nicely. Avoid elaborate, flashy designs. Jeans with lower rises are a safe choice. High rises are more traditional and difficult to pull off in a non-work setting.


For an especially hot summer day, opt for a pair of short jean shorts.
 Thin cotton or cotton blends will be the most versatile, but denim works here as well, and can be very traditional. Light, tan, or pale colors are safe. Floral patterns also work well. Skirts should stop an inch or two short of the knee, but can occasionally go longer. Long summer dresses can be useful on a windy day.
 There's no replacement for cowboy boots. Heels are simply too burdensome for trying to navigate through fields of dried dung. It's difficult to go wrong with the color and style: tall, short, buckle, no buckle, ornate or minimal embroidery all work exceptionally well. (Short boots are best worn with shorts or skirts, however). Have at least several pairs to swap out in different colors and styles. Leather is essential, and plastic should be reserved for nights out on the town.


You can find boots in just about every price range, but expect to pay at least $200 for a quality, lasting pair.

