 The majority of Pokémon evolve when they reach a certain level, and the primary way to level up is to use the Pokémon in battle.;
, While lots of Pokémon evolve when they level up, not all of them do. You can save yourself a lot of time and headache if you know beforehand what it takes to evolve the Pokémon. Sites like PokémonDB can provide detailed charts on what each Pokémon's evolutionary requirements are.
 If you're up against a tough opponent, you can swap out Pokémon mid battle. Not only does this let you fight with a fresh Pokémon, but it also lets you split experience between all the Pokémon that participated.


A key strategy is to use your low-level Pokémon for one turn and the switch to a powerful one. This will let the low-level Pokémon earn a bit of experience for a battle it normally wouldn't survive in.
 Rare Candies are items that will automatically raise your Pokémon to the next level. These are great if you have a stockpile of them and want to quickly bump a Pokémon up, or if you need one more level and it's just taking too long.


Try to avoid using a Rare Candy if your Pokémon is about to level up naturally, otherwise the candy will essentially be wasted.
 Starting Generation II, the Exp. Share item was introduced. Any Pokémon holding this item will receive a share of the battle experience points, even if it did not participate. This is great for sticking a Pokémon on the back burner and coming back to it later. In Generation 6, the Exp Share was changed to a key item which gives experience to all Pokémon in the party when turned on.


There is typically only one Exp. Share per game, but you can receive extras by trading Pokémon that are holding the item. You can also get a second one in Pokémon Black and White from the Pokémon Fan Club chairman.
You can also give Pokémon the Lucky Egg item, which provides a 50% experience bonus to the Pokémon that is holding it. These are rare items, and can usually be found held by wild Chansey.
 There is a small set of Pokémon that evolve only after they have leveled up and learned a specific move. Once they learn the move and level up once, they will evolve into their next form.


Tangela, Yanma, and Piloswine evolve after learning Ancient Power.
Bonsly and Mime Jr. evolve after learning Mimic.
Lickitung evolves after learning Rollout.
Aipom evolves after learning Double Hit.

