 Don't let yourself by led by just one good speech or your friend's point of view: decide what you like first, then look to the candidates second. Some themes and issues to consider include:



War and Peace: Should the US go to war to protect human rights abuses, or only to protect US interests?

Economic Priorities: Should businesses be left totally alone, or are business laws and regulations essential to protect consumers?

Social and Moral Responsibility: Is it the President's job to influence this country's "moral character," or is this beyond government's reach?;
, Readily available with a quick google search, these sites ask 15-20 questions on a variety of issues, then show you how each candidate has responded to the same exact questions. Aim for surveys that back up their claims, citing each candidate's position instead of just saying it, and take 2-3 of them to get a better idea of your position. Simple but powerful, these quizzes are a fantastic place to base further research, discussion, and decisions on. Try out:


iSideWith.com
VoteSmart.com
WhoShouldYouVoteFor.com

, Broadly speaking, Americans tend to crowd into two political schools of thought, and each school corresponds (more or less) to a political party. While real people and candidates can, and do, fall anywhere on the spectrum, knowing the broader trends is a good way to start pinpointing who, and what, you agree with.



Conservative / Right-Wing / Republican / Constitutionalist:

Big government should never step in the life of people and businesses
The Constitution is generally infallible
Strong moral and social values are key to American strength
A large military presence is crucial
Free-to-act, private business is key to economic growth



Liberal / Left-Wing / Democrat / Progressive:

Government must step in to protect minority and prejudiced groups
The Constitution was written 200 years ago and needs occasional re-inspection
It is not the government's place to regulate social/moral life
Diplomacy trumps war whenever possible
Private business must be regulated to prevent abuses.
 Try to take a big-picture look, studying the past 4-8 years instead of the past 4-8 months. Consider the following areas, doing research as needed to fill in the blanks, and ask yourself if the things are better or worse than when the current president took office. If they are better, then voting for the same party's candidates (voting Democrat, for example, if you enjoyed President Obama) generally continues these policies:



Economic Growth: Is unemployment higher or lower than when the President took office? What about GDP or the wage gap?

Foreign Entanglements: Are we involved in more disputes, battles, or issues now or when he/she took office? How many US soldiers have lost their lives in this President's wars?

Domestic Affairs: Have crime rates gone up or down? How about poverty?

, The most common reason to choose a candidate is that they share the same party as you. But for every group, Republicans, Democrats, or Independents, party affiliation does not completely dictate a candidate's views. The views of political parties matter. For example, if you agree the government should get out of business regulation, must crack down on social and moral order, and needs an aggressive military, you're more likely to vote Republican. But don't forget that the candidate matters more. Despite the Republicans agreeing as a party to roll back gay marriage and transsexual bathroom laws, 2016 GOP candidate Donald Trump said these aren't his views or priorities and would not strive for them., Many news outlets focus on the "thrilling" moments of debates, highlighting differences instead of actual proposals and policies. Remember, however, that you are voting for a candidate, not against the others. It is fair to dislike a candidate's ideas and policies, voting against these beliefs. But it is another and far more dangerous thing to vote based on attacks, name calling, or non-political issues like race or gender.


Frame your research as "why should I vote for X," instead of "why shouldn't I vote for Y." There is no end to the negative things candidates will say about each other, so move towards the positive and proposals instead.