 Tap the App Store on your iPhone to launch it.;
, Type in “PasaHero” on the search field then tap the Search button.
 Locate the correct app and tap on it. On the app’s overview page, tap the “Install” button.


This app is free.
 Locate the app on your iPhone. Its app icon has a face of a cartoon superhero. Tap on it to launch it.
 You can log in through three different methods—your Facebook account, your Twitter account, or your email address. Tap the corresponding icon on the main screen and log in using the corresponding account.
 After the initial login, you will be prompted to set up at least one emergency contact. You will be brought to the Emergency Contacts screen where you can enter your contacts.


Tap the plus icon to bring up your phone’s contacts list then select the contacts to nominate as your emergency contacts on PasaHero.
You can set up to five contacts on the app.
The emergency contacts are the ones the app will send text notifications to about your trip after you’ve triggered the panic button.
 Tap the “Begin” button at the middle of the app to start a trip. You will be brought to the “My Trip” screen. Tap "Next."

, The first data to populate on the “My Trip” form is the mode of transportation. Tap the plus icon beside it and select from the list the mode of transportation you’re using. You can select from Taxi, Bus, Jeep, Train, and Other.
 The second field on the form is for the vehicle’s plate number. Tap the field and input the plate number.
 The next field is a free text where you can input some more notes regarding your trip. Put some pertinent details here and other notes you’d like others to see in case something happens.
 The bottom part of the form has two photo boxes. You can put some relevant photos here. You can take a photo of the vehicle, the plate number, the driver, your location, etc.


Use an existing photo from your Camera Roll or take a new one.
 Your trip details are composed of the data and pictures you’ve just put in. For your safety, it is suggested that you post your trip details on Facebook or Twitter, depending on which account you’re using for PasaHero when you logged in.


Tap the “Next” button found at the bottom right side of the form then tap the tick box on the next screen asking about posting your trip details.
Your trip details will be posted on your social network for everyone to see.
 Tap the “Begin!” button found at the bottom right side of the screen. You will be brought to another screen where you can monitor and track your trip. The GPS will track you on the map. Your trip duration and distance travelled will also be monitored.
 Once you’ve reached your destination, you can stop monitoring your trip. Tap the “End Trip” button and your trip summary will be displayed, which includes your start and end locations, the distance travelled, and the duration.
 There’s a red semi-circle button on the bottom center part of the app on every screen. This is the “Panic” button.
 The “Panic” button is not touch-sensitive, so it won’t just send out false notifications by a single tap. Triggering the “Panic” button will involve tapping and holding it until the lights around it are lit up. Releasing it midway will do nothing. This is to ensure you’re really in an emergency once you trigger it.
 Once the “Panic” button is triggered, your iPhone will turn its screen lights off and a text will be displayed. The text will read “PASAHERO is now in Panic Mode. We have notified your contacts regarding your situations.” The app will automatically send a text notification to all your emergency contacts about your situation with your trip details.
 The app will also start recording the video and audio of the events that are transpiring after triggering the “Panic” button. This will last for five minutes.
 When you’re safe, swipe down on your screen to exit the Panic mode.