 It’s important to have a one-on-one, in-person conversation with your boss about this issue. Don’t just start chatting about the micromanagement in the break room. Make sure you bring it up during time that’s dedicated just to this.Be open and honest, but also polite during your meeting. This will encourage your boss to listen to what you have to say without getting angry or defensive.
Open the meeting by saying something like: “I’ve noticed that you use hands-on, involved management with my work. I’d like to make sure that I’m doing everything I can to provide you with the best work possible, and that I’m not taking up too much of your time by requiring you to give me this much oversight.”;
, More than anything else, your boss wants good work to get done quickly. It’s likely that your boss’ micromanagement has actually slowed down your process. Be prepared to give specific examples of each time your boss’ management style led to inefficiency (and lost money for the company).Don’t make this list sound like a series of accusations. Instead, use it to demonstrate that you can handle your assignments.
You could say something like: “I know that for our most recent project, you logged about 3 hours double-checking my work. Were there consistent problems you found during this check?”

, If you ask your boss for suggestions, this will feel more like a back-and-forth conversation. This should add a friendly tone to the room. Your boss may also feel more comfortable backing off once they’ve provided you with really specific details about how they like things done.Try: “I really admire how you’ve advanced in this company over the past several years. I hope to follow a similar path. Based on my work so far, could you give me some advice on how I might be able to do that?”

, Your boss’ micromanagement may come from their fear that your screw-up could become something they have to deal with. Help them overcome this worry by agreeing to provide weekly updates on ongoing projects. You’ll be trading constant micromanagement for something limited that you can control.These could be emailed updates, conference calls, or even in-person meetings.
 In addition to more frequent updates on projects, see if your boss would also be willing to do monthly or bi-monthly check-ins. These could be broader meeting where they have the opportunity to comment on your work.Try not to get frustrated by having to agree to check-in meetings. Look at them as opportunities to learn from someone in a higher position than you (even if you don’t like their management style). And remember, limiting micromanagement is better than dealing with it all the time.
 If your boss is surprised or even resistant during your conversation, ask if they’re willing to change things up for a month or two. Suggest providing updates and having meetings while you take the wheel on projects.Maybe no other downtrodden employee has ever been brave enough to bring up this problem. You could be the first! In that case, your manager might simply need a little time to adjust.
The trial period is a great way to show your boss how wonderful a micromanagement-free workplace can be. Be sure to be on your game during the trial.
Bring up the trial period by saying: “I’d really like to test out a new approach for a few months, if you’re on board. I believe it could speed up our process, and I’ll ensure that the quality of our work remains high.”

, Your boss may be unwilling to budge. If this is the case, the workplace could become damaging to your self-esteem and mental health. Start searching online job boards and websites like LinkedIn to find new career possibilities.Try to give any new job at least a year before moving on. This will look better on your resume, and your boss will be more likely to give you a good reference.

