 Every state has established child support enforcement agencies that help parents collect child support. In many states, the Attorney General’s Office helps parents.Other states have created local agencies to perform the same role.A child support enforcement agency can help you get an initial child support order.


To find your office, search “child support enforcement” and “your state.”
If you currently receive Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) or Medicaid, then you should already be enrolled. The state office should contact you.;
, Once you contact the appropriate child support enforcement agency, you will be given forms to complete. Make sure to print legibly and return the forms as soon as possible. Although each state’s form is slightly different, you will generally be asked for the following information:your name
your address, telephone number, and email
your Social Security Number
your date of birth
the other parent’s name, contact information, date of birth, and Social Security Number
a physical description of the other parent
the name, date and place of birth, race, sex, and Social Security Number for each child you are seeking child support for
whether you are married to or divorced from the other parent
who has legal custody of the children
whether paternity has been established
the other parent’s work history

, You may have to submit certain supporting documents along with your application. For example, in Texas, you will need any of the following that apply to your situation:your divorce decree or separation agreement
an acknowledgement of paternity (if one has been signed)
birth certificates of all children involved
evidence of any history of paying child support
documents reflecting each parent’s income and assets, such as tax returns, bank statements, and paycheck stubs

, The child support enforcement agency can also help you establish paternity. If you aren’t entirely sure who the father is, you can still apply for services. The agency will help establish paternity through the courts.


The man might admit that he is the father. However, if he disagrees, then the court can order that DNA testing be done., Only a judge can establish an initial child support order, and the judge will want to hear from both sides. You might need to attend the hearing.For example, you may need to attend in order to testify. However, the child support enforcement agency should do most of the work at the hearing.


You should talk with the child support enforcement agency to ask how you can prepare for the hearing and what your role will be.

