 A simple living trust typically is something you can create yourself. However, if you've already done some estate planning, you may want to make sure the trust you create for your out-of-state assets will blend seamlessly with everything else you've done.If you've had an attorney draft other estate planning documents, it's worth giving them a call and letting them know what you want to do. They can tell you the best way to accomplish your goals.
If you feel comfortable using forms or an online service to draft your documents, you can always get an attorney to review them before you sign. Attorneys typically charge less to review prepared documents than they would to draft them for you.
Keep in mind that even though you're using the revocable trust to transfer out-of-state assets, it doesn't have to follow the law of the state where the assets are located. You can set up your trust in the state where you live.
An attorney can let you know your state's specific requirements to create a valid trust, so you can make sure everything is done properly.;
, Since you're creating a living trust, you are the initial trustee – also known as the "grantor." However, you will need somebody to administer the trustee after your death. This is your successor trustee.Typically, your spouse or an adult child is chosen as your successor trustee. Make sure the person you choose is available and able to fulfill the trustee's duties, and that they likely will be available after you die.
You may want to choose an attorney or financial institution as your successor trustee, so you won't have to worry about the person you name as your successor trustee predeceasing you.
Keep in mind that it's not necessary that the trustee be located in the same state as your assets. You can choose someone in your state of residence, even if the trust includes out-of-state assets.
 What assets you want to include in your trust depends in large part on why you're creating the trust. If you're only creating the trust to avoid ancillary probate and you're satisfied with the way everything else is taken care of, you only need to include your out-of-state real property.When you've decided which assets you want to include in your trust, gather any ownership documents for them so you have them handy.
Once you've executed your trust, you typically will want to transfer ownership of those assets from your name into the name of the trust.
For example, if you have a vacation home in a different state, you want to get the deed for the home so you can identify the property correctly in your trust and then issue a new deed transferring title in the property from you to the trust.
 The person or people who you want to inherit your trust's assets will be listed as beneficiaries of the trust. Once the trust is created, the trust essentially holds those assets for the benefit of those people listed.If your trust only includes a single piece of real property, and you're leaving it to one person, you have an extremely simple trust.
However, if you're going to the trouble of creating a revocable trust, it's likely you'll want to go ahead and include other property as well.
Keep in mind that if any of the beneficiaries you include are minors, you also should name someone who can take care of the property until they reach adulthood. Don't assume that they'll be 18 by the time you die.
Talk to your beneficiaries before you start drafting your trust documents to make sure they actually want the property. This may save your successor trustee some headaches after your death.
Even if your beneficiaries agree to take the property, you still may want to name a successor beneficiary in the event they become unavailable, or are unable to actually take the property when you die.
 A trust is created by drafting a legal document called a declaration of trust. If you've decided to draft your trust yourself, you can find fill-in-the-blank forms and templates online. There also are preparation services online that will draft your documents for you after you've provided information.Many online forms are available for free. However, if you're using a free form, you need to make sure it's valid to create a revocable living trust in your state.
You also can use an online trust preparation service. You'll have to pay a fee to use these services – typically under $100 – but these forms are designed by attorneys to correspond with each state's laws.
Some online services also provide attorney review services for a small fee. An attorney licensed in your state will look over your forms and make sure they've been completed properly.
 In the first sections of your trust, you will provide your name and the name of your trust. Typically your trust's name also indicates the type of trust it is. Living trusts can be either revocable or irrevocable.Most trusts simply include the name of the person who created the trust and the type of trust it is, without getting too fancy.
For example, Olivia Orange might create a trust titled "The Olivia Orange Revocable Living Trust."

, In the next sections of your trust documents, you will list the trustees of the trust and describe their duties. If you're using a form or template, this language typically will be included for you.Since you're creating a living trust, you will include your name as the initial trustee. Then you'll list the person who will take over after your death as the successor trustee.
As trustee, you retain the same power to use or sell your property as you did before you created your trust – only the name will be changed.
After your death, your successor trustee will be responsible for distributing the property included in your trust to the beneficiaries you list.
 After the trustee sections, you can then get into naming the beneficiaries of your trust. These are the people who will inherit your property after you die. If you're only including your out-of-state real property, you may only have one or two beneficiaries.When listing your beneficiaries, you have the option of including the property right there in the trust document, or creating a separate schedule.
If you're creating a simple trust to avoid ancillary probate by transferring ownership of out-of-state property, it may make sense to list the property along with the beneficiary.
For example, you might write "At the death of the grantor, the trustee shall distribute the real property located at 123 Oceanside Drive to Oliver Orange."
However, if you are including other property in your trust, you can list the property separately and refer to that schedule.
In that case, you would write "At the death of the grantor, the trustee shall distribute the property in accordance with the Property Schedule attached to this document."

, If you're including numerous assets in your trust, a schedule of property can make it easier to manage your trust. If you want to add an asset to the trust at any time, all you have to do is amend this document.Whether you create a separate document is entirely up to you. Keep in mind that if you decide to change the beneficiaries, you'll have to create a new declaration of trust.
However, if you create a separate property schedule, you can add or remove property to the trust at any time without executing a new declaration of trust.
Ultimately the choice comes down to how likely you think it will be that you will want to add or remove property frequently.
If you anticipate adding property on a somewhat regular basis, a separate schedule of property will make this process easier for you.
 Most states require you to sign your trust documents in the presence of a notary before they will have legal effect. State formalities differ, and other witnesses also may be required.You may want to check with an attorney to make sure you're signing your trust using the correct formalities.
If you used an online document preparation service to draft your declaration of trust, it typically tells you what you need to do to execute the trust.
Consider making several copies of your declaration of trust before signing so you can have several original documents to save or distribute.
Your successor trustee also should have a copy of the trust, or know where it is kept and how to access it.
 Most states don't require you to record your trust with the court or the county recorder's office. However, filing it with the county recorder in the county where the real property is located is a good way to keep the trust safe.If you previously executed a will, you may have filed it with the probate court in the county where you live.
This isn't necessary for trusts, but some courts allow you to file your declaration of trust anyway. If you have other estate planning documents on file with the court, it may be beneficial for you to keep everything together.
You also may want to file a copy of the trust at the county recorder's office where the real property is located. However, keep in mind this isn't generally required.
 Even though your trust doesn't have any employers, you still need to get an EIN for the trust from the IRS. Despite its name, an EIN is simply a tax identification number that identifies your trust as a separate entity from you for tax purposes.You can apply for an EIN online at the IRS website. All you have to do is answer a few questions about the trust and the EIN will be automatically generated.
Getting an EIN is always free, and if you apply online your number is assigned instantaneously.
Keep in mind that if you've included other property in your trust, an EIN is necessary to set up a bank account for the trust.
This also may be important if you rent out the property you have out of state, since that property generates income.
 Since you have a living trust, it's up to you whether you want to transfer the assets into the name of your trust now, or allow your successor trustee to take care of it after your death.For real property, this means you must execute a new deed transferring the property from your name into the name of the trust.
You also may be able to simply add language to the existing deed indicating that you are holding the property in trust.
Check with the county recorder's office in the county where the property is located to make sure you're doing this correctly according to that state's law.
 If you already have a will or other estate planning documents to distribute your real and personal property, make sure it reflects the new trust that you've created. How you do this will depend on what estate planning documents you already have, and what assets are included in your trust.If you had an attorney draft your previous documents, call them and let them know that you've created a revocable trust for your out-of-state assets and need to update your existing estate planning documents accordingly.
If you drafted a will on your own, make sure your out-of-state property isn't listed. If it is, you may want to consider drafting a codicil or another will that reflects the changes you've made.

