 A water bottle with a sealable lid and large mixing bowl work well when you don't have a blender. Additionally, if you have a blender bottle or a spherical whisk, you can use that to shake up your ingredients.


For this method, it's best to mix your liquids separately from your solids before blending everything together. You will have to mash your solids before adding to your shake.
A nonelectric food processor and chopper will also work well for mixing your fruits and other solid foods.
 Add 1 cup (240 ml) of milk or juice into your container before you add your powder.


If you don’t have a blender, it’s best not to add any ice. The ice won’t be able to break up in your container, and will prevent any of your other ingredients from fully mixing.
 Before adding anything else, just like with a blender, mix in your protein. Use your whisk and shake your bottle, or stir with a fork.


Unless you can mash up nuts or chocolate to a fine powder by hand, use a flavor powder substitute. You can also use peanut butter instead of nuts. Try almond milk instead of almonds, and chocolate powder instead of chocolate.
You can also buy fruit powder, which is similar to your protein powder. Instead of a whey protein powder you can use fruit powder which contains all the nutrients of fruit. If you opt for fruit powder, mix it in like you would your protein powder, after you add your juice or milk. The easiest way to mix all your protein powder is to pour a little in at a time, stir, and then pour more.
By adding a little protein at a time there is less powder that has to absorb at once.
Once you’ve stirred in all your powder, screw the lid of your bottle on tightly and shake for 10 to 15 seconds. Even if you don’t have a spherical whisk, shaking your bottle will help to break up any leftover protein chunks.
 Because you don’t have a blender, you have to turn your fruit and other solid ingredients into a shake-like consistency by hand. Mash your fruit up with a mortar and pestle or in a bowl with a fork and spoon. Mash your fruit until you have a mushy consistency, then add a little juice, milk, yogurt, or water to the mix. Whisk your mix until it is blended to your satisfaction.


It’s easiest to use soft fruits if you don’t have a blender. Fruits like bananas, mangos, and berries work well.
 If you mashed up fruit to add to your smoothie, pour your mixture in now and shake or stir.


Additionally, if you’re adding yogurt mix it in now.
Stir your mix for 10 to 15 seconds or until you’re satisfied.
Screw the lid on your bottle and give it a good shake to make sure everything is mixed together.
Do a taste test. If you’re satisfied, enjoy your shake.

