 Because antidepressant medication was designed and tested on adults, there are some risks involved in dispensing them to children and adolescents. A full body of research does not exist to test the long-term effects of antidepressants on the adolescent brain and development. There are concerns whether antidepressant medication interferes with normal brain development, especially in regards to how the brain manages stress and regulates emotion., The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued a warning regarding SSRI use for children and adolescents regarding increased suicidal thoughts and behavior. In some individuals up to age 25, SSRIs can have this effect, according to the FDA.If you notice your adolescent displaying signs of suicidal thoughts or behaviors, get help immediately. Risk of suicide increases when changes are made to dosage and during the first three months of use.Do not wait for things to “blow over” or “return to normal;” suicide is serious and should be treated seriously.


Seek immediate intervention. This may include talking with the adolescent, taking him or her to the Emergency Department, or contacting the police. Alert the child’s therapist as soon as possible.
Family history is important to consider with the risk of suicide. Ask if there is a family history of suicide or bipolar disorder. Also, ask if the teen has a history of suicidal thoughts or attempts.For more information, check out How to Recognize the Warning Signs of Suicide.
 While SSRIs are contraindicated for use in adolescents and children in the UK, the FDA in the United States stopped short of this decision in light of limited treatments for children with serious depression. The FDA approved two antidepressant SSRIs for adolescents. One approved medication is fluoxetine (Prozac), which is prescribed for children aged eight and older. Escitalopram (Lexapro) is prescribed for those 12 and older.Some medical professionals may prescribe off-label medication to treat depression in teens. For instance, a medical doctor may use his or her judgment to prescribe citalopram (Celexa). Using off-label medications is a somewhat clinically common practice for many types of medications and can occur for both children and adults.
 Prior to obtaining medication, the child will see a prescriber to discuss medication use. Have a full a psychiatric evaluation performed by a psychiatrist, pediatrician, or family doctor who is experienced in pediatric psychiatric issues.Prior to your appointment, gather some information regarding the child’s medical and emotional history.


Bring up any family history of depression, suicide, or other mental health problems with the prescriber. Mention any drug allergies or sensitivities to other medication.
 Therapy is an effective way to treat depression in adolescents. Many teens will respond to therapy without the aid of medication. Therapy can help determine the persistence and severity of the depression, as well as provide coping tools for the teen to cope with negative thoughts.If the child is not currently seeing a therapist, include therapy in treatment for long-term effects.


In some clinical studies, a combination of medication and therapy has shown most effective in treating serious depression in adolescents.For more information, check out How to Choose a Therapist.
 Have your prescriber monitor medication use. Make regular appointments to check in. When with your medical practitioner, be sure to discuss any side-effects and overall medication effectiveness. Your prescriber should be notified if the teen experiences any major mood swings, suicidal thoughts, nervousness, agitation, or sleeplessness while on medication., If medication is no longer wanted or needed, do not take the teen off medication without consulting with the prescriber first. Abruptly stopping use can lead to withdrawal symptoms or result in symptom relapse. Prior to stopping medication, discuss the changes with your prescriber and find the best course of action to minimize risks., The FDA recommends that children start on the smallest dose to safeguard against deliberate or accidental overdose.When the teen is prescribed medication, monitor the dosage. Use only as directed by the prescriber.


You can hand the pills to the adolescent each day, or watch to make sure the accurate dosage is consumed.
 If medication is needed while the teen is at school, make sure the teen goes to the nurse for medication. The school nurse can administer the medications and make sure that the adolescent takes the full dose.


Alert the school that the teen is on medication and make sure medication is not shared with others. Keeping it with the school nurse is the safest way to administer and keep the medication.
 Stay alert to any changes in thoughts or behavior the teen experiences after starting medication.Note even minor changes in your child, including social or academic problems.Call your prescriber if you notice:Increase in suicidal thoughts or behavior
Worsening depression
New or worsening anxiety
Insomnia
Panic attacks
Irritability, agitation, restlessness
Violent or aggressive behavior
Extreme hyperactivity
Other strange or unusual emerging behaviors

, In addition to medication, help the teen make some changes to bolster treatment. Outside of therapy and medication, the teen can develop some practices and skills to better cope with depression in the long run. It can be empowering for teens to know that they are participating in their own healing and betterment.


Encourage the adolescent to engage in exercise regularly. This can include participating in a sport such as basketball, soccer, track, volleyball, or dance. The teen may enjoy going to the gym, taking the dog for a walk, going hiking or another activity. Encourage lots of activity, as exercise is essential to mental and physical health.Encourage the teen to have an outlet for emotions. This can be music, drawing, dancing, painting, or anything else the teen is drawn to that helps sort out thoughts and feelings. Video games do not count.
 It’s absolutely essential for teens to get plenty of sleep. Children and adolescents need more sleep than adults, up to 9 or more hours each night.Encourage your teen not to stay up late at night, but to be well rested each day. If the teen is oversleeping or undersleeping, talk about this with your therapist or medication prescriber.


If the adolescent is experiencing sleep problems, check out How to Deal With Teenage Insomnia.

