 Making insurance, utility, and and loan payments doesn't need to happen with paper checks. For the most part, online payment portals are extremely easy to use, free, and much quicker than sending your payments through the post. Start an online account for each of your monthly bills and request that you receive online updates for your account.


You can pay each of your bills separately, to each account, but some banks have it set up so that you can schedule your online payments with the bank, and automatically remind you to make those payments every month, or automatically make the payments without your authorization. If you know you're going to have to make the payments regularly, set it up to automatically debit and have one less thing to worry about.
 Ask that each account and utility remove you from its mailing list and opt for digital statements and updates instead. If you're paying your utilities online, you don't need to get payment updates and other mailers through the mail. Go ahead and switch all communications to online updates.


Some services won't send you an email every time your account is updated, making it important to take steps to check your account regularly and schedule payments accordingly, to make sure that your accounts are up to date.
 Printing out tax forms can be a huge expense and a big waste of paper. Instead of sending in a big packet of your tax information at tax time, invest in an online service, like TurboTax, and file your taxes online. While there's typically a small fee associated with receiving your tax refund online, most services will take the payment straight out of any rebate that you receive, making it–essentially–free to you. It's a good deal, much faster, and super-easy., If you're still getting a paper check at the end of every week, talk to your employers about the possibility of direct deposit. There's little sense in making employees run useless paper checks to the bank every couple of weeks, when the possibility of your hard-earned money going straight into your account is possible.

