 For college students, services like STA travel offer discounts on flights, trains and hotels., Most airlines and hotels offer discounts to groups of 10 or more.And if you share a room you can cut your rate in half.
 Flights and hotels are cheaper if you can travel on the weekend., If traveling in a group or as a family, renting a house is usually much cheaper, and you can also save on food by cooking your own. Try sights like vrbo.com or craigslist to find inexpensive vacation rental properties., Dining out is one of the major costs of travel. Saving leftovers from restaurants and preparing a couple of easy meals can greatly reduce costs., Staying in a hotel that provides food and lodging for one upfront cost can provide huge savings, particularly at more popular destinations like Cancun, Ixtapa, the Bahamas, and Jamaica. You can book all-inclusive vacation packages through most travel websites., Flights can eat up a lot of your vacation budget. Instead, pack your friends or family into a car and drive. There are some great beaches right here in the US. Here are a few that combine inexpensive accommodations and dining with warm weather, beautiful beaches and fun activities.


Daytona Beach, Florida – Though perhaps better known for the NASCAR races it hosts, Daytona has beautiful beaches and affordable accommodations.Panama City Beach, Florida – The eastern anchor of a nearly unbroken stretch of white-sand beaches that runs for some 70 miles (110 km) along the Gulf of Mexico to the beach town of Destin.South Padre Island, Texas – Within driving distance of Dallas, Austin, Houston, and San Antonio, South Padre offers more affordable nightlife and beach fun.Savannah, Georgia – A downtown filled with 18th century southern style can provide you a relatively inexpensive headquarters to venture out to the nearby beach islands of Hilton Head, Tybee, Jekyll, and Saint Simons.Myrtle Beach, South Carolina – The laidback capital of South Carolina’s 60 mile long waterfront, Myrtle Beach features hundreds of golf courses and several amusement parks, making it a particularly good place for family vacations.San Diego, California – Miles of beautiful beaches, the trendy Gaslamp Quarter, and Sea World and Fiesta Island Park for kids. San Diego has something for everyone, at an affordable price., Yes, Cancun and Jamaica are great, but they are also expensive. Try another incredible beach town that won’t break the bank.


Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic – Less expensive than nearby Punta Cana, Santo Domingo offers casinos, a vibrant night life, and nearby white-sand beaches Boca Chica and Caribe.Puerto Rico – White sand beaches, buzzing night life, vibrant jungles, and the nearby secluded islands of Vieques and Culebra, all at a good price.Puerto Vallarta, Mexico – A tropical paradise and haven for US expats, Puerto Vallarta has somehow remained surprisingly affordable.Costa Rica – Costa Rica has been rising in popularity as a beach destination, which means it has some pricey spots. But particularly on the Pacific Coast, you can still find great deals if you avoid major tourist areas.