 Turn the oven on to 375 degrees and wait for it to completely heat., Place the chicken breasts on a baking sheet. Drizzle them with one tablespoon of olive oil. Then sprinkle them with ½ teaspoon of cumin, ½ teaspoon of chili powder, ¼ teaspoon of garlic powder and ¼ teaspoon of salt.If you don’t want to cook a chicken, you can always buy an already cooked rotisserie chicken and simply shred it small pieces.
 Place the baking sheet with the chicken in the oven. Wait 20-25 minutes, until the chicken is done and looks slightly brown on top, then remove the tray., Wait for the chicken to cool, around five minutes. Then use two forks to pull apart the chicken. Pull the chicken into small strips, then set the chicken aside as you prepare the other ingredients.You can also use your fingers instead of the forks to give you more control over the size and shape of the strips.
 Stack the five tortillas on top of one another and use a sharp knife to cut them into strips. Cut the strips to about an inch long and half an inch wide., Spread the tortilla strips on a baking sheet and drizzle them with olive oil. Toss the tortilla strips so that they are all evenly coated. Then sprinkle them with salt and spread them out so that they aren’t overlapping., Bake the tortilla strips in the oven, either along with the chicken or separately, for 15-18 minutes until the strips are crisp and lightly golden brown, then set aside.You can also buy tortilla chips from the grocery store if you’d prefer.
 After you have finished cooking the chicken and tortilla strips, move on to preparing the other ingredients. Dice the onion, garlic and bell peppers into small cubes., Heat one tablespoon of olive oil over medium heat. When the oil is hot, drop in the onions, garlic and bell peppers. Stir to mix and combine the vegetables., Stir in the remaining ½ teaspoon of cumin, ½ teaspoon of chili powder, ¼ teaspoon of garlic powder and ¼ teaspoon of salt. Then add the shredded chicken and stir until the chicken and the vegetables are mixed., Pour in the tomatoes, chicken stock, tomato paste, water and black beans. Stir until all ingredients are mixed, then bring the soup to a boil.
 After the soup has boiled, reduce the heat to low and let it simmer uncovered for 45 minutes., After the soup has simmered for 45 minutes, mix three tablespoons of cornmeal into a small amount of water, adding water and stirring until the mixture has reached a paste-like consistency. Then pour the mixture into the soup and stir.Adding cornmeal makes the soup a little thicker and also adds the subtle flavor of corn.
 After you have added the cornmeal, let the soup simmer for another 30 minutes. This will make the soup more flavorful and less watery, and also will cook the vegetables to the ideal state., While the soup is simmering, prepare the toppings for your soup. Cut the red onion and avocado into small chunks, and break the cilantro leaves from the stem., After the soup has simmered for thirty minutes, turn off the heat and let it sit for 15-20 minutes. This lets the flavors fully integrate and soak into the chicken and vegetables., Add the tortilla strips fifteen minutes before serving if you prefer softer strips that have absorbed the flavor of the soup, or right before serving if you prefer them to be crunchy. Then add the onion, avocado, and cilantro, along with a dollop of sour cream on top. Serve and enjoy!


You can also add cheddar cheese to the soup for an extra kick of flavor. Feel free to experiment and add whatever toppings you’d like.
