 The DOJ's Antitrust Division investigates possible federal antitrust violations in much the same way the FTC does. However, while the FTC will handle most of the civil claims, the DOJ will handle all criminal investigations.If you think you have uncovered a major case of price fixing, go to the DOJ's Antitrust Division website to start the complaint process., Once you click on the "Report Violations" link on the left side of the Antitrust Division homepage, you will be taken to a page that describes the complaint process. Read the directions carefully., The DOJ does not have a form to fill out when filing an antitrust complaint. Therefore, you will have to create your own complaint using some word processing application on your computer. You can also write your complaint legibly in pen. Your complaint, in order to be considered complete, needs to answer the following questions:What are the names of all the entities involved?
How do you believe the antitrust laws have been violated?
Can you provide any examples of the conduct you think violated antitrust laws?
What product or service is affected by your price fixing allegation?
Who are the major competitors in the business arena where you think price fixing is taking place?
What is your role in everything?
Who has been harmed and how have they been harmed by the price fixing?

, Once you answer the questions, you can submit your complaint through the mail, by email, or over the phone. If you are sending in your complaint, address it to the Citizen Complaint Center, Antitrust Division, 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Room 3322, Washington DC 20530. If you are emailing your complaint, you can send it to antitrust.complaints@usdoj.gov. If you want to call in your complaint you can dial 1-888-647-3258 or 202-307-2040., After your complaint has been submitted, the CCC will create a record of the information you provided and they will review it for possible antitrust violations. If your complaint is valid, the CCC will forward it to the appropriate agency where an investigation will take place. If the CCC needs more information, they will contact you.


Because Antitrust Division investigations are confidential, you will not be informed if and when an investigation is opened.As with the other reporting options, your job will usually be done after your complaint is submitted. In general, federal and state agencies will use your information as the basis for starting an investigation. However, your complaint will not usually provide sufficient evidence to bring an action at the outset.

