 You can also apply some of your blush to your lash line. This will help tie your eye makeup to the rest of your makeup., Instead of using the usual charcoal and silver eyeshadow shades, try wine or lavender eyeshadow instead. Add more definition with some charcoal or dark brown eyeliner., Sweep periwinkle eyeliner on your upper lash line. Dust some periwinkle eyeshadow on your lower lash line. Finish the look with a violet or plum mascara., Apply gold eyeshadow all over your lid. Then, brush a dark tan shadow to the crease with a crease brush. Tap on some more dark tan eyeshadow to the inner and outer corners of your eyes. Blend everything in, then brush on some dark brown eyeliner and mascara.
 Spread eyeshadow primer all over your eyelid. Brush on a cream color all over your eyelid, from lash line to brow bone. Apply a peach color to your upper lid, from lash line to crease. Dust on some of that same peach color to just below your lower lashes. Apply brown eyeliner to both your upper and lower eyelids. Finish off with brown mascara on both your upper and lower lashes., Spread eyeshadow primer all over your eyelid. Line your upper and lower lids with brown eyeliner. Brush on a warm purple over your entire lid, from lash line to crease. Apply a strawberry color to the crease. Soften any harsh edges with a blending brush. Dust on some of that same strawberry color to just below your lower lashes. Finish off with some brown mascara on your upper and lower lashes., Apply some eyeshadow primer. Brush on a medium purple eyeshadow all over your eyelid, from lash line to just past the crease. Apply a lighter purple from just past the crease all the way up to your brow. Finally, brush on a dark purple to your lash line. Blend all three shades to create a smooth, ombre transition. Finish the look off with some charcoal eyeliner and mascara.


Consider pairing this with clear, glitter lip gloss

, Apply a medium green eyeshadow all over your eyelid, from lash line to crease. Then, apply a lighter green to the inner corner of your eyelid. Finish off with a darker green on the outer corner. Blend the colors together for a smooth, ombre look. If you want, you can add on some eyeliner and mascara as well.


Apply ivory eyeshadow to your brow bone to give your eye some more definition.
Try using brown eyeliner or mascara.
