 Taking time to warm up and stretch your muscles before you start a climb can help to prevent injuries. Warming up and stretching may also help to improve your performance, so it is important to start every climb with a few minutes of cardiovascular exercise and some good stretching.Try walking briskly or jogging back and forth in the gym for a few minutes to get your blood flowing.

Stretch your arms, shoulders, core, and legs before you start your climb.;
, Before you start climbing, look at the wall and try to analyze your route. Identify the best footholds and handholds, consider how you will handle difficult transitions, and plan the direction that you will take.Taking time to read your route is a great way to improve your climbing skills. If you do not take time to plan your route, you may end up wasting energy by having to backtrack or by having to take extra time to consider your moves.
 Gripping too hard with your hands can wear out your forearms quickly, which may mean that you will not be able to complete your climb. To ensure that you will have enough grip strength to complete your climb, try to maintain a lighter grip on handholds.Try to keep more of your weight on your footholds than on your handholds whenever possible.
Try to stay close to the wall. Keeping your bodyweight closer to the wall will help to keep your body weight centered and reduce strain on your forearm muscles.If you need to lean back to check your route, try to do so quickly.
 Using your feet and legs to move your body upwards is more efficient than using your hands and arms, so try to make most of your movements with your feet. You should try to make three foot movements for every one hand movement.For example, you could reach up to a high handhold and then use your feet to move your body closer to the hand hold by changing your footholds three times.
 Take a few moments to rest and regain your strength whenever you become fatigued. To rest, lean in close to the wall and use your feet to support your body weight while maintaining a light grip on your handholds.Keep in mind that if you become fatigued, you have a higher chance of falling. Pay attention to how you feel to determine when you should rest during your climbs.
 It is normal to falls sometimes when you are doing a climb. If you never fall, then you may not be challenging yourself enough. When you do need to fall, you will probably know and you should do certain things to make your fall as safe as possible.Do not loop your rope around anything or any part of yourself.
Push yourself out and away from the wall if you fall.
Pay attention to potential holds below you.
Put your feet up towards the wall to avoid hitting your head.

