 Continue to refresh the bait until the ants stop showing up.


Ant bait works by cutting off the reproductive ability of the queen. Worker ants carry the bait back to the queen, and the poison prevents her from reproducing. As the ants die off naturally, no new ants are there to replace them.
Ant bait is most effective indoors. It can be used outdoors, but should not be placed on wet surfaces or used in temperatures below 70 degrees Fahrenheit (21 degrees Celsius).
 Purchase and apply granular bait inside cracks, crevices, and surfaces frequented by ants. You can also pile the bait around outdoor ant mounds or use it inside.


Unlike ant bait stations, ant bait granules do not have temperature limitations and can be used both indoors and outdoors.
Worker ants take the ant bait granules back to the entire colony to eat. The granules poison the ants after being consumed.
 Purchase a consumer spray pesticide specifically labeled to work against ants. Follow the instructions, spraying visible ants and perimeters in the manner described on the label.


It is absolutely crucial that you follow the instructions on the label. Doing so can prevent the product from working and may even pose a health risk to you and your family.
Make sure to use a pesticide labeled for use with ant problems. Some pesticide and insecticide chemicals are more useful against some insects than they are with others, so an insecticide meant to work on bees, for instance, may not work against ants.
Some sprays kill ants instantaneously. Others coat the ants with a toxic chemical, killing the gradually so that the poison has a chance to get back to the nest first.
 Many ant problems can be solved at home with consumer products or natural solutions, but some severe infestations may require the help of a professional exterminator.


The exterminator will be able to assess the situation and determine which chemical will prove most effective against the ants. Chemicals used by professional exterminators are often more powerful than those available to consumers.
If you have small children, pets, or other sources of concern, make sure to let the exterminator know so that he or she can take any necessary precautions before spraying your house for ants.

