 Remember that this is really not the biggest problem in the world to have. Everything is relative. If a little embarrassment is the worst problem you will ever experience, you’re lucky. If you become flustered and react intensely, this can spur a reaction in others, creating an uncomfortable situation for everyone. Instead, try to keep your cool.It’s possible that no one will notice or be able to see anyway. It might feel wet to you, but the pee stain may be barely visible to other people around you because of where it’s located. Try to stay relaxed and slip away.
If someone does see, remain calm. People often react to embarrassment by becoming flustered, tearful, stuttering, and acting upset overall. This makes the people around you feel awkward as well, causing a tense situation. While it can be incredibly embarrassing to have an accident in public, staying calm can help smooth things over.
If anyone notices, try to react with a smile and take it with a grain of salt. You can proceed to do things to help quell your embarrassment.
 How you respond to something can affect how other people around you respond to it, so your attitude can make the situation more or less embarrassing. Adopt a confident attitude, and try to laugh off the mistake.In hindsight, embarrassing events are easy to laugh off. People often share embarrassing stories at cocktail parties. In the moment, however, laughing can be hard. Try to remind yourself you will live down this moment. This may make you feel more comfortable laughing.
Even if it feels uncomfortable, try your best to laugh it off. Say something like, “Can you believe I just did that? I guess your joke was really funny.” Speak with confidence, and downplay the significance of what just happened.
Enlist a friend's help. If you're feeling sensitive, it may be difficult to laugh at yourself. Try to turn to a trusted friend and encourage him or her to laugh with you. Make a joke at your own expense and say, "Am I right?" If your friend joins in, the conversation can go from uncomfortable to fun and lighthearted.
 If you want to overcome embarrassment, work on moving forward. Instead of dwelling on what has just occurred, keep your mind in the present. You peed your pants, and now you must deal. Ruminating on the embarrassment will block your ability to smoothly cope with the situation.Try to silence the voice in your head. You may be inclined to think something like, "I can't believe you just did that. How humiliating." Try to ignore the words of self judgment. Instead, focus on what you can do now, in the present, to deal with the situation.
Keep pulling your attention to the present as need be. Remind yourself you need to get to a bathroom, cover the stain, or laugh it off with those around you.
 You may feel you'll never live down peeing yourself in public. However, try to remind yourself of embarrassing things you've done in the past. This is probably not your first cringe-worthy moment. Remembering past embarrassments can help put things in perspective. You never thought you would get over certain fumbles, but eventually you did.Go over a list of your most embarrassing moments. Replay that uncomfortable first date, that awkward comment you made in English class, and so on. Try to recall your top five embarrassing moments. Think to yourself, "I got over all of that and I will get over this as well."
Try to enlist your friends to help. Have friends share embarrassing stories as well. You may feel better about yourself if you realize everyone has experienced embarrassing moments.

