 As simple as this sounds, it often is not easy. Resist the temptation to hit the snooze button. Not only will it consume time, it will also make you sleepier.The classic cup of coffee can pick you up. But it isn't the only way to make a clean break from the bed.


Let the light in. One study has shown that sunlight will wake you up and make you more alert than artificial light.So, leave your blinds open and you'll have one more thing pulling you out of bed in the morning.
Play some music. Music will give you more energy if you are struggling to get up or get the energy to move. With music on, it is also easier to keep track of how much time has passed. , Because breakfast is so important to establishing your energy and metabolism throughout the day, you never want to skip it.Throwing granola, yogurt, and fruit in a bowl together is a quick way to pull together a nutritious breakfast. You can also make a smoothie by placing all of the ingredients into the blender and leaving it in the refrigerator overnight. When you wake up, turn on the blender and breakfast is served., Keep in your brush and toothpaste in the shower. Brush as you wash yourself off. This sort of multitasking can save you a couple of important minutes in a rush.
 It'll keep you honest and force you hurry up if you're running behind. Estimate how long it will take to shower, brush your teeth, and dress. Set a time by which you should finish each to be able to make it out of the house on the set time. If you fall behind this schedule, hurry up. If you have trouble remembering your schedule, write it down and tape it on your door. Consult it to verify that you are sticking to your goal.
 It might be that the route your normally take to work is not as quick as you thought. Put the address of your destination into GPS or a mapping service like Google Maps to figure out if there is a quicker route. These programs can keep you up-to-date with traffic jams, adapting your route instantly to find the quickest way to your destination.


Keep your work or school preprogrammed into your GPS. That way you will not need to spend time imputing it in the morning.
 Make sure that you have eaten and gotten your coffee before leaving the house. If you need to stop for anything on the drive, it will slow you down and throw off the schedule you made.

