 It’s up to you (and your child) to decide whether or not to disclose the OCD at school. Your child may not want teachers or peers to be aware of the problem. However, the stress involved can be immense and affect students’ grades, performance on tests, and relationships. Think carefully before disclosing.Parents may want to hold back if their child isn’t severely affected by OCD emotionally, socially, or academically. This way, kids can work at home and with the therapist without extra worries about school.However, seriously consider disclosure if your child’s OCD is getting out of hand. Teachers and staff will be able to respond better if they are aware of the situation.
 If you decide to disclose your child’s OCD, be open and honest with teachers about the diagnosis and how it has affected your child – especially his or her ability to perform in school. You can also reach out to the school’s counselors, social workers, or psychologist, as necessary. Together, try to come up with ways to accommodate your child.You might suggest that teachers keep a brief journal about your child, for instance. This way, you can pass it back and forth and follow the child’s progress.Talk to the teacher if your child struggles with handwriting, cleanliness, or luck numbers compulsions. For instance, you might be able to arrange for your child to use a computer for homework. The teacher will also know to expect bathroom requests or problems with certain numbers in math lessons.
Try to make sure that staff are watching out for your child’s wellbeing. Students with OCD are often bullied or suffer from low self-esteem and should NEVER be punished for OCD behaviors.
Ask to see if the teacher is open to speaking with your child’s therapist about your child’s treatment and how to help.
 If severe, your child’s OCD falls under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) and the school is required by law to assist. You can request an evaluation to see whether your child is entitled to additional services to help with his or her educational performance.Under IDEA, you or another of the child’s legal guardians can ask the school for an evaluation for special services.
Expect to work with teachers, school counselors, and others to develop an Individualized Education Plan (IEP) if your child qualifies for special services. This will outline how OCD affects your child in the classroom as well as your shared academic and behavioral goals and how to achieve these.
As a legal guardian, you are entitled to cooperate in the creation of the IEP. Know that you can challenge it, too, if you do not agree with the plan.
Know that an IEP does NOT mean that your child will be in a special education class. Instead, the child could get services like counselling, more time for tests/assignments, frequent breaks, preferential seating, or an open pass to the bathroom/office.

