 Don’t underestimate the amount of fun you can have prank calling your friends, no matter what age you are. Just find a good victim, whether it’s another friend of yours or a girl you like to tease, and practice what you’re going to say before you make the call. You can pretend to be a school administrator getting her in trouble, act like you’re a neighbor complaining about noise or even pretend to be one of the person’s friends.


Call from your house phone, making sure to dial *67 so your number isn’t identified and get a few of your friends on the other phones so you can all have a good laugh together.
Just don’t take this too far. If you call a teacher, neighbor, or another adult or even a peer who would be less-than-pleased by your antics, then you could get in trouble with the law.;
, This is just as simple and easy as it sounds. Just get a few rolls of toilet paper, have one of your more adventurous friends stand up with his arms at his sides, not moving and have two people wrapping toilet paper around his body from different directions until he is completely covered. Take some photos for fun, and then set your friend free, letting him break through the toilet paper. This can be a fun activity on Halloween or really during any time of the year.


You can also have your completed mummy walk around your house to try to scare your parents or siblings.
If you have a bigger group of friends together, you can even make two mummies at once, having a contest to see who can make a mummy the fastest.
 If you and your friends are more creative and want to make something, then try writing a simple one act play. It can have just a few characters in it and doesn’t need to be more than 5-10 pages long. Give yourselves a time limit to write the play, such as an hour or two, cast the parts, and then give yourselves another hour to practice performing it. Then, perform for your family, a few other friends, neighbors, or for a video camera to show off your skills.


You don’t have to be the next Arthur Miller to write a fun play with your friends. You can write something goofy and completely ridiculous; do whatever’s the most fun. Nobody’s judging.
 Think of the movies or TV shows you used to love when you were just a little kid. If you’re not much older than that, well, then you can look for some even older shows or movies that your older siblings or parents used to like and can check those out. This can be a fun way to remember your childhood and to laugh at all of the things you used to think were so scary, funny or interesting.


Make some popcorn, order some pizza, and have sodas with big slurpie straws while you and your friends relax.
Though it can be fun to be active and to be jumping around, sometimes you and your friends will just want to unwind.
If there’s a famous catchphrase in one of the movies or shows, you can all find something to do every time you hear it, like taking a big sip of your soda or shouting.
 Board games never really get old, no matter what age you are. If you feel like having a night in with your friends, bring out the board games, such as Monopoly, Risk, or even Jenga. When was the last time you played something other than a video game with your friends? This can be a great way to mix things up and to have some old-fashioned fun without sacrificing your eyesight.


You can make some fun snacks while you play them, such as S’Mores or peanut butter sandwiches, to make it feel more festive.
Some of your friends may need some convincing, at first, but they’ll soon see that playing old games is much more fun than they expected.
 If you and your friends like poker or want to learn how to play, then you can have fun having a “boys’ night in” and have a poker night at someone’s house. Have at least a few of your friends sit around a table, do some light betting, put the game on in the background, and have an old-fashioned poker night with your buddies. Don’t make it feel too competitive and keep things fun and friendly.


You can even plan to take a late-night trip to Chili’s or another local restaurant afterwards. You can raise the stakes by saying that whoever loses has to buy dinner or dessert for everyone.
 If you want to do something goofy and different with your friends, then turn on a sports game and mute the sound. This may work best if it’s a sport you don’t know super well, such as darts or curling. Then, put on your fake commentator accent and have fun making completely irrelevant or ridiculous comments about the game with your friends. This can be a goofy way to mix up the usual sports-watching experience, and you’ll all be cracking up in no time.


If you really want to kick it up a notch, pretend like you’re an alien who just landed from outer space who has never seen the sport before. What do you see?
Once you get tired of being a commentator (it’s a tiring job!), you can unmute the sound to see how accurate your commentating skills were.
 This game can make for a fun version of charades, except this time, you get to talk. Make two teams and have everyone write down at least five people you can do impressions of, making sure it’s people that everyone knows. (If you all don’t know the same people, then celebrities will work, too). Then, take turns doing impressions of the people to try to make your team guess what impression you’re doing; if you succeed, your team earns a point. Keep going until one team has reached 10 points or until you get bored.


If you’re all okay with it and you don’t think anyone can be offended, then you can put the names of the people in the room into the mix, too.

