 Vomiting can cause dehydration; because of this, you need to replace the fluid you have lost with water. Keep in mind that you should only take small sips of water because if you gulp down a big glass and expand your irritated stomach, you could end up vomiting again.Take small sips of water every 15 minutes after you have vomited. Do this for three or four hours to hydrate yourself.;
, There are three benefits to sucking on ice cubes--one is that you can slowly begin to rehydrate and the other is that ice cubes will help numb your gagging reflex. On top of those two benefits, ice cubes and popsicles will also help you wash away the nasty taste left in your mouth after vomiting.
 Wait several hours after vomiting before you start drinking liquids other than water. Once you have waited several hours you will need to drink fluid with electrolytes, which are the minerals within your body that balance your metabolic processes. Vomiting leads to a decreased level of electrolytes--drinking electrolyte-rich drinks will help you to restore your metabolic processes.


After you have vomited, wait several hours before drinking any clear fluids. When several hours have passed, sip on clear liquids every 15 minutes for three or four hours. Clear liquids include apple juice, sports drinks like Vitamin Water or Gatorade, weak tea, and clear broth.
 Time and again, ginger tea has been proven to decrease the sensation of vomiting. Ginger has a soothing effect on the stomach, which will decrease your nauseous and chance of vomiting. You can buy ginger tea in your local grocery store.
 Once you have worked your way through water, ice cubes, and clear liquids and continue to feel less nauseous, you can try to eat some simple foods that are easy on the stomach. Only eat food if you have not vomited for at least four hours. Crackers and biscuits can be great vomit stoppers. Other simple foods you can try include:


Bananas, rice, applesauce, and plain toast. Your can remember these simple foods with the acronym BRAT.

