 If your computer is currently on, but does not display a picture, hold the power button down for a few seconds, this will power off your computer. If the computer continues to not power off, remove any power sources such as turning off the power supply on your desktop or removing the battery on your laptop. Turn the computer back on to initiate the bootup sequence.;
, The BIOS (Basic Input/Output System) of your computer allows you to change the settings of your computer including the CPU (Central Processing Unit) fan speed. During the bootup sequence of your computer, you will have to hit one of the function keys, either F2, F8 or F10 depending on your manufacturer to get to the Setup Menu.


If the computer is pre-built, check the user’s guide on how to activate the BIOS Setup Screen.
You may also see the function key to press on the BIOS splash screen during start up.
Try pressing the key repeatedly during the startup sequence to activate the menu.
 When you activate the BIOS setup screen, find the listing of the CPU fan speed by navigating to the ‘’Hardware Monitor’’ using the arrow keys on your keyboard then pressing ↵ Enter. The BIOS may show an alert if the fan speed is too slow. If there is no warning, identify what if the CPU fan speed is. Ensure the BIOS is set to automatically change the fan speed.


BIOS settings will vary for most motherboards, refer to your computer or motherboard's manual for where the settings are located.
 In the hardware monitor, use the arrow keys to navigate to the CPU fan settings. Press ↵ Enter then use the arrow keys to change the fan profile information to match automatic or optimal settings then press ↵ Enter again.


Verify the recommended fan setting in the user guide of your motherboard or computer.
If the CPU fan speed is set at the recommended setting and is operating normally, the issue may be related to the graphics driver.
 You can also try controlling your fan's speed outside of the BIOS using a third party application such as SpeedFan if your computer supports these programs.Ensure that your computer is compatible with fan controlling software by checking with the compatibility documentation on the developer's website.
You may not be able to use these programs within Windows as the BIOS will likely override any settings.
If using a pre-built computer, check the user's guide or support to see if there are any programs dedicated to controlling the fans from pre-installed software.
 If the fan is damaged or is not achieving appropriate speeds identified by the computer, it may need to be cleaned, repaired or replaced.


You can attempt to overclock your CPU which will cause the fan speed to speed up from within the BIOS, however this will cause more wear on your CPU and give it a shorter lifespan.

