 Eligibility is based on the type of driving violation and is usually listed on the back of the traffic ticket. Call the court if you have questions about eligibility. Not all violations can be dismissed from your driving record through traffic school.;
, Not every course is court-approved.



Consider traditional traffic school. A traditional traffic school class is usually scheduled on weekend mornings and takes an entire day to complete. There is usually no test at the end.
Evaluate the convenience of online traffic school. Online traffic courses can be taken at any time, from any computer with Internet access. The class usually takes about the same amount of time as traditional driving school, but includes a test at the end. Some online traffic courses require you to go to a testing center to take the exam, while others let you take it online.
 Some have websites, but you also may call to find out the course schedule, fees and the length of each class.


Select a location convenient for you. Consider the commute time before choosing a traditional course. Evaluate proximity of the testing center locations if they are required for online courses.
Determine whether the traffic schools you are considering will send the completion certificate to the court. If not, you will need to fax, mail or bring it to the court on your own.
Compare prices. Make sure that all taxes and court fees are included in the total price.
Find out the acceptable methods of payment. Most online traffic schools require you to use a debit or credit card, while traditional courses tend to prefer money orders or cashier's checks.
Ask what you need to bring to a traditional course. Most require you to provide your driver's license, a copy of your ticket and payment, if you did not already pay when registering.
 Most courts require that the course be finished before the court date written on the ticket, so do not wait until the last minute to take a driving class.
 You can register online or by phone. Most schools request that you scan your traffic ticket and send it when you register.

