 Establish whether you are taking pictures in addition to a professional photographer, or if you will be relied upon to take the majority of the wedding photographs. Make sure the couple's expectations are reasonable, according to your abilities.;
, Before the wedding, check out the places where the ceremony and the reception will be held. This will give you an idea of what kind of natural lighting and backdrop are available. You can also begin to envision what kind of pictures you might want to take.


Find an aisle seat in the church that will make it easy for you to get up and down if you will be taking pictures during the ceremony.
 You will not want to miss the major parts of the wedding, such as the bride walking down the aisle, the first dance, cutting the cake and tossing the bouquet. Talk to the bride and groom about other important shots that they want photographed, including family photos, wedding party photos, and pictures taken before and after the wedding.


Look for recommended wedding shot lists in wedding magazines such as Modern Bride, and on wedding websites such as The Knot.
 Make sure you have a reliable camera that takes clear, high resolution shots. Bring a second camera if possible, and set it with a different lens to take different types of pictures.


Use a wide angle lens for candid shots and pictures taken in small spaces, such as photos of the bride and her attendants getting ready.
Bring a tripod to help you get good formal pictures, particularly group shots of family members and the wedding party.
Make sure you have all the necessary lighting and flash requirements. If the church will not allow flash photography, you will need a fast lens with wide apertures, or you will want to increase the ISO. Consider a lens with image stabilization, and use a flash diffuser when you need to soften the light.
 Find opportunities for fun candid shots. Be sure to include still portraits, as well as formal table shots.
 Anything can happen on a wedding day. Be sure you have backup plans to address bad weather, mechanical malfunctions, uncooperative guests, and last minute changes. Attend the rehearsal if it is possible, and check in advance if there are any times that photography will be forbidden, such as at the church.

