 Your abs have three main sections: the upper abdominal, lower abdominal, and the obliques. Make sure that when you are doing ab exercises you specifically target each of these parts of muscle group. Each part adds to the overall look of your abs.There are many ab exercises that target each part of your abs, so do some research to find exercises that you feel the most comfortable with.
 Lay flat on your back with your legs straight and your hands behind your head. Bend one knee and lift the opposite elbow up to touch the knee. Repeat with the other leg and arm.The number of reps that you do is up to you. Start with a low number of reps and work your way up to more reps.
 Lay flat on your back with your legs out straight on the floor and your arms extended overhead on the floor. Slowly raise your legs and arms at the same time until they are in a “V” shape. Hold it for one second, then slowly lower your arms and legs back down.This may be difficult for you if you have not done a lot of abdominal work before. Perform only as many reps as you feel comfortable with.
 Sit on the floor with your knees bent and your upper body almost straight up. Hold a medicine ball or a weight, or don’t use a weight at all but lock your hands in front of you. Twist slowly to the left as far as you can and hold the position for one second. Then twist to the right as far as you can and hold it.Repeat this motion for the desired number of reps.
You’ll get a harder workout with a weight, but this is a good exercise for you if you have not done many ab exercises before.
 Don’t expect to do one day of abs each week and make significant progress. You also can’t do three hard days in a row and then take two weeks off. Get on a routine that works for you and stick to it. It’s good to do an ab routine three non-consecutive days a week., If you want to see your abs, you need to lose spare fat that’s stored on your body. Doing lots of ab exercises will not help if you don’t reduce your calorie intake. Commit to an eating plan that reduces your overall intake. Defining your abs starts with your diet.You don’t have to join a specific diet program like South Beach or Weight Watchers, although these can help. All you need to do is evaluate how much you are eating and work to consistently reduce the amount.
Besides quantity of food, this also deals with quality. Reduce the fat, sugar, and overall calorie count of your daily food intake.

