 While something so simple might seem ridiculous while you’re hugging your toilet, re-hydrating yourself is key to overcoming any hangover. Drink 8 to 10 glasses of water slowly over the course of the morning after you have been drinking. Alcohol causes your body to lose water by stimulating your kidneys to excrete more water than you drink, resulting in dehydration. The more alcohol you drink, the more water passes out of your body.Symptoms include dizziness, headache, nausea, dry mouth and fatigue. A hangover is caused by a combination of alcohol metabolism, dehydration, and Vitamin A, B, and C depletion.;
, Your head is throbbing because alcohol widens blood vessels, and the widening of vessels around the brain usually causes pain, much as it does in a migraine headache. While pain relievers do not necessarily make you any healthier, they will take away the pain of your hangover for a short period of time.


Painkillers such as Advil and Ibuprofen work well to kick the pain riddling your brain. Avoid acetaminophens like Tylenol, as they are tough on your liver, which is busy working through the alcohol in your system. Taking acetaminophens while alcohol in your system may cause liver damage., Plain bagels, toast, and crackers are all good carbohydrates or "Carbs" to eat when hungover. While they might not be the tastiest of snacks, chances are you probably don’t feel like eating much anyway. Hangovers cause your blood sugar levels to drop--plain carbs will help increase your blood sugar and settle your stomach.
 When you drink excessively and then pass out in bed, your body generally doesn’t get a chance to enter R.E.M. (rapid eye movement) sleep. R.E.M. state is when your body restores itself and when you are most deeply at rest. Crawl back into bed, wrap yourself in the fuzziest blanket you own, put on some soothing music and catch a few more hours of sleep.


You might consider calling in sick to school or work if your hangover is too much to handle. While you shouldn’t make a habit of doing this, taking a ‘sick’ day will allow your body to repair the damages from last night’s wild excesses.

