 Not every nursery is the same, and each will be customized to fit the individual family. Take the size of the room into consideration as well as the needs of the infant and her caregivers. At a minimum you will likely need to purchase a crib and mattress for the nursery.;
, Nursery furniture can be very expensive, therefore it’s important to research the cost of individual pieces and create a reasonable budget for furnishing the nursery. For example, cribs and changing tables will each cost anywhere from $100 to $1000.
 It’s important to identify merchants from whom you can purchase nursery furniture – whether online or at a brick and mortar store – before jumping feet first into a furniture-buying frenzy. Visit a couple of stores in your hometown and take some time to explore online merchant options., Oftentimes you will spend less money overall if you purchase a matching set of furniture. Buying all the pieces together in a set could be a smarter budget move than buying individual pieces.
 While it may be more budget friendly, you must heed to caution when thinking about purchasing used nursery furniture. Make sure you check for wear and tear, loose or missing components, and protrusions such as screws or bolts that could pose a safety hazard.


You should never buy a used crib.
 Your baby won’t always be so small and once he or she begins to stand and walk, drawers on changing tables and dressers can present safety hazards if the child pulls on them. If you choose furniture with drawers make sure you keep the drawers closed and child-proofed.Make sure you anchor dressers to the wall to prevent tipping.
 Talk to friends, family, and neighbors about their experiences with nursery furniture. They will have suggestions on what pieces worked for them, what to avoid, and where to shop.
 Prior to making a purchase, research any safety recalls on individual pieces or manufacturers. Once you purchase your nursery furniture, it is important that you stay up to date on any recalls for the pieces you purchased. You can get information on recalls from the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission.