 You may not realize it, but on average, people spend about a third of their lives lying in bed. Therefore, choosing the right mattress plays an important role in managing back pain.


You know your body and back best. Though you should choose a mattress based on personal preference, try staying away from soft mattresses.
It's true that a soft mattress may conform nicely to the natural form of your body; however, if it's too malleable, the mattress may actually twist your joints at night, which could lead to discomfort.Other considerations include features such as the coils and springs, to the padding and depth of the mattress.;
, If you’ve never used oils, consider giving them a try now. Oils are often used in aromatherapy to promote healing on both a physical and mental level. Though they can be used in a variety of ways, it is most common to apply them directly onto your skin.


The most common way to use oils is to massage them into your skin.
Consider purchasing spruce. Not only does it stimulate your immune system, but it has proven helpful in easing a variety of symptoms from arthritis and rheumatism, to lower back pain.
Those who frequently use oils will agree that lavender is their go to oil for relaxation and pain relief.Never consume these oils. They should be applied to your body as directed on the bottle.
You can purchase oils online or through major retailers such as Walmart.
 Though there are many ways to reduce back pain, more than ever people are seeking natural remedies to ease symptoms such as pain and inflammation. Some of these remedies have been used for hundreds of years; however, there is often little scientific evidence to back the use of supplements and they are not regulated by the FDA, so speak with your doctor before trying any of the following.


Fish oil is one supplement to consider. One of the best, natural remedies for inflammation is Omega-3 polyunsaturated fats, which are found in fish oil.Green tea is another great product to try. This inexpensive and widely available household staple has recently been found to help with inflammation.
 Though you may not realize it, there are many different types of ice packs, which help to relieve lower back pain. Select an ice pack that works for you based on your budget, convenience and type of back pain. The three primary types of ice packs are: reusable, disposable and homemade.


Reusable packs should be stored in the freezer and are quick and easy to use, while disposable ones are convenient when you’re on the go.
If you want to try your hand at a homemade pack, simply put ice into a bag and seal it. Feel free to add water for extra comfort. You can also use rice or a frozen bag of vegetables.
 Hot packs can be used in combination with ice packs, so don't forget to add those to your list as well. Heat actually helps to improve oxygen in the blood and aids in the treatment of back spasms and pain.Apply the hot pack for about 10–15 minutes. Don't leave it on there for too long!
Heat is best used to treat chronic pain.
 Chronic back pain may be due to muscle knots, or also known as trigger points. These muscles knots can be addressed by applying direct pressure on muscle knots, helping you relieve pain and discomfort. There are many different types of products in the marketplace, from using simple tennis balls and lacrosse balls, cane shaped tools, and straps with knobs. Any of these tools are helpful, relatively cheap, can be carried with you anywhere and easy to use.
 A key component to relieving back pain is to do exercises, which will strengthen your back. One way to do so, is to Do Medicine Ball Back Exercises.


A medicine ball is frequently used in fitness programs and and during rehab.There are a range of exercises you can do with a medicine ball. Choose the type and level of workout (beginner to advanced), which suits your needs best.
Make sure you’re doing the exercise correctly. If you start feeling pain in your back, stop immediately. You may need to find a lower impact exercise to do.
 Some exercises to try include the pelvic tilt and hip circles. You will need to use a medicine ball for both of these exercises.


For the pelvic tilt, sit on the ball with your feet hip width apart. Your back should be straight and your hands should be resting on your legs. Without moving your glute and leg muscles, bring your pelvis up and slightly forward so that your lower back is flat.
Do hip circles. Start in the same position as the pelvic tilt by sitting on the ball with your feet hip width apart. Place your hands on your hips and sit up straight. Roll your pelvis in small circles. You can widen the circles for a more in-depth workout.
 In correspondence with back exercises, take the time to strengthen your core. The abdomen, pelvis, hip, butt and lower back are known as the core and are actually responsible for posture and stability, which can help to improve back pain.


Try swimmers. Lay facedown on a yoga mat. Stretch your arms straight out in front of you. Keep your spine straight as you slowly raise both your right arm and left leg a few inches off the mat. Slowly lower them back down, then repeat the motion using your left arm and right leg.
Do the bird dog. Using your yoga mat, kneel on all fours. Keep your core tight as you slowly reach forward with your right arm, while extending your left leg behind you. Slowly return them to the mat and repeat on the other side.Do a bridging exercise. Lie down on the floor with your knees bent and your feet flat. Slightly contract your glutes and raise your buttocks off the ground. Keep your stomach tight as you hold this position. Repeat four to five times.
Do a plank exercise. Get on the floor and place your weight over your elbows. Slowly raise your legs so that your body weight is on your toes. Hold this position, making sure that your body is aligned in a straight line. Hold for at least 30 seconds, working your way up to one minute.
Do a side plank. Position yourself on your side, with your body straight. Support your upper body on your elbow, while raising your core off the ground. Make sure you keep your back in a straight line. Hold position as long as you comfortably can. Repeat four to five times more.
 Stretches should be another crucial part of your exercise routine, as they help to improve flexibility. There are many easy stretches you can do from home.


To ensure a healthy lower back, it's important to increase flexibility in key muscles such as the abs, hamstrings, hip flexors and lower back.Try the cat stretch. This stretch is easy to do from home and will help to improve flexibility. Kneel with your arms on the floor in front of you shoulder width apart. Push your spine to the ceiling and hold, then push your spine down and lift your head.
 Not only is it a great way to relax, but getting a massage can actually help to relieve lower back pain. You will want to speak to the massage therapist ahead of time to indicate which areas are the most problematic.


There are two key areas to focus on when getting a massage: the quadratus lumborum (QL) and the gluteus medius.
You should ask your massage therapist to spend the majority of time on these two muscles.
If you are already being treated for severe back pain, talk to your doctor first before booking a massage.
It is not recommended that you let an amateur work on your back. Seek the help of a professional.
 Back pain is not only one of the top reasons people seek medical treatment, but one of the biggest reasons why people try acupuncture. One of the benefits of acupuncture is that side effects are typically minimal.


If you choose to try acupuncture, you will need to find an experienced and licensed professional.
Most people will experience few side effects from acupuncture, should they work with an experienced and licensed professional., Although it has been around for a long time, tai chi has recently experienced a surge in popularity. Often done in a group setting, tai chi is a great way to stretch your back using slow, controlled movements.


For those with chronic lower back pain, tai chi is considered to be safe and effective.It focuses on slow movement, breathing and meditation and is typically done in a group setting.
Do an online search for a class in your area and give it a try.
 Although yoga is not recommended for those in severe pain, it can help to relieve general back pain. Even if you're a beginner, there are many helpful positions to try, which will help to alleviate symptoms.


Lower back pain and arthritis can be managed naturally, through certain yoga positions.The downward facing dog is one yoga pose to try. Begin on your hands and knees. Your hands should be just in front of your shoulders. Press through your hands and lift your knees off the floor, pushing your butt up in the air.
 Meditation is an excellent way to improve chronic back pain. In fact, recent research shows that mindfulness meditation is effective in reducing chronic low back pain in a trial that compared it to other conventional treatments.You can practice this form of meditation in as little as five minutes a day, focusing on your breathing.

