 Try knitting, or sewing, or take up an instrument. If you find something you like to do you can do it a lot and become really good at it.;
, Doing stupid stuff is always more fun when you have a friend over.
 You can do almost all of this at home, and if you can't go to the mall to reinvent your clothing, try Internet shopping!

, Try wikiHow and Urban Dictionary, as well as looking up or discovering bands on PureVolume. YouTube is also excellent. And, on all of these sites, you can create or add pages. Or, if you're really bored, you can try World of Warcraft or the Sims. Keep up with your friends and play around with the stuff on your favorite social networking site such as Facebook, Instagram, or Tumblr.
 Like redecorating your room, or starting a website or making a new album. (See related wikiHows). Make it time consuming, and work on it in a focused and conscientious way until it's finished. This will give you great satisfaction when it's done.
 Learn about stuff. The Internet is great, and so is the library. Choose a subject and become an expert. Astronomy (stars and planets) and cooking are activities you can do from home with very little equipment or investment. Being able to point out Cassiopeia in the sky, or prepare a great Cobb salad for your pals will let your friends know you didn't just waste your summer. This will also set you up for school quite nicely; you'll be one of the few people that doesn't have to adjust to thinking logically, while the hordes of people that just did nothing have to take a few weeks to adjust to learning again.
 Classics of literature are considered "classic" for a reason. They have stood the test of time, and are still a great read, even many years after they have been published. Not only is this an absorbing pastime, but you will seem more educated and interesting overall by adding a classic book or two to your repertoire. Consider tackling "Oliver Twist," even though it was written a long time ago. The English is a little hard to understand at first because people don't talk this way any more, but you get used to it quickly and soon, you'll be flying through it. Or for a less "old-school" read, try "East of Eden." If a book's too much like work, try some poetry - it's nice and short. Lord Byron, Tennyson, and Emily Dickinson are all very cool. If you've started a Classic but never finished, here's your chance to do so now! Or, if you find slogging through the book too difficult, try listening to it on a cassette, when you can tune out of the boring bits!

, Watch movies on TV and then think about them, discuss them, pick them apart with family members or friends. That's what movie critics do. It's fun, and you'll be able to win at Movie Trivial Pursuit or Scene It? later on. Do the same thing with music - analyze the style, the beat and critique about it. You might be on All Music Guide.
 Lie out on a sun lounger with a good book or magazine or listen to music with your iPod/MP3/PSP. You'll get some fresh air, a nice tan and it's a great way to spend the day. You don't have to do anything special to have a fantastic summer! Enjoy the peace and quiet and the chance to relax!

, If you can't find anything to watch, you can always go to your library and rent movies and TV shows, or stream them or download them off the internet if you have a fast enough internet connection. You can rent a few good movies or go to the show with friends if there is a great summer blockbuster.

