 No one will respect someone viewed as flaky or unreliable. If you want to be respected, come through on your commitments and promises to the people in your life. Call when you say you'll call, turn in assignments on time, and stand by your word.


If you need to cancel or otherwise change your plans with someone, try not to get in the habit of using white lies or coming up with excuses to get out of it. If you said you'd come out drinking on Friday night but now would rather curl up with a bowl of popcorn and watch TV, it's OK to say, "I don't really feel like going out tonight" and make concrete plans for later in the week. Always try to give an ample margin.
 When one of your friends moves, it can start to feel like a teacher's just asked you to solve a quadratic formula on the board. Everyone looks at their desk. To be respected and reliable, volunteer your talents and efforts to projects that need help. Volunteer to do things that need to get done, not just things you think you'll do well.


Alternatively, learn to take a step back and focus on the talents of others. If you're known as a reliable person, people might call on you for all sorts of things while other talented people hesitate to step up to the plate. Invite them in by calling on them for help, or suggesting them as possible candidates for the job. This will earn you respect from both parties.
 You can either do the minimum requirement, or you can make the extra effort necessary to make a job, assignment, or project perfect. Do the latter and you'll earn respect.


If you finish something early and have extra time, take advantage of it. Often, we wait till the last minute to write an essay or start working on a project and cram to finish it all. Give yourself false deadlines to "finish" early and then use the extra time you've earned yourself to really polish it and make it shine.
Even if you end up coming short of your goals, if you exhaust your ideas and efforts, at least you'll know that you did your best and threw everything you had into that presentation or paper, which is something that will earn you respect.
 If you know your roommate or partner's got a terrible day of work ahead of them, clean the house and make dinner, or have cocktails prepared when they get home. Taking a little initiative to make someone's day a little easier will earn you respect.

