 Place the coin between your thumb and first two fingers. You want to be holding the coin on the ridged sides.


Make sure your entire hand is slightly tilted towards you. Spectators should be able to see the face of the coin easily, but turning your hand to you will make the trick easier.
Use a larger coin, especially if you are a beginner. A quarter or half dollar works well.
You can hold the coin in whichever hand feels more comfortable. For the purpose of explaining the trick, the coin will be in the left hand.;
, Take your right hand and reach in as if you are about to grab the coin. Position your hand as if you were going to grab the coin with your thumb coming in under the coin. Bring your four fingers over the top of the coin. 








When reaching in, you want your thumb to go under the coin to give the illusion that you are going to grab it.
By bringing your four fingers over the coin, you can block the drop that you are about to perform.
 As your right hand begins to close over the coin, drop it into the palm of your left hand. Turn your left hand over as you squeeze your right hand, drawing it away. 








As you drop the coin to palm it, squeeze your right hand over your left thumb. Doing this will make it look like you're grabbing the coin. Then pull your left thumb out.
Create misdirection here by moving your right hand, the one without the coin, away from your left. People will expect that the coin is in your right hand and follow your movement.
You can even rub your fingers together and clench your fist as if you are dissolving the coin into thin air.
 Bring your left hand with the coin in it down to your leg. Keep moving your right hand, the one that is supposed to have the coin away and up toward your face.









By moving your hands in opposite directions and bringing one hand up to people’s eye level, you will force the attention onto your right hand.
This allows you to hide the coin away or adjust it under the palm of your left hand without anyone noticing.
 Now open your hand and show the audience that the coin has vanished.









You can rub your fingers together, slowly opening your palm as if you dissolved the coin. This constant movement may further help to distract audiences, especially if you are new to the trick.
You can also simply open your hand with a bit of a flourish to reveal that the coin has vanished.
 Finish the trick by making the coin reappear behind someone’s ear. Palm the coin in your left hand and quickly bring it up to someone’s ear, pretending to pull it out. This has to be done quickly but can add a nice touch. 








You could also secretly put the coin in your pocket while revealing your empty right hand. Then reveal that you don’t have the coin in your left hand either, showing that it has disappeared forever.

