 Look around your house and pick the room where you are most likely to entertain guests or spend a lot of time hanging out. If you have a furnished basement, it’s a great spot for a bar. If you entertain in your living room, set your bar up there. It’s also easy to set your bar up in or near the kitchen so you have access to water.


Bar carts will be explained more later, but these allow you to set the bar up anywhere. Bar carts are versatile because you can change which room the bar is in each day, if you want to.;
, Use an existing bookshelf, or set up a new one. This is helpful because it uses available vertical space, and it doesn’t have much width or depth. Clear two or three shelves on a bookshelf in the bar area.Use one shelf for drinks, one shelf for glassware, and one shelf for extras like shakers or an ice bucket.
For an existing bookshelf, leave the rest of it full of books or anything else to add a bit of atmosphere to the bar area.
If you set up a new bookshelf, make the whole thing into an extensive bar or use some of the space for decorations.
 Use an old armoire that is already taking up space in your house by moving it into the bar area. Fill it with your drinks, glassware, and other bar tools. The benefit of an armoire is that you can open and close it as needed.When the bar is not in use, close it up so it looks like any other piece of furniture.
 Bar carts are perfect for extra small bars because they hardly take up any space. You have many options in terms of size and design. Make sure you choose a cart with at least two levels, one for alcohol and one for glassware.Bar carts are easily moved, so it’s possible to set up a bar for a short time and move the cart when you don’t need it anymore. Move it out to the patio or deck for summer cookouts.
If possible, be sure to choose a cart that comes at least up to your waist. You and your guests don’t want to have to bend over to mix up a drink.
 Setting up a free-standing bar, an island, or even a TV tray can turn any unused corner into a bar. Find a corner in the bar room that has nothing in it and set up a counter. Make sure is out of the primary walking path of the room.Choose a bar or an island that has the counter space you want and also has some storage under the counter. You’ll find many options to fit the decor of the room.
If you use a TV tray for the bar, you’ll want to have some kind of shelving or cabinet nearby for extra storage space.
 Take an old piece of luggage that you can’t get rid of, or one you found at a thrift shop, and set it up on a stand as a makeshift bar. Leave the lid open and stock it with as many bottle and glasses as you can. This can be set out on an island for display or can be your whole bar.Take out any upholstery or straps so you have only the suitcase shell. This will make it easier to store everything you want.
Combine the TV tray idea with the suitcase for a stylish and space-saving option.

