 This doesn't only apply to work—also avoid challenging sensory situations, people who make you feel on edge, or activities that are difficult for you. You're dealing with loud and painful sounds—you don't need anything else on your plate.
 This can help you get into a zone and pass the time quickly. Try starting a fun project you've been looking forward to, talking with people (in person or online) who share your interest, or researching your favorite things.
 Think of the exercises that have been most helpful to you, and spend 5 or 10 minutes focusing on them. Whenever you find your thoughts wandering back to worries, gently guide them back to your exercise. Here are some ideas to try:


Meditation
EMDR techniques
Imagery

Engaging the senses (besides hearing)
Progressive muscle relaxation
Breathing

, Go to people who make you feel less stressed, and focus on them. Ask them about their day, or what is on their mind. If they're doing something, see if you can help. They can help distract you and make you feel a bit better.
 For disorders such as Panic Disorder, you may have been described anti-anxiety medications such as Xanax. Use this if you feel that a panic attack or severe stress is imminent. A small or moderate dosage may return you to a neutral mood.
 Positive self-talk can help reduce psychological stress. Remind yourself that you are capable and resourceful. Power pose in front of the mirror, give yourself a smile, and remind yourself that you've got this.


"I'm relaxed and feeling peaceful. I think I'll have a good night's sleep tonight."
"I'm a resourceful woman. I've employed several noise-reduction techniques, and if I need more, I can get more. I can ride out this night and enjoy the fireworks."
"I'm a strong person. Fireworks will not ruin my night."

, You can't manage your neighbors' fireworks, but you can play a role in your family's fun. Having power over the fireworks, and knowing when they will go off, can help you feel less anxious about them. Here are ways to achieve this at any age:


Help your family buy fireworks that look interesting to you.
Choose which fireworks to set off next
Light the firework
Give the countdown for a loved one to light the next firework

, The noise aspect may not be very fun, so try to focus on the visual part. Check out the bright colors and various shapes. Discuss them with your family members if your ear protection allows. Fireworks have their drawbacks, and they also have their beauty.

