 Making beaded earrings is quite easy. However, you will need to have some special materials ready before you get started. You will probably need to visit a craft store to find everything, or you can order your materials online. Before you begin, you will need:Endpins (looks like a straight wire with a small button at the end). Endpins are available in many thicknesses to accommodate different sizes of beads. Sometimes you will see the thickness mentioned by gauge (ga) on the packaging. In this case, a larger number (for example, 24 ga) indicates a thinner endpin, while a smaller number (for example, 20 ga) indicates a thicker headpin.
Beads in the colors and types of your choice
Round nose pliers
Earring hooks
Wire cutters;
, First, put a spacer bead or a bead with a smaller hole than your other beads at the bottom of the endpin, then add the beads of your choice on the endpin.








Arrange the beads in the order you want them to create a colorful pattern.
Experiment with different colors and styles.
Use spacer beads to separate colors if desired.
 Keep adding beads to the endpin until you have 1








If you want your earrings to be shorter, use a pair of wire cutters to snip the headpin to the appropriate length.
 Bend the head pin until it is at a 90 degree angle to the beads. This will help to secure the beads in place and begin the attachment to your earring hook.
 This loop allows you to add a post or wire to complete the earring at the end of the headpin with the round-nose pliers. Using the tip of the pliers as a guide, form the end of the headpin into a neat loop.








If there is any excess wire going out from the loop, then snip it at the base of the loop using a pair of wire cutters. Make sure to wear eye protection when you do this because the wire may fly up towards your face.
 Next you will need to attach the earring hook to the loop. Do this before you close the loop all the way. Then, use your round nose pliers to close the loop.
 After you have created one earring, you will just need to make a second earring in the same manner, and you will have a completed pair of beaded earrings! Try them on, give them as a gift, or add them to your stock of handmade jewelry to sell.








