 Some teachers and instructors issue one test for each chapter in your textbook, while others may issue one test that covers three chapters. Browse through your textbook to identify chapters you went over in class, then study all information in those chapters for your test.When reviewing your textbook, pay special attention to boldface headings/subheadings, figures/illustrations, charts, and highlighted vocabulary terms or summarized concepts.
Note that some textbooks will also have study questions or other study aids at the end of each chapter. While your teacher may not follow these completely, much of the information your textbook finds important will typically line up with the detail your instructor finds important.
 Depending on your needs and study habits, you can either study with a small group of your classmates or ask a few classmates for guidance on specific points.


Talk to classmates about material you missed. If you missed a lecture, ask a student who you know takes good notes if you can borrow theirs to copy. Depending on your reputation or familiarity with that classmate, you might get a “no”--in which case, either ask someone else for their notes or ask that same peer if they could quickly summarize what textbook or homework ideas your teacher discussed.
Create your own study guide with other classmates. Form a group with a handful of other classmates and compare notes with one another. Mark down or highlight any ideas that appear in more than one person’s notes.
 If you attend a school in which the teacher has several classes, try asking someone else who takes your teacher’s class about the test questions. While your classmates may not share exact test questions due to personal or school-enforced ethics, they can still give you a general idea about what to study for.


The downside, of course, is that you’ll be very limited on how much time you have to study since you’ll probably only have a day or a few hours to review the material after hearing about the test.
On a similar note, you could try asking students who had the same class with the same instructor during a previous semester/year for guidance on major exams. While these students probably won’t remember every detail about every little quiz, they may recall information that appeared on mid-terms, finals, or particularly hard tests.

