 You would be surprised to find how many household items can be transformed into dessert stands. To give you some ideas go around your house in attempt to find paper plates, Solo cups, a candlestick, wine glass, and even a flower pot from your back yard! Look around and get creative!

, Now is time to decide what type of event you are going to be putting your desserts on display for.


Kid friendly event: Use a Solo cup, paper plate, glue gun, and any brand of finger paints. This option is easy and one you can integrate kids into!
More sophisticated: If looking for a more adult (and permanent) idea, it is time to take out the candlestick, wine glass, martini glass, and ceramic plate!
Laid Back Look: Heading into spring and looking to bring the outdoors inside? Take a flower pot of your choosing, any shape or size, and prepare to decorate it or leaving it alone to get more of a rustic feel! Of all of the bases this will be your sturdiest choice.



The cup of your choice, candlestick, or flower pot will become the stem of your stand. Turn it upside down or keep it right side up depending on which way has more stability. Example: Martini glass turned upside down will have greater balance due to the shape of the glass.
If you would like to decorate your stem with paints or other decorations, now is the time to do so. Also, you may also take the plate or platform for your stand and decorate it at this time as well. Allow time to fully dry.
Once both pieces you will be using to create your stand are decorated to your liking, you may take the glue and prepare to apply it. On the top of your stem apply and layer of glue as well as applying a layer to the bottom of your platform in the same area, as to match where the stem with be attaching to it. Allow ample amount of time to dry. Afterwards, continue to add glue to the area surrounding where your stem and platform meet. This will ensure that glue has fully been applied everywhere possible!;
, Now that your stand is dry, turn it right side up! Depending on which stand choice you made, it is time to add your desserts onto them: cakes, cupcakes, cookies, etc. Hopefully the display will look as good as they taste!

