 Depending on specific factors, your doctor might prescribe medicated creams or ointments to help remove your age spots. Many of these creams will bleach your skin and lighten the color of the age spots until they match better with the rest of your skin. Medicated creams sometimes also contain a steroid that will temper the effect of the bleaching compound.


Keep in mind the best person to help you treat age spots is a dermatologist, as they specialize in skin care. Ask your primary physician for a referral to a dermatologist who will work with you to reduce age spots.
If you are prescribed medical bleaching cream, you will probably also be advised to use sunscreen of 30 SPF or higher at the same time, as this specific medication can make skin more susceptible to burning/sun damage.
Medicated creams can have a number of side effects, including itching, redness, and dry skin.
Medicated ointments might not be able to completely match the bleached age spots with your skin. Your skin could appear bleached and blotchy. ;
, Another course of action your doctor might recommend is that you rely on laser therapy to remove or lighten age spots. Laser therapy will destroy the cells that darken your skin (melanocytes) without damaging your overall skin. When thinking about laser therapy, consider:Laser therapy usually requires several treatments to be effective.
Laser therapy can be much more expensive than other treatments.
Results won’t be immediate and will take weeks or months to show.
Laser therapy can also produce a discolored appearance in your skin.
 Cryotherapy is the process in which age spots are frozen using liquid nitrogen and other chemicals. The result of cryotherapy is that the pigment of age spots are destroyed. In the end, the skin will heal and will better resemble the skin color surrounding the spot in question.


Cryotherapy is often done one time on a single area.
Results from cryotherapy can take several weeks to materialize.
Cryotherapy is often more expensive than medicated creams and cheaper than laser therapy.
Cryotherapy will temporarily irritate your skin.
Like with medicated creams and laser therapy, cryotherapy can cause scarring and permanent discoloration., Dermabrasion is another procedure that your doctor or dermatologist will consider. In a dermabrasion procedure, your doctor will essentially sand down the top layer of your skin. This often removes the darker skin and allows the opportunity for new and lighter skin to grow back in its place.


Dermabrasion may cause you pain and may be uncomfortable.
Dermabrasion will create temporary redness and scabbing.
Results will take several weeks until new and healthy skin has regrown., During a chemical peel, your dermatologist will apply a chemical solution that causes minor, controlled skin damage, removing the outer layer of skin and encouraging cell turnover and the growth of new skin. This can reduce the appearance of age spots and may also make your skin look smoother and less wrinkled.There are chemical peels available over-the-counter for use at home, but this is a procedure best performed by a trained professional, as they can determine the right type of peel for your skin type and the right depth of peel.

After the procedure you will experience redness followed by scaling three to seven days after the procedure. You may also experience swelling and minor irritation.
A medium or deep peel will cause the skin to blister. These blisters will crust, turn brown, and peel off between seven to 14 days after the procedure.
There is a risk for temporary or permanent change in skin color, scarring, or activation of cold sores when you get a chemical peel.
Avoid using medications such a Retin-A, Renova or glycolic acid before the procedure.
 Some people have had good results using onion and vinegar to remove age spots. Take 1 tsp of onion juice and 2 tsp of vinegar and mix them together. When doing this, make sure that they are mixed very well. Take a whisk or a spoon and whip and beat the mixture thoroughly for one to three minutes.


Make sure your vinegar and onion juice are mixed well.
Dampen a soft cloth with the mixture.
Wipe the dampened cloth over your age spots.
Repeat this every day until you notice a difference. It will likely take months of consistent use to notice a difference.
Try an alternative way for using this method by cutting an onion in half and dipping the cut side into a small dish of vinegar to soak up the liquid. Then rub the half onion on the spots., Aloe vera is renowned for its curative properties and the wonder it does helping skin heal. As a result, many people have seen great results treating age spots with aloe vera.


Apply a light coat of aloe to age spots two times a day.
Results should take several weeks to more than a month.
Avoid contact with your eyes., Turmeric is viewed in many parts of the world as a spice that has very helpful curative properties. In this vein, many people also use turmeric to help fight age spots. To use turmeric to fight age spots and to make a face mask:


Mix ¼ teaspoon of turmeric and 3 tablespoons (44.4 ml) of chickpea flour. Add ½ teaspoon of carrier oil, ½ teaspoon of whole milk and a squirt of lemon juice and/or cucumber juice.
Produce a paste and apply to your face.
Let sit for 10 – 20 minutes or until dry.
Remove with warm water and repeat up to twice a week., In most cases, age spots are caused by sun damage, general health problems, or environmental issues. Even if you already have age spots, you need to take immediate action to prevent more and to care for your skin. Ultimately, try not to view treatment for age spots as an end in itself — your end should be good skin and overall health. Consider:


Wearing sunscreen every day. Sunscreen will help reduce the probability of future age spots and/or skin cancer. Look for a sunscreen with broad spectrum coverage and an SPF of at least 30.
Try to cover up when you are outdoors. Even if you’re not in direct sunlight, sun can still damage your skin. Make sure to wear a hat, long-sleeves, and pants whenever possible.
Embrace proper nutrition. Poor nutrition can cause poor skin health or heighten the dangers of sun damage. Make sure you have enough of the proper vitamins and nutrition you need to ensure skin health. See your doctor for more information.
 Before you even consider treating your age spots, you need to consider if you actually have age spots or if they are something potentially more dangerous. Any skin abnormality should be evaluated by your primary care physician, who can then refer you to a dermatologist if necessary. There are a variety of skin issues that are associated with old age or poor health and they all require different treatment. Consider:


Age spots. Age spots are darkened areas on the skin caused by exposure to the sun.
Skin lesions. Skin lesions are rashes and similar problems with the skin caused by allergies to certain chemicals and/or poor nutrition.
Melanoma or squamous cell carcinoma. These types of cancers are also linked to sun damage. They may look a lot like age spots and you should consult a doctor if you see the appearance of new dark skin or any other skin problems., Age spots are fairly common. As a result, the medical profession has developed a number of treatments that are effective in removing them. Before you do anything else, you should contact your doctor or dermatologist and let them know about your concerns. They can determine if the skin damage is benign. Depending on a variety of factors, your doctor will determine what treatment is the best course of action for you. Factors may depend on:Your age.
Your overall health.
Your financial situation.
The level of health risk you are willing to put yourself through

