 Getting enough sleep every night will ensure that your body is rested and consequently that your eyes look rested. Get at least 7 to 8 hours of sleep every night. Going to bed and getting up at consistent times will help your body adjust to getting the right amount of sleep.
 Beautiful eyes rely on hydration, and keeping your body hydrated will help replenish your body’s fluids, thus reducing puffiness and redness in your eyes. Drink 8 to 10 glasses of plain water every day, or approximately 64 ounces. Drinking throughout the day is a good approach. If you are in a particularly dry climate, you might want to increase your water intake. Similarly, if you are exercising, you should replenish the water your body loses through sweat with additional water consumption.
 Smoking irritates the eyes and can cause redness. It can also dry out the eyes. Eliminating smoking from your daily habits can help your eyes restore their natural color and hydration.
 Both of these will dehydrate your body and add to puffiness and redness to your eyes. Cutting down on your intake of both will help your body restore its balance of hydration. Remember that it's not just coffee that has caffeine; some foods also contain caffeine, such as chocolate. Alcohol and caffeine also can interrupt good sleep patterns, which may interfere with you getting 7-8 hours of sleep every night.
 Reducing the amount of foods that contain refined carbohydrates and sugars, as well as wheat, can help your body process foods better.Decrease the amount of unhealthy foods you eat, particularly at night. Increase your intake of foods rich in vitamin A, C and E, including vegetables such as spinach, kale, carrots, and collard greens, and fruits such as oranges, melons, strawberries, peaches and avocados.Also eat more protein, such as poultry, red meat, eggs and dairy.Dark circles under the eyes may be a sign of a dairy or gluten intolerance or other food allergy. If you continually have dark circles under your eyes, you may want to try eliminating certain foods from your diet to see if this improves the condition of your eyes.
 A healthy lifestyle must include adequate exercise, which will help you lose weight, stay toned, and remain youthful. Getting out in the fresh air in particular will give your face a healthy glow and help your eyes sparkle.
 If you spend hours at the computer staring at a screen, your eyes will start to strain and grow tired. Be sure to give yourself plenty of breaks from computer work, getting up to walk around or switch to other tasks for at least a few minutes at a time. Blink frequently to ensure that your eyes don’t dry out; dry eyes can contribute to redness., Protect your eyes from UV rays by wearing sunglasses. If you’re out in the sun, you have a tendency to squint more frequently, and your eyes will develop wrinkles and fine lines around their edges. Wearing sunglasses, especially larger frame ones, will reduce this tendency to squint and will also protect your eyes., Allergens, smoke, haze and other materials in the air may irritate your eyes, contributing to redness, puffiness and general irritation. Reducing your exposure to these irritants may help reduce your eyes’ adverse reactions and help make your eyes look and feel better.


Use eye drops to reduce redness that may be caused by allergens. Eye drops like Visine helps eliminate redness and makes the whites of your eyes appear whiter, which will in turn make your eyes appear brighter.
 Eye creams can contain a variety of ingredients that help reduce puffiness, tighten skin and lessen wrinkles and fine lines, including grape extract, mulberry extract and caffeine, among others. There are eye creams that are intended for daytime application and are more suitable for moisturizing. Nighttime eye creams are typically more restorative. Dab your finger in the eye cream and gently dab it along the bottom of your eye from the inside to the outside.







