 There are many different types of model helicopters you can buy of varying levels of difficulty. Think about the cost, size, and quality before purchasing a model helicopter.Models can be relatively cheap to very expensive. Buy a model that fits best your price range. It may make more sense to buy a cheaper model if you’re still a novice since it may be less complex.
The scale of a model helicopter is also important to think about. Smaller models may be more difficult to put together for new hobbyists. They may be more complex and therefore harder to put together.
Model helicopters can be of different quality. Lower quality models are likely cheaper, but may be more difficult to put together, especially if their pieces do not fit well.
 Hobby stores often have a section of their store devoted to all types of models. Model helicopters are popular, so you should be able to find a wide variety at a nearby hobby store.Locate your local hobby store. Search online to find a hobby store near you. They may be more expensive, but their clerks often have expertise in scale models.
You may also be able to find limited models at toy stores. The clerks at toy stores will likely not know as much about scale models, though you can often still buy them there.
Search through the selection of models. You may find all types of models of different scales, environments, and vehicles.
Ask the clerk about the models if you’re visiting a model store. Scale models are varying levels of difficulty, so it may be good to ask the clerk for their suggestions if it's your first model.
Model stores are rare. It may be difficult to find a model store near you, so be aware that it may take some time to find the model helicopter you want to put together.
 Model shows are often advertised on websites about scale models or in scale model magazines. You can also always ask people at a model store or friends in a scale model meet-up group.


Look through a website about scale modeling. Many will advertise local and national scale model shows where you can view and buy models.
Read scale model magazines. These magazines will also advertise model shows that may be nearby.
Ask the clerks at a scale model store. If you have a scale model store near you, they may be able to tell you about upcoming model shows.
Talk to people in scale model meet-up groups. There are plenty of scale model meet-up groups that you can join. Hobbyists there are likely to know about upcoming model shows.
 When it’s not possible to buy a model helicopter in person, you may want to buy it online. You can find plenty of online retailers that specialize in scale models or even find them through larger, mass-market retailers.


Search online for “scale models”. If you search more generally for “models,” you may only come across fashion models, but not model helicopters.
Look at websites that specialize in selling scale models. These websites should give you more specific models and a wider array of models to choose from when making your purchase.
Check out mass-market retailers that sell scale models. Online toy stores or even retailers that sell a lot of different products might also sell model helicopters.
 Model helicopters need more than just the model to put it together. Make sure to get the required glue, paint, and other parts when you buy the model helicopter so you don’t have to go to the store or order additional pieces online.


Get the right kind of glue for your model. There are many different types of glue. Make sure to get the one that best fits your scale model. Check the model box to get the recommended model glue. Some common types of glue are: cement, resin, rubber cement, super glue, wood glue, and adhesive glue.Find all the paints necessary for your scale model. You should be able to find the different paints used for your scale model on the box. Some of the different types of paint are: acrylic, enamel, oil, water color, and tempera.Think about any other tools you may need to buy your model helicopter. Things like magnifying glasses, magnets, or small screwdrivers may be useful for putting together your model helicopter.

