 Before you decide to just drop the class or go to your principal, take a deep breath and go ask one of your parents or guardians for advice. They’ve had years of experience learning to work with people they didn’t get along with, and they can help you learn to do the same.


Ask your parent to schedule a parent/teacher meeting, but ask to be included as this makes it clear you want to be proactive in fixing the concerns.
Be clear and honest with your parents. Don’t give into the urge to exaggerate. This is likely to backfire, when the teacher tells their side of the story.
Write down specific examples of things that have upset you, and how you reacted. Ask your parent to evaluate these encounters, and offer advice on how you could approach the situation differently., If your parent isn’t helpful or you don’t feel the situation is being addressed following working with your parent, make an appointment with your school’s guidance counselor. It says it right in the name – they’re there to guide students by offering counsel, advice. Your guidance counselor will be happy to help you resolve classroom conflicts., If you’ve talked to the teacher, your parents, and a guidance counselor, and you’re still having trouble in the classroom, it may be time to go to your teacher’s superiors for help. This should be avoided whenever possible, but there are some situations where it’s inevitable.


If unethical behavior occurs, you need to seek help from higher authorities right away. For instance, cases of verbal and physical abuse are unethical, and should be reported immediately.
If unprofessional behavior occurs, such as not including you in classroom activities, which adversely affect your grades, you will likely need help from your principal.
If you feel unable to learn and your grades are suffering despite your best efforts, ask for help from your teacher’s superiors., This should be the last course of action. If the classroom environment doesn’t improve after trying to get to know your teacher, focusing on learning, and asking for help from others, it might be time to switch to a different teacher or take the class at a different time.