 Generally, your injury must be work-related, and you must work for a covered employer.


An injury typically will be considered work-related if it occurs during the course and scope of your employment. Some injuries may not be included, however, depending on your state. For example, some states do not allow workers to claim workers' compensation for stress injuries such as carpal tunnel syndrome, even if they can prove those injuries are work-related.
However, other states permit recovery for psychiatric stress injuries such as post-traumatic stress disorder. Talk with an attorney as soon as possible to find out if your injury is covered under your state's workers' compensation law.;
, Any injury threatens your health and should be treated immediately.


Get copies of the medical records and save any and all bills. You will need these later.
Take photographs of the injury, especially if your injury doesn’t show up on an X-ray or other medical scan.
 You must notify your employer of the injury within certain time limits. These limits vary by state, but it is best to notify your employer immediately after seeking medical assistance.


Typically, you have between 30-45 days to notify your employer of an injury.But some states allow only a couple of days.Do not wait.
Have a family member or friend immediately notify your supervisor if you cannot do so.
 As soon as you feel well enough, take an hour to write out a description of how you injured yourself. Note who witnessed the injury and if any product or equipment injured you.


If you were injured using a defective product, you might be able to bring a lawsuit for damages. Typically, workers’ compensation substitutes for a lawsuit against your employer. But if you were injured using a defective product, you may be able to sue the product manufacturer.
 If you belong to a union, you should talk to your steward. Your union can provide invaluable help if your claim is later denied or if you face resistance from your employer.
 Include all doctor’s reports as well as bills for medical treatment. Also include any invoices sent to medical insurers.


Make a second copy and secure in a safe place, such as a safe deposit box or in a relative’s home. Better yet, create digital copies by scanning.
 You are seeking compensation for the duration of your injury. If you do not follow a doctor’s advice, then you may be denied benefits.


If you are told to stay in bed but decide to go to a baseball game, then you could forfeit benefits from the date you decided to ignore your doctor’s advice. Not only does following your doctor’s advice protect your health, but it also protects your eligibility for benefits.
Employers have been known to hire private investigators to follow injured employees around and videotape their activities.Any indication that you are not as injured as you claim will be used against you.
 Some insurers or employers will require that you meet with a doctor of their choosing.The insurer must pay for the examination, and the doctor should practice reasonably close to where you live (within 150 miles or so).


If you fail to attend the IME, you could jeopardize your claim to benefits.
 Your employer will have the necessary forms and should give them to you without resistance. However, if for any reason your employer withholds the form, then contact your state workers compensation agency.


You can find your state at this directory.
 The form will ask for your name and occupation, the time and date of the injury, as well as descriptions of the injury and how it occurred.
 There is no reason to delay. If you delay filing, then you are merely delaying the start of any compensation for your injury. Also, the law requires that you file a claim within a statutory period.


If you are employed by the federal government, you have three years from the date of the injury to file.State law varies. In California, you have one year.In New Jersey, two.However, Oklahoma workers, for example, have only 30 days to report an injury if they want to receive workers' compensation benefits.It is best to file the claim as soon as possible.
 Although the statute of limitations period may have ended, you could still qualify for benefits. Some states will start the clock from the date of disability, not injury.The federal government starts the clock for latent conditions from the date you became aware, or should have become aware, of “a possible relationship between the medical condition and the employment.”Nevertheless, you should not count on a court extending the limitation period. Always file promptly.
 The workers compensation insurer will send you a letter explaining whether your claim has been granted or denied. If denied, the letter should explain the appeals process.
 The appeals process is complicated and varies by state. An experienced attorney can help you navigate the process and make your case on appeal as strong as possible. It could take you months to learn all of the rules and procedures for filing an appeal.


Bring your binder of medical information to the lawyer, who will need copies of this information for your appeal. And promptly gather any other information your attorney needs. Delays will only delay the appeal process.
Private attorneys will work on a contingency basis. This means they are paid only if they win your case. Generally, the attorney will take between 10-35% of your benefit amount. The amount is often capped by state law.Unions often have attorneys available to members for a reduced charge or even for free. Contact your union if you have been denied workers compensation benefits.
 This goes by various names, depending on the state. Your attorney will have this form and should help you fill it out.
 Generally, the first round of appeals is held before an administrative law judge or a state appeals board.You must present your case: the facts and medical information that support your claim that you were injured on the job.


Your lawyer may need to call as witnesses people you know, including co-workers. Provide your lawyer with updated contact information and remind people of the hearing date.
 You may be called to testify about the injury. To make sure you are an effective witness, you should:


Ask your attorney to do a practice run. Have your attorney pepper you with hard questions to familiarize you with the process.
Review your summary of the event. Shortly after being injured, you should have jotted down what happened and how. Review this information to refresh your memory.
Stay cool on the stand. An attorney may try to rattle you. Answer truthfully—you have nothing to hide.
 If your claim is denied at the hearing, then an appeal of the denial is possible. Discuss whether or not another appeal is worthwhile and whether your attorney will handle it.


Appeals are also handled on contingency, so do not be afraid of costs.
 If you cannot reach an agreement on benefits with your employer and the workers' compensation insurance company, you may have to file a lawsuit.


An experienced workers' compensation attorney knows all the ins and outs of your state's workers' compensation law, and will best be able to protect your rights.
Since workers' compensation attorneys work on contingency, your ability to afford attorney's fees should not be a consideration.
 Read other workers' compensation cases that have been decided recently in your state, and talk to your attorney about how those opinions affect your case.
 Your employer and the insurance company have their own viewpoint on what happened, how you were injured, and how extensive your disability is.


Understanding the opposing arguments can help you focus your case on the issues that are in dispute. For example, your employer may not deny that you were injured and sustained serious disability, but may contend that the injury did not occur while you were at work. This is especially important in chronic or stress-related injuries that occur over time rather than as a result of a single traumatic incident., Once you've determined what the key issues will be at trial, you know where you need to focus your search for evidence.


Typically your most effective and powerful witnesses will be medical professionals who can testify to the extent of your injuries and co-workers who saw you working or saw the specific incident that gave rise to the injury.
If your state law gives you subpoena power, use the subpoena to better guarantee the attendance of witnesses at trial., If the employer or insurance company required you to get an independent medical examination, they typically sent you to a doctor who has a reputation for being more friendly to the interests of employers and insurers.


In addition to your regular doctors, your attorney may send you to have another independent medical exam. This IME typically would be given by a doctor with a reputation for being more sensitive to claims of employees.