 Just because a vegan diet is low in calories and fats (and completely cholesterol free), that doesn't mean it's healthy. Although chances are most vegan things will be better for you than what the typical American eats. The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics says a vegan diet is only healthy if it's well-rounded and planned out. If you're considering going vegan for health reasons, you might also want to consider buying organic.If it's not, you're missing out on vitamins and nutrients that your body needs to function. So do yourself a favor and do it right.


Do your homework. What foods that you like (that are vegan-friendly) do you need to start putting in your diet? Nuts? Quinoa? Beans? Be sure to consider whether or not you think it is important to cut out honey, gelatin, etc. As well as if you want to be a "full vegan" or just a dietary vegan. There are animal fats in soaps, there may be leather or the like in your shoes and clothes, etc. Does animal testing bother you? Some products and foods are tested on animals and that can also be something to avoid.
Get online. There are tons of websites catered to budding vegans that are full of recipes, quizzes, fun facts, and interactive tools to get you on board. They'll even do a week's worth of recipes for you!Utilize what you have at your disposal to ensure you're partaking in a balanced diet.;
, Visit your doctor and make sure you are in decent physical shape. Tell your doctor your plans to become a vegan and ask if there are any considerations to take into account given your medical history. For example, those with anemia need to be particularly attentive to get enough iron in their vegan diet. Some doctors aren't well educated in veganism and mistakenly believe it is unhealthy or that you can't get enough protein or calcium. You only need about 50 grams of protein if you're a female, 60 if you are a male. 1000 to 1200 milligrams of calcium are needed depending on your age. Calcium-fortified plant milks and orange juices are an excellent substitute for dairy products as a source of calcium.


Ask your doctor how to maintain a balanced diet with your new eating habits. They'll be able to shed some light on how to obtain the necessary vitamins and minerals you need to function on top of your game.
 This is a huge change in your lifestyle, not to be taken lightly as a trend. Having your reasons lined out will not only ensure that you don't waste your time and efforts doing something you're not really passionate about, but it'll also help you stick with it. And answer questions when people raise an eyebrow at your dining choices!


If there's a particular essay, picture, or quote that reinforces your desire to become a vegan, print it out and put it in a place where you'll see it often, like your refrigerator.
In case anyone asks, the vegan diet is appropriate for all lifestyles (as long as it's done well). Athletes, pregnant women, children, and seniors all can benefit from a healthy vegan diet.No need to defend yourself when the in-laws start the inquisition. You've got science.
 You don't have to be a nutritionist or medical doctor to understand the background of healthful living. Learning as much as you can about nutrition, food and health will only do you good. You'll become an expert in no time when it comes to plant-based alternatives.


You'll still get your protein if know what to look for. Luckily, plenty of plants are high in it: tofu, beans, nut, seeds, quinoa and whole grains are all protein-packers.When you buy soy, almond, or rice milk, make sure it's fortified with calcium. Same goes for orange juice!
Avocados, nuts, seeds, and olive oil are all good sources of healthy fats.Those are necessary too!

, Real vegans (or a buddy with similar interests) can help you on your new adventure. Surf for communities online or look for a local club or group in your area. The easiest way to do this is to find a new favorite vegan restaurant, a favorite table, and go from there.


The Vegan Society has a great website that's full of resources, news, and even helps you shop! Talk about an exciting, addictive hobby. Who needs Pinterest?

