 The electron cloud makes up most of the volume of an atom. This is the area in which you are likely to find negatively charged electrons orbiting the nucleus. It is important to realize, however, that despite the large percent of volume that the electron cloud makes up, its mass is so little that it is negligible., The center of the atom is known as the nucleus. This is where the mass of the atom is concentrated. The nucleus contains positively charged protons and neutral particles called neutrons. This mass is very compact and takes up very little space in the atom., Since all protons are positively charged, they repel each other. These strong repulsion forces would tear the nucleus apart, but they are overpowered by a force known as the strong nuclear force. The strong nuclear force holds the nucleus together despite the repulsive forces of protons. To generate nuclear energy, the strong nuclear force must be overcome. Only then is the stored energy in the nucleus released as heat, which can be converted into electricity.Usually the nucleus of an atom is very stable and is able to survive conditions such as chemical reactions and chemical transformations. This is true for all atoms of the periodic table except for the f-block group that is called the actinides group of atoms. This group of atoms is usually very unstable and undergoes radioactive decay instantly to give relatively more stable atoms with the release of nuclear energy that is manifested as heat and gamma-radiation.
 The method used to generate atomic energy from radioactive atoms is to destabilize the nucleus. This is done through the use of highly energetic neutrons that are used to bombard the nuclei of the heavy atom.The nucleus of the atom breaks apart and releases its stored nuclear energy in the form of heat which can be converted into electricity.Thus, the impetus for generating energy led scientists to investigate methods of destabilizing nuclei of radioactive atoms in order to induce it to decay radioactively with the release of a large amount of energy that can be used for generating electricity.
 This group contains elements such as uranium and plutonium. Other atoms can also be used for this purpose, but the price and availability of other actinides can be a hinderance. Actinides have a large number of protons and neutrons, making them more suitable to split for nuclear fission.Fission is the process by which large atoms break into smaller atoms releasing nuclear energy.
 Most commonly, you would use neutrons. Negatively charged particles will be repelled by the electron cloud surrounding the atom, and positively charged atoms will be repelled by the electrostatic forces in the nucleus. Neutrons avoid these interactions and more easily reach the nucleus with enough energy to start fission. The particles are propelled toward the atoms with some type of particle accelerating technology, such as a neutron gun.Neutrons have no net charge. They are neutral particles.
 Splitting an atom does not result in instant electricity. In fact, it mostly generates a lot of heat. To create usable (electric) energy, we use that heat to boil large quantities of water to turn turbines. The water is then recycled and pumped back into the steam generator. Water from a lake or other nearby source is used to keep the generator cool enough to avoid a meltdown, and the steam produced leaves from the large towers that are associated with nuclear plants.In addition, try to find out about the different types of models used as building structures, and find out what impacts different styles have on the power production process.
 The process of using nuclear reactions for the purpose of generating energy in a reactor must be a controlled process. The rate of fission must be closely monitored at all times. This is usually achieved by passing neutron particles through a medium such as heavy water. The heavy water slows down the neutrons so that they do not have enough velocity to trigger uncontrolled fission process of the nucleus.Uncontrolled nuclear fission is the principle behind the function of the atomic bomb, not nuclear energy production.
Heavy water is a term for the chemical compound D2O. This compound is made by replacing the hydrogen in water with deuterium (an isotope of hydrogen that contains a neutron).
Heavy water can sometimes be decomposed by the effect of the highly energetic neutrons. Other compounds that are used as medium for the slowing of the speed of the neutrons include the graphite form of carbon atoms.
 View the diagrams and photos they provide of their power producing structures. These photos will give you a good idea of how they look and operate. Different plants will have slightly different designs and technologies for harnessing the atomic energy released in a nuclear reaction.

