 The first step toward being a referee for basketball games is learning the rules. In order to be a referee, you must serve as the expert and deliver appropriate calls quickly and confidently. The only way to do so will be to develop a sound understanding of the rules.Purchase a rule book. Some regions have specific rule books that they require referees to have with them at games. Others may simply follow NCAA or NBA rules, in which case you should invest in a rule book for the appropriate organization.
Practice the hand signals on your own to ensure you have a solid understanding of how to execute them.
Focus on enforcing the rules you are learning when watching basketball on TV or as a spectator at local games.;
, You can become a basketball official with little to no training, but as a referee, you will be expected to have a thorough understanding of the rules of the game and how they are enforced. It is highly recommended that you attend an officiating training course.Training courses go over the rules of the game from an officiating perspective, which may be unusual compared to the player’s perspective many are accustomed to.
Some courses provide you with certifications that cushion your credentials as an official.
Many of these classes are organized and run by officiating organizations that can schedule you to officiate games.
 Depending on the level of officiating you choose to do, you will likely need to apply for certification with a local officiating authority. These groups often coincide with regions that schools compete within. Applying to be certified is often as simple as filling out the application online.Some regions offer levels of referee certifications, allowing you to referee different level games based on your experience levels or offered tests.
You will need to pass a background check.
After being certified, you will be expected to attend meetings where other officials discuss the sport and elements of officiating.
Depending on the region, you may need to pay a fee for your certification.

