 Hernias may be caused by a host of different factors. Once they are caused, they may or may not present pain. Look for these symptoms, especially for hernias located in the abdominal or groin region:
You see swelling where the pain is located. The swelling is usually on the surface of the areas such as the thigh, abdomen or groin.






The swelling may or may not hurt; bulging, but painless, hernias are common.






Bulges that flatten when you press down on them need prompt medical attention; bulges that do not flatten out when pressed down on need immediate medical attention.You may notice pain that ranges from severe to mild discomfort. A common symptom of hernias is pain present when straining. If you experience pain during the following activities, you may have a hernia:





Lift heavy objects






Cough or sneeze






Exercise or exert yourself






Your pain gets worse near the end of the day. Hernia pain is often worse at the end of the day, or after long periods of standing.
 Some hernias are what doctors called "trapped" or "strangulated," meaning that the organ in question loses blood supply or blocks intestinal flow.These hernias require immediate medical attention.


Set up an appointment and meet with a doctor. Make sure to tell the doctor about all your symptoms.
Undergo a physical examination. The doctor checks to see if the area increases in size when you're lifting, bending or coughing.
 Why do hernias affect more than 5 million Americans?Hernias can happen for many reasons. Here are just a few of the factors that put people at an increased risk for hernias:
Genetic predisposition: If any of your parents had hernias, you are more likely to develop one.






Age: The older you get, the higher your chance of getting a hernia.






Pregnancy: While pregnant, the mother's stomach stretches out, making a hernia more likely.






Sudden weight loss: People who suddenly lose weight are at increased risk of developing a hernia.






Obesity: People who are overweight have higher chances of developing hernias compared to people who are not.






Whooping cough: Coughing puts a lot of pressure and stress on the abdomen, leading to a possible hernia.







