 Try to stay hydrated, as dehydration can make your throat worse. Drink lots of water, at least eight to 10 8-oz glasses a day, as well as hot beverages, like herbal teas.You may also get fluids by drinking hot soup or other hot liquids as part of your meals. Doing this can help you stay hydrated.
 You can also do a good brushing and cleaning of your mouth to remove any bacteria that may be causing your itchy throat. If your itchy throat is the result of an allergic reaction, such as a seasonal allergy, brushing your tongue can help to remove pollen that may be causing your itchy throat.You may also gargle with saltwater after each brushing to really clean out your mouth. Make sure you also stick to a consistent flossing routine to remove any bacteria or food debris in your mouth.
If your work causes you to be exposed to irritants — such as cement dust while working construction, or particles in pulp mills — wear a dust mask to prevent inhalation of the particles.
 Environmental factors like smoking, pollutants, and dry, cold air can cause inflammation that may irritate your throat.If you smoke, quitting can reduce throat irritation. If you have to go out in cold, dry air, wrap a scarf around your mouth. If the air in your home is dry, try investing in a humidifier.


You may actually experience a temporary increase in itching after you quit smoking. This may be because nicotine can have a desensitizing effect. Ride this period out by gargling with saltwater and the itching will soon subside., You can also soothe your itchy throat with the help of added moisture and humidity. You may use a face steamer to help relieve your itchy throat or put a pot of water on the stove to boil and place your face into the steam. Another easy option is to take a long steam shower with the bathroom door closed and breathing deeply in the shower to soak up the humidity in the air.You may also set up a humidifier in your room. It may be easier to sleep at night with an itchy throat if the air is moist and humid in your bedroom.

