 The pigments may be trickier to find in a shop, but they’re easy to purchase online.


1.5 tsp Castor oil (thickens and adds shine)
1 tsp Jojoba oil (hydrating and antibacterial qualities)
1.5 tsp Grapeseed oil (anti-aging)
1.5 tsp Beeswax — pearls are preferable (seals in moisture)
Pigments of your choice (make sure they’re lip safe)
Flavoring of your choice (optional);
, Pigments come in a variety of colors and materials. You can use a single pigment on its own, or combine a few different ones to make your own unique color:


Cinnabar mica, red oxide, and zinc oxide combined at a 2:1/4:1/4 ratio will give you a rich, slightly shimmery brownish-red color.
Carmine, titanium dioxide, and pearl white mica combined at a 1:1:1/2 ratio will give you a vibrant, shimmery red color.
Red oxide, yellow oxide, and titanium dioxide combined at a 2:1/4:1/8 ratio will give you a lovely coral color.Just how much of each pigment you use will depend on how rich you want your color to be. Two to three teaspoons should be enough, but you can always add a bit more or less to get the color richness that you desire.
 If you combine pigments, you might like to blend them together in a coffee grinder or with a mortar and pestle. Doing this can help keep the color evenly distributed once it’s blended with the oil and wax.
 You won’t add the pigment(s) to the oil and wax mixture until it’s melted, but it’s good to have it handy. That way you can quickly mix it with the melted mixture while it’s still warm.
 In this step you combine everything except for the pigments (and the optional flavoring) in a container. Use a small spatula or popsicle stick to mix the ingredients together.
 You can do this in either a double boiler (heat-proof container placed in hot water) or the microwave. With both methods, be sure to stir the mixture regularly until no lumps remain.


For the double-boiler method, place the heat-proof container (with the mixture inside it) into a saucepan that is 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5.1 cm) full of water. The water should be hot but not boiling. The heat-proof container should sit securely (i.e. it shouldn't be floating) in the saucepan.
For the microwave method, place the heat-proof container (with the mixture inside it) into the microwave and heat it in 10- to 15-second intervals, stirring in between.
 Mix in about 1/4 tsp of pigment at a time, stirring the mixture quickly as you add the pigment to ensure that it’s well blended.
 Use a small spatula or popsicle stick to apply a small amount of the lip color on the back of your hand. If it’s not rich enough, add a little more pigment to the mixture.


Continue to add pigment to the mixture and then test it on your hand until you achieve the color you want.
Before you do this, make sure the mixture isn’t so hot that you burn yourself.
 This is where having a container with a spout/beak comes in handy, since it will make pouring much easier.


If you’re using a bullet-style lipstick mould, use a cotton swab to swipe some oil around the insides of the moulds. This will ensure that the finished bullet-style lipsticks don’t stick to the mould when you remove them.
 You can put the lipsticks in the fridge for 30 minutes or in the freezer for at least 10 minutes. Some experts recommend leaving them in the fridge for up to an hour.


Give them ample time to cool. If you take them out too early they may be soft and more likely to break.
 If you used a bullet-style lipstick mould, your final step will be to remove the bullets from the mould with a lipstick tube.


To do this, remove the top of the mould. The bottom of your lipstick bullet should now be exposed. Twist the base of your lipstick tube to expose the lipstick holder.
Next, gently place the lipstick holder over the bullet-style lipstick and press down very gently — just enough to make contact with the base of the lipstick.
Gently lift the lipstick tube as you twist the holder back into the tube. The holder should attach to the bullet-style lipstick and bring it back into the tube with it.
 That’s it, you’re done. Depending on the size of your moulds, lip balm holders, and bars, you should be able to make at least four sticks and several small jars from this recipe.

