 Marriage is work. It is a false way of comprehending that one can let go completely at home. It takes some effort to make a relationship succeed, and you have to decide if you're willing to put in that work.;
, Live yourself and your needs so that you feel good in thee. Do not work too much.
 Do criticism factual, sensitive and at the right moment. The basic rule for each relationship is least 2 / 3 praise and less than 1 / 3 critique.
 Say yes as often as is possible.
 Clarify the precise factual situation. Think about different solutions. Find the good common ground.
 For example, sex, dining, travel, excursions and a common hobby.
 For example, flowers, small gifts and affection. Tell him that you love him. Take him in the arm. Rejoice with positive sentences and gestures.
 Work on your own negative characteristics.
 Do not reward negative behavior. Stay in a neutral form or say "No".
 A good relationship is based on teamwork. A good team has a common goal. It knows its way to success.
 Go out of the way, if you are aggressive. Come for yourself to peace, before you communicate with your partner. Be more gentle than aggressive. Love grows on the basis of non-violence, wisdom and gentleness.
 Men love admiration. Women love gestures of affection.
 Live in truth. Truth is the basis of every good relationship.
 Find a suitable name for this higher principle. Call it luck, love, truth, or spirituality. Connect you regularly and in all beautiful and all difficult situations with your higher principle. Live in the center of your relationship from your higher principle.
 Love means to be able to forgive. Love means to apologize.
 Love means to have patience.
 Do not demand too much from the partner, the life and yourself. Anyone who can not limit his wishes becomes permanently unhappy. Who does not know his point of satisfaction will never be satisfied. What is your full stop?

, Everyone has strengths and weaknesses. No man is perfect. Love means to love the partner with his weaknesses. Accept the smallness in you, then you can take it in your fellow man.
, Who wishes the happiness of all beings is growing in his own happiness. This is the highest spiritual wisdom.

