 To fully understand the problems facing your community, you must make an effort to explore its past. Your local library is an excellent place to start such a study. Ask a librarian for help in finding books, news records and other resources regarding the history of your neighborhood, town or city. Try to answer questions such as:


When, and by whom, was the community founded?
What businesses, cultures, religions, or political movements were influential in the founding of the community?
How has the population of the community changed over time? Has it grown or shrunk? Has it become more or less wealthy?
How did major events in the world, such as wars or financial crises, affect the community and its residents?
How has the role of the community in the larger region changed over time? For example, many communities suffer serious consequences when once prominent industries or businesses (railroads, manufacturing plants, etc.) closes or leaves the region.
 Historical and preservation organizations are common in many communities, and they are a great resource for historical information and documents. Ask your local historical society for help finding information about the history of the community, a particular neighborhood, a building, a historical period, or an event that interests you.


For help finding a local historical society, consult an online directory, such as http://www.preservationdirectory.com/preservationorganizationsresources/organizationcategories.aspx


, No community exists in a vacuum. Learning about the history of your state, region or country will deepen your understanding of how your community fits into the world. You will also learn how major political shifts and military conflicts may have affected your community.


Most people learn about history in courses at school or in college, but you don't have to be a student to gain access to the subject. Your local library contains all the resources you'll need for a lifetime of learning. Ask your librarian for recommendations.
 Don't limit your exploration of your community's history to written materials. Other members of your community are wonderful resources, especially elder members of your community. Talking with someone who has lived through the changes in your community can provide an intimate perspective into the community's history. Make a habit of asking those who have lived in your community for a long time about their lives and memories. You can ask questions like:What big changes have occurred in the community during their life?
Has the state of the community improved or become worse in recent times?
What steps have people taken in the past to improve the community, and were they successful?
What, in their experience, are the causes of unrest in the community?

