 Succulents grow well in arid climates and are easy to maintain. Look for succulents in your yard or at a local nursery and cut them at their stem. You can trim the ends of the plant's branches so that the plant survives, but you still get the materials for your wreath.Look for flowers or other eye-catching portions of the plants you have access to.


If nurseries around you don't have succulents, you can try purchasing one at a hardware or home and gardening store like Lowes or Home Depot.Examples of succulent plants that would be ideal for a wreath include aeoniums, echeverias, crassulas, haworthias, aloes, and kalanchoes.
You can purchase succulent clippings online as well.Succulent plants store their water in their leaves instead of the roots and stem, which typically leads to thicker leaves.;
, Lay out your plants on the floor to ensure that you have enough to cover the surface of your wreath. Configure them visually so you can get an idea of how they will look once attached to your wreath frame.
 Soaking your moss in a bucket of warm water will allow it to become rehydrated. Purchase sphagnum moss at a home and gardening or department store. Sphagnum moss absorbs water like a sponge and can keep your succulent wreath alive by providing water and nutrients to your clippings., You can purchase a wreath frame online or at a department store. If you want, you can also create your own wireframe using a wire coat hanger. Take your soaked sphagnum moss and wrap it around the metal in the wireframe. Squeeze the wet moss in the place to make it adhere. Do this around the entirety of the wreath frame.Wear gloves and clear out a free space when using moss.
 Poke holes around the wreath with a tool that is large enough for your plant's stems. Do this around the wreath in the spots that you want there to be flowers or plants.
 Lay your wreath flat on a table or other surface. Insert your succulent plant clippings into the holes that you made. To hold the plants together in place, you can use bobby pins or wrap thin wire around the plants and the underlying moss., Soak your wreath for 15 minutes once you are done placing your succulents into the moss. This will help saturate the stems of the succulents and extend the life of your wreath., After you clean off your work area, allow your succulent wreath to set for 6 to 8 weeks on a flat, waterproof surface. This will allow the succulent trimmings to grow roots and embed themselves within your moss. During this time, keep your succulents in an area that receives indirect sunlight.Make sure that during this time your wreath is laying out on a flat surface.
 Soaking your wreath in a bucket or in your bathtub is the best way to water your wreath. You have to water your wreath when the sphagnum moss has dried out. Feel the wreath with your hand to determine if it has dried out. In warmer or drier climates, you may have to soak your wreath more often.If you plan on hanging you wreath outdoors pointing south, it's best if you keep the wreath indoors.
Soak the wreath in room temperature water.
 Keeping your wreath in direct sunlight could cause it to dry out quickly and can damage your succulent trimmings.Sunlight is the hardest on the wreath during the middle of the day, so make sure that there is shade on the wreath. On the other hand, not providing adequate sun can cause your succulents to stretch out and look for sunlight, which can make your wreath look overgrown.


Hanging it on a door that has an overhang will give your wreath the shade it needs.
 Succulents can die in the cold weather or stretch out and become overgrown. As an alternative, you can also hang your wreath inside of a greenhouse during the cold seasons., Pruning your succulent wreath is important if you want it to maintain its aesthetic beauty. Trim off the branches of your succulents, leaving about an inch of the branch. Succulents grow very slowly, so pruning will not have to be frequent, especially during the winter when the plants grow slower.You can use pruned flowers or branches to start a new succulent wreath.
 You can hang your wreath virtually anywhere in your house or apartment. Decide on whether you want to hang your wreath inside or outside. Good locations for your wreath include a door, window, a wall, or bannister.Think of the climate before deciding to hang your wreath outside.
 If you are hanging your wreath to a wall or banister, you can use a nail or hook to hang your wreath. Simply embed the nail into a stud and use fishing wire to attach your wreath to the nail or hook using a loop or a knot. If you are drilling into hollow drywall, make sure that it's strong enough to hold up your wreath, or use wall anchors to help the wreath stay on the wall.
 If you don't want to create a hole in your door, you can hang your wreath using a ribbon from the inside of your house. Attach a hook to the inside of your door. Then, measure out a piece of ribbon that can go up and over the top of your door and hang on the other side. Attach the ribbon to the hook and pull the ribbon over the door. Tie the ribbon to the metal frame of the wreath on the other side to finish hanging it.You can also use this method to hang wreaths from windows., Magnetic hooks allow you to hang things from windows. Place one side of the magnet inside and the other side of the magnet outside. Test the strength of the magnet through the glass. If it is sturdy enough to hold the weight of the wreath, use ribbon or fishing like to attach it to the hook.It may be impossible to use magnetic hooks on thicker windows.

