 Flirtation but subtle examples of body language includes making direct eye contact, good posture, and smiling. Sitting upright shows you are attentive and interested in him, looking into his eyes communicates a sense of closeness and connection, and a relaxed, natural smile shows you are happy and confident Many guys communicate through and are more receptive to body language instead of words.If he is interested you and enjoying the attention, he will respond through behavior such as smiling, uncrossing his arms, taking hands out of his pockets, looking into your eyes, or leaning towards you slightly.
Be subtle and avoid behavior such as standing or sitting too close, staring at him too intently, or constantly "checking him out". Using aggressive body language will make him feel uncomfortable and standoffish. In this situation, he may start blushing because he is upset and uncomfortable.
A good rule of thumb is to maintain at least one arm's length distance. Any closer, and his natural inclination will be to move away.;
, Exchanging a mutual unbroken gaze for at least 2 minutes produces increased feelings of passion, which will likely make both of you blush.Start by glancing in his direction and trying to casually catch his eye. If he makes eye contact and does not redirect his gaze, smile and look him in the eye for 5 seconds and then quickly look away.Repeat several times, increasing how long you maintain eye contact each time. Once he starts blushing, consider introducing yourself. Remember to keep a natural smile and avoid overly-toothy or tight-lipped grins.


If you ride the bus or subway with a guy you think is cute, consider sitting across from him. Pretend to casually read a book or look at your phone, while glancing up in his direction.
If you are shy, making eye-contact is a great way to be seductive and get a guy to blush. As you walk by him, look up and catch his eye, hold it for several seconds, smile and keep walking. Begin walking away and after a few steps, look back at him over your shoulder.If he drops your gaze or looks away, it's a sign he is not interested. Do not continue staring at him or trying to re-initiate eye contact. This will only come off as creepy and borderline sexual harassment., Communicate you are interested in him by gently touching his forearm, shoulder, or waist.Gently brush your fingers a short distance along his forearm or shoulder, or place your fingers his forearm or waist for several seconds and then remove.This type of touch is stimulating without being offensive, and is sure to make him blush if he is interested in you. Once you are more comfortable around one another, try softly brushing your fingers along his cheek or touching his biceps.


Do not linger too long - the touch should last no more than 3 seconds. Also, do not repeat too soon or too often, as this might be seen as moving too fast and negate the subtle aspects of your flirtation.
 Show you are confident by doing something spontaneous, but fun and flirty to get his attention and make him blush. This could be as simple as introducing yourself and initiating conversation or asking about his interests, or as outrageous as asking him to dance at a party or buying him a drink at a bar.


Being spontaneous will catch him off guard. The realization of being surprised, especially if he is the center of attention, will cause him to blush.

