 The stems are edible, but not everyone likes their bitter taste. If you’re not willing to try them, cut off the stems just below the leaves. You can remove the thick stem base from the largest leaves as well, cutting them out in a V pattern.Like all greens, these will sauté down to a much smaller volume. You can cook a large mound at once, as long as it fits in your skillet.;
, Bunch the leaves together and roll them into a cylinder. Chop them into bite-size pieces, at roughly ½–1 inch (1.25–2.5 cm) intervals.If using the stems, chop them into chunks of similar size.
 You can use a salad spinner, or submerge the greens in a bowl of water and rub off any noticeable dirt. Leave it for a couple seconds to let grit sink to the bottom. Lift out the leaves and repeat if necessary until the water comes out clear. Move the leaves to a separate bowl, leaving them damp.


If using the stems, wash them in a separate bowl.
 This will preserve the bright, green color, but the beet greens will cook fine without it. Here's how to go about it:


Prepare an ice bath: a bowl of cold water and ice.
Submerge the greens in boiling water for one minute.
Remove the greens with tongs or drain them into a strainer. Place them in the ice bath until cold.
Drain into a strainer.
 Add enough extra-virgin olive oil to coat the base of your skillet or frying pan, about 1–2 tablespoons (15–30 mL). Heat over medium heat until the oil shimmers, or a drop of water sizzles when flicked onto the oil.
 If using the chopped beet stems, add them to the pan first. Sauté for 4 minutes, or until slightly softened.
 Dice two cloves of garlic and add them to the pan. Cook for about one minute, or until the garlic turns translucent.


Optionally, add a diced shallot and/or ¼ tsp (1 mL) red pepper flakes.
 Add the chopped leaves and ad them to the pan without stirring. Cover and let wilt to a much smaller mound, about 1–3 minutes.


The water from the rinsing should be enough to steam the leaves slightly. If the leaves don't start shrinking within 30–60 seconds, or if the garlic starts turning brown, add a couple more spoonfuls of water.
 Vinegar or lemon juice cuts the bitter flavor of the beet greens. Provide lemon wedges to squeeze over the greens, or remove from heat and splash them with your favorite type of vinegar.


For a more intense acidic flavor, add 1–2 tablespoons (15–30 mL) vinegar to the pan along with the juice of one orange. Simmer for an additional 2–3 minutes or until liquid has boiled away. Serve topped with orange zest.Beet greens are high in sodium already, but you may add a pinch of salt and pepper if you think the dish needs more flavor.