 Try the following settings to have a well varied experience and make sure you get a chance to use all the different weapons and vehicles.


Select the Slayer game type.
Set first and second weapons to random.
Have shields on.
Include random tanks, turrets, and light vehicles.
Include Overshield and Active Camo power-ups on the map too.
 The exact number doesn't matter, but set it high enough so that you will be playing a single game for an hour or two. This may seem like a long time, but will go quickly.
 Compare your kill count and death count to your friends. If you are clearly at the bottom of the pile, there is a good chance you are a noob. Some other factors to consider include:


How good are your friends? If they are Halo experts, you shouldn't feel too bad if you can't keep up. If this was their first time playing, you should be able to clean house—unless you are a noob.
Were you constantly confused about your location on the map? Understanding and being able to instinctively navigate the main maps is one of the basic skills non-noobs develop.
Did you accidentally kill yourself often, either with explosives or by falling off the map?
Did you die quickly, or were you able to respond to an attack and put up a fight?
Could you make decent use of any weapons you picked up? Seasoned Halo players should especially be skilled at the assault rifle, the battle rifle, the shotgun, the sniper rifle, and both frag and plasma grenades.
When you got in a vehicle, were you quickly killed or kicked off?
When you picked up a power-up, did you make good use of it? Or did it not seriously impact your effectiveness?

, For many Halo players, a noob is not just one who is unskilled at the game. The term is also used to describe players who use cheap but often ineffective tactics that are usually frowned upon. Check for these habits and consider rethinking your strategies to avoid being labeled a noob.


Did you use the combination of a SMG and a charged plasma pistol?
Did you camp, staying in one spot for two or more minutes with a battle rifle, sniper rifle or rocket launcher?
Did you look at your opponent's screen to figure out his location?
Did you always go for the rocket launcher?
Did you go for the Banshee and stay in it as long as possible?
Did you go for the tank and stay in for a long period of time?

