 There are hundreds of different types of psychological personality tests that assess and measure your unique and individual variables. The type of tests that you choose will depend upon what it is you want to find out about yourself, how much time you are willing to commit to taking the test, what questions you are willing to answer, and how much you want to spend on taking the test. These tests may include:

Tests to measure your level of intelligence as well as your neurological and cognitive analytical functioning.
Tests to measure if you're an extrovert or introvert and how you work with others.
Tests to measure how you analyze situations and cope with varying types of stresses.
Tests to measure if you are more prone to certain types of mental health concerns.
Recognize that each test has its own strengths and weaknesses, and it will be up to you to do your research on the type of test that interests you.
 Carl Jung is credited with starting our fascination with personality testing. In the early 1900s he developed a way to take inventory of a person’s particular traits. Since then this idea has been adapted to several different versions.Some popular ones include:Personality and Preferences Inventory (PAPI) - This test is often used to screen candidates in a business setting.
Myers-Briggs Type indicator - This test is used to identify personal preferences in introversion, extroversion, sensation, thinking, intuition, and functioning.
True Colors Test - This test classifies personality traits into colors to make it easy to understand.
 Take a few deep breaths or use a visualization technique to calm your mind before taking a personality test. You should also take the test when you are well rested and your appetite is satisfied. Being stressed during the test will make it harder to answer questions accurately and honestly. Overthinking each question will lead to confusion about which answer is the “right answer.”, After years of school, most people are hardwired to look for the “right” answer or the “most right answer.” With personality tests, there is no such thing as a right or wrong answer. You are not being graded, you are exploring your own personal attributes. Answer the questions as you are, not as you wish to be or as you think you are supposed to answer them.

For example, you could encounter a question like “Do you like to take the lead on a project, or be given direction?” Many people might feel inclined to pick “Take the lead,” because they feel that this is the “right” answer, but if you hate the idea of managing a team, you should answer “Take direction.”

