 One week before school starts brush your teeth and floss at least once a day for one to two minutes.;
, Take a bath every day! About around this time your body is becoming into a teenager so use deodorant, mouth wash, wash your hair & body, and if you really want to smell nice use A LITTLE BIT of body spray/perfume/cologne.
 Wear right fitting clothes! Nothing too big, nothing too small. And wear the appropriate under-garments and make sure nobody can see them. Follow your school's dress code!

, The night before the first day of school paint your nails. Or tie-dye blank white t-shirts. Or make unique beaded bracelets and necklaces. Do something that shows your personality so you don’t look like everybody else. Be yourself no matter what!

, You don’t have to wear high-heels or dresses to middle school. Don't worry about being best-dressed. Wear something nice,but also nothing you would to the park. Like jeans and a cute top. Or tennis shoes and a sparkly headband. And also check the weather and dress according to that. Don't wear rain boots on a clear sky!

, It's trashy,weird-looking,and nobody likes it. If you are going to wear make-up ask an adult or an older (trusted!) girl (who wears make-up)to help you. And if you can't find either of them then go online to find out how to apply make-up.
 At this age you're trying to find out who you are. But don't try to be someone you aren't.
 This is not the kind of diet to lose weight. Just eat healthy and get more exercise. Like instead of an elevator take the stairs, or try walking instead of riding in car if possible. It will make you feel good and it gives you more energy.
 For the new year think about getting a new hairstyle! Like a new cut, new color, highlights, low lights, unnatural colors, feather hair extensions, getting bangs and/or choppy layers, anything you could think of! But get the new cut ONE WEEK BEFORE school starts, so just in case you don't like it it'll have grown out just a bit.
 Around this time in life you will have to shave your legs, under arms, eyebrows and bikini line. (optional) arms, feet, back, and stomach. If you don’t prefer shaving you can also try waxing, laser hair removal,check with doctor what style you should choose.

