 Take a measuring tape, and measure across the window/doorway. Add about 6 to 12 inches (15.24 to 30.46 centimeters) to your measurement. This way, your finished rod will extend 3 to 6 inches (7.62 to 15.24 centimeters) past the window/doorway on both sides.If you want the curtain to be inside the window/doorway, then measure inside the frame, along the top edge. Do not add any extra measurements.;
, Use strong, sturdy wood, such as oak, for this. These curtains can get heavy, so you want the rod to be strong enough to hold them up. Do not use a tension rod; it won't be sturdy enough.You can cut the wood yourself using a saw, or you can ask the hardware store to do it for you.
If you already have a sturdy metal rod, you can use that instead.
 Place the hooks against the wall, then insert the screws. Make sure that you are drilling the holes into the wooden support beams and not into sheetrock. If you drill the holes into sheetrock, the weight of the curtains will pull the rod right off the wall.Depending on how wide your window or doorway is, you will need between 2 and 3 hooks. The wider the window/doorway is, the more hooks you will need.
If you are going to mount the curtain inside your window/doorway, then drill the holes into the frame itself. You will need to get a special type of mounts intended for hanging curtains inside windows.
 Hanging the rod before you bead will allow you to determine how long your curtains will be. It will also keep the strands from getting tangled while you work on them.


If you are resting the curtain inside the window/doorway, be prepared for a tight fit. You may have to sand down the end of the curtain rod.
 Measure how long you want your curtains to be, starting from the top of the curtain rod. Double your measurement and 12 inches (30.46 centimeters) to it. Cut your fishing line accordingly.You are cutting your fishing line twice as long because you will be folding it in half and inserting two strands inside each bead. The extra 12 inches (30.46 centimeters) will allow you to finish off the curtains.


Cut and work on one strand at a time. If you cut too many strands at once, the fishing line may turn into a tangled mess.
If you don't have any fishing line, you can also try using strong, sturdy thread, colored string, or even wire. Whatever you decide to use, make sure that it is thin enough to go through your beads.
 Find the center of your fishing line, then slip it through the split ring. Tie 2 to 3 knots beneath the slip ring to keep the fishing line secure; you can also use a slipknot instead. Make sure that the fishing line is centered, and that both strands are the same length.Work on one ring at a time. Hang each ring onto the rod as soon as you finish it.
Split rings are the same thing as keychain rings. Because of their design, they don't have any gaps that your fishing line might slip through. They are also very strong and sturdy.
 You will needs lots of beads, more than you think you'd need. They don't all have to be fancy glass beads; they can be plastic, wood, or even homemade. You could even take apart costume jewelry, and use the beads from that. The funkier the beads are, the better!


Colored glass beads are wonderful for this project because they are translucent and catch the light well.
If you are using colored string, consider using clear beads for a cool effect.
Consider getting some 2-hole beads for the end of your curtain strands. You will one 2-hole bead for each strand.
 Take your first bead, and thread it onto the fishing line. Make sure that you are putting the bead through both strands of fishing line. Pull the bead all the way down to the split ring, and add the next. Keep doing this until you have about 12 inches (30.48 centimeters) of string left.


Your beads don't all have to be the same size. Play around with different patterns. For example, you could use mostly small beads on your curtain, and use a large, chunky bead every couple of inches/centimeters.
 This time, put one strand of fishing line through each hole. If you do not have any 2-hole beads, use a larger bead instead. Turn the bead so that the holes are pointing to the side instead of up-and-down. Take one strand of fishing line, and pull it through the left hole. Take the other strand of fishing line, and pull it through the right hole., Tie about 3 knots under the bead, then bring the ends of the fishing line back through the holes. Thread the strands back through the first couple of beads (about 2 inches/5.08 centimeters), then trim them off.If you are using a regular bead instead of a 2-hole bead, tie the knots above the bead instead.
Consider placing a drop of superglue over the knot. This will make it stronger and less-likely to slip.
 It may sound like a lot of work, constantly getting up and sliding the split ring onto your curtain rod, but it will help keep your work from getting tangled., They do not all have to be the same length, but remember to add 12 inches (30.46 centimeters) to each strand so that you can finish it off properly. A great idea would be to make your curtains a angle upwards in ^ shape.
 Make adjustments as needed to ensure that the curtain is hanging evenly. If you used glass beads, the light behind the curtain will catch the colors of the beads and make them glow—just like a suncatcher.
 This is not mandatory, and it won't be possible for a curtain rod mounted inside the window or doorway, but it can take your design to the next level. It will also prevent the split rings from sliding off when you move the curtain around. You can use simple wooden ornaments, and attach them to each end of your curtain rod with wood glue. You can also get metal, glass, or ceramic curtain rod ornaments, and screw them on; you will need to drill holes into the curtain rod first, however.

