 The "explosion" is the result of a chemical reaction between two substances – usually baking soda and vinegar. You'll need up to a cup of vinegar and two tablespoons of baking soda, though these increments will vary depending on how large your volcano and crater are. Alternately, try using Diet Coke and Mentos to make your volcano explode for a twist on a classic method. You'll need a 12-ounce bottle of Diet Coke and three mint Mentos.
 Use 1








Add the baking soda first, then the vinegar. Shake two tablespoons of baking soda into the bottom of your "crater" bottle. Make sure that you're ready to manage the spillage. When you are ready to erupt, pour 1/4 cup to 1 cup of vinegar over the baking soda. The volcano burst with foam as the "lava" spills over the rim of the crater and down the papier mâché mountainsides.
Add the vinegar first, then the baking soda. Pour up to a cup of vinegar into the crater, depending on how large of a bottle you used. Mix in any food coloring or jello granules. When you are ready, dump the baking soda into the vinegar with one swift motion. Watch your volcano erupt!

, Ideally, use an unopened Diet Coke bottle as the "crater" of the volcano – although you may also crack a fresh soda open and pour it into the crater just before eruption time. Either way, you should have an open bottle full of bubbling Diet Coke in the center of your volcano model. Get all the Mentos into the bottle as quickly as possible for a smooth and powerful eruption.









One way that works quite well is to drill a small hole in the center of each mint and hang all three by a string. When ready for the erupting volcano, hold the string with all three Mentos centered over the bottle hole and let go.
Flavored versions of Diet Coke (Vanilla, Cherry, etc.) don't react as well as the original, nor do flavored Mentos work as well as the classic mint flavor. Original for both is best.
 If any of the "erupted" material spilled onto the floor, the counter, or any other surface, clean it up before it dries. This is especially important with Diet Coke, which will become sticky when dry. Use a sponge to wipe down surfaces. If you intend to use the volcano again, wipe down the surface before it becomes completely saturated with foam and liquid. Once the model dries, it should be ready to use again!








