 Since MS Paint works with very basic pixels, if you want to make your drawing really nice you'll need to increase the canvas size. Do this by clicking the resize button and set the dimensions somewhere above 2000 pixels.
 This process will be much faster if you do a real-life sketch and scan it or photograph it in order to get it on your computer. You can also sketch the picture in MS Paint, but you will need to sketch it in very light gray.


If you do scan your drawing, just open the file in MS Paint in order to start turning it into a beautiful drawing, but be sure you have the original sketch saved separately somewhere else too (in case you make mistakes and need to start over).
 Using the curve tool, create the main lines of your drawing in black. Find a single continuous line (like the upper arch of the eye) and click on the beginning and then then end of the line. Then, use your mouse to grab the straight line that was created and pull it into the curve to match your sketch. Do this until all your drawing is recreated in black.


The black is important. You can always change the color of these outline lines later, but for now do them in black.
 Now it's time to get rid of that sketch! Click select, right-click on the picture, and then invert the colors. Then switch the color to strict black and white by clicking File → Properties. Click OK, let it make the switch, and then switch it back into color the same way. Invert the picture again and you'll have clean art.


Saving a copy of just your plain black lines can be really helpful, especially if you make a mistake and need to restore them.
 Use the fill tool to fill in all of your base colors. Make sure that you get all of the little extra pixels that can get caught between lines that are close together or angles.
 Now for the fun part. Select all and copy your drawing as it is now. Then, choose an area that you want to shade (say, the hair). Select that base color and set it to color 2. Then, make color 1 your shading color. Use any of the tools to do the shading however you like. Don't worry about going over your black lines! Just do one area (with the same base color) at a time.
 Now to get rid of the colors that got outside of your lines! Zoom out so that you can see your whole drawing, click select, right click the picture, and paste in the base you copied earlier. Now for the magic. Go over and click the down arrow under select. Then click transparent selection. Ta-da!

, Keep doing this same process for each area and each shade until you are happy with your drawing!

