 If you did not cure your lycanthropy in the Ysgramor’s Tomb, the Dawnguard DLC (which can be purchased on Steam, or by buying the expansion pack of Skyrim at your local/online game store) gives you three opportunities to rid yourself of your beast-blood.


The Dawnguard DLC centers on the ancient battle between vampires and their hunters, with you being forced to pick a side to fight on. If you side with the vampires, you will be turned into a vampire lord, a much stronger version of the typical vampires you come across in game.
Turning into a vampire lord will cleanse you of your lycanthropy since it is impossible to be a werewolf and vampire at the same time.
 The first time you are given the option to become a vampire lord is during the “Bloodline” quest, one of the earlier quests in the Dawnguard DLC.


After completing the “Awakening” quest, Serana will ask you to take her to Castle Volkihar, home to the first vampires of Skyrim. You can reach the castle by boat: either hire a ferryman to take you there or take an Ice-water Jetty, which is a small dock near the Northwatch Keep. Boarding the boat will take you to the castle
Ascend the hill to the stone bridge that leads up to the looming castle. The vampires will be wary of you, but they will allow you to pass once they recognize Serana.
Enter the castle to find Serana’s father. Once Serana is reunited with her father, he will approach you and give you an ultimatum: continue working with the Dawnguard, forbidden from visiting the castle again, or join the Volkihar vampires by becoming a vampire lord.
Choose to become a vampire lord, and Lord Harkon will explain that it will purge you of your lycanthropy (note that choosing to become a vampire lord will make you an enemy of the Dawnguard, who will send out soldiers to ambush you at random).
 If you did not accept Lord Harkon’s gift of vampirism, you will be offered another chance later on during the “Chasing Echoes” quest, which is the 6th quest in the main Dawnguard questline. During this quest, you and Serana must journey into the Soul Cairn, a gloomy alternate plane of reality where lost souls are doomed to wander.


The Soul Cairn is located in a secret section of Castle Volkihar that Serana will guide you to. A live person cannot enter the Soul Cairn, so Serana will offer to turn you into a Vampire Lord herself.
Select the option “Turn me into a vampire,” and Serana will bite you, and you will fall unconscious. After a short time, you will reawaken as a vampire lord, and subsequently be cured of your lycanthropy.
If you decline, your soul will be temporarily trapped in a soul gem, which greatly depletes your Health, Stamina, and Magicka while in the Soul Cairn.
 After completing “Kindred Judgement,” the final quest in the DLC, you will be able to ask Serana to turn him into a vampire lord at any time.


Serana can be found in Castle Volkihar, standing in the foyer. Approach her, and hit the appropriate button to interact with her. If you have not already become a vampire lord, she will offer to turn you into one. Accept her offer.
After being bitten, you will black out. Upon regaining consciousness, you will be a vampire lord and cured of your lycanthropy
Note that if you urge Serana to cure herself of vampirism instead, she will no longer be able to transform you into a vampire lord.

