 This will be necessary in finding someone who will help you replace the key. In most cars, the VIN is located on the driver’s side dashboard and is visible through the window, but it may also be located on a rear wheel well or the front of the engine block, in the trunk or door jam, or on the frame of the car between the carburetor and windshield washer.


If you’re not sure where your VIN is on your vehicle you can also look up the number on your car insurance information. It should be in the top left hand corner of each page.;
, Regardless of which option you pursue to get a new set of car keys you're going to need to find out this information. This information will let you know the specific kind of key that you need to open your vehicle. Remember, keys are supposed to be unique!

, This should be your first option. They generally they will give you the best deal on a new key, about half as much as it would cost to get a new key from your manufacturer or dealer. Normally they don’t charge to visit the car either. They’ll open your car and then proceed to make you a new key. While hardware stores aren’t generally equipped to create new car keys (as opposed to simply copying them), locksmiths usually have more sophisticated machinery. The older your vehicle, the better the odds that a locksmith will be able to help you with a replacement key. If you lost a key fob, a good locksmith may be able to help you make a new one – depending on how sophisticated the key was. Additionally, they should be able to help you reprogram the replacement key, though your manual may also have instructions on how to do that. Be sure to bring any other key fobs associated with that vehicle with you, as they sometimes won’t work until the new key is programmed. Some cars require specialized equipment to program keys that locksmiths and dealers have. , After market keys or even factory replacements can sometimes be found online for less than it would cost you to get them direct from the manufacturer. You may have success with a reputable dealer on eBay, but otherwise look for companies intended specifically to replace car keys. Again, the older the vehicle and simpler the key, the easier it will be to replace. Amazon is a good place to start. Although be aware some cars require specialized equipment to cut and program. Call around to see who would be willing to cut and program a key bought online before you purchase one. Also compare programming charges with the cost of a whole new one from the locksmith.

