 Aloe vera and honey have natural anti-bacterial and anti-inflammatory properties and can help calm down the swelling and inflammation associated with outbreaks.Apply some to your problem spots and leave on for 5-10 minutes.
Be sure to remove all residue and clean your skin after the 10 minutes.
Raw natural honey works best, as does fresh aloe vera.
You can keep a live aloe vera plant in your kitchen and simply break of a stem to get fresh aloe vera, which is also wonderfully soothing for burns.;
, The salicylic acid found in aspirin is great for zapping zits.Instead of orally taking two aspirin, crush them up and apply it to your skin.Add a few drops of water and honey to create a more liquid paste, infused with the anti-inflammatory properties of honey.
Leave it on for about 10 minutes, then wash off completely.
 If you’re old enough and have some extra champagne or merlot around, dab a little on your acne. The tartaric acid found in grapes can help clear up your complexion., The acid found in lemons and oranges can help kill bacteria to clear up your skin.Simply rub on a little citrus juice before your normal cleaning and moisturizing steps.
You can also use the peel. Soak an orange or lemon peel in hot water for about ten minutes, then gently massage your face with white side of the peel.
Add about one tablespoon of baking soda to lemon juice to make a paste. Baking soda can help to balance your ph levels and help you maintain clear skin.
 Turmeric is a spice typically found in Indian cuisine. It’s also a great antiseptic and anti-inflammatory agent for your skin! Mix together about a tablespoon of turmeric powder with citrus juice to make a paste., Coconut oil has antibacterial and anti-fungal properties which are great for clearing up clogged pores. It’s like a tropical vacation for your skin!Gently warm some coconut oil in your microwave. Be sure to test it with your finger to make sure it’s not too hot.
Gently massage the warm oil into the skin.
Leave it on for around 10 minutes.
Rinse the oil off with lukewarm water.

