 (That means, a magnet that can pull 50 pounds, the magnet doesn't weigh that much.) They are very small and inexpensive (2 to 3 dollars). Buy thin but strong rope to tie to the magnet. Also buy a telescoping magnet. They are about the width of a pen, and extend to about 2 feet (0.6 m). You will also need 1 or 2 bright flashlights, a yardstick (or broom handle), and scissors.
 The elevator should have either a stop button, or have someone in your building use the key to keep the elevator on the bottom floor and the doors open. If there is another elevator next to "your" elevator, stop that elevator on the bottom floor as well.
 Set up your flashlight and find your keys by laying on the ground and shining the flashlight through the crack. They should be no more than a few feet away. If possible, use another flashlight and also locate your keys from the elevator "next door". This is possible only if the elevators are relatively close (no more than 8 feet, most likely) by angling your flashlight so you are able to see the floor of the elevator shaft (and your keys).
 Tie the 50 lb magnet (tightly!) to a long piece of string. You need to get the magnet beneath the elevator, dangling on the string. This is difficult, because the magnet will stick to the metal side of the elevator and the shaft. You can wrap the string around the magnet a bunch of times, stick your arm out the side of the elevator (yes, into the shaft and yes, it is scary) and throw the magnet. Don't forget to hold the string! The string should unwind and leave your magnet on the floor.


If dangling doesn't work, use a long stick. Take the magnet and shove it down the shaft, along the walls to which it is sticking, with a yardstick or other long narrow object. Remember, the idea is that it should dangle.
 This should be relatively easy, unless your keys have bounced a bit and you can't see them. Then you will need someone at the elevator next to yours to guide you in the "swinging" of your magnet. Once your keyring sticks to the magnet, pull it up slowly!

, Sometimes, even once you have your keys, it becomes impossible to get them up through the crack, because your magnet gets stuck to the bottom or sides of the elevator and your keys fall of when you yank the magnet. At this point it is necessary to use the telescoping magnet.
 Because the magnet is small and not as strong, it should easily pop off the side and dangle. Repeat step six.
