 Meanwhile, prepare a baking sheet by lining it with parchment paper.


Note that the taste and consistency of meringue cookies are delicate, so you should not use cooking spray or aluminum foil to line the tray. Stick with parchment paper.
 Combine the two ingredients into a large metal or glass bowl and beat with an electric mixer on medium speed until frothy, soft peaks begin to form.


With "soft peaks," the egg whites should be a solid, fluffy mass. When you remove the mixer from the egg whites, peaks or points should begin to form before deflating.
Glass and metal bowls are best when beating egg whites because they tend to hold less grease than plastic bowls. The presence of grease can prevent your egg whites from whipping up correctly.
 Sprinkle the sugar into your egg whites and continue beating at high speed for another 5 to 6 minutes, or until stiff peaks form.


With "stiff peaks," the egg whites should form solid peaks or points when you remove the mixer. These peaks should hold their shape.
 Use a spoon or spatula to gently transfer the whipped egg whites into a pastry bag.


Make sure that the bag is fitted with a large, round tip.
Do not deflate or smash the egg whites into the bag since doing so will cause the air you just whipped into them to escape.
 Squeeze the egg whites out of the pastry bag and through the tip so that swirled ghosts are formed.


Apply the egg whites to the baking sheet using a swirling motion. Each ghost should be made from one continuous, upward-swirling line of piped meringue.
Swirl the meringue onto the sheet to form a spiral base, then gradually swirl the meringue in an upward tower shape so that the top is significantly thinner than the bottom of each ghost.
 This will usually take about 1 hour to 1 hour and 15 minutes.


Let cool on a wire rack before decorating.
 Place the chips in a microwave-save container and cook for 1 minute at 50 percent power.


Stir the chips halfway through to prevent burning.
Stir the partially melted chips after they come out of the microwave to melt any lumps that are still solid.
 Transfer the melted chocolate into a resealable plastic sandwich bag. Cut a small corner off and pipe the chocolate through that corner and onto your ghost in the shape of eyes.


Let the chocolate cool before displaying and serving.

