 Parents and caregivers have more choices than ever when it comes to stuffed animals. Select a high-quality stuffed animal, since it may be with your baby for years. You should pick one that's filled with cotton or acrylic batting (stuffing) because these won't be hazardous if the stuffed animal tears.Avoid stuffed animals filled with beans or plastic beads. These could be choking hazards if they spill out through a hole or tear.
 Look over the stuffed animal or comfort item to ensure there's nothing that could come loose and become a choking hazard. For example, avoid stuffed animals with small buttons that could be pulled off, ribbons, or small plastic parts.You should also choose a stuffed animal or comfort item that's small. This will make it easier for your growing baby to eventually toddle around with it.
 Read the care information for the stuffed animal or lovey before you buy it. If it looks like it can't be simply cleaned or washed at home, you may want to choose something else. If your child attaches to it, you'll need to wash it occasionally. When in doubt, you can put the item inside a pillowcase and tie it shut. Toss it in a gentle wash cycle and tumble dry it on low.Putting the item in the pillow case will prevent it from being thrown about too much as it washes and dries.
 If your baby attaches to a stuffed animal or lovey, the item might become worn. In addition to washing it frequently, you'll need to check it every few weeks for any needed repairs or safety concerns. Mend the stuffed animal before you give it back to your child.


For example, you may see holes forming and stuffing falling out. You can sew the stuffed animal shut or take it to someone who can mend it for you.
If the item is too worn to repair and is hazardous to your baby, you'll need to replace it.
 Once your child has attached to a stuffed animal or lovey, you may want to go back to the store and purchase more of them. Having more than one of the same stuffed animal or item can come in handy if you ever lose it or it simply wears out.Keep in mind that some small children won't accept a replacement, even if it is the same stuffed animal (just newer). Your child might want to attach to something else.

