 If you're playing outside, make sure that all the children play only in the designated playing area (their backyard, a safe park etc.) and as far away from all streets as possible. If you're playing inside, make sure that no children go outside, that they are playing safely and not playing dangerously (putting a coin in an electrical outlet if they are playing telephone booth for example) and that they stay out of all of the off-limits rooms, such as their parent's room. If you're playing with a child younger than four, stay with the child/children at all times while you're playing the game (especially if the child is younger than four), and be aware of where the child/children are the entire time you're babysitting.
 This is a good thing to get them to plan while you prepare lunch, or change a baby's diaper, or put a little one to bed. Most kids really enjoy this! Make sure that even if the play is extremely boring, look like you're having fun watching the skit! Most of the time, though, the kids come up with some great plays. Before you leave the kids alone, make it clear that they can only stick to a certain area (like the playroom or a bedroom) so that they aren't looking for prop ideas in other rooms and that should prevent the children from getting into lots of mischief.
 Take turns being the person in charge of the music, and turn the music on and off. When it's off, stop. When it comes back on, dance! You can also play this game just by moving around, if you don't want to dance.
 Pick one person to be "It". Everyone else moves around (dancing, jumping, or just walking) and when "It" says "Statues!" everyone freezes in whatever position they were in (if someone's arm is up, it stays up, or if someone's in a running position, they stay in that position). "It" walks around trying to make one person after another laugh or move. Whoever laughs first is "It" next!

, Sardines is the opposite of hide-and-go-seek. "It" hides in a space big enough all the children playing to hide, while the rest of the children count. When everyone is finished counting they all look for "It". When someone finds "It", they join him/her in hiding. The last person who finds "It" is "It" next! "It" or not, they'll have fun!


If you're playing with a child 4 years old or younger, always have the child with you. If you or the child is "It", have the child hide with you. When you're looking for "It", look with the young child.
 Using some sidewalk chalk, make a snail shape on the ground (the snail head is optional). Give each player a different color piece of chalk. The first player takes the stick or small rock and throws it onto a square of the snail. That player then walks on all of the squares of the snail starting at the snail's head and going around until they get into the middle of the snail's body, but the player jumps over the square with the stick/rock on it. If the player steps on all of the squares without losing her balance and without stepping on a line, she gets to write the first letter of her name in any one of the squares that she chooses. Then its the next player's turn, only now that player has to skip the square with the rock/stick in it and also the square with the first player's initial in it. Every time a player gets around the entire snail without stepping on the square with the stick in it, without stepping on a line, and without stepping in squares with their opponent's initials, they get to pick a square to put their initial in. Players are allowed to step in squares that have their initial, but not in squares that have an opponent's initial. The game continues until all of the squares are filled up. The player with the most amount of squares filled with her initial wins.


Place: Outside, on a driveway (or some open place where the chalk you use can be washed away by the rain. Not on a covered porch or similar place.)
To make the game a bit easier, change the rules so a person can write their first initial in a square if they make it around the snail without losing their balance and without stepping on a square with an opponent's initial. This is instead of without losing their balance, without stepping on a square with an opponent's initial, AND without stepping on a line.
 Make one on your computer or just neatly make one by hand. Make fake money and give an equal amount to each child. When you play the game, ask the children what they want to 'eat/drink', how much they want, and so on. Then take turns being the Ice Cream Man!

, Have one child go to the pillow or chair in the center of the room and close their eyes. Everyone else goes to the center of the room and everyone say together "Don't wake Daddy (or Mommy if the player is a girl)!" After they shout all the players walk around "Daddy/Mommy" in a circle not making a noise. When "Daddy/Mommy" hears someone make a noise, he/she says "Bring bring bring" then he/she counts to 5 out loud. When "Daddy/Mommy" starts saying "bring bring bring", the other children all run to their pillows around the room and pretend to be asleep. Once the "Daddy/Mommy" is done counting to 5 he/she opens their eyes to see if anyone is still running to a pillow or not looking like they are asleep. If someone is not doing what he or she should be doing ("sleeping" on a pillow) then the "Daddy/Mommy" calls their name and they are the new "Daddy/Mommy".
 Pick a table to play with. Get under the table and pretend that it is your spaceship. When you get out of the spaceship, pretend you got out onto planet Dance, and that everyone is a professional dancer. Then go back in the ship and go somewhere else like Jump planet (get everyone to jump around), Laugh planet (everyone must laugh non-stop) and so on. Get each kid to take turns choosing a planet to go to. This can be a really fun game.
 Have each child you are babysitting go out to the yard and pick their favorite leaf (because of this step, this activity works best in fall). Take colored pencils and paper and put the leaf under the paper. Then lightly use the edge of a colored pencil to draw over the leaf, until the pattern of the leaf shows. Then cut the leaves out and glue them to a piece of paper! Look at all the pretty leaves!

, You wouldn't want the younger children not doing anything while the older kids are engaged in their games or vise versa. Try playing games/doing activities like bingo or even coloring as these activities are appropriate for all ages.

