 If not, skip to the next section., This is a potentially damaging method to improve your gaming performance and therefore all precautions should be taken into account. To do this, you should determine the baseline from which your graphics card is currently running., One of the more popular options is the Heaven 4.0 benchmark., This will prompt the settings menu to appear.
 You may change some of the other settings if you have the tech know-how, but if you are working with a lower-end card, it is recommended that you refrain from adjusting too much., This will prompt Heaven to play through a series of scene that are designed to test the capability of your device's performance. It may glitch but this is normal.
 This can be found in the upper left-hand corner of your screen and it will prompt Heaven to go through 26 scenes to test your GPU's performance abilities.
 Once the test is complete, a window will appear with your graphics card's score. Write this down so that you can compare it with your score after overclocking it.
 You can find these for free online and some popular options are MSI's Afterburner and EVGA'S PrecisionX software.
, Make sure that the clocks entitles Core Clock and Shader Clock are connected.
 You can check to see if your changes were applied by going to GPU-Z and seeing if it matches.
 You may be prompted to save your settings. Do so and assign a profile., One of two things will occur: either Heaven will run without any problems and you may increase your MHz by 5 to 10, or you graphics card will crash. You can tell that your GPU has crashed if you start to see black glitches, blotches, or bright stars on the screen. This means that your overclock has become unstable and you need to either lower you MHz.You will also want to keep an eye on the temperature of your computer. If it gets too hot, you may risk frying your hardware.
 After you have found the correct frequency for your graphics card, restart your computer. Some overclocking software will prompt you to set the changes you’ve made.
 To really make sure you’ve found the right frequency, play though a graphics intensive game and see how it runs.