 Gaslighting is one of the quickest, cruelest ways to make a girl mad. All of the following strategies are based in trying to make her doubt her own reality. The trouble with using gaslighting to make a girl mad is that she's unlikely to forgive you afterward.If you only want to make her pay attention to you, avoid using gaslighting techniques. Pranks will be better.
If she's prone to depression or anxiety, you might cause a real mental problem for her.
 If you've had a disagreement, one of you is probably right and the other is wrong. If you're in the wrong, not admitting it is a good way to make a girl mad. You can say other things, like "I'm sorry you're angry." This kind of phrase implies that you're a caring person, while she's irrational and upset.Suggesting that she's got PMS is another good way to make a girl mad.
Telling her to stay calm, or to not overreact, will make her even more angry.
 If you've been caught doing something you know you shouldn't do, pretending it's not your fault is a quick way to make a girl mad. Blame it on other people, or the traffic. If you can, blame your misbehavior on her. If you didn't take the laundry out of the machine like you said you would, for instance, tell her she didn't explain it clearly enough. She'll likely get mad.This works for larger situations too. For example, if you were caught cheating, you can explain that you were feeling lonely because of the way she treated you.
If you're late for an date, never apologize. You've always got a good excuse for being late, whether it's the weather, bad traffic, being too busy at work, etc.
 If you want to make a girl mad at you, acting differently when you're around different people will help. Acting flirtatious around other girls is the best way to make a girl mad at you.This technique may not be effective on some girls, who might blame themselves.
Acting like she doesn't matter to you when you're out in public will make her mad, especially if you've acted differently when you're alone.
 If you take a girl for granted, expecting her to be your mom/waitress/maid, you'll likely make her mad. You may not be used to doing a lot of your own chores, but expecting a girl to do them for you is unrealistic.Listen to what she says when she's nagging. Nagging is one of the precursors of anger for most girls.
If she really loves doing your chores, that's a bad sign for a healthy relationship down the road.
 Girls might be more interested than their boyfriends in discussing any relationship problems. If your girlfriend wants to talk about your relationship, change the subject. Turn on the television, or start texting a friend. Use any distractions you might have to avoid talking about hard emotional issues.You can always claim that it's not a good time. Maybe you had a long day at work or school. This is one way to avoid talking about relationship problems.
Not talking about problems doesn't make the problems go away. This strategy is a longer-term directive for making a girl mad. You might not see her anger right away.
 Tell her that you're just texting with "people from work" or "the guys". Laugh when you get replies, but don't explain what was funny. Drop a girl's name occasionally. Especially if she's trying to do something with you, like have dinner or watch television together, she's likely to get mad.If she starts to get mad, make her more angry by saying, "It's just texting."
When you finally put your phone away, make it seem like a huge concession. If you act like you're the one who is in the wrong because of her irrational anger, she'll be even more angry.
 If she's mad because you said you would be home by 7 and instead it's nearly 9, explain why you're late by telling her more about your point of view. You were late because of bad traffic, or a last minute request at work. Maybe you did an errand on your way home that took longer than you'd thought it would. Explain your side of the story diligently.To really make a girl mad, remember that her side of the story isn't important at all. If she was waiting for you, that's only because she didn't know where you were.
Make it seem like she's in the wrong for not listening to your story. If she wasn't really mad before, this should do the trick.

