 If you’ve been assigned a particular project, or if you’ve called a meeting in order to pitch an idea or request funding, you should make sure that you “do your homework” before entering the meeting. For example, if you’re pitching a product idea or marketing strategy, you should research and compile data on audience demographics, current and projected spending patterns, and focus groups or surveys which speak to the demand or relevancy of your product or idea.


If you’ve been assigned a task from a higher-up at your company and you’re unsure what is expected, check with other, senior employees to find out what information you should have and how you should present it.
It can help to imagine you’re in the shoes of someone listening to your pitch. Ask yourself, if someone was asking you for money or for the approval of a particular strategy, what kind of information would you want to hear? In other words, what kind of data would help persuade you of the cogency of the idea or demand of the product in front of you?, While you should be able to talk through any of the data you’re presenting and using as evidence of your argument, you should also provide visual representations—for example, pie graphs, bar charts, or decision trees—of the most important figures. Not only do such visual representations convey complex information in a tight, efficient manner, but they also tend to be remembered more clearly than data communicated verbally.There are many software programs designed to assist you in business presentations, so check out options like PowerPoint and SlideDog when putting together your presentation.
Be sure to use large—24 point at the minimum—font on your slides and posters, as well as clear, streamlined graphics which don’t clutter the page. The last thing you want is for your audience to be unclear or confused about the information you’re presenting and how it’s relevant., When planning your presentation, you should always keep in mind what kind of people will be attending the meeting and listening to your talk. Are they fellow team members with whom you work closely? If so, chances are that you won’t have to adjust your diction or tone at all in order to communicate effectively. In contrast, if clients you don’t know well will be at the meeting, or people from other departments and other areas of expertise, you should strive to make your language and materials as accessible as possible., You don’t want to read off a document or cue cards throughout a meeting, as there’s perhaps no faster way to lose your audience’s attention.That being said, you should organize your thoughts and arguments in written form beforehand. Even if you don’t take the document with you to the meeting, you’ll benefit from the process of writing out and reviewing your points before you need to communicate them to others.


If you plan on using the script in your meeting, write down only the skeleton of your argument so that you won’t be tempted to read from the document rather than speaking off the cuff.
It can also help to jot down intervals in the presentation when you want to take a sip of water, make an anecdotal aside, pause meaningfully, or switch slides or visual graphics.
 Once you’ve assembled all of the information and presentation materials you plan to use, you should do a dry-run at least once before taking your show on the road. This will allow you to time your speech, practice tricky wording or segues, and smooth out your demeanor and public speaking persona.It’s particularly helpful to do this mock presentation in front of other people. Ask friends, family, or friendly coworkers to observe your dry-run and give you feedback. They can let you know if you’re speaking too rapidly, what points seem unclear, and even advise you as to gestures and voice volume.
 Even if your company or the clients you’re pitching to are consistently informal and relaxed, you should attend the meeting in smart attire. It will show that you care and that you take the meeting seriously, whereas a slapdash outfit can make it look like you didn’t prepare your presentation at all, even if you spent all night or week doing so. Fashion and business experts agree that the most tried-and-true sartorial selection for a meeting—regardless of one’s gender—is a suit.A dark color such as navy or black is best. If the meeting is more informal, you can skip on the tie or dress the suit down with more casual accessories.
If you’ve ransacked your closet and can’t find anything suitable, ask friends or family for advice. They might have an idea as to how to improvise an ensemble or be able to lend you an item from their own wardrobes. Worse comes to worse, you can visit your local shopping center to look for an affordable pair of slacks and a blazer.
 Pressing snooze on your alarm and then rushing to work will leave your nerves frazzled and your thoughts disorganized. Avoid this fragmenting factor by waking and rising well before your meeting is scheduled. Taking your time getting dressed, drinking coffee, and completing your morning routine in a leisurely fashion will allow you to focus your thoughts and get into a positive mindset.Some experts contend that ritualistic practices—even superstitious ones that make little rational sense—can have a positive impact on performance. So, even if it seems silly, feel free to don your lucky socks, listen to your favorite song, or kiss your lucky memento before setting off!, Studies have shown that eating a healthy breakfast full of protein has a big impact on the rest of your day. In addition to keeping you full for a longer period of time, it also revs up your metabolism and promotes healthy muscle maintenance.Additionally, foods rich in flax and folic acid have been shown to help stimulate brain function, so loading up on cereals and breakfast bars can help you speak more fluently and creatively during your meeting., Once you’ve done all the legwork for your presentation, you should get yourself in the right headspace. You can run through your presentation quickly but, more importantly, you should bolster your mood and confidence. Do this by talking to yourself in an encouraging, positive manner; for example, remind yourself how much work you’ve done and how proud you are of the effort in spite of what happens at the meeting.


Additionally, try to picture yourself smiling and feeling relieved and happy after the presentation. Positive imagery like this can make a big impact on your performance.