 Go to the Official Williamson County Records Inquiry web site http://judicialrecords.wilco.org/default.aspx;
, At the bottom of the page, under the section heading "Jail Records," select the light blue words, “Jail Records."This will take you directly to a page to search for information about prisoners who have been taken into custody. The top half of the page is used if you want to search a variety of other court records.
 Toward the top of the screen, you will see two options after the heading, “Search By.” You may choose to search by the defendant’s name or by the booking number, depending on which information you have available.Select one or the other.


If you choose to search by Defendant’s Name, you will be required to enter the defendant’s First and Last name. Optionally, you may also add the middle name and birthdate. The more information you can add, the more accurate and precise your results will be.If you choose to search by the Booking Number, you will be prompted to enter it. Be careful to enter it accurately and completely, or your results will be incorrect. It will also be helpful if you can add a range for the date of the booking., After entering the information, click on “Search” at the bottom of the screen. All of the results that match your search will appear. Generally, if you search by booking number, you will get back a reference to a specific, single incident. If you search by name, you will receive all the incidents involving that person (or multiple people if it is a common name). For example, a search for "John Smith" returns 42 entries.
 The results of your search, whether by name or by booking number, will come back with the following headings:


Booking Number
Defendant Name
Booked (date)
Released (date)
Arresting Agency
Charge(s)

, At the top of the screen, in the right corner, you will see the word “Location.” For most of the records you are likely to find, this will be “Main Jail.” It is possible that it may refer to a different location. If you see something different, you may need to call (512) 943-1365, the Booking Desk, to get further information., Especially if the person you are searching has a common name (John Smith, for example), you will need to check middle names or initials to make sure you find the correct person.
 The two columns, “Booked” and “Released,” will tell you if the individual is still in custody. If both columns are filled in, then the individual is no longer in custody. If the “Booked” date has passed, but the “Released” column remains empty, then you can conclude that the individual remains in custody at the Williamson County Jail.
 You can click on the Booking Number in the first column. This will bring up a new page with specific information about the individual case, the charge, and some personal identifying information about the defendant. In some case, the defendant’s mug shot photo will be available to help verify identity.
 If you do not have access to a computer, do not have the information needed for an online search, or if your search does not provide the results you need, you can call the Booking Desk at the Williamson County Jail directly.The number is 512-943-1365. The Booking Desk is open at all times.
 If the Booking Desk is unable to help you, you can reach the office of the Williamson County Sheriff at 512-943-1300., The address for the Williamson County Jail is 306 W. 4th Street, Georgetown, TX.You can visit the jail in person and inquire at the front desk how best to find out whether someone has been detained.

