 You will need to enter the following information: user name, email address, password, channel and profile information.;
,,


Browse video files on your PC or mobile phone. (maximum size is 20mb)
Choose a video (wmv, mov, flv, 3gp, avi, mpg and mp4)
Click Open.
Select Private or Public use (do you want the clips to be seen by others or not)
Commercial – (If you check the commercial tick box, it means the clip you upload will be available to companies and individuals who may want to use your video for commercial purposes (for example, News reports). If you set your clip to be commercial, then it will automatically be made public and viewable to other users)
Add a title (relevant) – makes the video more interesting
Choose a location – Country and city.
Add a description
Select a channel – this official channel shows the clips (not the sequences), otherwise the clips just appear in a library on your channel


Tags – (Tags are descriptive keywords used to categorise your clip based on its content, for example if you upload a racing video, you could tag it with 'Sport Racing Cars'. You can add as many tags as you like, but remember to include a space in between each tag).


Allow comments? – This gives other NewsJackers the opportunity to give feedback on users clips
Clips will appear in your lightbox once they’ve uploaded correctly

, All uploaded clips appear in the user's lightbox. Clips can be viewed and deleted where applicable. Clip options can be changed from here.


Clips can be borrowed from other channels for use within your own sequences. (Only ones made public), this gives the user the opportunity to remix a news story from their own perspective.
If users can find a clip on another channel, they play the clip and press ‘Add to Lightbox’, the clip then appears in their own library for use.
If users wish to embed the link to the clip into their own web pages they can copy and paste the code supplied and add to their own page, eg: blog or webpage
Each clip comes with size, and duration details, also date specific to when the clip was first uploaded

,
The user places each clip required, from the library in the order of the sequence by dragging and dropping the clip onto the TV
Use the yellow slides to start and finish a clip in the sequence, EG: If a clip starts and ends with either a coloured box or something unsuitable then the user has an opportunity to edit the clip so that the best image starts and ends the sequence and will be available for others to identify the sequence more easily
Stings can be used in between clips for continuity – library assets courtesy of NewsJack.tv can be found under stings on the Editing Deck

, The completed sequence now appears on the Edit Channel


Users can broadcast to their channel by dragging the sequence into the broadcast channel
Replace an existing broadcast sequence with another by dragging and dropping the news sequence over one in the panel
Admin may also choose to broadcast a users sequence on the official channels if they are deemed suitable
Users can change the channel colours, the channel picture an edit the channel tagline from within Edit Channel

