 You will want a good selection by region and theme. Make sure these are up to date guides.


Any standard bookstore or travel shop should have the guides you would need.
Look for guides that include multiple geographic areas in local, state, and regional detail. For example, if you are looking for companies in Texas, you want guides that might include the Dallas metro area, Texas, and the American South-West or Mid-West.
Include guides that have indices of businesses preferably in alphabetical and categorical order, this will help you flip back and forth between finds.
 As you figure out where your company is located, you can focus on the guides for those areas.


If you're still not sure what your company's name is, use the category index first to get an idea of the types of business that do what is you are looking for. For example, if you are looking for fishing gear shops--see what's in the sporting goods section.
Use the alphabetical index to see what variations there might be on the company's name if you have a partial idea of the title.
Once you have the company name(s) picked out, you can use the guide's information to see how many locations these businesses may have and can narrow your search to find the particular office you want.
 Use the smaller list you made in the previous step to create a contact list.


Ideally, this should be just a few companies to contact to find the one you are trying to locate, perhaps no more than 5 to 10. If there are more than this number, you should attempt to narrow your search in the guides some more.
If you can verify the information from the company in more than one of the guides, do so.
Mark these companies in the guides, and write their information out on a separate location/list.
 Note the physical location each company is in and use either a phone book or directory assistance to contact the chamber of commerce.If the company is in your immediate area, you can use a phone book to contact your chamber of commerce.
If the company is in another area, use directory assistance to get the number of or connect you to the chamber of commerce. Directory assistance can be reached by dialing "411" on most U.S. phones.
Once talking to the chamber of commerce, verify the company's information with them--especially the name and physical address. If there is a problem with the information, the reasons could be numerous including the guide being in error or the company going out of business after the guide's publication.
If the information is correct, or it's not, mark it so on your list and do this for each you saved from your guides.
Determine which company or companies you want to make further contact with.
 After you've established the company's physical location and contact information, you can try communication.A phone call would be faster than mail. If this is a company with a relatively low electronic and social media presence, you might give them your phone number in return if you consider it safe to do so. For example, if you are contacting an old paper mill, you may want the foreman to call you back at a more convenient time.
If you use the U.S. Postal Service for your initial contact, you should consider certified mail or at least a return receipt when sending correspondence. This way the recipient at the company has to sign for the letter, or at least the USPS will let you know when and exactly where the letter was delivered via a tracking number.
For example, if you want to contact an old television show set with a reclusive producer--the certified mail method will at least verify someone is at the location. Or they have to refuse delivery.

