 Measure portions and be mindful of calories so you can maintain a healthy weight. If you gain weight, are overweight or obese your risk for heart disease increases.If you're looking to avoid foods that could damage your heart, you should also focus on foods and an eating pattern that can protect your heart. Measuring the appropriate portion sizes of foods and counting calories can help keep your weight in check or even help you lose weight.
Your total meal portion size should be between one to two cups total. Use a food scale or measuring cups to keep yourself on track.
You may also want to count calories. You can use an online calculator to figure out how many calories you need daily. In general women need about 1,800 calories daily and men need about 2,200 calories daily., Since trans fats, saturated fats and red meat should either be avoided or minimized in your diet, you'll need to focus on other protein sources instead. Stick to lean protein options to help support your healthy weight and your heart.


Lean proteins are naturally lower in calories and fat - especially the unhealthy types of fat.This makes them a preferable choice for your heart healthy diet.
Leaner protein sources include: poultry, eggs, low-fat dairy, lean cuts of beef, lean pork, seafood, tofu and legumes.
Also make sure to measure your protein. Measure out about 3–4 oz or about a 1/2 cup of items like beans or lentils., Although fats like trans fat and saturated fat are things you want to avoid or minimize, there are actually some types of fat that you want to include in your diet. These are typically referred to as "heart healthy" fats.


There are two groups of heart healthy fats that you should focus on: monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats. Both offer great benefits to your heart.Monounsaturated fats are found in foods like: olive oil, canola oil, sesame oil and peanut oil. Cook with these oils, use them in salad dressings or drizzle over steamed vegetables.
Polyunsaturated fats include omega-3 fats and are found in foods like: salmon, mackerel, tuna, avocado, nuts and seeds. Include fatty fish a few times a week, add avocados to your salad or top your yogurt with nuts or seeds.
 In addition to including lean protein and healthy fats, you want to aim to make half of your plate a fruit or a vegetable. Both of these food groups are heart healthy foods.


Fruits and vegetables are great for your heart and overall health. They're low in calories but high in fiber, vitamins, minerals and antioxidants.When you make half of your meals a fruit or vegetable, you help control the overall calories and nutrition of your meal.
The antioxidants found in fruits and vegetables (not antioxidant supplements) have been shown to have a protective effect against your heart.Also measure out the portion sizes for your fruits and vegetables. You should go for 1 cup of vegetables, 2 cups of salad greens and 1/2 cup of fruit., 100% whole grain foods are not only good for your GI system, but also great for your heart and arteries.Make sure when you're choosing to eat a grain, you go for whole grain to reap these great benefits.


100% whole grains are minimally processed and still include all 3 nutritious parts of the grain — the bran, germ and endosperm. These grains are high in fiber, minerals and even protein.Eating appropriate servings of whole grains can help reduce your risk of heart disease, diabetes, stroke and helps maintain a healthy weight.Make sure to measure your grains. Go for about 1 oz or 1/2 cup of cooked grains per serving., You might be surprised that drinking adequate fluids is also important for a healthy heart. Drink up to help maintain good heart health.


If you're dehydrated, it's harder for your heart to pump blood. It's puts a big strain on your heart making it work harder and beat faster. When you're properly hydrated, your heart pumps blood easily to the muscles.To make sure you're getting adequate fluids, aim to consume a minimum for 64 oz or 8 glasses daily. However, many people may need upwards of 13 glasses daily.Stick with sugar-free and decaf beverages like water, sparkling water, flavored water or decaf coffee or tea.

