 You don't have to shuffle the deck, although doing so may put the audience members at ease.
 Be patient, because the longer you give the volunteer to pick a card, the more confident they will become that you won't be able to guess it.









To help convince the audience, avert your gaze away from the cards as they select. Many audience members assume that guessing tricks are dependent on fancy card counting tricks. While some tricks are, this one is much simpler.
 Place one stack in the right hand and one in the left. Your audience member will most likely choose a card from the middle, so split the cards in a slightly different place from where that card was.
 Speak slowly, confidently, and clearly.









Don't rush the volunteer, otherwise the audience may think you've memorized the card beforehand.
 While you won't be reciting this card, you will be using it as a reference to find the volunteer's card.
 Be sure that you place the right-hand half of the deck on top, as this will be the card that is right next to the volunteer's card.
 Try to spot the reference card as quickly as possible.









Spread the deck out sequentially. The best way to do this is to set the deck down on the left and use your right hand to gently guide them over to the right. The end result should resemble a rainbow.
The reference card should be on the left-hand side of the volunteer's card. Whichever card is immediately to the right of the card you memorized should be the audience member's card.
Avoid spreading the cards quickly and sloppily. You might accidentally ruin the reference card's position, throwing off the entire trick.
You can use your fingers to sort through them, but try not to stop and stare at each card. This might clue in the audience members to what you have actually done.
 Although this is a question, ask confidently, almost in a cocky manner.









Make the audience think you knew exactly which card they were going to pick before they did. This will make it seem like you have psychic prediction powers when really you just have a really solid memory.

