 A week or so before school starts, begin going to bed approximately an hour earlier than you did in the summer. This will ensure that you are adequately rested for school, and by the time school rolls around, you will be used to the new sleeping schedule.

If you have trouble falling asleep, or are extremely nervous, go to bed half an hour early and read until your time is up. That way, you are already relaxed when it's time to actually sleep. Other ideas - you could listen to music, or drink a cup of warm milk.;
, Before you can start school you need a few supplies. Your school may or may not have provided you with a list, and if they have, use that as a guide for your back-to-school shopping. If they haven't, find a list on the Internet and use that. You may also want a few new wardrobe items for school. Usually a cute shirt, jeans, and a nice pair of flats will do.
 Get everything in your backpack that you may need, and even pack your lunch. If you carry a purse or another bag, get that together also. Make sure you have your outfit picked out. Go to bed at a reasonable time, and set an alarm for the morning. It's really important that you are well rested.
 First thing when you get up is to eat your breakfast, that way if you spill any of it on you, it won't be on your outfit.

Go upstairs and wash your face and brush your teeth. Then get dressed, and style your hair. Be sure that you look decent; if you are wearing a t-shirt make sure your armpits are shaved and that you smell good. Definitely put on deodorant and maybe a small amount of perfume. Slip on your shoes and head out the door.
Make sure that you look confident. Keep your back straight and your shoulders pressed back with your head held high, and don't forget to smile!







, Each subject has it's place and if you need to bring anything home you have all of it with you so you don't forget anything. Having a notebook with all the assignments written in it is also quite helpful. Try doing both of these things.

If you've had a bad day, talk to someone you trust or maybe just relax and listen to music you like. Music is the best way to calm down. Make sure you pay attention in class, and stay focused each day so you can strive to get straight A's.
Remember, at graduation there will be awards, and you want to win them. To help achieve and/or win these awards; it often helps to join extra curricular activities! As long as you're involved in something, you have a better chance at winning an award. It can also help with your popularity.
If you find you have a crush on a class-mate, then just take a deep breath. For guys, just treat her nicely and never tease her! For girls, just talk normally to him and be yourself! Be sure to study for tests.
Take notes in class that you can review at a later date if needed.
 This leaves you plenty of time to do what you want afterwards.


Getting close to graduation doesn't mean you can start paying less attention to your school work. You have to study just as hard and think about graduation in your spare time.
,,, When you do wake up, eat a healthy breakfast, and dress in some comfortable clothes. Then attend all of your appointments.

Be very careful not to mess them up. Then head on home and put on your dress, shoes, and jewelry. If you want to, add a touch of makeup.
When completely ready go to graduation and have the best time!







