 Lay on your stomach with your body straight, then use your forearms and toes to lift yourself off the floor. Your forearms should be under your torso at shoulder distance and bent at 90 degree angles, and your head should be facing the floor. Keep yourself in a straight line from your head to your toes with no bends at your back or knees.If you’re just starting off, hold the pose for 10 seconds, rest for 30 seconds, then repeat ten times. Gradually work your way up to holding the pose for 30, 45, and 60 seconds.
Modify planks for a full body workout by holding the pose and slowly raising one leg 5 to 8 inches (13 to 20 cm) off the floor. Hold the leg in the air for a couple seconds, slowly lower it, then repeat with the other leg. Do a couple sets of 10 repetitions with each leg.;
, Do standard push-ups by laying on your stomach with your body straight, lifting yourself on your toes and palms with your elbows straight (but not locked), bending your elbows so they’re bent at least 90 degrees, then raising yourself off the ground so your elbows are straight again. Hold your palms further out from your body or directly under your chest to switch up the muscles you target.Do a couple of sets of at least 10 repetitions with your palms at standard, wide, and under-chest positions. Work your way up to doing 20 reps per set at each position.
 Start in a standard push-up position with your palms in line with your straightened elbows and shoulders. Rotate your hips and slightly bend your knees so they face your right side, hold for a count of 10, then rotate them to your left side.Rest for 30 seconds then repeat at least twice. To increase difficulty, raise your right arm toward the ceiling as you rotate and hold your knees to the right, and raise your left arm when you hold your knees on the left side.
 Lay on your back with your hands by your sides. Extend your legs straight and slowly lift them about 6 inches (15 cm) off the ground. Bring your knees to your chest, hold for a couple of seconds, then slowly straighten them and return them to the floor.Keep your lower back on the floor when you lift your legs to avoid injury.
Do 4 sets of 25 repetitions, resting for 30 seconds between each set.
 Start by sitting on the floor with your legs bent in front of you. Your feet should be shoulder distance apart and flat on the floor, and your arms should be just behind you with your elbows straight and palms flat on the floor with fingers facing your feet. Lift your hips off the ground so your knees bend at a 90 degree angle, and keep your back straight.Hold the pose for 10 seconds, lower your hips back to the floor, then repeat 10 times.
Remember to be consistent and do your upper body workouts for at least an hour every other day. Do lower body workouts on days you don't do upper body workouts.

