 These numbers are usually located near the manufacturer's logo, underneath or in back of the router. Write down the model and version information for future use.;
,


Determine the IP address and default gateway for a PC. From the Start menu, type "cmd" into the search field to bring up the command screen. Then type "ipconfig/all" to access the necessary IP configuration information. Write down the IP address and default gateway information for use in accessing the web interface for your device.
Determine the router's default gateway and IP address for a Mac. Access the system preferences option by clicking the Apple icon on the menu bar. From the Network menu, select the "Internet & Wireless" option. The router's IP address and default gateway will appear among the list of network information.
 There are a number of sites where open source flash updates can be downloaded. Perform an Internet search for "open source firmware download" to obtain a list of websites providing this free service.
 Locate the router model of the device you wish to upgrade among the list of supported devices in the router category. Typically, detailed information regarding each supported device will be included in the list, along with a link to the file containing the desired custom flash update. Confirm that the file is the correct update for your device and click the link provided to begin the download process.
 Open the router's web interface by entering either the IP address or the default gateway assigned to the router, depending on the model and manufacturer of the device. The router's web interface will open in the default web browser.
 Locate the upgrade firmware feature, which is often listed under administration or advanced settings. Once the firmware update feature has been located, you will be prompted to select the file from a location on your computer. Click the Browse button and highlight the downloaded update file. Follow the instructions for completing the firmware update. The firmware upgrade is complete.

