 As soon as you meet a new person, jot it down. Also, include other facts about him or her that you recall. List the time and place that you met him or her, as well as actions he completes or interesting information that she mentioned in your conversation. Writing down these facts will help you recall her name, especially since you have a physical reminder. Also, it will also give you a source to refer to if you meet her again.Large events may not give you the chance to instantly write down names, especially since many introductions may be made. Instead, insert important names into your phone. Later, you can refer to them and add interesting facts that will help you recall them. Another excellent method is to leave yourself an audio message.
You could also create a virtual file. Create a document or table with people's names on it. Add to it each time you meet a new person. Share the file with all your devices in order to always keep a physical reminder with you. , Take the person's name, and turn it into a picture in your mind. Associate the name with an object. For example, the name Crystal could be identified with a large crystal vase or bowl. A visual connection can be a powerful tool when recalling names.This also works with names that sound similar to a concept. For example, you have a new man at work named Miles. You can associate him with a picture of a a long road that goes on for miles.
 When you first meet someone, study her face. Look for a feature that is unique and associate her name with it. For example, you could identify the new employee in your office by her dimples. This method will put her face into your head and help you remember her name., An excellent method to remember a person is to think of an absurd scene in relation to him. For example, if you meet someone who owns a pet grooming business, think of him surrounded by dogs in crazy hairstyles. A humorous image will help you recall his name, as well as a specific fact about him.


The more ridiculous the image, the more likely you are to remember it.