;
, Using the Zoom tool is the best way to get that level of precision.


If the image you’re working with is simpler, like a single shape or outline, use the Magic Wand tool instead.
, Each click will drop one “anchor point.” As additional anchor points are dropped, a line will appear, connecting the new point to its predecessor.


You can also select this tool by clicking the fountain pen icon in the toolbar.
 The end goal is to surround the foreground object (from which you’ll be removing the background) with an outline built from these anchor points.
 Click along the entire outline of the foreground object until you’ve come back to where you started. Stay as close to the edge as possible—Illustrator will do its best to correct your clicks for accuracy.


You can press the Space key to move the image so that off-screen areas become visible. This will be helpful if you’re zoomed in far enough that you can’t see the entire image. The cursor will turn into a small hand—use it to drag the image in any direction, bringing other areas into view without breaking the continuity of the Pen tool outline.
 The object is now completely surrounded by a dotted outline.
 The part of the image you outlined is now considered an object of its own. Both the newly selected object and its background will now have selection outlines (usually a blue line) around them.
 This will select both objects at once.
 This will make the background turn white. Now, the foreground object you outlined with the pen tool really stands out.


Having a solid white background makes it easy to change the background color.
 If you want to save only the foreground image with no background at all, press Y to switch to the Magic Wand tool, then click on the white background. Now, press Del.
 Click “File,” then “Save as, ” and then choose “Illustrator EPS (*.EPS)” from the File Format drop-down. Type a name for your file, then click “Save.”


If you made the background transparent, it will still be transparent when saved in this format.
 This file type works best for photos, as they can support up to 16 million colors.


Click “File,” then “Save for web.” In the resulting dialog box, select “PNG-24” from the drop-down, then place a check in the box next to “Transparency” if you have a transparent background. Click “Save,” choose a save location, then click “Save” once more.
For a smaller file with fewer colors, you can select “.GIF” from the menu instead of “.PNG-24”. Images saved in this format will load faster on the web, but many not appear as crisp.

