 If you aren’t familiar, a double boiler is a set-up that almost looks like two pans in one. You fill the bottom pan with water and bring it to a simmer, which gently warms and melts the chocolate in the pan nestled on top. This works best for melting chocolate, because chocolate can burn easily. Melting it slowly and carefully is key.You can fashion your own double boiler by following the instructions here.
If you would rather melt your chocolate in the microwave, you certainly can. Place your melting chocolate into a microwave safe bowl. Set the timer for one minute, and set the heat to 50% power. After one minute of heating, remove the bowl and stir your chocolate. If it needs to melt more, put it in for 15 second intervals.;
, Set your stove to a low heat. Continue to stir as your mixture heats and begins to melt.Make sure to run your stirring utensil along the sides of the bowl so that all of the chocolate is being stirred thoroughly.


You can use milk chocolate, dark chocolate, or white chocolate variations.
 Once the chocolate is thoroughly melted and creamy, turn off the stove or remove the pot from the stovetop. You will want to dunk your pretzels in the chocolate while it is still very warm, but removing it from direct heat will ensure that it doesn’t burn., Tongs work well for this step, because you can pick up the pretzel and fully submerge it in the chocolate without making a huge mess. However, you can certainly use your hands, a fork, or another utensil if you don’t have tongs.You can eliminate the need for tongs if you use pretzel sticks. You can hold the pretzel stick at the end, dipping it as far as you want into the melted chocolate.
 Cover it completely in the melted chocolate, making sure that the entire surface is coated. If you’re holding the pretzel with tongs, be careful to switch where you’re gripping the pretzel in order to expose the entire pretzel to the chocolate.


Make sure to do this step slowly and carefully to ensure you do not burn yourself on the hot chocolate.
You aren't limited to using standard pretzels. You can play around with the large pretzel rods, small pretzel sticks, twisted pretzels, chunks, and more.
 After you’ve fully dipped the pretzel, raise it above the pot. Let the extra chocolate drip off the pretzel and back into the pot, so that you’re left with the proper amount of chocolate on the pretzel.If you skip this step, your pretzel may dry with uneven chunks of chocolate, which isn’t as aesthetically-pleasing.
 Once you’ve let the excess chocolate run off, gently place it on a piece of wax paper or parchment paper.Take extra care setting your pretzel onto the paper, trying not to mess up any of the warm chocolate. Fill up the entire sheet of paper with pretzels, making sure they aren’t touching.
 If you want to give your pretzels a little extra flair, add toppings while the chocolate is still warm. You can add things like sprinkles, crushed candy, chopped nuts, or anything else that will stick to the chocolate as it hardens. You can also drizzle things across the pretzels, like melted caramel or white chocolate. Get creative with this step!, To speed up this process, you can pop the trays into your refrigerator. Allow the sheets to sit for a few hours, checking them sporadically by touching them with your fingertips. Once you’re sure that the chocolate has completely hardened, you can serve them however you like! Put them on platters to serve at parties, give them out in clear little bags as party favors, or just eat them straight from the tray – they’re just that good!Store your leftovers in an airtight container in a cool place. Do not place them in a refrigerator, as the chocolate will "sweat" when they are brought to room temperature. The chocolate will actually seal the pretzel and keep it fresh longer, so they will last for a couple of weeks.

