 You can learn a lot about the condition of a house by walking around the land surrounding it. Check the quality of the lot and driveway as well as the condition of any exterior structures, such as a freestanding garage or storage unit.Try to come look at the house when it's raining. You can observe the lot's drainage and make sure water is flowing away from the house.
Be on the lookout for any standing water or debris. If there are any large trees near the house, they shouldn't have branches hanging over the house that could damage the roof.;
, You want to inspect the structure of the house both outside and inside. The sides of the house and the roof should be straight. Make sure nothing is bowed or sagging, and that the siding or paint is in good condition.Check any visible foundation and make sure there aren't any exterior cracks. If the house has siding, look for dents or damage.
Look at the roof from the ground. Take note of any missing or damaged shingles. Make sure the gutters are clean and in good repair.
Take note of anything you see so you can discuss it with the seller before you put in an offer on the home.
 Your personal inspection of the interior can give you a good idea of whether you want to place an offer on the home. Look at the condition of the flooring and walls and make note of any damages.If the house is dirty or contains old property from the sellers, and is not being sold "as is," you may want to ask the sellers to clean it up first.
Some interior damages won't affect the selling price of the home, because they're simply considered part of moving into a new home. For example, you won't get very far demanding that the house be repainted, since most people repaint the interior of a home when they move in.
Make note of any damaged cabinetry, flooring, or other surfaces in the house, as well as any places where the floor creaks or appears uneven.
 In the attic of the home, look closely at the insulation and at the condition of the rafters. If you see long, pencil-like protrusions from the rafters, they may be signs of a termite infestation.You also want to make sure there aren't a lot of extra holes in the rafters, and that the boards all appear solid and even. There shouldn't be any signs of rot.
You don't have to have a lot of experience with home repair to recognize a potential problem. If something doesn't look right, make a note of it.
 A water heater that is gurgling or banging may need to be cleaned or need more extensive repairs. If you hear any irregular sounds coming from the water heater, ask the seller about it.Also check the area around the water heater. Make sure the exterior of the unit is solid and there isn't any water or sediment around the unit itself. A sagging floor around or under the water heater may indicate previous flooding.
 Depending on the age of the house, hairline cracks in the foundation typically aren't anything to worry about. However, wider cracks may be an indication of significant structural problems with the house.If you see larger cracks, ask the sellers about them. Try to find out how long the crack has been there and whether it has grown over time.
 At the electrical box, you want to be on the lookout for any spliced wires hanging outside the box, or any evidence of sloppy electrical work. Sloppy wires at the box typically are a good indication that there may be problems elsewhere.Find out from the seller when the last electrical repairs were made, and who did the work. If it was done by someone unlicensed or inexperienced, you may have a more significant electrical problem on your hands.

