 Compare premiums to see if you are locked into a rate for a number of years or if it varies each year.  If you are on a fixed income, a fixed premium might be better for you.  Similarly, compare the death benefits.  Depending on the type of policy for which you are shopping, the amount of the death benefit may not be guaranteed.  Evaluate how much it is likely to fluctuate each year.For example, term life insurance policies are less expensive than permanent life insurance policies.  Their premiums are fixed, meaning you pay the same amount each month for as long as you have the policy.  Also, the death benefit is a guaranteed amount.  Your beneficiaries are guaranteed to get the amount of insurance you purchased.

 Permanent life insurance policies are more expensive.  Also, some invest part of your monthly premium in order to grow the cash value of your policy. This means that your monthly premium might vary.  It also means that the amount of your policy's cash value is not guaranteed (though your death benefit is). It can increase or decrease depending on how well your investments perform.
  If you are shopping for a cash value policy, determine how much the cash value can grow.  Whole life, universal life and variable life policies utilize different kinds of investment tools. Depending on the risk involved, the rate of return varies. Cash value is important for when you do not die.Speak with your insurance agent about the kinds of investment tools they will use and how risky the investments are.  The riskiest investments have the potential for high rates of return.  This means the cash value can grow quickly.  But, they also can crash just as quickly, depleting your investment.  This means that the amount of death benefit paid to your beneficiaries decreases.  

 Decide how comfortable you are with the different levels of risk before settling on a policy.
  Some insurance providers build fees into your premiums.  Before purchasing a policy, read the fine print to learn about policy fees.  Policy fees mean that some of your premium is being paid to the insurance company instead of going into your death benefit.  This also means that less of your premium is being invested and allowing your cash value to grow.  If you are using your life insurance policy as an investment tool to build your retirement nest egg, the fees charged by the insurance company can exceed the fees you would pay to invest the money elsewhere.,  Some insurance providers write a clause into your term policy that allows you to convert it to whole life without providing new evidence of insurability.   This means that you can convert the policy regardless of your health.  You don’t have to undergo physical examinations in order to re-qualify.  If this is something that interests you, choose a policy with this clause.,  This means that you would share in the company’s surplus if you own a permanent policy.  Each year, once the company has paid claims, expenses, other liabilities and has funded reserves for future benefits, it pays the excess to policyholders in the form of dividends.  You can reinvest the dividends into your policy, or you can cash them out.This only applies to mutual companies, not stock companies, which have shareholders instead of policyholders.


