 Purchase about 6 ounces (160 g) of country ham and cut it into 1/4-inch thick slices. If you're using large center-cut pieces of ham, cut them in half so you have two medium-sized pieces. Take a small knife and cut about 1/4-inch thick slits in the fat along the edges of the ham, about every three inches. This will prevent the ham from curling as you fry it.Country ham is very salty, so you probably won't need to add extra salt to the ham or gravy. If you don't want to use ham, you could try making the gravy by frying up bacon and using the drippings.;
, If you'd like to reduce the saltiness of the ham before you cook it, place the slices in a large bowl. Fill the bowl with water and let the ham soak for 30 minutes to 1 hour. This will also make the ham plump up. Drain the water before you're ready to fry the ham.You could also soak the ham in milk to give it additional flavor.
 Place a large skillet on the stove over medium-high heat and add 1 tablespoon (14 g) of unsalted butter. Melt the butter while you dry the ham. Pat the ham dry with paper towels to remove any excess moisture. The pan is ready when the melted butter starts sizzling.It's important to use unsalted butter since the ham is so salty. This will prevent the gravy from becoming overly salty as well.
 Place a few pieces of ham in the hot skillet and fry them for 2 to 3 minutes. Turn the ham over and fry them for another 2 to 3 minutes. The ham should darken as it cooks. Use tongs to carefully remove the fried ham to a serving plate.If the ham is lean, you may need to add another 1/2 of a tablespoon of butter.
 Keep the skillet on the stove over medium-high heat. The drippings and grease from the ham should still be in the skillet. Pour in 1/2 cup (120 ml) of strong black coffee into the skillet. Use a wooden spoon to stir the drippings and coffee well.Use caution when pouring in the coffee. It will probably sputter and foam a little as you add it to the hot drippings.
 Pour in 1/2 cup (120 ml) of water and stir the red eye gravy well. If you'd like to remove a little of the bitterness, add a 1/2 teaspoon of sugar. Let the gravy cook for 3 to 4 minutes until it becomes a little syrupy and cooked down. You can serve the red eye gravy or thicken it a little.To thicken it a little, add 1 tablespoon (14 g) of unsalted butter and whisk the gravy for one minute.
 Plate up your fried country ham and set out a small ramekin or gravy boat full of the red eye gravy. This way, you can portion out as much gravy as you like. Red eye gravy also goes well with:


Biscuits
Fried eggs
Steak

