 Before you map anything, determine how many lanes your track will have. Will it have two like an ordinary street or will it have four lanes like some toy racing sets? To get the right dimensions, measure the width of one of your child’s toy cars. Each lane on the track should be wide enough to accommodate one car. Then multiply the width of the car by the number of tracks you want. This should give you a rough estimate of how wide the track should be.


For example, if your child’s toy cars are one inch (2.54 cm) wide, your track will need to be more than four inches (10.16 cm) wide. This will ensure a little space between each car so that they are not packed tightly together.;
, With some string or rope, map out the path of the track. Lay out the string, looking to create good bends and curves for your child’s toy cars. If you want to lay out the track in detail, consider planting two rows of stakes and tying the rope around them to create the outline of the track.You should also use the string to measure the length of your track. This will help you determine how much Bricktor you need.
 Once you have your track mapped out, you will want to excavate it. With a shovel, dig a trench that is the desired width and about four inches (100 mm) deep. If you are digging in an area of your backyard where there is sod, you might consider chopping out the grass and replanting it elsewhere.Avoid digging into the roots of any nearby trees or bushes. Exposing their roots may kill the plant. In addition, the roots may eventually warp your track.
 Unspool the Bricktor and line the bottom of the trench. The Bricktor provides additional support and prevents the concrete from cracking. This will be particularly important if you live in a place that experiences significant seasonal temperature swings.Be sure to use your measurements of the track to purchase enough Bricktor to cover the length of your track. Most rolls of Bricktor have measurements that will help your know how much area they cover.
 In a large wheelbarrow, combine ¾ of the concrete and ¾ of the sand. Then add a small amount of water and mix with your shovel. This mixture should be soupy. Then add the remaining ¼ of the sand and concrete and continue to mix. Stir until the mixture is wet and thick but not soupy.You can also add black oxide powder to the mix to give it a black color.
For the best results, follow the manufacturer’s instructions on the cement mix.
 Once the cement is thick, you should use the shovel to pour it into the trench. Fill the entire trench and then use a wooden float and a trowel to level it off and create a flat surface for the track. Once level, let the cement dry for at least 24 hours.Be sure to follow the manufacturer’s instructions on the cement’s drying time.
 Take a piece of yellow chalk and draw lines on the track to create the lanes. In addition, you can also paint on lines or create stencils and spray paint lines and traffic signals. Be as creative as you would like decorating the track.