;
, Note the following:



The Red Angus breed is very similar and closely related to Angus except that these cattle are red instead of black. In the United States, even though there are two separate associations for Angus and Red Angus cattle, in Canada, Red Angus is considered the same or similar breeding of Black Angus cattle, even though they are recognized as two "different" breeds.

When breeders breed Black Angus and Red Angus together, they will always get black calves. In Canada, these Black Angus calves (yes, they're still considered as Black Angus!) can be registered as purebred stock and still be used as breeding animals. It's a different story in the USA, though, as the Angus cattle that do get registered at the American Angus Association cannot be heterozygous for red. (Genetically speaking, heterozygous means that an animal has two different genes that could be passed on to offspring: one is black colour, the other is red. Black is a dominant allele, which means that, physically, it allows itself to be present visibly, and overrides the recessive red allele.) They can, however, be registered as Angus Source stock instead.



Colouration: As was mentioned above, Red Angus are comprised of one colour: red. Most animals vary from a reddish brown to a brownish red, with the bulls having lighter points on near their polls, and may or may not form a lighter saddle on their bodies (see the picture above in Introduction). Some Red Angus cattle may have blackish colouration on their lips and around their noses. Other Red Angus will have a black face, a black line running from the nape of their necks all the way down to the tail switch, have black on the front of each lower leg, and even black hooves. The rest of the body is red.

Body type and characteristics: The body type is closely similar to Angus cattle, with not as much muscling as the Continentals do, but are overall blocky, beefy animals.

Head characteristics: Again, head conformation is very similar to Angus cattle. They are naturally polled, and also have this classic "Angus look" to them, from their polls to their noses. (See How to Identify Black Angus Cattle for more.)

Other characteristics: Like Angus cattle, Red Angus are highly adaptable and one of the best breeds to have on ranch-like conditions. However, Red Angus may have the upper-hand in adaptability because they do not have the black hide that would otherwise hinder them in hot, humid climates. The red coloured hair (not to mention thicker skin) make the Red Angus a bit more adaptable to hotter climates than what their Angus cousins can withstand. Red Angus are, though, more popular up in the northern areas of North America (from central and northern USA up to Canada) because of their ability to brave the cold temperatures. Red Angus are great mothers with good milking ability, good fertility, great calving ease, and a great ability to gain weight on just grass and hay alone. Reds are somewhat slightly more docile than Angus cattle, though they still can be a bit nutty in comparison to more docile breeds.
, Take pictures of what you thought were Red Angus cattle, and compare them with pictures of Red Angus on the Internet and in your Cattle breeds book.

