 Set up a double boiler by placing an inch (2.5 cm) of water in the bottom of a saucepan. Fit another saucepan or glass bowl on top of the original saucepan, making sure the water doesn’t touch the bottom of the bowl or pan. Pour out some water if it’s touching.

Place the butter and 2 ounces (57 g) of chocolate in the top of the double boiler and heat it over medium heat. Whisk regularly and vigorously until the chocolate and butter are melted and fully combined.
When the ganache is melted, remove it from the heat and set it aside.
 In a large mixing bowl, combine the flour, yeast, salt, cocoa powder, and 2.5 ounces (71 g) of the chopped chocolate. Use a whisk or wooden spoon to mix and combine the ingredients.You can use any type of chocolate for this bread, including milk, dark, or bittersweet.
 In a small bowl, whisk together the lukewarm water, the two lightly beaten eggs, and the honey. Make sure the water isn't above 100 F (38 C), or it will kill the yeast.

Instead of honey, you can also use sugar or agave.
 Pour the wet ingredients into the flour mixture and combine them with a dough whisk or wooden spoon. When the ingredients start coming together, spoon in the ganache and mix until everything is incorporated.

If necessary, use your hands to knead the bread a little in the bowl to incorporate all the flour.
 Soak a clean tea towel with water and wring it out to remove as much water as possible. Cover the bowl with the damp towel. Leave the dough for about two hours, which is long enough for it to rise and then collapse again.

After two hours, you can use the dough immediately or transfer it to the fridge for up to five days before using it. The dough will be easier to work with if you chill it first.If you do chill the dough first, allow it to warm up for about an hour and a half before making the bread.
 Turn the dough out onto a floured surface. Use a floured rolling pin to roll the dough out until it’s about a half inch (1.2 cm) thick. Then, sprinkle the prunes and the remaining 2 ounces (57 g) of chocolate evenly over the dough.

Roll the dough up into a cylinder and knead it a few times to incorporate the filling into the dough.
 Grease the bottom and sides of a loaf pan with a generous layer of butter, and then sprinkle a thin layer of sugar over the butter. This will add some extra sweetness and prevent the dough from sticking. Transfer the dough to the loaf pan and set it aside to rise for an hour and a half.

This recipe makes about a 1.5-pound (454 g) loaf, so use a loaf pan that’s around 8.5 by 4.5 inches (21.6 by 11.4 cm).In the last 10 minutes of the rising time, preheat your oven to 350 F (177 C).
 In a small bowl, whisk together the last egg and the water to make an egg wash. Use a pastry brush to brush the top of the dough with the wash. Sprinkle the top with sugar.

Bake the bread for 50 minutes to an hour. The loaf is ready when the dough becomes firm.
 Remove the bread from the oven and turn it out onto a wire cooling rack. Allow it to cool until it’s safe to touch and eat, then serve warm with your favorite toppings, such as butter, jam, or nut butters.

To reheat the bread, cut off a slice and toast it before serving.

