 If you want your parents to listen to you, you will have to show that you put thought into what you are saying. You should be able to cite specific reasons as to why keeping the pet is a good idea (e.g. teaching you responsibility). It will also help if you can find sources online or in print that back up your claims. Even if you think the reasons are common sense, show them that you really cared enough to do some research about it.Avoid exaggerated truths like “Caring for the dog will teach me to care for my kids one day.” Support for such a statement is going to be weak at best. Instead, focus on something like the fact that it will help you be more mindful of your responsibilities, like feeding your pet.
Understand why your parents want to sell your pet. Maybe they don't want to take care of it anymore or can't afford to feed it. Ask your parents questions about why they want to sell your pet, and then come up with counterarguments to their reasons. If they say that they can't afford your dog's food anymore, offer to get a part-time job to help pay for it. If they say that they can't take care of him anymore, offer to take up more specific responsibilities (like feeding and walking) when caring for him.;
, Avoid vague statements such as “I’ll take care if it.” Think about the ways that you can and will actually do this. Have a list of specific responsibilities you are ready to take on, when and how you will complete them all, and what other activities you’ll be giving up to make sure that they happen.Consider alternate living arrangements for your pet. If a dog is taking up too much space in your house, perhaps think about building him a doghouse and letting him live outside. If your best friend has a few cats already, maybe she wouldn't mind taking your cat to live with her. Think about what living arrangements would work for both you and your parents.
If you are not willing to give up after school activities, or make arrangements to help care for your pet, you may need to rethink your priorities.
 Try not to cry and sob to your parents uncontrollably. Instead, combine your reasons for keeping the pet with the compromises you are willing to make, and then remind your parents of good times with the pet. It is okay to cry a little, but keep yourself calm and collected so that you can make your point clearly.