 When people think of Uggs, the first image that comes to mind is the classic monochrome sheepskin boot. Comfy and soft, the original Uggs come in two styles – essential tall and classic short. Though these are great options, the Ugg company now makes a variety of different boots that suit different needs. Choose a style that best compliments your wardrobe and lifestyle.


If you’re looking for a boot that is simply comfortable and warm, one of the classic styles might be the best choice. The classic short is a bit more subtle if you don’t want your boots to be immediately noticeable, while the essential tall is a more visible addition to your outfit.
If you want a boot that’s waterproof and a bit more durable in harsh weather, Ugg has lots of options to offer. While their alternative boots don’t have the classic, recognizable sheepskin Ugg look, they’re both fashionable and functional. For example, the Adirondack boot is made of waterproof leather and suede with wool lining on the inside for super low temps. Check out the Ugg website, http://www.ugg.com/women-boots/, for a full list of alternative styles.;
, When it comes to choosing the color of your Uggs, you should consider how this will complement your complexion, hair color and wardrobe. Lighter hair colors and complexions tend to pair well with a natural earth tone such as chestnut or brown, whereas a darker hair color or complexion looks great with deeper colors such as black, grey, or blue. Most importantly, pick a color that you love!


If you have a lot of warm colors (red, yellow, orange) in your wardrobe, consider a tan or brown boot. The combination of warm colors and tan/brown boots gives you a natural look. If you’re more into neutral colors (black, grey, white) a more neutral boot would pair nicely with your wardrobe. , Snow and rain will ruin your classic sheepskin Ugg boots. While meant for cold weather, this style of Uggs is not waterproof. In places that have chilly winters but not a whole lot of snow, a classic sheepskin boot could be a great choice, since they won’t have as many opportunities to get wet. If you live in a place with consistent snowfall such as the Northeast or Midwest, it might be worth it to look into Ugg boots made with durable waterproof materials.

