 Your doctor will have a variety of medication options available to help alleviate pain and other symptoms. Your doctor will also have general information on how to minimize flareups.They may also refer you to a rheumatologist, who specializes in diseases such as lupus. Together, they will help you manage your medications and keep your symptoms and side effects in check. Keep regular appointments to help find the best medication (or combination of medications) for your specific symptoms. You should also see your doctor whenever you have a flare. Common symptoms involved with a lupus flareup include:Severe fatigue and fever
Pain, swelling, or stiffness in your joints
Chest pain
Confusion or memory loss
Shortness of breath

, Corticosteroids (prednisone, cortisone, etc.) have anti-inflammatory properties. Corticosteroids fight the painful inflammation that can accompany lupus's autoimmune response. Your doctor will want to monitor your use of corticosteroids because long-term use can lead to side effects such as:Weight gain
Susceptibility to bruising
Increased potential for infection
High blood pressure
Osteoporosis (bone thinning)

, Your doctor may prescribe antimalarial drugs—hydroxychloroquine (Plaquenil) and chloroquine—in conjunction with corticosteroids or other medications. They most often treat lupus symptoms such as skin rashes, mouth ulcers, and joint pain.These options can require long-term use to measure results, but side effects are typically mild. They include:Upset stomach and blurred vision (reduced by taking with food)
Insomnia
Anxiety
Dizziness
Retinal damage (in very rare cases)

, Your doctor may prescribe immunosuppressive medicines—azathioprine (Imuran), leflunomide (Arava), and methotrexate (Trexall)—for serious cases.However, your doctor will monitor the use of these drugs carefully since they reduce your body’s ability to fight off other infections. Side effects include:Increased risk of infection
Damage to your liver
Decreased fertility
Higher risk of cancer
A newer medication in this class—belimumab (Benlysta)—also helps relieve lupus symptoms in some cases. Benefits of the drug include less severe side effects, often limited to nausea, diarrhea, and fever., Immunoglobulin is a term for a body's natural antibodies, which, under normal conditions, help fight disease and infection. In IVG therapy, antibodies are isolated from another person's donated blood, then injected into your body intravenously (through a vein). IVG can boost a person's immune function without increasing the autoimmune response that causes lupus symptoms


Due to an expensive, time-consuming delivery process, your doctor will only prescribe this option in severe cases.
 People with lupus are more likely to suffer from blood clots. If a blood clot occurs in a deep vein, in the heart, or in the brain, it can cause potentially life-threatening conditions such as deep-vein thrombosis, heart attack, or stroke. Your doctor may prescribe anticoagulants to thin your blood if he or she decides that you are at a greater risk for blood clots.The most serious side effects of blood thinners are increased susceptibility to bleeding and gangrene of the skin., Sometimes, in severe cases of lupus, the pain can become too great for anti-inflammatory treatments to manage. In these cases, your doctor can prescribe powerful painkillers, usually opiates like oxycodone.
 Some common medications can aggravate lupus symptoms. If you take one of these medications, work with your doctor to see if you can replace them with other medications or otherwise minimize their effects with regard to lupus. Some drugs that have negative interactions with lupus are:


Sulfa-containing antibiotics (sulfonamides)
Hydralazine
Procainamide
Mynocycline
Supplements that contain alfalfa

