 Before you head out into the sun, grab everything you need for a study session of decent length. You don't want to have to head back inside because you forgot something.


If you'll be reading, it's a good idea to load several e-books onto the same device. This makes your homework more portable, and ensures you don't run out of things to do.Bring a snack and a water bottle. Hunger and thirst can be distracting and will eventually send you off in search of sustenance.;
, Choose a place to study where you feel safe and comfortable. There are lots of good places to study outdoors, each of which can have advantages and drawbacks.


A park or common area of your school can be a great choice, because it's free. The downsides here are that there can sometimes be too much activity going on around you, and you often end up sitting on the ground, which can get uncomfortable after a while.
A cafe with outdoor seating is a good option because you get to work at a table, and if you start to get hungry or thirsty, you can order something to eat. The downside here is that you usually MUST order something, so this option costs a bit more. Some cafes also won't want you to stay for a long time unless you keep ordering things.
Your own backyard, patio, deck, or balcony can be a good choice, because you have more control over your environment than in a public place. However, if you're looking to get out of your house or make this a social experience, working just outside your own back door may not satisfy those wishes.
 Bring a blanket to sit on and spread your study materials out, if you want. You can even bring a lawn chair or a cushion to sit on.


Sitting on the ground can get uncomfortable after a while, and that can make it hard to focus on your studies. So, make sure you find a spot where that won't be a problem.Don't get too comfortable, however, or you may fall asleep.You may not want to stretch out on your back with a blanket and pillow.
 Natural light can be great for studying. It can help you stay focused and calm, and can even decrease the likelihood of headaches.This is a real perk of outdoor studying.


Pick a place where you'll get plenty of light, but where you won't be blinded. The sun on the white paper of your textbook pages can be a bit much, and can also make screens hard to read. Pick a spot that works for you, and bring your sunglasses!
If you are going to study in direct sunlight, make sure to put on some sunscreen first. Partial shade is often your best option.
 While studying outside can help you avoid certain distractions you might find indoors (like your video game system or a pile of dirty dishes), it can come with its own set of distracting problems. In choosing a spot, try to avoid any obvious distractions.


The park can be a great place to study, but setting up right next to playground full of screaming children or an off-leash dog area can it make a lot harder to keep your focus.

