 Before you decide to completely eliminate a person from your life, take a break for a trial period to see if this is really what you want to do. Tell the person that you think it would be good to take some time a part to meet new people and explore some different interests. If this is a friend, let the person know that you care about them and you still want to be friends.You may say, "I really value our friendship and the time we spend together. I think it would be really great for both of us to spend some time a part and meet new people."
Be kind and respectful when you have this conversation and do not place any blame on the other person. Avoid using phrases such as, "You always," "You never, or "You can't."
Emphasize that you think this is a good solution for both of you.
 If all else fails and you no longer want the person in your life, let the other person know. Tell the other person that you want to end the relationship and the reasons why you want to end the relationship. Be as direct as possible. This will be a difficult conversation.You may say, "I have thought a lot about our friendship and some things have been bothering me. I want to talk to you about this."
You may also say, "I have to do what is best for me. I don't think we should spend time together anymore. I wish you the best in everything that you do."
Before you have this conversation, be absolutely sure that this is what you want to do.
 You will most likely feel extremely guilty for cutting someone out of your life. Your feelings of guilt are completely normal, and it will take time for you to feel better. Take confidence in the fact that you made a well thought out decision, tried to fix the relationship with the person, and did what was best for you.Accept that people come and go from your life and nobody is perfect.Try to learn from this experience and apply it to your interactions with other people.
 It may take the person a while to come to terms with the end of the relationship. The person may still try to contact you or be around you. The person may ask to have another conversation or try to convince you to change your mind. Stick with your decision and do not give in to the other person's persistence.


If you respond to the person, you will be sending a mixed message.Responding to the person will only encourage them to contact you.
If the person calls you or texts you, you do not have to answer. You can even block the person's number so you will not know when they have reached out to you.
Remember that you have handled the situation the best that you could and have made the best decision for yourself.
You may need to remind that person that you no longer want to spend time around them or see them. Always be assertive and firm.