 If he jokes around with you then he, may like you, however, he just might like to mess with other people too. When you are sitting at lunch, pay attention to see if he is messing with you just to be funny, or if he is trying to be funny and friendly. If he:


Is extremely nice to you, never puts you down.






Walks with you in the halls on your way to classes.
Acts shy.;
,,, For example, he might list all the sports he plays, how much he can do of something, or continually say how good he is at something. Again, this may be a part of the way he is around everyone. Try to figure out if he is taking extraordinary measures to build himself up in your eyes.
 He might kick your chair, talk loudly, or act clumsy. These are all signs that something is up and he has an interest in you.
 If he is making an effort to sit or stand up straight, then he may like you. If he may be pulling his shirt down, playing with his hat, you can assume it means he is shy and thinks you're pretty. If he stands up for you all the time and is overprotective, then he may like you.
 This is the simplest and most direct way to find out. This takes a confident person unless you already are perfectly confident. You'll also have to be able to handle it if he doesn't like you (especially if you like him).
 By asking him/her just to ask them or 'observe' them 'further'.
 This is something that is very important to look for. If he does stare at you, try to see what kind of a stare it is. Is it a stare like he is lost in his thoughts, or is it a stare meaning he thinks you're weird? Sometimes his eyes can say everything!

, Do his pupils dilate when he looks at you? Sometimes, if a boy likes you, his pupils will dilate. Not many people pay attention to this, but sometimes it can be a sign that he is crushing on you.
 Do his cheeks turn any shade of pink or red around you? When you two are having a simple chat in the hall, try to see what color his cheeks are. Do they turn an unusual pink or red around you, or do they stay their normal color? If they are not their normal color, it could be a sign that he is nervous around you and is afraid of embarrassing himself.


Slightly look at him if he walks past you or are in lessons and see if he is looking at you. Notice his reaction when he realizes he's been caught. If he blushes or turns away quickly, it's a definite sign he is into you, but don't be upset if he doesn't react because some guys like to act cool and make it seem they weren't looking at you at all.
 Does he ever try to gently 'shove' or touch you? If he does this, he could just be friendly, or he could be trying to make an excuse to get closer to you.


Does he ever hug you for no reason? Making physical contact is a sign that he likes you.
 This usually means he is just being friendly, but if he does it often, it may mean that he wants to make an excuse for you two to get closer.
 If he panics more than your other guy friends would when you cry, it's a sign. Ever had those kind of days where nothing seems to be going right and you break into tears? Pay attention to his reaction: Does he ask what's wrong and who/what caused it and tries hard to make you laugh or at least smile? If he does any of this more often than your other guy friends, it means he cares about you and likes you.
 Have you ever talked to him about a TV show or a video game and a week later he is hooked on it? It means he is either really into the same things as you, or he wants you to like him more.
 Does he ever try to sit by you in class? If your class does not have certain seating arrangements, does he try his best every day to sit near you?


Has he asked for your phone number yet and does he text you a lot? If he hasn't got your number, no problem, it might mean he is shy or nervous.
 Have you ever caught him glaring/narrowing his eyes at a boy you talk to? He might be jealous of other guys around you.


Look at his expression when you are talking to other guys. Does he look angry or act moody or even comes and interrupts you when you are talking?

, Do his friends laugh at him and look at you like they know something you should know? This can be a dead giveaway. It is usually the friends that let the boy's crush find out he likes them. Try to look for that when you walk near.


Do they a giggle and nudge your crush and make lovey dovey noises or smirk at him?
Does he hang around your friends a lot? This may mean he wants to get closer to your friends to help him find out more about you.

