 Sunlight and air break down oils over time. Store your oils in bottles made from dark, semi-opaque glass, the size of a small perfume bottle. The small size lets you work with quantities that you can use up before they break down, while minimizing headspace (air inside the bottle) that speeds up decay.Use bottles with a tight cap or cork.;
, You can make a simple body oil with one essential oil and one carrier oil. However, many people prefer to make their own customized mixes. To start with, decide on a "top note" for your perfumed body oil. This is a bright or sharp aroma that will grab your attention when you first smell the mixture, but it will not last long.


Examples include peppermint, basil, and most citrus oils.(Be careful: many citrus oils can cause severe burns if applied to skin and exposed to sunlight.)
If you need more ideas, smell the oils at a brick-and-mortar essential oils store, or the herbs at a plant nursery or grocery store., Also called the heart note, this oil usually has a full-bodied, complex scent. It lasts one or two hours on a perfume testing strip. You can choose a middle note to serve as the main theme of the scent. Alternatively, pick one that shares elements of the top and base notes, to help the bottle harmonize.Good choices include chamomile, ginger, rose, and many other herbal and flowery scents., For a classic three-note mix, the last essential oil you'll need is the base note. This should last at least a few hours, as its main purpose is to give the blend staying power. Many oils used as base notes are also fixatives, which slow down the rate of evaporation of the other scents.Try deep, strong scents such as vanilla or sandalwood.
Once you've made your three choices, put a couple drops of each on a cotton round and waft the scent toward you for a rough test. If you're not a fan, change on of your choices., You must dilute essential oils with a carrier oil before applying them to your skin. Unless you plan to use the body oil quickly, choose one with a long shelf life, such as fractionated coconut oil or canola oil. Also consider whether you prefer a thin or thick oil, and the scent of the oil. Beginners may wish to choose a carrier oil with little to no scent, such as sweet almond oil, so they can focus on combining the three essential oils.


You can use oil from a grocery store, or you may prefer to buy a product specifically intended for aromatherapy, and free from additives.
These are often referred to as "base oils." Don't confuse them with "base notes."

, If you haven't applied one or more of your chosen essential oils to your skin before, conduct a patch test. This is especially important if you are taking medication or if you have known allergies. Use this procedure:Dilute a couple drops of essential oil in carrier oil, to twice the concentration you plan to use (see below for details).
Wet the inside of a bandage with the mixture and place on your inner arm.
Remove the bandage after 48 hours. If there is any redness or itchiness, do not use that oil.
 Fill your bottle (or bottles) with water nearly to the top, then pour it into a measuring cup. Write down the number of milliliters the bottle holds. Multiply this number by 20 to get an estimate of the number of drops that fit in the bottle.If you don't have a milliliter measure, 1 US fluid ounce is close to 30 mL.
For example, if you plan to make a large batch of 50 mL, your bottle holds 50 mL x 20 drops/mL = 1,000 drops.
 Adults who plan to use the body oil across a large area of their body should dilute the essential oil to 1%. If you plan to use it as a perfume or for a small area, you can safely try 3 or 5%.For a 1% dilution, multiply the number of drops your bottle holds by 0.01.


For example, if you have a 1,000-drop bottle and plan to dilute to 1%, you'll need 1000 x 0.01 = 10 total drops of essential oil.
Expensive essential oils are often sold in diluted form to make them affordable. If the label says it's already 5% diluted, multiply the number of drops by 20 (since 100% รท 5% = 20).
 As a starting point, try 2 parts base note, 1 part middle note, and 2 parts top note.If you're not sure how to calculate that in terms of drops, follow this example:


This ratio uses 5 "parts" total (2 + 1 + 2). There are 10 total drops of essential oil, so to divide it into five parts calculate 10 รท 5 = 2 drops per part.
2 parts base note x 2 drops/part = 4 drops base note.
1 part middle note x 2 drops/part = 2 drops middle note.
2 parts top note x 2 drops/part = 4 drops top note.
Sometimes the math doesn't work out neatly, and you can't get a perfect ratio. Just get as close as you can.
This isn't the only recipe you can use. If you want your middle note to be the centerpiece, you can go as high as a 1:3:1 ratio., Count out the drops of each essential oil according to the calculations you just did. Add these all to a glass bottle, and swirl it around so they mix together.
 Since all that math was based on the size of the bottle, you don't need to count out the drops. Just fill the bottle up with carrier oil as full as you can. Close the lid tightly and shake for a minute or two to make sure the oils are spread evenly throughout.


If you planned to fill multiple bottles, fill them all with carrier oil and pour them into one larger bottle. Shake to combine, then distribute it among each of the smaller bottles.
At this stage you can smell the oil and mix in another drop or two of essential oil to change the characteristics. Remember that adding too much can increase the concentration to levels that irritate the skin.
 Seal the bottle tightly and place it in a box or on a shelf away from direct sunlight. Essential oils can last up to 2 years, but some citrus essential oils and many carrier oils have a shorter shelf life. To maximize the shelf life, transfer the oil into smaller bottles as you use it so there is never much air trapped in the bottle.Keep it out of reach of children.


Discard the oil if it smells very different than it did fresh, if it thickens, or if it turns cloudy.
Refrigerating the oil can help, but it's usually not necessary, and many carrier oils solidify in the fridge. If you do store it here, let the oil warm up to room temperature before using.

