 The only way you can proceed to the next level or dungeon in the game is by completing the one that precedes it. Paths will be blocked or enemies that are impossible to defeat will be standing in your way, stopping you from going to the next level without finishing the one that comes before it.


On the other hand, if you’ve just started the game, the first level will not be locked and can easily be accessed because there’s no other level that precedes it.;
, The first thing you need to do every time you start a level is to find the treasure inside. Each dungeon or level keep treasures, like equipment or consumable items that you’ll need in order to complete that very same level, inside treasure boxes. These treasures can be found a few rooms from the entrance of the dungeons, so they’re not very difficult to retrieve.
 After finding the dungeon treasure, the next thing you need to do is fight the mini boss. A mini boss is slightly stronger than a generic minion but is weaker than a Boss type enemy. A mini boss guards its own room, usually a few paces away from where you found the dungeon treasure. Mini bosses can usually be killed with just four to five strikes of your sword or whatever weapon required to defeat it.
 Once you’ve killed the mini boss, it’s time to face the dungeon’s final boss. But unlike the mini boss’s room, the Dungeon Boss’s room is locked and can only be unlocked by the Boss Key—a large oddly shaped key. The key usually lies in rooms that you’ll venture right after you’ve killed the mini boss. Check for treasure boxes that you’ll find in these places to get the Boss Key.
 The Dungeon Boss’s room is very easy to find since its door is the largest one in the level, is covered with intricate designs, and is placed deeper inside the dungeon. Use the Boss Key to open the room and fight the Dungeon Boss. Unlike the mini boss, which can be defeated by a few strikes of your sword, the Dungeon Boss is very tough and, usually, can only be defeated using the equipment or item treasure you found inside the same dungeon. Each dungeon boss is unique and requires a specific method to kill.


After killing the Dungeon Boss, a portal will appear that leads back to the outside world. Stepping inside the portal will teleport you back to the Overworld, ending the level.

