 When buying cheese for your quesadilla, go for a softer one; it will melt easier than a harder cheese. You can use any of the of the following cheeses, or even a combination:Any of the following non-aged cheeses: Asiago, Gouda
Colby or Cheddar
Fontina, Gruyère, or Havarti
Monterey Jack or Mozzarella
Parmesan or Provolone
Romano or Queso Oaxaca;
, Fresh cheeses will be more difficult to melt in a quesadilla, but they can be mixed in with any of the melting cheeses. Here are some suggestions:Goat cheese
Feta cheese
Fromage blanc
Ricotta

, Quesadillas don't have to include meat. You can add a bit of color and flavor with both fresh and cooked vegetables. Here are some ideas:Fresh vegetables: baby arugula, baby spinach, chilies, or diced tomatoes.
Cooked vegetables: chilies, diced eggplant, roasted bell peppers, and sliced mushrooms.
Canned vegetables: Black beans, black olives (sliced), chilies, corn, pinto beans, and sun-dried tomatoes.
 This will prevent the meat from creating too much bulk and tearing the tortilla. Make sure that the meat is cooked. Here are the following types of meat you can use:Shredded chicken breast
Pulled pork
Shrimp
Sliced steak

, Onions and peppers can make your quesadilla taste spicier while herbs will give it a milder, more aromatic flavor. Here are some ideas:









Give your quesadilla a spicy kick with some crushed red pepper flakes or chopped smoked paprika.
Add some chopped fresh herbs, such as: basil, chives, cilantro, mint, oregano, parsley, tarragon, or thyme. You can also try adding some green onions.Chop up and sauté some garlic, leeks, onions, scallions, or shallots.
 Here are some suggestions:








For a classic quesadilla, mix equal parts of cheese and shredded chicken breast.
For a south-western twist, add black beans and corn salsa to your cheese.
Make a barbecue chicken quesadilla by tossing some shredded chicken breast with some barbeque sauce. For the cheese, try using Monterey Jack.
If you love bacon, try adding some chopped up fried bacon and a few jalapeno slices. For the cheese, try using Cheddar.
 You can eat your quesadilla as it is, or you can make it even tastier by adding toppings such as:









Salsa or pico de gallo
Guacamole
Sour cream
Sliced green onion

