 During a free kick when you strike a stationary ball, angle yourself to prepare to kick the ball with your stronger foot. Otherwise, when dribbling with the ball, push the ball ahead of you and towards your kicking foot.


Shift yourself and the ball to get the proper kicking angle. For example, when kicking the ball with your right foot, shift your body to the left or while running push the ball ahead so it is in front of your right big toe.
Contacting the ball slightly to the right or left of center will generate full contact with less sway than a strike dead-center.;
, As you approach the ball for the kick, shorten your strides. This is simplest to do when the ball is set and can be seen when professional players take free kicks. During a run, you will need to quickly shorten your strides right before you choose to shoot, since the short strides allow you shorten your leg swing for more power and control.A small hop forward up to the ball at the end of a last, long stride can help you generate power during a run.
 Continue running forward until you’re up to the ball. The foot you’re not using to strike the ball needs to be set right next to the ball, not behind it. This brings your body over the ball. If you stay behind the ball, you will have a tendency to lift the ball and miss the target or hit the ball with your toe., As you plant your non-kicking foot, point it in the direction you want the ball to go. Pointing your foot the wrong way makes kicking feel awkward and prevents you from maximizing your power.


Pointing your foot towards the ball will cause your foot to get in the way. Point too far to the side and you’ll lose control of the ball.
 Right before you kick it, glance down at the ball. Focus on kicking with the proper technique instead of generating power or watching the spot you want the ball to hit. This will help you keep your body over the ball. You will lean back only slightly when you swing. This prevents you from lifting the ball.
 Many people focus too much on generating power. When you do this, you force your shot, losing control of the ball and losing power because of a poor strike. Instead, let your body drop so that your shoulders are squared and the only tension is in your ankle.Sometimes players shake out tension before taking a free kick.
 Bend your non-kicking knee slightly as you draw your kicking leg back. Don’t go too far back or else you won’t be able to snap your leg forward quickly to get the ball away with accuracy.Large swings are best for long-distance kicks.
 When you move your kicking leg backwards, angle your toes downwards. This causes your ankle to lock., Whip your leg forward towards the ball. Keep your foot angled downwards as you do this. Right before you strike the ball, extend your foot to unleash the power stored in your leg

, Coaches tell you to kick the ball with the laces of your foot. Technically, you are kicking below that. The knuckle is where your big toe connects to the rest of your foot. This large bone creates force when the area just above it strikes the ball. Watch the ball as your foot connects with it.Never kick with your toes. This not only generates less power and control, but it can hurt your toes.
Hit the ball halfway up from the ground for maximum power. Strike further to the sides for more spin.
 Don’t stop when your foot hits the ball. Move your foot through the ball as it leaves your foot. This ensures your leg’s momentum is fully expended on the ball. Your foot will raise up at the end of the swing’s arc.
 Bring your foot down and plant it on the ground first before you try to move. That way the momentum of your swing is maximized and you stabilize yourself as you try to move., If possible, run after your shot. Putting pressure on your opponent may cause them to deflect or drop the ball, giving you a chance to repeat these steps to kick the ball again.

