 Make a list of people you admire, and write down the qualities they possess that you respect and appreciate about them. You will most likely find that none of them are perfect on the outside, but they possess admirable traits such as kindness, honesty, or dependability. You can keep these qualities in mind as you focus on your own path to developing internal beauty, and learn to reject the often impossible standards for beauty that mainstream society values.Remind yourself that external beauty standards change according to cultural and social mores.Women have, on average, 13 negative thoughts about their body daily.Note the ways that mass media create and perpetuate often unattainable physical ideals of beauty for both men and women.;
, Focus on what your positive traits, and practice replacing negative thoughts with positive self-talk. Positive thinking has numerous health benefits including increased life span and lower rates of depression.Challenge yourself to write down three things that you like about yourself that aren’t related to your physical appearance. Thinking positive thoughts changes neural pathways in your brain and can help reshape how you view yourself.Practice looking in the mirror, smiling, and complimenting yourself on an internal trait, such as your friendliness, kindness, or artistic ability, for example. The human brain cannot differentiate between a real and a fake smile, and smiling has proven psychological benefits.Stand taller. Working on your posture helps you project a sense of confidence, thanks to the “feedback loop,” where merely imitating something can have actual, tangible results., Inner beauty is a reflection of truthfulness and honesty about who you are. Reject trying to be “perfect.” Seek out ways to be comfortable being yourself and present in the moment.Focus on the future instead of the past. Part of living an authentic life is looking forward to trying new experiences. Getting stuck in the past stymies personal growth.Be flexible. Challenge the parts of your identity that need work and change, and don’t be afraid to grow. Give yourself permission to feel a range of emotions as you work on self-improvement., Self-discovery can give you the tools to make the necessary changes to your life that lead to cultivating inner beauty. Seek new experiences, ask advice from others, and set achievable goals for your life and career.


Take a personality test. These can help you identify your personality type, the jobs you are best at, and the traits you should spend time developing.Challenge yourself with new experiences and ideas. Take a class, try a new sport, or try a new hobby. Expanding your thought process can spark creativity and push your boundaries for the better., Assess what you do and don’t want from your life. Living the life you want imbues it with meaning, leads to overall life satisfaction, and develops the qualities that others find valuable, such as determination and perseverance.Reflect at the end of each day what went well, what didn’t, and what you’d like to pursue tomorrow. Making these kind of assessments can boost your performance and morale, and help you feel as though you are creating a path to your full potential.Take responsibility for your happiness and life choices instead of seeking validation from external sources. Inner beauty is a process that starts within.