 Although heartburn and indigestion are different, indigestion can lead to heartburn. Indigestion, or dyspepsia, is mild discomfort in the upper part of your abdomen that is usually accompanied by a feeling of fullness.Heartburn, on the other hand, is a painful, burning feeling just below or behind the breastbone.This is caused by a “reflux” of stomach acid and food into the esophagus (the muscular tube that leads to your stomach).


Additional signs that you have heartburn or indigestion include fullness and discomfort after eating and/or a burning sensation below the breastbone generally after eating.;
, Lifestyle changes can help prevent and resolve heartburn and indigestion. Some lifestyle changes that you can make include:Decreasing your alcohol and caffeine intake
Eating less spicy, fatty, or greasy foods
Eating small, frequent meals instead of large meals
Eating slower and not eating right before bedtime
Raising the head of your bed if you experience heartburn during the night
Reducing your stress level
Regular exercise
Smoking cessation
Losing some weight if you are overweight
Avoiding aspirin or NSAIDs. If you must take them, take them with food.
 Over-the-counter antacids or acid blockers can help relieve heartburn and indigestion. Many different forms are available on the market, and they include:Antacids, such as TUMS, are good for short-term relief. These neutralize the acid in your stomach.
H2 blockers, such as Zantac or Pepcid, block the production of stomach acid and last a few hours.
Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including Prilosec and Omeprazole, also block production of stomach acid and help relieve the symptoms of and prevent frequent heartburn. PPIs are used long term.
Some of these antacids can have side effects such as constipation or diarrhea. Talk to your pharmacist or doctor to choose the best one for you.
 If you prefer herbal remedies, alternative medication may help relieve heartburn or indigestion. Some herbal remedies include:


Chamomile: There is some evidence that shows chamomile in combination with other herbs may be good for an upset stomach.Do not use chamomile if you take anticoagulants, as it interferes with these medications.
Peppermint Oil: Enteric coated peppermint oil capsules can be used for irritable bowel syndrome. There are some studies that peppermint oil with caraway oil can also help with indigestion.Deglycyrrhizinated licorice (DGL): Licorice root, in preliminary studies, has been shown to help with digestion and heartburn. It can, however, cause an increase in blood pressure.