 You'll need to use one of these three methods to log onto both accounts at once:


Use two computers, logging on to one account on each. This is the recommended method.
Use two browsers on the same computer (such as Firefox and Chrome). This may or may not work.
Have a friend log in to your account. Do this at your own risk. Even a short session is technically against the rules, and could result in a ban on both accounts.;
, Have both avatars meet in the same location, anywhere you like. While controlling one account, right-click the other person and click "Trade." Switch to the other computer or browser and accept the trade. Arrange whichever item transfer you like.


This does not have to be a two-way trade. You can give a gift from one account to another.
 Ever since February 2011, the RuneScape terms of service have allowed players to transfer items between accounts.However, there is still a trade limit for certain accounts. If your account has never had a paid membership activated and was created after November 2011, it cannot transfer more than 25K worth of items or gold at once.Activating the membership once will permanently remove the trade limit, even if you let membership expire. There is no way to remove the limit without paying real money.
 Try this if you are transferring a large amount of money from an account with a trade limit. While you cannot trade items directly, you can sell the items on one account, transfer the gold with this method, then buy the items on the second account. Be aware that you do risk losing the money if you are careless or unlucky. Follow these steps carefully:Log on to the account that wants to get the gold.
Check for a worthless item in the Grand Exchange. There must be zero of these items for sale. If there are only a few cheap ones for sale, buy them all.
List one of those items for sale in the Grand Exchange. Demand a price equal to the amount you want to transfer from your other account.
Log out, then log in to the account that wants to give the gold.
Place a buy order for the same item and the exact same amount. The Exchange should automatically connect the two of you and make the trade..
There's a small chance that someone figures out what you're doing and places his own sell order, causing him to get your money. Place your orders quickly to reduce the chance of this happening.
 Do not try to use other methods of bypassing the trade limit. Most of these have been blocked as a way to fight gold farming. Dropping the items (or gold) or killing the "player" holding them may permanently destroy the loot. This includes the "table" exploit, which no longer works.Coordinating between multiple accounts to rig a minigame is against game rules. It may result in a ban.

