 Determine whether the mattress is more than seven or eight years old. As a rule of thumb, you should replace your mattress every seven or eight years. Beyond this age, mattresses tend to degrade and become less comfortable.If you are over forty years of age, you should replace your mattress every five to seven years. Typically, people are more sensitive to mattress pressure points after forty years of age., Think about how frequently you have rotated your mattress. If you have flipped your mattress many times over the years and it still has sags or other signs of overuse, you should consider replacing it.If you recently flipped your mattress and it did not help increase comfort, you may need to just buy a new mattress.
 Look in the seams of the mattress for bed bugs. Bed bugs can be seen by the naked eye. They are small, flat shaped insects with six legs. They may be white, brown or red. They are about half a centimeter (0.2 inches) long, so may want to wear your glasses or even use a magnifying glass to get a better view.If you have bed bugs, you will have red spots and experience itchy skin. If you have bed bugs, you should probably replace your mattress.If you have bed bugs and don’t want to replace your mattress, you could also try killing the bed bugs by encasing the entire bed and box spring. You can use a mattress encasement to seal the mattress, trap and kill the bed bugs. However, it is better to just replace the mattress., You should check for any dust, mold or bacteria in the mattress. If you have cleaned the mattress repeatedly and it is still exacerbating your allergy symptoms, you may want to simply replace it.Dust mites are microscopic so you will not be able to see them with your naked eye. However, if your mattress is dirty or dusty, it probably has them. You should regularly clean your mattress and use a mattress encasement such as an allergen resistant cover.If you have mold on your mattress, it will smell very bad. You may also be able to see black discoloration on the mattress. If there is mold, you should get it replaced., Take off the bedding and examine the mattress for stains. If you use a mattress protector, take it off as well to see if any stains have leaked through all of the layers. Although you may have used a mattress protector and taken other precautions, such as not eating in bed, years of wear and tear can result in stains. If your mattress has a lot of stains, you may want to replace it.If you replace your mattress, make sure you use a mattress protector on the new one. This should prevent many common stains.
Reduce stains by not eating in bed.

