 He can help you hit enemies,float in the air for a short time and turn into a submarine for underwater parts of a level. Perry has a backstory of his own: When Princess Peach and Perry rest by a fire every night, he falls asleep and dreams about his past. Perry used to be a human. He did not remember who he was and a kind old man he called "Grandpa" woke him up and adopted him. Perry was transformed into an umbrella by two strange figure's magic and he was separated from his grandpa.. A merchant found Perry lying on the ground and he sold him to Toadsworth, who then gave him to Princess Peach as she set off on her adventure to rescue her friends! When Perry's dreams of his past are revealed, he starts to remember more about them each night as his memory returns. Perry exclaims that Bowser is evil and the strange figures that captured him and his grandpa were also evil. He then whispers to "Grandpa" telling him that he has decided to stay with Princess Peach for a while.;
, If you play it at night, the title screen will be dark and Peach will be asleep on a cloud!

,


A :Jump
B or Y: Attack
X: Pick things up and put things back down again.
L button: Press the button Copy Files. Hold down the L button and the left button or the R button and the right button to walk very slowly.
R button: Erase Files, walk very slowly.
Side buttons: Run, press L or R button and the side buttons to walk slowly.
Down button: Duck.
Start: Open pause menu.
 Peach's emotions have special abilities: Float when she's happy, burn walls when she's mad, grow plants with her tears, and restore HP when she's calm. Peach has four Vibes - Joy, Rage, Gloom, and Calm. Touch a Vibe to use it. Touch it again and Peach will return to normal. Use vibe crystals to refill your Vibe Gauge on your screen while in a level.


Joy: Peach becomes very happy and gains the ability to float when the player presses A. Hold the button to keep going higher, and release the button to create a cyclone.
Rage: Flames will surround Peach. Use this Vibe to burn down wooden bridges and to melt ice.
Gloom: Peach becomes very sad and starts crying! Use this Vibe to make plants grow and to put out fires.
Calm: Peach will be calm and, while she is healing herself, she will restore her HP over time as the Vibe Gauge drains. Use this Vibe:

,,,, You can buy new abilities, puzzle pieces and more!.
 There are three Toads hidden in each stage. When Peach enters an area an exclamation point might appear on the touch screen. Free them from the boxes they are in by using your attacks! .
 Once you have all the pieces you can put them together in Puzzle mode.

