 You need to have piano experience before becoming a teacher. Most teachers have learned their craft thoroughly and enjoy it.;
, Most lessons are 30 minutes long, especially for beginning players. Find out what other piano teachers in your area are charging. As a new teacher, your rate should be lower than theirs. Many starting teachers begin with a low rate of $25 per lesson and raise their rate every two-three years by a few dollars. When you're deciding how many lessons and when you want to teach each week, remember the time commitments of your students. Are they still in school? College students? Are they working a 9-5 job? You'll have to work around their schedules too. Remember to leave time for your lunch or dinner break.
 You could have them at your house, at your student's house, or at another site, such as a music store or community center. Make sure there is a piano and a chair for you and your student. It should be clean, easy to work in, and easy to get to for you and your students.
 Advertise in the newspaper, hand out fliers in your neighborhood, and tell everyone you know. If your city has a community center, ask if they have a music program that you could be part of. It would give you more credibility. Music stores are good places to find aspiring students. Ask if they have a place, such as bulletin board, window, or desk, where you could hang a flier.
 Once you have a student and the first lesson scheduled, plan out what you will teach your student at the first lesson. Introduce yourself and ask the student some basic questions about themselves. Find out if they have ever played piano before and how much they know. You could ask them to play a simple piece for you. Do they have any goals or pieces that they're working on? Why do they want to learn to play piano? What kind of music do they like? You may want to find out when the lesson is scheduled if your student is new to the piano so you can recommend books for them to buy before the lesson. Alfred Piano Course books are an excellent series for learning the basics, but there are many other series to choose from. As the teacher, you should be familiar with the books. Some teachers buy the books for the students (the student pays for the books at the first lesson) so that they can play through the pieces themselves and be able to give the student helpful hints, skip pieces that doesn't agree with your teaching principles or other things.
 Learn from them and change how you're teaching for each student. Teach on the level of the pupil. Base your lesson off them. Go their speed. They're paying for the lessons. You want them to understand why the reason behind various music techniques. Start with what they know and build off it.
 Tell them when they've improved and what they do well. Offer constructive criticism only.
 You will be able to network with other teachers and be informed with new teaching methods and publications.
 This can include private lessons from teachers that are more advanced than yourself, reading music teaching literature, attending concerts, practicing and learning new repertoire for yourself, or browsing the internet or youtube for ideas and inspirations. Remember a good teacher is also a good student.
 You could offer small prizes (candy, pens, toys, etc.) when they've achieved the practice goal you've set for them.

