 Perdón is essentially the Spanish equivalent to the English "pardon" or "excuse me."



"perdón", pronounced "perr-donn" can be used in most minor, everyday incidents, such as accidentally bumping into someone or interrupting someone.
Alternatively, you can say "perdóname", pronounced "perr-donn-ah-may", to give a more direct apology.;
, The word disculpa, which translates as "apology" or "excuse" and is pronounced as "dees-kool-pah" can be used to mean "forgive me." It is appropriate for minor incidents in which you need to excuse yourself. It can be used in the same situations as perdón.


When making an informal apology you would say "tú disculpa;" but when making a formal apology you would say "usted disculpe." When you say "tú disculpa" or "usted disculpe", you are literally saying "you forgive me", though it's an imperative.
As a result, "tú disculpa" and "usted disculpe" are listener-oriented apologies, because they make the listener the subject of the sentence. This structure, which is common in Spanish, places the emphasis on the listener's ability to forgive you rather than on your own feelings of regret.
Alternatively, you can just say "'discúlpame", pronounced "dees-kool-pah-meh", which simply means "forgive me" or "excuse me" (informal).
 Lo siento, which literally means "I feel it," is the phrase that most novice Spanish speakers will learn as the all-purpose apology.


You can also say "lo siento mucho" or "lo siento muchísimo," meaning "I'm so sorry" or "I'm very sorry." Another variation with the same meaning is "cuánto lo siento." ( how sorry I am)
This apology is appropriate for serious situations such as the death of a loved one, a break-up, or a firing or layoff.

Lo siento is pronounced as "loh syenn-toh".
 Lo lamento literally means "I regret it." It can be used in place of lo siento to express remorse in more serious situations.


To say "I'm terribly sorry", you can use the phrase "lo lamento mucho", pronounced "loh lah-menn-toh moo-cho".
 To say this, use the phrase "siento lo ocurrido," which is pronounced as "syenn-toh loh oh-coo-ree-doh".
 To say this, use the phrase "mil disculpas", which is pronounced "meel dees-kool-pahs".
 To say this, use the phrase "te debo una disculpa", which is pronounced as "tay day-boh oo-nah dees-kool-pah".
 To say this, use the phrase "le ruego me disculpe" (informal), which is pronounced as "lay rway-go may dees-kool-pay".
 To say this, use the sentence "Pido perdón por las cosas que he dicho", which is pronounced as "Pee-doh perr-donn por las koh-sas kay ay dee-cho".
 To say "I was wrong", use the phrase"me equivoqué", pronounced "may eh-kee-boh-kay". To say "it's my fault" use the phrase "es culpa mía", pronounced "ess kool-pah me-ah".
 Try using the Spanish apologies above combined with other vocabulary to construct an apology specific to your situation.

