 Piercing your lip will be painful, and the piercing may cause bleeding. The area may be tender, swollen, and bruised for several days afterward.Lip piercings can take anywhere from six to 10 weeks to heal fully, so be prepared for multiple daily cleanings during that time, plus regular upkeep after that.;
, Cleaning your lip piercing is pretty straightforward, but it will require non-iodized salt, alcohol-free mouthwash, and a mild, fragrance-free soap. Pick up a new toothbrush as well—one with soft bristles—and replace your old one after getting your piercing.
 Before getting your lip pierced, know what to look for regarding infections. Symptoms include pus, green or yellow discharge, tingling or loss of feeling around the piercing site, fever, and excessive bleeding, pain, redness, and swelling.Leave the jewelry in if you suspect an infection, but seek medical attention immediately., Body jewelry often contains nickel, which is a common allergen for many people. Symptoms will likely appear within 12 to 48 hours, and can include itching and swelling, crusty or scaly blisters, and redness, rash, or dry skin.Your lip piercing won’t heal properly if you are allergic to the jewelry, so go back to the piercer as soon as you can if you suspect an allergy.
 Rinse your mouth for 30 seconds using an alcohol-free mouthwash or salt solution after every time you eat, drink, or smoke. Rinse before bedtime as well.


To make a salt solution, combine one-quarter teaspoon of non-iodized salt with eight ounces (236 ml) of boiling water. Stir to dissolve the salt, and let it cool.Don’t increase the salt content, as this could irritate your mouth.
 Once a day, preferably in the shower when any crusted matter and debris around the piercing has softened, lather a mild soap with your fingers and gently wash the piercing site and jewelry. Gently rotate the jewelry for a thorough cleaning and to remove debris. Rinse thoroughly, gently rotating the jewelry again.


Always wash your hands thoroughly before cleaning or touching your piercing.
Don’t clean the piercing with soap more than once a day.
 Once or twice a day, fill a small cup with the salt solution and soak the piercing for five to 10 minutes.Rinse the area with warm water after.
 Brush and floss after every meal if possible. Rinse your mouth with alcohol-free mouthwash after brushing to remove any leftover food particles from your mouth.
 Soft foods are recommended for the first few days. Once you return to solid food, cut it into small pieces. Place bite-sized pieces of food directly onto your molars.Be careful not to bite your lip, and avoid contact with the piercing as much as possible. Chew as far away from the piercing as you can. In the first couple days especially, try foods like:Ice cream
Yogurt
Pudding
Cold foods and drinks that soothe and help keep swelling.
 Suck on small pieces of ice to alleviate pain and swelling. Pain relieving anti-inflammatories such as ibuprofen can also be used., For as long as possible, and certainly for the first three hours after receiving your piercing, leave your lip piercing alone. Avoid talking as much as possible. Until your piercing is completely healed, you should also avoid:


Alcohol, tobacco, caffeine, and drugs
Sticky foods, including oatmeal
Hard food, candy, and gum
Spicy food
Chewing on non-edible items, such as your fingers, pencils, and pens., Cleaning time is the only time you should touch your piercing. Touching it too much can lead to infections, swelling, pain, and increased healing time. Don’t play with it, don’t let others play with it, and avoid contact and motion as much as possible.During the healing process, you should also avoid:


Oral sex and kissing
Sharing food, drinks, and utensils
Rigorous activity and physical contact involving the face

, This includes chlorinated water like pools and hot tubs, but it also means fresh water, lengthy showers and baths, and steam rooms and saunas. Keep your piercing dry, otherwise it will take longer to heal and may not heal properly.
 Don’t clean your piercing with rubbing alcohol, scented soaps, hydrogen peroxide, antibacterial ointments, or petroleum-based creams or gels.These products can cause irritation, dryness, cell damage, or clogged pores.


Keep the area around the piercing free of makeup, cosmetics, and facial creams or lotions.
 Not only can this aggravate newly healed skin, but the piercing can start to close immediately., After your piercing has healed, you don’t have to keep up with the multiple daily mouthwash rinses and soaks, but clean the piercing and jewelry in the shower with mild soap every few days. Brush and floss regularly.

