 Another classic disco decoration is a ball of light. To make one of your own, buy an LED light cord from a hardware store or online. You can get a variety of colors, and there are light cords that change color, flash, and even change effects via remote control., These will make up the shell of the ball. They are the perfect material, as they will emanate light, they are extremely cheap, and they are readily available at the grocery store.You will likely need more cups than you think. Of course, this depends on the size of the ball you hope to make, as well as the size of the cups you use.
Get about 100 cups just to make sure you have enough.
 Use a glue gun to apply a vertical strip of glue to the side of a cup, and press another cup against the strip of glue, so that their sides are touching from top to bottom. The openings of the cups will be tilted slightly away from one another, and the bottoms of the cups will point inwards. Continue adding cups in the same way, taking care to keep the cups on the same plane with one another.The specific numbers of cups you will use to complete this first circle is largely up to you. Keep in mind that you will be adding additional layers on top of this circle (with a few less cups each time) to complete a dome.
If you’re using classic water-cooler sized styrofoam cups, use 16 cups to complete your first circle.
 Nestle a cup into the spaces between each of the cups in the circle, using glue to fasten them. Always point the opening of the cup outwards. Repeat this process with additional layers of cups. It will take fewer cups to complete each layer, until you wind up with a completed half dome.As you stack layers, the bottoms of each cup will tilt slightly more inwards towards the center of the dome that is slowly forming.
It may be tricky to hold and glue the final few cups in the dome, so use clothespins to help hold the cups while you glue them in place.
Make another dome in the same way. Together, these two hemispheres can be joined to complete the shell of your light.
 From the inside of your half dome, push an LED bulb into the bottom of each cup, so that the bulb just barely protrudes into the well of the cup.Do the same for other side of the dome as well, then glue the two halves of the dome together with the rest of the LED bulbs balled up inside.
If the LED string is powered by a plug, make sure to run the plug out between some of the cups.

