 For this fold, you will need a square napkin, a level surface to work on, and silverware. You can use either a paper or cloth napkin for this fold, though cloth will look more impressive.

This fold works best with a napkin that has been lightly starched. Starch helps the napkin hold creases and folds. However, be careful not to overuse starch since it makes the napkin unpleasant to use while eating., Smooth out any noticeable wrinkles with your hands before you begin., Smooth the fold to crease the napkin. The crease will help the silverware pocket retain its shape.


Your napkin should be in a rectangular shape with the open ends oriented towards you.
 Now your napkin should be a quarter of its original size since it has been folded in half twice.


The napkin should be oriented so that the open corner is facing to the left.
 You will take the top left corner of the square and fold it down diagonally to the bottom right corner.


Make sure you only take the top layer of the square and fold it.
Press down on the fold to make a crease.
 The folded triangle will now be on the bottom and the full square will be on top.


The open corner of the square should now be on the top right hand side.
 Take the right side of the square and fold it over towards the middle. You will fold approximately one third of the napkin towards the center so the right edge of the napkin is now in the center of the rectangle. You will see a small triangle appear on the right side now that you’ve brought the triangle fold to the front.


Press down on the fold to make a crease.
 Now, you will repeat a similar action for the left side. Take the left side and fold it approximately one third of the way over. You will fit the edge of the bottom left side into the small triangle fold that was on the bottom of the right side.


Press down on the folds you’ve made to crease them.
 You will now see a pocket that your silverware can fit into. Press down on the folds again to make sure that they are secure.
 Now that your fold is finished, you can arrange your silverware inside of the fold.


This fold is great for dinner parties since the folded pocket is an attractive way to hold your guests’ silverware.