 Instead of talking to your coworkers about your family life, political activities, or personal problems, talk to them about sports or your favorite television shows. Gossiping about these subjects can actually improve workplace camaraderie.Even neutral topics like workplace news should be generally avoided. For instance, if you have a piece of info about someone in your company, or a new product line, that information might be for your eyes and ears only.
Never talk negatively about your workplace superiors.
Avoid talking to your coworkers about anything controversial.
 If you seem depressed and blue all the time, your coworkers might begin to spin stories about what’s wrong with you. Likewise, if you have a short temper and blow up over the littlest things all the time, you could mark yourself as a target for workplace gossip. Keep on an even keel, even when things don’t go your way.It’s okay to feel angry or sad when something frustrating happens, whether it’s in or out of work. But when you punch the clock, leave your baggage at the door. Focus on your job, and push your personal problems out of your mind.
Be friendly, but not invasive, with your coworkers. Ask them how their day is. Remark upon the weather.
For instance, you might say “It’s beautiful out today” if the weather is nice, or “It’s nasty out today” if the day is rainy and gray.
Smile frequently to show your coworkers you are in a good mood.
 If you gossip about your coworkers all the time, they might get their revenge by gossiping about you. Prevent this vicious cycle of gossip and retaliation by keeping gossip and negative comments to yourself.If you have a real problem or issue with someone in your workplace, confront them directly. Say to them, “Could I speak to you privately for a moment?”
When you and the person you’re interested in speaking with are alone, address your concerns to them.
When you’re done talking, say, “Let’s just keep this between us” so that neither of you will discuss the issue with others, thus preventing potential gossip.
 It’s okay to share some basic details about yourself. For instance, you might share the fact that you are or are not married, or whether or not you have kids. But if you share sensitive personal information with your coworkers, they might use it against you later. The best way to insulate yourself from becoming the subject of workplace gossip is to ensure that nobody at your workplace has any information they could leverage to churn out hurtful gossip against you. For instance, never share information pertaining to your:sexual activity
immigration status
illegal behavior
illnesses or medical conditions
conflicts with your kids or partner

, Many rumor mills churn out gossip based on a compromising image you posted online. Posts about your job or personal life are also fodder for workplace gossips. To limit your likelihood of becoming the subject of workplace gossip, stay off social media.Alternately, you could use social media with great caution. Only add friends who don’t work with you, and maintain the highest level of privacy on everything you post, and don’t share content frequently. Before posting, think about what your boss or coworkers might say if they saw the content.
Remember not to post anything to a friend’s page, since your friend’s page might have a lower level of privacy and could be accessible to coworkers.

