 Find out how much rent others are charging for comparable units. Look on sites like Craigslist, Zillow and Trulia. Drive around the neighborhood to find rental properties that are not listed on these sites.


Look for units that match yours in square footage, number of bedrooms and bathrooms, age, amenities and location.
Make a list of properties that are similar to yours and write down how much rent the owners are charging and the occupancy rate. Assess whether you can ask the same, more or less rent than these properties based on the location, amenities and size of yours.
Keep in mind that the advertised rental price of a property might be too high. If, for example, you find a property similar to yours that has been vacant for a long time, the rental price the owners are asking might be too high. Take this into consideration when setting the rental price for your unit.
 If you plan to hire a property management company to oversee your property, they should have a good idea of what rent you can charge. Otherwise, you can contact local property managers and ask them about rental prices in your area to get a sense of what you should be charging.Setting the right rent is part of a property manager’s responsibilities. Property managers understand the local market and know the rental values of comparable properties in the area.
 Rental agents, property managers, and some real estate agents who deal with rentals have a keen understanding of the local rental market. They are familiar with all of the other rental properties in the area. This makes them qualified to assess the positives and negatives of your rental property and set the appropriate rental price. Since they do showings, they also know what tenants like and don’t like. An agent will know what tenants will be willing to pay for the location, size and amenities of your property.Most real estate agents do not deal with rentals, although some might. For this reason, you might want to contact a property management company or rental agent in your area, as these tend to specialize in rental units exclusively., If you cannot find other similarly-sized rental units in your area, determine the rental price per square foot of unit that is similar in other ways. Apply the rental price per square foot to your unit to set the rental price.


To calculate the rental price per square foot, divide the rental price by the total square footage of the unit.
For example, suppose you have a three-bedroom, 1,500 square-foot unit available. A nearby two-bedroom, 1,000 square-foot unit is renting for $1,250 per month. Calculate the rental price per square foot of the nearby unit with the equation $1,250 / 1,000 square feet = $1.25 per square foot.
Apply the rental price per square foot to set the rental price for your unit. Multiply 1,500 square feet x $1.25 = $1,875. Based on the rental price per square foot, you can ask $1,875 for your unit.
Note that smaller properties generally rent for more per foot than larger properties.

