 If you have a history of severe allergic reactions to bee stings and carry an epinephrine auto injector, known as EpiPen, use it immediately.If you are experiencing any of the following symptoms, get emergency medical attention:


Dizziness or faintness
Difficulty breathing
Swollen tongue
Hives;
, Use the edge of a credit card, your fingernail, or a blunt knife to scrape over the stinger, which looks like a small black dot.Scraping across will actually pull the stinger out and to the side.


Scraping across the stinger prevents the venom sack from releasing more venom down into the sting., If you don't want to scrape the stinger, take sharp tweezers or use your fingernails and carefully pull the stinger directly out. Take care not to squeeze the exposed end of the stinger, or you'll release more venom into your skin.Some argue that you shouldn't use tweezers, because it can release more venom. However, the amount of venom released shouldn't matter if you remove the stinger quickly., The site of the sting will become inflamed and start to swell. Applying ice will numb any pain and keep the swelling down.If you were stung on your leg or arm, elevate the limb., Gently wash the site with mild soap and water. Then, apply a thin layer of hydrocortisone cream to minimize any reaction you might have.


For a more natural treatment, you can mix baking soda and water until it forms a thick paste. Spread this over the sting site., If you don't have hydrocortisone on hand, spread pure honey over the sting site. Place gauze or a small cloth over it and let it sit for up to an hour before rinsing off., Toothpaste is another natural alternative to neutralize the venom of a bee sting. Simply dab a little toothpaste over the sting site, place gauze or a small cloth over it, and let it sit for 20 to 30 minutes. Then, rinse the toothpaste off., This will help relieve some of the pain. Be sure to follow the package instructions regarding dosage.


For children, consult with your pediatrician for appropriate dosing of acetaminophen or ibuprofen.
 This may reduce the severity of a reaction. You can take something like Benadryl (diphenhydramine) or apply calamine lotion to reduce itchiness.