 Remember when gold was $1200/oz? That's roughly how your dollar has eroded now. Although the measurable erosion is probably not quite that extreme at the moment versus other commodities, it only makes sense to convert at least a percentage of big dollars to other things that will be needed/used in the future, right now.


A consideration should be made for even a portion, at least, of a retirement or other lump of dollars to be 'borrowed', and reallocated to commodities (of your choice).
Gold buyers have popped up everywhere, and everyone is selling their gold! While it is hard to call gold a buy at $1833 an ounce, understand that that is the most honest measure of your dollar; and, a 1980 quote for gold would equal almost $2400 an ounce in today's dollars. The bravest are generally doing exactly what the herd isn't doing. At least understand the reason why there are multiple people willing to give you 98% of quote for gold.;
, A colloidal silver maker costs like $100 right now- when you need one, they could be more valuable than gold. Just buy one, with a supply of silver, $189 total maybe, and throw it in the back of the closet.


Or, get hip, and purify water with it, replace your antibiotics with it, and avoid amputation with it, apparently; 101 things that your doctor doesn't want you to know about. Book included.
 You can plant most of them each spring; others may be purchased young and can mature in a greenhouse, or even a planter inside.You can learn a lot by just tossing the seeds of edibles below in a 2 x 10 patch.
You are going to have fun, and you'll be learning how these foods grow. Getting some of each of these particular foods each week will greatly improve your quality of life. There are dwarfs of most of the foods listed below, even cinnamon, however, dwarfs often lack some of the nutrition. From a list by Lee Bellinger:


Spinach.
Instead of putting lettuce on your cheeseburger, opt for spinach instead. Spinach is arguably the healthiest food available today. It's high in niacin, zinc, dietary fiber, protein, vitamin A, vitamin C, vitamin E, vitamin K, thiamine, riboflavin, vitamin B6, folate, calcium, and iron. To keep spinach's nutritional value, eat it raw.
Red Beets.
Often referred to as "red spinach" by nutritionists, red beets are the most common type of beet and are loaded with nutritional value. Eat red beets for vitamin A, vitamin C, vitamin B, vitamin E, vitamin K, potassium, folic acid, manganese, calcium, iron, magnesium, selenium, and zinc. Red beets have been linked to liver health, low blood pressure, and pregnancy health.
Cinnamon.
Cinnamon is associated with sweets, so many people don't associate it with health benefits. This is a tremendous mistake. Cinnamon is rich in vitamin A, vitamin C, vitamin E, niacin, magnesium, phosphorus, calcium, and potassium. It's also believed to help cure a wide range of maladies, including common colds, digestion problems, toothaches, and diarrhea. Cinnamon is also thought to reduce your risk of colon cancer.
Lemons.
Adding a lemon to your tea or water (or eating it raw if you can stomach it) is a tremendous health boost. Lemons are packed with vitamins. Lemons are a particularly good source of immune-boosting vitamin C. Additionally, lemons are thought to inhibit the spread of cancer.
Salmon.
Fish (and wild caught salmon in particular) have incredible health benefits. The best part about salmon is its high concentrations of omega-3 fatty acids, a crucial nutrient that most Americans don't consume enough of. Omega-3s reduce your risk of heart disease, keep your blood pressure low, are good for arterial health, and keep your brain healthy. Buy in bulk and freeze; and wild~caught salmon only. Better yet, go catch your own! Everyone who goes will still be talking about it in a month. Sorry, no seeds for this one.
Garlic.
Like spinach, garlic is something of a miracle food. With no fat, no cholesterol, and only four calories per clove, garlic is also rich in nutrients. Garlic produces antioxidants which are crucial for heart health. Garlic is very effective at reducing blood pressure. Garlic also reduces cholesterol and battles against digestive conditions like diarrhea and dysentery. Finally, garlic is a very potent aphrodisiac. Just make sure you use mouthwash!
Garbanzo Beans.
All beans have great health benefits, but garbanzo beans stand apart from the pack. Low in cholesterol and sodium, garbanzo beans are very high in protein, fiber, iron, magnesium, zinc, copper, folate, and manganese. They're a perfect addition to a salad and can also be mixed with rice.
Watermelon.
Watermelon is sweet, so many people assume that it doesn't have huge health benefits. But watermelon is actually a heavyweight in the nutrition department. It's very high in potassium and vitamin A. The downside? Watermelon derives a fair number of calories from sugar, which isn't always optimal if you're trying to watch your weight; but great for fermentation!
Sweet potatoes.
Sweet potatoes are delicious and not nearly consumed enough by the average American. They're loaded with dietary fiber, vitamin B6, potassium, vitamin A, vitamin C, and manganese. They contain very little sodium, saturated fat, or cholesterol.
Those with poor eyesight should make a point of eating sweet potatoes. A single one contains 769% of your daily intake of vitamin A.
Broccoli.
Your mother probably told you to eat your broccoli when you were a kid – and she was right. Broccoli contains protein, vitamin E, thiamine, riboflavin, pantothenic acid, calcium, iron, magnesium, phosphorus, selenium, dietary fiber, vitamin A, vitamin C, vitamin K, vitamin B6, folate, potassium, and manganese. Alternates derived from the same plant, cultivated differently, are cauliflower, brussels sprouts, and cabbage. Other 'cruciferous' vegetables have similar profiles.
Think of each time you eat as an opportunity to improve your health. You'll live longer, feel better, and achieve a more optimal life overall.
 A great temporary greenhouse is clear plastic disposable painter's tarp, tossed over a tent or other frame, and staked down; this can extend your growing season by months. A 10x10 greenhouse will change your life; and allow you to grow full sized specimens.
 Obviously, the more comprehensive, the better; but not so large that it's too big to take camping.


You can encourage wild edible growth wherever you find it, for a veritable harvest within a couple of years.
Even if you aren't currently interested in trying out the edibles in the book(s), buy one anyway! This may prevent you starving to death while leaning on food, or using it for shade. This has actually happened.
 Right now, it can be entertainment; learning to build a fire, maybe even with no lighter--even though you know you have a BIC in your backpack--right now, sure beats not being able to build fire, even with a BIC lighter, which is where you could be then.


If this happens to be next to a patch of something that you've encouraged to grow, well there you go.
If you are a camper you have a big jump here; if you aren't, there are many other ways to improve that may be more suitable to your personality. See how well you can function without power in your home for 3 days.
 If the previous step sounds too much like work to you, understand that there is a payoff; in this case, increased self-confidence. You can incorporate more self-sufficient methods into virtually any area of your life (many are doing it now of necessity), and there is invariably a payoff that becomes apparent within a couple weeks.
 When you know you could be at a roaring fire in 2 hours, tent set up, in a nearby forest, with the gear to purify water and fight infection, and a patch of whatever is growing on the side, sweet potatoes mandatory, to grab on the way out, your stress level just goes way down.
Find your own bliss - what is your biggest (rational) fear? Seek ways around it now; pretend it's about to happen. This seems scary to people! That just keeps you in the fear. After you have pretended five times, your biggest fear will be boring you, and your stress level has correspondingly dropped.
Not ready to start there? Then work on your biggest worry. All this for a mostly interesting weekend, if a bit of work - you'll have a blast, shut up.

