 Most Cosmos species come from South America or Mexico, and thrive in hot, dry climates with late summer rains. In these conditions they are very easy to grow, making them great plants for children or novice gardeners. In fact, this species has run wild in many regions in the world. Over-pampering does more harm than good.


They are drought-tolerant plants rarely bothered by pests or diseases.
 Cosmos plants only want to be planted in a full sun and well drained soil conditions. Soil that is too fertile or too wet will cause plants to grow tall weak, and leggy that don't stand up well to heavy winds and rain. They can tolerate partial shade.



Cosmos flowers don't really like being transplanted or moved once established. Choose a spot wisely.
 Always wait until the last frost has passed, and preferably until the soil has warmed to 60 to 70ºF (16-21ºC). Cover the seeds lightly with ⅛–¼" (3–6mm) as they need dark to germinate.
 Water the soil to settle the seeds into the soil and to aid in seed to soil contact. The seeds should germinate in 7 days to 2 weeks on average. Cosmos seeds don't mind being heavily planted.
 Once the first true leaves appear (the second pair), the sprouts have a high survival rate on their own. Cosmos is a hardy, annual plant that can tolerate drought as well as light to moderate frost. Check occasionally for problems and address them as follows:


Water only in severe drought.
Some older varieties are daylight sensitive, and may not bloom until late summer. Provide partial shade if you want to speed this up.
You may wish to throw out plants that produce extra-small flowers, or that turn completely yellow. This second group may be about to wilt, but note that yellowish-green seedlings are normal.
If your plants get top-heavy as they flower, stake or support them.
 This is called deadheading. After you cut the dead flowers off, more buds will form beneath the cut flower stem giving more flowers.


Know that most Cosmos plants are annuals and after one growing season. When your plants start looking sickly and dead it's time to pull em out of the garden and throw them out.
 Cosmos are hardy annuals with the exception of the Chocolate Cosmos. This particular species is a tender perennial that can't stand the winter weather of northern climates.


The chocolate cosmos practically has the same requirements as the other species, but the bulb can be dug and stored indoors over winter in a frost-free dry location. Planting the tuber is like planting a Dahlia root. If you live in a frost free environment (zones 7 to 10 USDA hardiness zones, maybe zone 6) they can be left all year around. This plant will rot in overly moist soil, growing more slowly in the garden and can be placed in a container that can be brought indoors. In warmer areas, the plants benefit from mulching to protect from cold.
You can propagate the plant via division of the tuber. Lift the plant out and cut pieces of the root with eyes (growing spots with leaves and roots growing) and planting in original garden soil with watering after planting or in the spring right before you are just ready to plant.

