 Think about where you want to walk after you meal. This should be a path that is immediately outside of your door. You might walk around your neighborhood, stroll around the block of your office, or visit a local park.


Set a goal for yourself when you plan your route by identifying a local landmark you want to reach. For example, you might decide to walk to the mailbox down the street and back.
You can use an app or website like Map My Walk or Plot a Route to plan new walking routes in your area.;
, Walking immediately after a meal will prevent your blood sugar from spiking, which can reduce the sleepiness you may feel after you eat. Instead of waiting after a meal, take your walk as soon as you finish.If you have heart disease, you may want to wait half an hour to an hour before walking.Some people may cramp easily if they exercise after a meal. If you start cramping, try waiting fifteen or thirty minutes before you start walking.
 Put on a pair of comfortable sneakers, trainers, or walking shoes. A comfortable pair of walking shoes can help protect your joints and your feet as you walk. Good walking shoes should fit your feet well while providing support to your whole foot.


The insole (the bottom of the inside of the shoe) and the heel collar (which rests against your heel and ankle) should both be cushioned.
The bottom of the shoe, or outsole, should have grooves and treads so that you can maintain traction in all weather.Waterproof shoes or boots may be useful if you live in a wet or snowy climate.
 Fifteen minutes is all you need to reap the benefits of a post-meal walk. You can time your walk on your phone or fitness tracker.If you’re having difficulty walking for fifteen minutes, you can start with five minutes. Add a minute or two every day until you can walk for fifteen minutes.
If your route takes you less than fifteen minutes, you might loop back around it.
If a fifteen minute walk is too easy, once a day you can walk for up to thirty minutes.
 A short walk after every meal will maximize your benefits. It may even be better than a longer walk at the end of the day. Try to fit a walk into your schedule after every meal.If this is difficult to do, you might aim for walking after at least two meals, such as breakfast and dinner.

