 Set aside fifteen minutes each evening to write about your feelings each day. While this may not be a therapeutic treatment, it will help you to create a record of the frequency you experience symptoms. You may be able to identify patterns that may aid treatment. After journaling for several weeks, read all of your entries. Look for activities or emotions that occur before an episode. Activities and emotions that precede episodes may be triggers.


Common triggers include intense emotional experiences, i.e. anxiety or fear, and drug or alcohol use.
Identifying triggers will help you to alter your behavior in circumstances likely to cause symptoms. Intense emotional experiences are common triggers.
Also note anything that seemed to help symptoms subside. After identifying behaviors that reduced symptoms, you can start to use them regularly to decrease the severity and duration of episodes.
 Avoidant personalities are at greater risk for developing depersonalization/derealization disorder. This is likely due to an intense anxiety about social interactions, especially conflict. Anxiety over having an episode as a result compounds that stress, but avoiding conflict will only contribute to strained relationships, feelings of isolation, and increased anxiety over time.If you are too emotional or anxious to communicate your needs and work towards compromise with another party, remove yourself from the situation and communicate in writing. Texting or emailing will allow you the time and space you need to regulate your emotions and approach an issue more objectively.
 Stress may trigger symptoms, so develop a stress management plan. Plan relaxation time everyday to maintain ongoing benefits of stress reduction.Consider scheduling 30 minutes each day to meditate, do yoga, enjoy a hobby, or just sip a cup of tea.
 A healthy lifestyle contributes to good mental health. Taking care of your physical and emotional wellbeing and avoiding destructive behaviors, like drug and alcohol abuse, may help prevent or reduce symptoms of mental disorders.Eat a healthy diet. Nutrient deficiencies may contribute to some mental health problems. A healthy diet will prevent deficiencies and improve your ability to cope with stress.
Exercise regularly to reduce stress and improve long-term coping. Cardiovascular exercise is particularly helpful. Commit to getting at least 30 minutes of cardiovascular activity at least three times a week.Get plenty of rest. Sleep disturbances may result from and contribute to poor mental health. Make getting adequate sleep a priority in your schedule. This is often around eight hours, plus or minis one hour.Foster healthy relationships to strengthen your social support system. Schedule time each day to chat with a loved one. Make weekly dates to stay connected with friends.

