 They need to be free of any leftover food and dry to avoid bacterial or mold growth.;
, The size of the jars makes them ideal to store such items as buttons, sequins, beads and other sewing baubles.
 Add nuts, bolts, screws, nails, washers and other small hardware items to the jars. If you're handy with wood, screw the lids into a piece of wood and mount the wood as a shelf. The jars simply screw or pop back into the lids and create a tidy storage space.
 Fill the jars with potpourri of choice. Cover the top of the jar with lace or other wide weave cloth to allow the scent to waft out. Finish up with a sweet ribbon bow tied around the jar to hold down the lace or other fabric.
 The jars are great for taking small amounts of food such as jam, pickles, sauce etc. along to a picnic or tailgate event instead of having to take along the entire large jar such items come in originally. Obviously, don't use the jars for storage of such items after the picnic; what has not been eaten should be discarded after the picnic.


The jars are excellent for taking salad dressing to a picnic or work. For example, mix olive oil and balsamic vinegar together and pour into the jar as a quick dressing.
 Pour sand into the base of the baby food jar, then add the tea light candle in the center. These work well indoors and out and throw a pretty glow.


Add citronella candles for outdoor use to repel insects around entertaining areas.
 Sew the cushion part onto the lid and stuff well. Inside the jar, keep additional pins.
 Large amounts of dried herbs can be easily and comfortably kept in baby jars.
 Place the jar next to the change table for ease of use.
 Fill with soil and add seeds that will be transplanted quickly. Given that there are no drainage holes, this usage should be very short term.
 Fill with different layers of sand and other interesting layers such as glitter and glue the lid into place. Decorate the lid and give away as gifts or use at home.
 The jars are a good size for holding paint and for putting paintbrushes into.
 This is a neat way of carrying a small amount of treats or a pick-me-up snack for your pet.

