 Lubricant used on door hinges should be capable of penetrating the grime and coating the interior of the hinge to keep it working effectively. It's important to get a can or container that has a thin nozzle to access the hinge area. Ask your local hardware dealer for a good and affordable spray lubricant. Good varieties and brands to use on hinges include:


Silicone spray lubricants like Blaster or Tri-Flow are usually the most widely-available and easiest lubricants to use for greasing door hinges.
Lithium grease is effective and dust-resistant, available in large quantities at most auto parts stores. Primarily used for lubricating car parts, this will do the trick and be useful in other situations as well.
Food-grade oils like olive, canola, or coconut oil can also be used in a pinch to lubricate sticky hinges. If the door works relatively well but still squeaks, these are effective ways of fixing a quick squeak. Food oils tend to attract dust and grime, however, making them less desirable than silicone, or other varieties of lubricant.;
, Each door hinge consists of the hinge itself and the pin used to hold the two components of the hinge together, the door to the wall. Look for the round hinge pin that sits between the flat plates on the hinge. This hinge pin holds the hinge plates together and will need to be removed to lubricate the hinge effectively.
 Open the door and pull out the pin some of the way from the hinge. On some hinges, you may be able to use your fingers, but it's likely you'll need to use long pliers to move the pin counterclockwise to remove it. Be careful to avoid scraping your knuckles.


Some hinge pins can be rusted or otherwise difficult to remove. If you're struggling to get it loose, you might use a screwdriver or some PB blaster to help to loosen the pin. Read the following section for more specific information on dealing with stuck pins.
 After removing the hinge pin, clean off the old grease and grime from the pin and the hinge plates using a disposable rag or paper towel. Then, apply a thin coat of lubricant directly onto the hinge pin, as well as into the hinge itself.
 Push the hinge pin back into place and ensure that it is secured., Open and close the door several times to work the lubricant around the innards of the hinges. If the door continues to squeak when you open and close it, repeat this process for each hinge until the squeak disappears.
 Wipe away any excess grime, oil drips, and dust from the hinge area to leave it clean. The build up of grime is why the hinge becomes squeaky in the first place, making it important that you clean it up while you've got the chance.

