 You can check to see if something is patented on the USPTO website, found here.


From the main page of the USPTO website, open the “Patents” tab on the left side of the page.
Click “Search for Patents” under the Patent & Tools Links.;
, If you do not have much information about the invention or patent that you are searching for, then you may want to start with the “quick search” function.


Underneath “Searching Full Text Patents (Since 1976)” click on “quick search.”
Enter a keyword term in the Term 1 box at the Quick Search page. Choose a search operator such as AND, ANDNOT or OR from the operator field.
“AND” means that you will search for the first and the second keyword. Use “ANDNOT” if you want to search for keyword 1 but not for keyword 2. “OR” means that the search will be for either keyword 1 or keyword 2.
Type a second keyword term in the Term 2 box at the Quick Search page. Again, pick AND, ANDNOT or OR as the search operator. Press “Search” to start your quick patent search.
 If you know more about the patent you are searching for, use the “advanced search.” Generally, because you will input more information, the advanced search will return fewer results for you to sort through. To get to an advanced search, click here.


From the advanced search page, pick a year or year range in the “Select Years” drop-down menu. Repeat the step above to choose 1790 to present, or 1976 to present.
Add search text into the Query box. Follow the examples on the advanced search page for properly entering text in the Query box. Field codes and field names must be separated by forward slashes. Examples include searches by title, issue date and inventor’s name. Refer to the field names and codes chart at the bottom of the advanced search page.
Hit “search” after your type your entries.
 If you know the patent number, you can search for the patent that way.


At the patent number search page enter one patent number or more into the Query box. Separate multiple patent numbers by spaces.
Choose “search” to find the patent number and information.
If you have questions, you can contact the USPTO by email at usptoinfo@uspto.gov or call 1-800-786-9199.

