 For those with medium to long hair, this might mean braiding your hair or tying it back so that it doesn't have a chance to travel around your head during sleep. You could also consider adding some leave-in conditioner for keeping the hair in better shape.


Hair can be be braided damp or dry. If you braid it when damp, you will have wavy hair in the morning.;
, These can help to keep your hair smooth and less frizzed up. It's not essential but a nice touch if you like satin.
 If you don't like braiding or wearing the hair in a ponytail, wrapping is another option. Use a thin summer weight scarf or a bandanna to wind your hair into place. Ensure that the hair does not move before tying a knot at the front of your head. Don't tie the knot on the back or side, as you don't want to lie on the knot.


Using a toweling cap is another option in place of a scarf. The cap should have firm but not tight elastic.
 With some luck, this can help to minimize overnight movement but there are no guarantees, as moving about during the night is normal.
 While self-evident, it's an important start to taming the mess. If you have problems getting the hair brushed or combed, use spray-in conditioner to ease the knots and tangles out.


Give each section of hair five to ten brushstrokes.
If you plan on wearing your hair down, finish up with a little hair gel or a touch of hairspray. That will keep the flyaways at bay.
 It's a vicious cycle––you add heat to try to get the hair into good condition, only to find it dries and gets flyaway, then add more heat to tame that, and so on. If you must use heat, always use heat protectant on your hair as well.
 If the hair likes messy, then use messy updos to keep things looking fashionable while staying natural to your hair's preferred appearance. Some possibilities include:



Messy braids or plaits
Messy buns
Beach waves
Hipster bedhead look plus glasses (with the added bonus you don't need to try, it already is messy)

Messy updos.
 This logo could say something like: "Messy hair, don't care." That's acceptance.

