 While ensuring that your child knows how to dress properly and appropriately, work to also give them choices. Allowing them to choose teaches them that they have control over themselves and what they put on their bodies. Even when your child picks out an outfit that is a bit odd, allow them to wear it at least once in a while.See what outfits they will pick out and then make suggestions to them based on that. If they are very young, you can also pick out a few outfits and then let them choose one.;
, Beyond clothing, try not to make every single choice as it relates to your child. Don’t pick what toys they can play with, what cartoons they watch, or how much juice they drink. Give them a few options at mealtimes. Allow them certain basic level autonomy., Teach your child the value of hard work and pitching in. Give them daily and weekly tasks based on their age level that they must complete each day. For instance, a two or three-year-old might have to put all of her toys away when she is done.Do not clean up all of your children’s messes for them, especially if they are able to clean it themselves.
 Many who fail to become independent adults were spoiled as children. Avoid buying your child every single toy or snack that they see in the store. Know that it is okay to say no sometimes. Doing so will teach your child the value of both gifts and patience.Do not give your children gifts if they are misbehaving regularly at home or at daycare.
 Know that your toddler will make mistakes and may even throw a tantrum occasionally. Instead of letting them off the hook, set punishments that are fair and age appropriate.For instance, if your child has been acting out, put them in timeout proportionate to their age. As an example, a three-year-old should be put in time out for three minutes.
 Though you want to raise your child to be as good as possible, do not try to make them be perfect. In your quest to raise an independent child, there will be times that you feel that you are failing. Rather than correcting your child over every tiny mistake that they make, know when to let things go and when to act.Your toddler is learning, too, so give them some grace.
 Avoid forcing your child to try something before they are ready. You might be a petting zoo hoping your child will interact with the animals or have just purchased them a new tricycle that you want them to ride. Let them sit in your lap if they are scared until they decide to act. Part of encouraging independence is allowing them the choice of when to act.