 If an artery bursts in your brain due to an aneurysm, it will cause a severe headache that comes on suddenly. This headache is the key symptom of a ruptured brain aneurysm.Usually this headache will feel much worse than any headache you have ever experienced.
The headache is usually fairly localized, confined to whichever side of the head where the artery burst.
For example, if the artery near your eye bursts, it will cause severe pain that radiates into your eye.
The headache may also be associated with nausea, disorientation, and/or vomiting.;
, Double vision, reduced vision, blurred vision, or blindness are all indicators of a cerebral aneurysm. Vision disturbances occur because of pressure on the arterial wall near the eyes that cuts off blood flow to eyes.The optic nerve can also be pinched by the accumulating blood, causing blurry or double vision.
Blindness in this situation is caused by ischemia of the retina, where the blood flow to the retinal tissues is insufficient., Dilated pupils are a common sign of cerebral aneurysm, due to the blockage of an artery near the eyes. Usually, one of your pupils will be significantly more dilated than the other.It will also be sluggish and unresponsive to light.


The enlarged pupil is caused by the pressure of blood accumulating within the brain.
Dilated pupils may indicate that an aneurysm just happened, shown by artery damage located near the eyes.
 Your eyes may throb or feel intense pain during an aneurysm.This happens when the affected artery is near the eyes.
The eye pain will usually be one-sided pain, because it is local to the part of the brain that had an aneurysm.
 A stiff neck can occur to due to an aneurysm if a nerve in the neck is affected by the ruptured artery.The ruptured artery does not necessarily have to be nearby the exact place in the neck where the pain is felt.
This is because the nerves in the neck extend a decent distance up and down the neck and head area. Pain will project itself past the site of the aneurysm.
 Half-sided body weakness is a common sign of aneurysm, depending on which part of the brain is affected.If the right hemisphere is affected it will cause left-sided body paralysis.
On the other hand, if the left hemisphere is affected, it will cause right-sided body paralysis.
 Ruptured brain aneurysms are fatal in around 40% of people, and about 66% of survivors suffer some type of brain damage.If you are experiencing any of the above symptoms, call your emergency services (like 911 in the US or 999 in the UK) immediately.Experts do not recommend that you drive yourself or have a family member drive you to the hospital.Aneurysms can cause severe debilitation in a short period of time, making it dangerous to be behind the wheel.
Call an ambulance for your safety and that of others. Paramedics can get you to the hospital more quickly and perform life-saving procedures on you during transit.

