 In order to change your account basics on Pinterest you need to first open your preferred web browser. Just double-click on the browser’s icon on your desktop.;
, Once the browser has loaded, click on the search bar and type in https://www.pinterest.com. Press Enter. You will be directed to the Pinterest home screen.
 You need to log in to change any of your information. Click on the white link that says “Sign in” to load up the log-in screen.


Enter your account information by typing your e-mail address into the first box that reads “E-mail.”
Click on the second box labeled “Password,” and enter your password.
Click the “Sign in” button to load up your account.
 After logging in, your account home page will load. On the right side of the screen is a small thumbtack next to your name. Click on the thumbtack to gain access to a drop-down menu. The second choice on the list says “Settings”; click on that button to head to the Settings menu.
 Once you click on “Settings,” you will automatically go to the main Settings page. The first subsection is titled “Account Basics,” which is exactly what you are looking for. The first option that is available for you to edit is your e-mail address. In order to change it, just click on the box next to the e-mail address option and type in your new e-mail address.
 The next option is for changing your password. It is represented by a red link beside the change password option. After you click on “Change Password,” three boxes will appear:


The first box asks for you old password; click on it and enter your old password.
In boxes 2 and 3, you will need to enter your new password.
Once you have the page filled out, click on the red “Change password” button to confirm your change.
 In the third option of the Account Basics settings is “Language.” This is a simple drop-down menu. Click on the box next to “Language,” and scroll through the languages until you find your preferred language. When you find it, you will need to click on it again to confirm it.
 Below the language option is “Country.” This is also a drop-down menu; simply click on it, scroll through until you find your country, then click again to save.
 The next question asks for your gender. There is a bubble next to Male, Female, and Unspecified. All you need to do is click the one you want to show up on your profile.
 Below “Gender” is an option for search privacy. It is a toggle switch that you can change by clicking on it. If you decide to turn this on, it will block you from showing up on any search engines results.
 The next section is called “Personalization.” This option will let Pinterest show you related pins based on either (A) your activity on Pinterest AND other sites you have recently visited, or (B) only your activity on Pinterest. There is a bubble next to each option; click on the option that suits you best.
 If you want, you can clear your search history right below the Personalization option. Next to the Search History option is a button that says “Clear recent searches.” All you need to do is click on the button, and Pinterest will clear your search history automatically.
 The final option works the exact same way as the previous step. The only difference is this last option is for clearing out your recent contacts. It is done the same way, by simply clicking on the box next to the option.
 Now that you have adjusted all of your settings, you will need to save it. On the bottom-right side of the screen is a red “Save Settings” button; click that to finalize your settings.

