 Place an ice cube in the palm of your hand, the crook of your elbow, or where you want to cut. The numbing cold may provide you with the sensation you are craving.


Take an ice pack with you and keep it in an insulated tote so that you can have access to something cold when you need it. Also, consider taking a cup of ice with you wherever you go. Keep it in your desk, car, locker, or any place to which you have easy access., Use a felt-tip pen to create pictures or lines on yourself where you usually cut. You may find that you like the way it feels against your skin. You may also discover that creating beautiful designs on yourself is far more satisfying than making painful cuts.


Only use soft-tipped pens or markers to draw on yourself. Using pens that feature sharp points may end up hurting you. Use temporary tattoos if you don’t trust yourself to use a pen on your skin., Those who cut are often looking for a way to feel something, even if it is painful. Snapping your skin with a rubber band is a safer way than cutting to feel a strong sensation. Place the rubber band around your wrist, hold it up, and let if fall back sharply.


Never snap your wrists until they bleed. Only engage in this act if you trust yourself to not go too far.Ask someone you trust to help you monitor this behavior to ensure that you are not injuring yourself with this technique.
 Paying attention to the area you typically cut may be all that you need when you feel the desire to self-harm. Wrap these areas in bandages or adhesive tape. Seeing them will serve as a reminder of what is to come if you give into your urge.


Draw motivational words or phrases on the bandages to stop yourself from wanting to cut. You could also color them with a red pen or marker to look like blood, which may stop you from wanting to hurt yourself., The saying “beauty hurts” is popular because it is often true: some beauty techniques are downright painful. Engage in them to satisfy the pain you crave while improving your appearance.


Use a pair of tweezers to remove any stray hairs from your brow area. You can also buy wax strips to remove unwanted growth on your legs. The sensation you feel from the wax strips can mimic the sting of cutting.This is similar to the effect you get from exercising because of your muscles getting sore.

