 In many states, feeding deer at certain times of the year is illegal and is discouraged. Deer that are fed may become nuisances to people.;
, Deer might not come close if there is a lot of traffic nearby, and luring deer into the path of traffic can have serious consequences.
 A food plot is an area of land that you clear and seed with plants that deer like to eat. You could also plant several food plots throughout your property.


Deer are drawn to crops that are high in protein, such as kale, turnips, soybeans, peas, and alfalfa. A mix of plants that include clover and grasses, like wheat, oats and rye, will attract deer. Experts suggest that you plant 60 percent cool-season perennials like clovers, 20 percent cool-season annuals like turnip and kale, and 20 percent warm-season annuals, like corn, soybeans and alfalfa.Deer also like nuts such as chestnuts and acorns. While it may be a long wait for results, planting mast trees such as these will eventually offer deer some of their favorite foods when the trees begin to bear nuts. Other trees that produce fruit deer like are persimmons, pears, and apples. Determine which trees will succeed in your location.
 Thus, if there are cornfields nearby, planting corn might not be as productive.Some hunting stores sell seed mixes that are created specifically for deer food plots.
Local seed stores also can sell bulk seed to allow you to create your own blend, with winter peas, fescue, vetch, and sun hemp.
 Planting on steep terrain or in a flood plain isn't a good idea.
 Depending on the plot size and the density of the existing vegetation, you may find you need a tractor with suitable implements to clear and prepare the ground for planting.
 As a general rule, a ph between 6.0 and 7.5 will support plant growth, beyond this range and you may need to add amendments to modify the soil chemistry.
 You will need to try to incorporate the fertilizer into the top 4 inches of soil so it doesn't run off during rain.
 Usually, grains like oats and rye are applied at about 40-50 pounds per acre, and once the seed is spread you will want to rake or disc it in to improve germination.
 Place the food plot away from areas that could flood. Food plots for deer can range from 1,000 square feet to several acres.
 Deer will be drawn to water. This could come in the form of a watering hole or a tank.Make sure you maintain trees on either side of rivers or other waterways to stop erosion and reduce the risk of polluting these streams.
Deer also like the cover from the trees.
Deer might be drawn to water in a plastic kiddie poll or a pedestal birdbath too.