 Boats should be waxed out of the water, secured on the trailer, preferably parked on a flat, even surface. Because you'll be spraying products and moving all around the boat, you'll probably not want to have the trailer attached to your car, either.


Depending on the style of your boat, you'll probably want to put the cover on before you get started waxing and cleaning the boat. To keep the interior safe, keep the cover on.;
, It’s important to only wax a recently-cleaned boat, so remove all loose dirt and grime, as well as algae buildup and other gunk, especially if the boat’s been sitting in the water.


Start with plain water, spraying evenly across the surface of the exterior that needs to be cleaned. Use a clean, wet sponge to start scrubbing gently and get the grime running off.
If there are really serious spots of build-up, you can use some fine-grain 220 sandpaper to clean it off. Don't use a power washer on your boat, which can damage the finish and affect the efficacy of the gelcoat. Use a gentle spray, as opposed to a powerful spray.
 Use rags soaked with toluene or another dewaxing solvent to remove traces of old wax, which can keep polish and rubbing compounds from working evenly across the surface of the boat.


Sweep the rag in one direction, applying light pressure. It's not something you should usually have to scrub very hard to remove. Allow the solvent to evaporate before buffing.
 Finish washing the surface with a sponge and special boat soap or a mild solution of dishwashing detergent and warm water.


If the surface of your boat is stained, it's sometimes common to use a small amount of bleach to disinfect and clean thoroughly. It's also sometimes common to use lacquer thinner, Varsol or a special degreaser to remove sticky adhesive spots or greasy buildup. Don't use bleach on untreated or unstained wooden boats.
Rinse the boat thoroughly with clean water and allow to dry. You can use a squeegee to speed up the drying process, if necessary.
 Both polish and buffing compound are abrasives, which restore the shine to your boat’s fiberglass gelcoat by removing imperfections, discolorations and scrapes in the surface, increasing the reflective shine.


Choose polish if your boat only needs light refinishing. Go with a stronger rubbing compound if the surface is excessively pitted or chalky, signs that the surface needs a much more substantial cleaning.
Be very careful when using a rubbing compound. Gelcoat is extremely thin and an aggressive compound can burn through it quickly, necessitating an expensive and time-consuming repair job., Work in sections about 2 feet (0.610 meters) square to apply the rubbing compound or polish. Use a soft cloth if you’re working by hand, or fit the buffer with a foam polishing pad. Apply a circle of polish or buffing compound to the cloth or pad and rub it into the surface using a steady, even, circular motion. Buff until the surface becomes glassy looking. If you can see through the gelcoat, you’ve gone too far.


Some purists swear by hand buffing, while others argue that using a tool saves your muscles and helps eliminate streaks and swirls. Choose a low-speed buffer, not a high-speed sander, for better control. Tools with an orbital motion are less likely to leave swirling streaks.
If you’re using a buffer, start at the slowest speed. Touch the pad lightly to the surface before starting the buffer so the polish or compound doesn’t spray in all directions.
 If necessary, apply polish using the same method. Use circular motions and move in the same direction you moved when applying the rubbing compound. Hose off the boat and the work area to remove the dust raised by the polishing and compounding.
 The variety of boating wax you use will vary, depending on the style and the surface of your boat's gelcoat. Keeping gelcoat coated with wax can help the gelcoat maintain its shine for a long time, offering a protective buffer between the coat and the water.Collinite 885 is a commonly used and recommended boating wax, used also in surfing and for other purposes.
 As with polishing and compounding, you can apply wax by hand or with an electric buffer. Use the same circular motion to avoid streaking.


Different varieties of wax may come with specific directions, so defer to the product that you buy.
 Regardless of whether you use an electric buffer or a hand buffer, work by hand around non-removable fittings to keep the buffer from catching on or damaging them. Do the same in tight crevices.


Remove fittings ahead of time if possible, keeping the screws with the fixtures closely, so you won't get confused later.
 After a small amount of time, the wax should start to look somewhat hazy, which means you're ready for a second buffing. It's important to allow the wax enough time to set, so it'll be able to protect the gelcoat. This should only take 5-10 minutes in the sun.
 Use a soft towel or terrycloth bonnet if you decide to use an electric polisher, or a clean hand buffer and work in circles. The shine should really start to pop as you buff away the cloudiness of the wax.

