 There are a few circumstances when it's best to postpone a discussion until later to avoid our emotions getting out of control. If you are about to talk to someone when tempers are already flaring or extreme emotions are already involved, consider the acronym H.A.L.T. It represents hunger, anger, loneliness, and tiredness.These are times when we are already vulnerable and running low on resources. Remember, in the future, to take a brief pause and care for yourself before trying to resolve any issues.
Eat something regularly, engage in a relaxing activity, reach out to others for social connection or get some much-needed rest. Then, reevaluate the situation when you have more resources at hand.
 Individual interpretations to life situations often stimulate emotions that get out of control. For example, an employer does an end-of-the-year evaluation of all employees. One employee may review his evaluation and say "Whew! It wasn't nearly as bad as I expected. At least, I didn't get fired!". Another may say "What is this? I'll never be able to go up for promotion with less than 100%!" Our interpretations to events trigger our emotions. The first employee probably feels relief, while the second is agitated. Our negative interpretations frequently form as a result of cognitive distortions like:Over-generalization- believing that one event has a major impact on all areas of your life when it doesn't
Dichotomous thinking- also known as "all or none thinking", this distortion involves interpreting all events as either black or white without recognizing potential grey areas
Emotional reasoning- basing your interpretations of facts on your current feelings (i.e. you feel ugly, so you must be ugly)
Filtering- focusing narrowly on the negative events in your life while minimizing the positive ones

, Our emotional responses are largely influenced by our cultural backgrounds and families. People learn how to regulate their emotions based on the modeling and imitating the emotions of others in their early environments.For instance, if a little boy was taught not to cry as a young child, he may take heed to such instructions into adulthood. He may have difficulty expressing his feelings to others or channel one emotions into another more socially acceptable one.


Consider what you were taught about exploring and expressing your feelings as a child. These early beliefs are probably playing a major role in how you express your emotions today.
Anger is often referred to as an umbrella emotion because it often covers up other emotions. People from different cultural backgrounds may find it more acceptable to display anger than insecurity or sadness. With this in mind, you should always look deeper beneath the apparent emotion to see if there are deeper feelings you cannot clearly identify.
 If you are having trouble understanding your role in developing strong emotions, pay attention to other's emotional reactions to you. All participants in a discussion play a role in developing strong emotions, although, as we learned above, your emotional response depends on how you interpret a situation.


Sometimes, we are not as aware of our own body language or nonverbal expression as we are of others' body language. Contemplate what behaviors the other person is exhibiting. If the other person is acting defensive (i.e. crossing arms or stomping away), ask yourself what you are projecting that could contribute to such a reaction.

