 It’s best to fold sweaters, knits, and lighter coats, but heavy and dressy coats should be hung rather than stored in boxes. Fold the sleeves back at the seam where they meet the coat’s body. Fold the coat in half top-to-bottom. All you should see if the front top half of the coat.If it’s absolutely impossible to hang a heavy coat, roll it up tightly to prevent creases.
Fold the sleeves back neatly and roll carefully from the top, taking care to not to roll in any creases or wrinkles. If you have to, fold the coat in half at the zipper or buttons before you roll.
 Set a box or boxes aside for each family member or coat category. Label the boxes with the appropriate name. Use masking tape for the labels so they’re not only easily identified, but reusable for next storage season.


You should pick plastic boxes over cardboard. Some bugs like to eat cardboard, and it’s not mold or mildew resistant.
Airtight storage is best, unless your coat is wool, cashmere, leather, suede, or another natural fiber., Store heavier items on the bottom. This is better for the materials, and it’ll make it easier on you on next autumn’s first cool day. You’ll more than likely want a lighter jacket rather than a coat meant for the tundra, so leave items on top that you’ll use first.Place cedar blocks or lavender sachets into the box before sealing it to keep your coats smelling fresh and to repel insects.
 Since they take up so much room, puffy jackets made of non-natural fibers are best stored in vacuum sealed bags. Sucking all the air out of the coat and the plastic storage bag will allow you to store several jackets in a space where only one would have previously fit. Once you open the bag, air will reinflate the coat.Make sure your puffy coat is stuffed with polyfill, which is polyester and thus an artificial fiber. A down-stuffed coat should be stored in a garment bag, so it can breathe.
If the coat is still flat after you take it out of the bag, throw it in the dryer for 10 minutes on a no heat setting with a clean tennis ball to give it some fluff.

