 Sometimes it's possible to keep working or going to school with a cold, but when you have the flu, it's important to rest. Take a few days off to give your body time to recover.Since the flu is contagious, staying home is as considerate as it is necessary for your recovery.
You may experience congestion with the flu. Elevating your head with an extra pillow or sleeping in a recliner can make it easier to breathe at night.
 Having a fever causes dehydration, so it's important to drink more fluids than you normally would to combat the illness.Drink hot fluids like tea or warm water with lemon. These soothe your throat and clear your sinuses while hydrating you.
Avoid caffeinated drinks, alcohol, and soda. Choose fluids that will restore your body's nutrients and minerals, not deplete them.
Drink hot soup. You may experience nausea and a lack of appetite during the flu illness. Drinking hot soup or broth is a good way to get food into your system without upsetting your stomach.Studies have shown that chicken soup can actually mitigate inflammation in your respiratory tract, so if you’re feeling well enough, eating a bowl or two could really help.If you have also been vomiting, you may have an electrolyte imbalance. Use an oral rehydration solution such as Ceralyte or a sports drink containing electrolytes to replenish your body., Vitamin C is crucial for supporting your body’s immune health. Studies suggest that a “megadose” of vitamin C can help relieve cold and flu symptoms.Take 1000mg per hour for the first six hours as soon as symptoms appear. Then take 1000mg three times daily. Do not continue to take extremely high doses of vitamin C after you feel better, as vitamin C toxicity is rare but can happen.Orange juice is a good source of natural vitamin C but cannot provide a megadose.Talk to your child's doctor before giving high doses of vitamin C to your child.
 When you're congested, it's important to clear your breathing passage of mucus often, to prevent getting a sinus or ear infection. Clear mucus in the following ways:


Blow your nose. It's simple, but effective: blow your nose as often as it clogs to keep your breathing passage free.
Use a neti pot. Neti pots are a natural method for clearing your nasal passages.
Take a hot bath. The steam from the water helps loosen the mucus.
A humidifier or vaporizer in your room may make breathing easier.Use nasal saline sprays. You can also make your own nasal saline sprays or drops.
 The application of heat helps relieve the aches and pains that come with flu sickness. Use an electric heating pad or fill up a hot water bottle and lay it on your chest or back, wherever you feel pain. Just be sure not to have it too hot that it burns your skin or to leave it on too long. Never go to sleep with a heating pad or hot water bottle on your body.
 You can relieve the discomfort of fever symptoms by placing a cool, damp washcloth on your skin wherever you feel feverish.It can also help soothe sinus congestion when applied to the forehead and around the eyes.


A reusable gel pad can be found at most drug stores and can also help you feel cooler.
To cool a child down with a fever over 102F or a child that is very uncomfortable with a fever, apply cooled damp towels to the forehead to bring down the body temperature.
 A simple salt water solution can relieve the sore throat associated with the flu. Mix together one tsp of salt with one cup of warm water.


Gargle for a minute or so. Then spit the water out. Do not swallow the saltwater gargle.
 There is only limited scientific evidence for most herbal treatments for the flu. However, you may find some relief from one of these remedies. You should consult with your doctor before taking any herbal remedies if you take any medications, have any chronic medical conditions, or are treating a child.Take 300mg of Echinacea three times daily. Echinacea may help shorten the duration of your symptoms. Pregnant and breastfeeding women, people taking immunosuppressant drugs, and people who allergic to ragweed should not use echinacea.
Take 200mg of American ginseng daily. American ginseng (which is not the same as Siberian or Asian ginseng) may help make flu symptoms milder.Take 4 tablespoons per day of Sambucol, an elderberry extract. Sambucol has performed well in shortening the duration of the flu. You can also brew an elderberry tea by steeping 3-5g of dried elderflower in 8 ounces of boiling water for 10 to 15 minutes. Strain and drink three times daily., A eucalyptus steam treatment can help soothe a cough or congestion. Add 5 to 10 drops of eucalyptus oil to two cups of boiling water. Allow to boil for one minute, then remove from the heat.Move the pot to a stable surface, such as a table or countertop.
Cover your head with a clean towel and place your head over the pot. Keep your face at least 12 inches away from the water to avoid burns.
Inhale the steam for 10 to 15 minutes.
You can use peppermint or spearmint oil instead of the eucalyptus if you prefer. The active ingredient in mint, menthol, is an excellent decongestant.
Do not consume any essential oil internally. Many are toxic when ingested.
 This natural alternative to flu medicine is derived from duck offal, and is a popular treatment in Europe.Studies are not conclusive about oscillococcinum’s effectiveness. Some people may experience negative side effects such as headache from the supplement.