 If you want to enrich your life, then you have to be willing to step out of your comfort zone. You should take risks that challenge you and demand you to step up your game instead of doing the same old thing day after day. This can mean anything from asking the cute girl in your class out on a date to applying for your dream job even if you’re not sure you can handle it. Just making an effort to try new things and do things that make you feel less than safe can help you live a more enriching life.


Fail. If you never take risks because you do not want to deal with the disappointment, then you will also never be able to enrich your life. Sure, it is safe to stay at your perfectly fine job, but if you do not take a risk and apply for your dream position, then your life will also be just perfectly fine. (Of course, this does not mean make reckless or irresponsible choices)
Conquer your fears. Whether you are afraid of water, heights, or new people, making an effort to see that there’s nothing to be so scared about can make you feel more confident and capable.;
, You never know who can have a positive impact on your life and make you feel more capable and courageous. If you never make an effort to get to know new people and to learn from them, then you won’t be able to grow as a person. Step out of your comfort zone and take steps to meet new people, whether they are new in your school or office or if you just notice someone reading your favorite book in a coffee shop. You’ll never know how much value a new connection can have for you and your life.


Of course, not every new person will be compatible with you and talking to new people can lead to some awkward conversations; however, the more you get into the habit of introducing yourself to new people, the more likely you are to meet people who are exciting and interesting.
Making an effort to meet new people will also make you a person who knows that he always has more to learn from life, instead of sticking with the same five people he already knows in his comfort zone.
 Another way to live a more enriching life is to take the time to appreciate and learn about another culture. This can mean teaching yourself Japanese, traveling to Guatemala for a summer, or even talking to someone who grew up in an environment that was radically different from yours and learning about what it was like. Learning about other cultures can help you see the world in a more complex way and to understand that your way of looking at the world is just one option, not the only option.


If you do have the money to travel, try to avoid being merely a tourist. The real people who make a place different than your hometown are invariably largely somewhere else. Try to go where the locals go and to talk to as many natives as you can. A good start is often going to a local (not tourist-oriented) bar, restaurant, or recreational spot.
If you do not have the money to travel, try food from various cultures, watch foreign films, read books by a diverse range of authors, or taking history or language courses can also help broaden your horizons.
Focus on always improving yourself and learn about all of the different ways of living and thinking out there.
 Another way to enrich your life is to cultivate a new hobby that gives your life meaning. It does not have to be your driving passion or even something you are particularly good at. Just find something you enjoy and stick to it. By trying something outside of your comfort zone, you will be challenging yourself to grow as a person.


Finding a new hobby or interest you care about can increase your sense of commitment, which will enrich your life.
You may also encounter new and interesting people when you pursue a new hobby, and these people can help you gain support and see the world in a new way.
 If you want to enrich your life, then you cannot only stick to the things you are familiar with. You should try something you never thought you were capable of just to gain the confidence and perspective that your life is really in your own hands. This can mean anything that pushes you physically, mentally, or even emotionally and which leads to a rewarding experience and sense of growth. Here are some great ways you can challenge yourself:


Read a book that you always thought was “too difficult”.
Practice a new sport.
Train for a marathon or a half marathon. Or even a Fun Run, especially if you never considered running before.
Write a draft of a novel. Or just try your hand at a haiku.
Take on new responsibilities at work.
Do something you once failed at.
Learn to cook a gourmet meal

, Reading is one of the cheapest and easiest ways to enrich your life. When you read, you can broaden your horizons and learn to see the world in a new way without venturing out further than the bookstore. Though it’s nice to read a less challenging novel just for an escape, reading more challenging books or magazines can help you feel enriched and to see the world in a new way. Here are the types of books you can make a habit of reading:


Biographies or memoirs for inspiration, or learn about extraordinary people you never knew existed.
Historical non-fiction to learn about how the world used to be.
Literary fiction to see relationships and experiences in a new light.
Books about art, photography, or music to expand your horizons.
Newspapers to learn more about current events. Seriously, when was the last time you read an actual newspaper with professional journalists?

, Reading is one major way to live a more enriching life, but if you really want to take it up a notch, then you have to work on always wanting to learn and know more, no matter what you’re doing. This can mean talking to people who have had interesting experiences about what they’ve learned about the world, going to museums, talking to your elders, or taking trips or traveling outside your comfort zone to gain first-hand knowledge about how the world works.


A person who lives an enriching life is comfortable admitting that there are things he doesn’t know and is always eager to learn more.
Find a way to ask the people who fascinate you questions about their experiences without making it seem like an interrogation.
 If you want to live an enriching life, then you should spend more time out there doing your own thing instead of following all of the great and interesting things other people are up to. Though checking out picture from your cousin Marla’s wedding or reading the political rantings of your old classmate can help you see what’s going on with the people you know, you should spend less time worrying about other people’s thoughts and experiences and more time focusing on building an enriching life for yourself.


If you’re a social media addict, you may not even realize all of the ways in which social media is negatively affecting your life. If you make an effort to limit your social media use to just 10-15 minutes a day, then you’ll be amazed by how much happier you feel and how much more time you have to pursue your own goals and interests.

