 Never appear too desperate, like (hotguywaiting23) or boasting like (coolguy8). Choose a username which shows that you are honest and funny. Be very sharp about selecting this name; do not think it's just a username and it does nothing for you, as it is part of the whole package when people check out your profile. The best choice is a name that makes people smile.


Some examples might be: SensitiveGuy45, Handsomeonce56, Certaintoloveyou*6, Funlovinghippie or FriendlySoul22.
Avoid choosing a name that sounds abusive or dirty.;
, Don't try to put all of your body in a photo. Just take the head (face) and ensure that it is a shot showing you with a smile. It will tell those viewing your picture that you are approachable.


Putting on a serious expression can work sometimes but avoid appearing boastful, vain or deadly dull.
 Put in photos taken with your friends, hanging out with buddies, doing the things you enjoy such as exercise, football, gardening, etc. Try to add photos which describe the real you. You might even post some funny pictures where you are dressed up as a clown or something else amusing.


Avoid selfies where you are half naked or shirtless.This will give the impression that you might be a flirt or self-absorbed.
 In the "About me" section, do not write a long paragraph describing yourself. Instead, focus on keeping it clear and simple. Talk about your interests and highlight three great things about yourself.
 Just explain who you are, proudly .If you do not know how to dance, then don't add it as a pastime of yours. More importantly, never say you are good at or love something just to sound impressive; you really must enjoy or be able to do that activity.
 This will make things easier and you will sound exclusive rather than the type who feels that it's easy come, easy go.


This means explaining the character and behavior traits you are hoping for in a partner. Words such as "sexy", "hot" or "buffed" are not useful in this context and can scare off potential partners.
 Chat through facebook or WhatsApp. Slowly move on to Skype. Then, it might be time to suggest that the two of you meet each other some time and end up doing something interesting to both of you.

