 If you're currently taking sleeping medication and it's playing havoc with your sleep and general health and wellbeing, you should notify your doctor and explain what is happening. Your doctor will be able to advise you as to whether or not you can quit the pills outright or whether there needs to be an adjustment period.


Don't presume you're stuck taking pills. Be adamant that you wish to minimize or stop using the sleeping medication altogether and make your doctor your ally in achieving this outcome. Discuss lifestyle changes that can help improve your sleep.
You may wish it ask about weaker sedatives or natural alternatives such as the natural sedative valerian tea, or melatonin supplements,but keep in mind these can interact with other medications, and you should speak with your doctor before use.;
, Don't throw the pills away just yet; they are insurance to prevent you from panicking and they are still available for those terrible nights when you really do feel like you need them.At the same time, you need to commit to giving them up permanently as carefully and as thoroughly as possible.


If your doctor has suggested a gradual withdrawal program, stick with it. This will greatly increase your chances of success, as quitting sleeping medication too suddenly can throw your body totally out of balance., Some people need more sleep while others need less hours of sleep in order to function optimally; know your own needs and nurture them.


Also be sure to implement the remaining suggestions in the following steps; each is a practical means by which you gain control back over your sleeping routine and, in turn, make your plan more likely to succeed., Depending on the type of sleep medication, withdrawal symptoms can occur. You may feel anxious, edgy, irritable, and depressed, and you may find yourself sweating, experiencing tremors, and increased heart rate, and nausea.You may experience "rebound insomnia," which means you may experience great difficulty falling asleep after you come off the sleeping medication — possibly worse than what caused you to start taking sleeping pills in the first place.Rebound insomnia often causes people to relapse and start taking sleeping meds again, but you must remember that is it temporary, and side effects should go away after about two weeks.Speak with your doctor about how to handle rebound insomnia, or if you are experiencing depression or anxiety that lasts several weeks or months after you stop.You may also experience vivid, strange, and disturbing dreams.Again, this is a normal part of withdrawal and it will go away.
Implementing self relaxation techniques such as deep breathing, meditation, or progressive muscle relaxation can assist you in getting through this time. Remember that this is temporary.

