 Honest communication is the key to any long and stable relationship. If you want to keep your wife happy, then you should always share your feelings and be happy to listen to what she has to say. You should feel comfortable sharing your feelings with your wife and being open about your thoughts, even if you have a hard time expressing them.


If there's something on your mind, say it. Don't deal with a difficult situation alone.
If you're upset about something your wife did, bring it up. It's better to talk about your feelings than to be passive-aggressive.
If your wife asks you about your honest opinion about a new outfit or haircut, don't be a fool and say she's looked better -- just tell her she looks beautiful no matter what. She obviously just wants you to confirm that she thinks she looks great.
Time your honesty. If you have something important to say to your wife, do it when she's relatively stress-free and can give you her time and energy.
You may be worried over a recent flirtation with a colleague at work, but you should tell her the truth, not deal with it on your own. Open, honest communication is the key to a relationship. Your wife is your partner in life and deserves to know the whole truth about you and your activities.
 Compromising is a major part of strong communication. You should be able to compromise and to make decisions as a unit instead of always looking out for yourself. You should work on being able to discuss an important decision and finding a resolution that will make you both happy.


First, take time to listen. Each of you should say why your opinion is important to you and what it would mean to make the decision.
Be thoughtful. You can even make a list of pros and cons when you're making a decision together.
Take turns compromising. Sometimes a decision will only make one person happy (such as choosing to live in one city over another), but the next time a big decision comes, make sure the other person gets his way.
Make sure both people are actually compromising. Don't guilt your wife into always doing what you want because you'll be so upset if you don't get your way.
 If you really want to make your wife happy, then you should know that being happy is much more important than being right. You need to swallow your pride and step up if you've made a mistake, and be reasonable enough to accept your wife's apology if she is the one who erred.


When you apologize, be sincere. Maintain eye contact and let your wife know that you're really sorry. She won't accept your apology if you sound like you're just doing it because you don't have a choice.
Learn to accept an apology. You can still be mad, but make it clear that you do accept your wife's apology even though you need some time to cool off.

