 Okay, so no-one can achieve that perfect skin we'd all like to have but we can try! If you have acne go to a doctor or buy a good face wash for acne. DRINK WATER! You've heard this over and over again but try it! Especially if you have bright yellow or green pee. Don't do the glasses of water thing because you'll just end up going to the bathroom every second. Just try to drink only water for a week or two and if you see any changes continue or drink at least two glasses of water a day.;
, Have a bath shower twice a day, use a good long lasting deodorant, change your toothbrush every three months, use a whitening toothpaste if you don't like the colour of your teeth, brush your teeth twice a day, NEVER leave the house without brushing your hair, always clean under your nails every morning, cut your nails to just over the skin (long nails are NOT glamorous believe me). I don't have to go over this you know that!

, It's so not cool to beg your parents for money but pocket money is fine. The best job to get is baby-sitting. If you're not old enough to babysit then why don't you babysit for children while their parents are upstairs or doing chores. It's a great idea right! When you've saved up enough money then you can buy yourself a whole new outfit!

, If you have enough money or your parents are willing to pay good preppy stores are: Ralph Lauren, Lacoste, Burberry etc.. Remember: quality, not quantity. If you can't afford those things, then just buy polos, khakis, Bermuda shorts, cardigans, 3/4 jeans, pea coats, trench coats, sundresses, skirts just over, just above or on the knees- those kinda things.
 Your hair is very important in living the perfect preppy princess lifestyle. Your hair can be any colour, but the hairstyles are very exclusive: a ponytail (maybe add a ribbon as a signature accessory. Make sure it matches your outfit though!), or straight down (only if your hair is straight). Preppiness is all about being natural! You can straighten your hair on special events, though. Loose waves if your hair is NATURALLY wavy or curly, pigtails but make sure they are loose and under your ears(again ribbons are a good idea), braid your hair but not if it is cut into layers- hair sticking out is messy not preppy, headbands are cute with your hair straight down.
 Wear natural make-up you don't want to look like a clown or fake.
 Good hobbies for preppy princesses are hockey, tennis, lacrosse, golf, sailing, swimming, dance or cheer-leading. Try at be the best at whatever you choose.
 try to eat whenever you're hungry not three meals a day. Don't eat too much junk food maybe once a week. Chew slowly and stop when you're full.

