 To begin, simply use pen and paper. Or, if you love tech, use an inventory app on your smartphone or tablet, since these often allow you to scan barcodes instead of entering information in manually. Helpful apps include:Inventory-specific programs like Inventory for Homeowners, Know Your Stuff, Liberty Mutual Home Gallery, and What You Own.
Other apps that can be repurposed for extended inventory, like Delicious Library, Evernote, iTrackMine, and Sortly.;
, If you’re beginning life in a new home with nothing but the shirt on your back, simply start with your shirt. Then, as you acquire more possessions, continually update your list with each new purchase or acquisition. If, however, you already own quite a bit of stuff, pick a room and start itemizing its contents in an organized fashion.For instance, say you’re starting with your home office. First, add your desk to the list. Then write a list of everything on your desktop. Then do the same for everything in your desk’s top right or left drawer. Follow that with a list of everything in the drawer underneath, and so on.
 As you itemize each room’s contents, assess whether each item is a big- or small-ticket item. With small-ticket items, simply count how many you have of each type and assign them an estimated total value. List major items individually and add more detail about each. For example, consider your music collection and its devices:Items like your stereo or iPod should be listed individually with their make, model, and serial number.
Your CD or vinyl collection can each be lumped together as one item rather than listing each one.
However, if you own one or more rare albums that have become valuable collectibles, list each one individually.
 Open a spreadsheet on your computer. As you transcribe each item from your rough draft, include its value. For major purchases, refer to any saved receipts so you can assign an exact value to each one. If you’ve lost the receipt, approximate its value as best you can. For minor items that have been combined into one item, like “clothing” or “CDs,” simply include the total estimated value for your collection.If you don’t trust your memory to recall how much you spent on a big-ticket item, try performing a keyword search online to see if you can find information about what your particular item or a comparable one typically cost in a given timeframe.
 Remember: you may not be too concerned about having to replace a brand new pair of socks, but you may be upset about losing a brand new appliance. For each big-ticket item, add its date of purchase to your list. If it’s been a while, write down your best guess.If your policy covers the cost of your possessions, including the date of purchase will help verify how much you spent on, say, a top-of-the-line washer and dryer two months ago.
Conversely, if your policy covers how much it would cost to replace an item, including the date of purchase will help adjust for inflation if you bought that washer/dryer set ten years ago.
 Go over your list again and earmark any rare, antique, luxury, or one-of-a-kind items of extreme worth. Anticipate these possibly needing individual policies of their own. Ask your insurance agent if they would be covered by a regular renter’s or homeowner’s policy, or if they need to be covered separately.Such items may include artwork, collectibles, and fine jewelry.
 Gather any and all receipts for your belongings to use as proof of ownership as well as to verify its value. Include any contracts or appraisals for other items lacking a receipt, if possible. Scan each one and save the image on your computer.If you don’t have a scanner, use a camera to take pictures or visit a copier store where they can be scanned and saved to a thumbdrive for you.
 Either do this as you go along penning your rough draft in each room, or go back afterwards and follow up with it. Capture each room from multiple angles so you cover every item. Open all drawers, cabinets, and closets, too, and snap a picture of their contents. You don’t need to take a close-up of each individual item, but do take close-ups of key details for high-value items, like the serial number to electronics or signatures on works of art., This can be done instead of or in addition to taking photos. However, wait until you’ve compiled your finished spreadsheet with this one. Instead of providing a long and rambling narrative on your first run through each room, stick to a tight script so your video is both concise and detailed., Upload your photos and/or videos to your computer. Save each in their own file folder, with detailed file headings (like “kitchen-1” and “kitchen-2” for wide shots and “kitchen-oven-1” and “kitchen-oven-2” for close-ups of key details like serial numbers and make-and-model info). Purchase thumbdrives so you can save these files and keep them with hard copies of your spreadsheet., Print at least one hard copy of your master spreadsheet. Keep this at home. Have a copy instantly on hand in the event that your computer is stolen or your home is only partially damaged. Additionally, either keep your original receipts with your hard copy, or download the scanned images to a thumbdrive. Do the same with your photos and/or videos.
Investing in a fire- and waterproof safe can potentially keep your hard copy accessible even after an extensive fire or flood.
 Remember: the whole point of a home inventory is to have a ready-made list of all your belongings in the event of theft or disaster, so keeping the sole copy at home is self-defeating. Print extra hard copies of your inventory. Store these in a safe deposit box at your bank, and/or ask a close friend or family member who lives in a separate residence to hold onto them.


Remember to include a thumbdrive or physical copies of your receipts, photos, and/or video.
 Download your inventory, scanned receipts, photos, and/or videos to additional thumbdrives to keep in your office, car, or elsewhere. Upload the same to the cloud so you can download it again at any time, from any computer. Or attach the files to an email and send it to yourself so it’s saved in your inbox.When storing your information on thumbdrives, make sure they are password-protected, especially if you are going to store them somewhere other than your safe deposit box or with a trusted friend or family member.
 Whichever methods you choose to store copies of your inventory, keep track of each method. As you acquire new possessions, add each one to your spreadsheet. Print new hard copies. Update your saved digital files, whether they are saved on thumbdrives, in the cloud, or in your email account. Make sure your inventory is current so your policy covers all losses.