 Spread out all the branches on the Christmas tree. The should be spaced evenly, to make it easier to hang the decorations without them touching each other.;
, Place these out on a nearby couch, chair, or strong durable pillow, in readiness for hanging.
 Make lines of short hooks on one side, and long hooks on another side. Don't put them on your floor or carpet, because they are hard to find. (If you don't have ornament hooks, you can bend paper clips to make or replace them.)

, Uncurl them from their storage packaging. Test them to see that they still work by plugging them in and turning them on; ask an adult to help here. If any don't work, get help replacing the non-working lights.
 You might need help with this step. Wind them around the tree, taking care to sit them evenly so that they cascade down the tree neatly. Place the power cord at the back of the tree and the plug near the outlet. If possible, tuck away any extra cord length, to prevent people or pets from tripping over it (use a cord tidy)., Put them on the bottom if they are heavy. It helps to put unbreakable ornaments on the bottom because if they fall off the Christmas tree they are less likely to shake the breakable ornaments off.


Use hooks if the ornaments don't have a string to hang itself by. (If the string breaks off, bend a hook around the top where the hanger/part where it's supposed to be hung. Leave a tiny space. Then get another hook and put the hook through the tiny space. Pinch the end closed.)







,,


For example: If there is an ornament you have that has a picture of you when you were five years old, put it in the back of your Christmas tree. If you have an ornament that is glass and that is sparkly without fingerprints, photos, drawings, etc., then put it toward the front.
 A stocking is a good, cute ornament, too.
 After you are done putting on all your ornaments, make sure there are no empty spaces. If there are, fill them in with ornaments. If you are out of ornaments, buy some or make some new ones.
 When you are positive there are no gaps left and your tree is pretty and perfect, put your star or angel on the top of the tree.
 Thread it around the tree where there are small spaces, taking care not to cover up the decorations. Finally, if you're using a tree skirt, add it now., Take a photo of your handiwork and share it online.