 Use a gentle shampoo and conditioner as flat-ironing hair may cause damage to your hair.Shampooing and conditioning will remove unwanted oil and product build-up from your hair.


Look for shampoo and conditioner products that are sulfate-free and jam packed with glycerin. Glycerin helps reduce frizz as it penetrates hair follicles, hydrating hair from the inside out. The closer glycerin is to the front of the ingredients list, the more it contains.Use a gentle shampoo and a smoothing conditioner. Straightening can be damaging to hair, even if your hair is thick and curly, so gentle products are important.When leaving in the conditioner in the shower, use a paddle brush to comb through your hair. This will help with the smoothening process while in the shower.;
, Co-washing means washing your hair with only conditioner. Hair that's thick or curly is prone to more dryness than average hair. If your hair is very dry and frizzy, you should try co-washing your hair before straightening it. Your hair may benefit from being co-washed a few times a week.Shampoo can remove a lot of the natural moisture from hair. Using conditioner may reduce your hair's dryness. As straightening your hair can cause it to dry out, co-washing may be very helpful for someone with thick or curly hair.
To co-wash your hair, saturate your hair with water. Then, massage in your chosen conditioner. Give your hair three to five minutes to absorb the conditioner and then wash it out.
 Do not rub! Wet hair is very weak and prone to damage. Blot the hair gently, and lightly wring the ends to soak-up moisture. Dry until it is slightly damp.Pat the hair downwards to promote straightening. Towel-drying in different directions enhances curls.Allow your hair to dry 90% of the way before you blow-dry. Concentrated hot air can frizz your hair., If you don't have either, use a small amount of the conditioner or a dime-sized amount of olive oil.These coat your hair to prevent the intense heat from causing split ends.


Don’t overdo it. Too much leave-in conditioner can make your hair limp instead of straight.Wash your hair with only conditioner twice a week to keep from washing away natural hair oils.
Use argan oil for thick hair.