 Your accomplishments do not need to be the exact same as his, but your life should demonstrate a certain degree of stability.


Show him that you can take care of yourself without him. You should have some direction for your life and be capable of caring for your basic needs.;
, Even though most Cancer males are capable of supporting you materially, it's best to avoid that type of situation. If the Cancer guy in your life has any reason to suspect that you might be after his money, he might cut himself off from you emotionally.


Unless he offers to pay for you on every date, you should take turns or occasionally split the bill.
Don't make any demands regarding gifts or things you want him to buy. If he does like to dote on you with various material gifts, you should make sure that you give plenty to him, as well. The gifts do not need to be expensive, but they should show a comparable amount of affection.
 You might be worried about making your sensitive Cancer man upset if you argue with him, but a healthy argument can actually increase the esteem he holds for you.


The key is making sure that your arguments are reasonable and healthy. Don't lash out, aim for his weak spots, or make unfair accusations. When the time comes to reconcile, don't hold back.
 Generally speaking, Cancer men can be somewhat superficial regarding appearances. You don't need to be a beauty queen, but dressing up for him every now and then can certainly help your cause.


You don't need to do anything extreme, but when you should generally maintain good hygiene, wear a little make-up, and dress in clothes that flatter you.
Scent can be another powerful tool. Look for a feminine, flowery perfume, body wash, or shampoo. Make it your signature scent and let him learn to associate it with you., Since Cancer men are sensitive beings, they can appreciate inward beauty as well as outward beauty. Try to go through life in a poised, graceful manner.


Losing your temper on occasion is natural and fine, but it needs to be the exception to the rule and not your standard behavior.
 Become an expert on his moods and emotions. Cancer men tend to be among the most emotional, sensitive zodiac males. If you can master the ability to decipher his moods and react accordingly, you can find your way into his heart rather quickly.


When he feels distressed, ask him about what's wrong. If he hesitates, let him open up at his own pace but make it clear that you are willing and eager to listen.
When he's not actively unhappy, keep him laughing. The typical Cancer man loves to laugh, so a woman who can keep him smiling will seem very appealing.
 Drop your guard and let yourself be vulnerable in front of him. Most Cancer men are fully capable of supporting you emotionally and actually appreciate having the opportunity to do so.


Confide in him about your secrets. Turn to him first when you've had a bad day. He craves empathy from those he cares about and yearns to return it.
 You'll need to appreciate his thoughtfulness towards you, and you'll also need to accept and encourage his thoughtfulness toward others. Even though most Cancer men are loyal, there can be times when they'll prioritize helping someone else over spending time with you.


Don't be surprised if he rushes to the side of a sick friend or offers to assist a neighbor with a difficult task, even if it means canceling a night with you to do so. His sense of obligation can take over at inconvenient times, and you'll need to learn how to tolerate that.
 Healthy arguments can be beneficial, but lashing out or spouting spiteful insults won't be. If you attack his weak points through your words, you may cause him to put up a barricade between you and his heart.


He might be more sensitive to criticism than most, so comments that cut him down will cause him to withdraw. You can bring up constructive criticism or concerns when needed, but stay away from criticisms that do nothing but insult him., When your Cancer man can feel how much you love him, he might be more likely to fall in love with you in return. Do something nice for him without having a reason. A little well-timed kindness can go a long way.


When you say "I love you," make it meaningful, passionate, and genuine. Don't say it just to say it.
Gifts that remind him of your relationship can be especially effective. Think photo albums, love poems, and trips to sentimentally significant spots--like the place you first met, for instance.
Gestures that nurture are also a plus, so you might try giving him a home-cooked meal or a hand-knitted scarf.
 You might be tempted to make your Cancer man jealous by flirting with other guys, but doing so will inevitably work against you. Most Cancer males tend to lean on the possessive side, so they can become jealous quickly and don't handle the emotion well.
 No matter who feels hurt—you or him—the two of you need to sit down and iron out your emotional difficulties as rapidly as possible. His negative feelings probably won't vanish on their own, and he may also expect your negative feelings to linger until resolved.


When he feels hurt, he may withdraw from you until you offer him an honest apology.
On the other hand, if you withdraw emotionally, he can become clingy and demanding. The only way to calm him down is to open your heart back up and make amends., Since Cancer men tend to be so sentimental, you might know when he has fallen in love with you before he even says the words. Watch for a shift in his behavior. If he becomes notably more affectionate towards you, his heart may very well be yours.


Increased levels of affection and consideration are good signs. If he does a lot of hugging, asking about your day, and sensing your moods, he might be falling for you.
Similarly, if he withdraws or seems notably hurt when you upset him, it could mean that he has become emotionally attached to you., Cancer men are usually intuitively aware of how sensitive they are, so they know they can be hurt if they get involved with the wrong people. It might take some time before he opens up to you, but if you're consistent enough with your affections, he should drop his guard eventually.


His need for emotional security can be pretty strong, so he will need to sense a certain degree of emotion from you before he can let himself feel the same way. Once he feels certain of your feelings, though, he's more likely to be free and honest with his own.
 If he fits the mold, your Cancer man will be fairly family-oriented. Talk about your family and encourage him to talk about his. If he senses a shared appreciation for family, his affection for you may grow.


His idea of family might be broader than yours and can include aunts, uncles, cousins, and other distant relatives.
Some Cancer men may even take things a little too far and dote on their family members more than necessary. If he gets along well with your family, though, he may also come to love them as his own.
 Due in part to his love of family, the Cancer male thrives in a warm, cozy environment. It nurtures his spirit and opens his heart. Creating that environment for the Cancer man in your life can encourage him to open his heart to you.


Welcome him into your home and show an interest in being a part of his. Spend time with him at home and indulge in plenty of one-on-one time.
 One interest that most Cancer men share is an appreciation for nature. When you spend a day or evening together, consider going to some spot that will allow the two of you to appreciate nature at its finest. Dragging him to a place he will love demonstrates a highly appealing level of consideration.


A weekend camping trip will probably mean more to him than a weekend getaway to a big city.
Parks and other locations with scenic views are great for quick dates.
 Don't be afraid to talk about the future with him. Cancer men are successful thanks to their ability to think ahead, so they'll usually adore women who do likewise.


Talk about your dreams and goals.
Since most Cancer guys have no problem with commitment, discussions about your future together are usually safe, too.
 When your Cancer guy gives his heart to you, he will do so completely. You need to be prepared to do likewise. Before you make him fall in love with you, make sure that you can fall—and stay—in love with him, too.
 Keep in mind that every guy is different, and the ideas offered here are only guidelines.


You will need to pay attention to who your man is as an individual and act accordingly, regardless of whether or not he fits the Cancer profile.

