 This is a crucial step! Learn how to from lessons, YouTube, or teach yourself by getting a beginner's guide to playing the guitar.;
, This can be quite fun and it can make the experience more lifelike in some cases. However, if you don't want to come up with a rock star name, then skip this step.
 Try wearing a bit of leather, and possibly get some fake piercing jewellery (nose ring, many earrings etc.) You could also get a wacky wig. Try getting a huge mohawk wig or simply get a wig that is painted crazy colours! Do whatever you want to achieve a super rock star look.
 Try (carefully) painting your guitar or simply add some awesome stickers of things like skulls with wings on them and cool phrases.
 Play whatever songs you want to play; just make sure that they are rock songs.
 A bed frame with a bottom to it or an old mattress works just fine. If you can, get some curtains (or blankets to represent curtains) and drape them so that you can close them and open them. Buy some inexpensive spotlight lights or small lamps to light up the stage. Also get a pretend (or real) microphone and if you can a microphone stand (pretend or real) and put these on the 'stage'.
 They should know how to play a 'rock star' musical instrument (guitar, drums, keyboard etc.). If they don't know how to, they can always sing (give them lyric sheets if they don't know the words to the song you're going to play).
 You can do it in front of your parents or siblings or just in front of your pets or stuffed animals/dolls. Play the song that you were going to play on your radio or iPod (if it has speakers). If you can, get the song without the guitar parts in it so that you can play these parts without any guidance. Rock out like crazy. Do whatever rock moves you want to do, and encourage your friends to do the same.
 If actual people watched you perform, ask them how you did. If stuffies or dolls watched you, you decide yourself. Practice lots before your next 'performance' based on how well you did on your first one.

