 You can use the same color as the rest of your blanket or a contrasting one. You need to use the same weight of yarn, however, because you will be counting stitches.


Because of how big blankets are, it is recommended that you only use this method for small blankets, such as baby blankets.
 Count the number of stitches along the edge you will be adding the ruffle to. Multiply that number by two, then cast on that many stitches onto your knitting needle., The stockinette stitch is where your knit one row and purl the next.Keep knitting until the ruffle is about the length you want it to be, about four rows total., You will be knitting together two stitches for the entire row.Knitting together two stitches is very easy. Simply push your knitting needle through two stitches, then knit them as though they are one stitch. Here is the process in more detail:Push the tip of your right needle through the first two stitches on your left needle so that it comes out the back.
Use your right needle to catch a loop of yarn from behind your work.
Use your right needle to pull the loop through both stitches. Gently pull it tight.
Slip both of the stitches off of your left needle.
Knit together the next two stitches.
 This will prepare you for the final cast off row, which must be done as a knit.
 Start by knitting the first two stitches onto your right needle. Then, use your left needle to catch the first stitch that you knit, pull it over the second stitch, and off of the right needle. Knit another stitch. Again, use your left needle to pull the new first stitch over the new second stitch. Keep doing this until you reach the end of the row.This cast off row is now the bottom edge of your ruffle.
 Cut the yarn, leaving behind a long tail. Pull the tail through the final loop, and tug on it gently to tighten the knot. Do not trim the tail off yet; you will use it to bind the ruffles together.
 Make sure that you cast on the right number of stitches. The top and bottom edges of your blanket may be the same, but the side edges may have a different number of stitches.
 Thread a yarn needle with a yarn color that matches either your blanket or your ruffle. Start sewing the ruffle to the blanket by weaving the needle through the top edge of your blanket and the bottom (gathered) edge of your ruffle. Continue sewing the other ruffles to the other edges.


You will likely run out of yarn at some point. If that happens, simply knot the old yarn off, weave in the end, and thread a new length of yarn.
Make sure that the knit sides are all facing up and the purl sides are fall facing down.
 Thread your yarn needle onto one of the tails leftover from the cast off. Use it to weave the edges of the ruffles together. When you reach the top edge, knot the yarn off, weave it back down the seam, then trim off the excess.

