 Follow your intuition. Friends can insult each other unknowingly. When in doubt of whether they are friends or friendly enemies, you could just see if the one who hurt you is ready to apologize or looks not so happy after hurting you. If they seem perfectly at peace or if they do it again and again, you know you have a friendly enemy.;
, Most bullies do not change their ways any sooner. If they get to a point where they enjoy hurting or maneuvering plans to trouble you, they would be very sure of what they are doing. This is to say that they may come back to you with more trouble. Do not share, talk or indulge in friendly conversations with them. The more you avoid them when you meet them, the better you will find to protect yourself.
 Unfriendly friends become so or behave badly because of some emotional or mental situation. There are some who do it for the fun of it. Either ways, it is best to remain civil and peaceable. As they are the friendly enemies and not you. You could be yourself and not get into revenge or bad mouthing them. This may put your character under scrutiny too.
 It goes without saying that the more they know that you do not want to be friends with them, the better the chances of them not getting back to you. Keep your distance and do not share any of your experiences or stories with them. Allow them to feel left out if they would. This is a classic way to have them realize that you do not need them. When you don't need them, they would not be under the impression that they could manipulate your feelings and hurt you.
 In order to hurt you they may try to involve themselves in your activities or try to voice their opinion in your matters. Do not entertain their views or accept help from them. Try to do your work on your own or with the help of those who are genuine with you. If you do not need friendly enemies, they may not have an opportunity to hurt you.
 Once they realize that they are not having any bad impact on you, they may feel discouraged and change, temporarily. They may not look at you as an easy victim to their jokes, pranks and insults. But if you allow them to get back in your life as friends, they may get back to being friendly enemies or unfriendly friends.
 Whatever they are jealous of, you keep improving it. Unfriendly friends should not affect you enough to get weak or lose trust in your strengths. The number of such friends are not certain. Hence, it may work well for you if you stay focused with your work and do not think about what they do, say and think about you.
 You could choose to be by yourself if you have no other friends. If you do have good friends with whom who have similarities or are supportive, you could appreciate them and work with them.