 The first thing you must do is register on their site. You will be prompted to sign up using Facebook or an email. Select one to move onto the next step.


Signing up using Facebook will allow you to sync your Spotify account with those of your Facebook friends immediately. The only information Spotify will take from your Facebook account is your name and public information, email, and birthday.
To sign up using email, select the option and fill in the required information. You will be asked to provide a username and password, your email, your birthday, and gender.;
, The next screen you are presented with is Spotify’s current terms and conditions for the site. Although lengthy, it is always good to educate yourself as to what you are registering for. You must select the “agree” or “disagree” button in order to proceed.
 Once you have created your account, you are automatically logged in to your own homepage via their website. From here you can search for new music, listen to spotify radio, create your own playlists, and view others’ playlists.
 The version you have just downloaded is free, but there are three different versions. The free account gives you limited hours of listening time per month as well as ads every fifteen minutes.


Upgrading to an Unlimited Spotify account costs $4.99 a month and removes all ads from your listening as well as removes the monthly total-listening time limit.
Upgrading to a Premium Spotify account costs $9.99 a month, and offers everything that an Unlimited account does. It also allows you to upload your own mp3s to their site, and use your account on every device you own (desktop, tablet, and cell phone) in addition to your laptop.
 This will allow you to open the program without visiting their website every time.


On the upper left hand corner of your homepage, click the Spotify icon. This will begin the download.
A pop-up will appear asking you to run the program. Do so to complete the the process.
 After download, a small prompt will appear whenever you open the program asking you to sign in. Then you will be free to listen to music any time your heart desires.