 This should take into account when your child gets tired, age, and what time they wake up in the morning.


Depending on the maturity level of your child, you may want to involve him/her in making this decision. Remember that a child is more likely to respect a decision in which he or she has taken a part.
 Explain what he/she will have to do prior to that time––for example, get undressed; finish homework; brush teeth. Explain that if he/she is not ready to be in bed at the appointed time, there will be consequences.


Alternatively, for older teenagers, you may want to make curfew the time they must be home by. If you choose to do that, you may want to also make a time by which they must be in bed, or at which they must be quiet and respect the other householders' need for sleep/quiet time.
 You may wish to say that you will decide on appropriate consequences when the time comes. However, having consequences clearly spelled out in advance creates a sense of consistency and fairness, rather than giving out arbitrary consequences that the child may feel are out of proportion to the broken curfew instance.
 As the child gets older, it is reasonable to expect that not every night will be the same bedtime. Extensions might be given in such circumstances as:


When asked for, a day or two in advance, for a specific reason.
By calling and explaining why you will be late.
For a permanent extension, they should prove that they are not tired during the day, and have no problem getting up. By this stage, it is best to shift responsibility for meeting deadlines, getting somewhere on time, etc., onto the child.
 Younger children may need a reminder about the time, especially in the beginning. However, even older children can do with being reminded of the time, especially when deeply involved in something they're enjoying.


Sometimes, you may wish to go to bed before an older teenage child. In this case, ask them to turn off the lights and be certain the doors, etc., are all locked. Inform them that you're going to bed for the night and that you expect them to be in bed by their curfew.

