 With treatment, about 60% of people with eating disorders recover.However, it can take years to see full recovery. Some people may always suffer from feelings of discomfort with their bodies or compulsions to starve or binge, even though they manage to avoid damaging behaviors. Support your loved one through this process.Celebrate even small successes. For someone with anorexia, even eating what seems like a small quantity of food to you may represent a huge struggle for her/him.
Don’t judge relapses. Ensure that your loved one gets adequate care, but don’t judge him/her for struggles or stumbles. Acknowledge the relapse, then focus on how to get back on track.
 In some cases, particularly those involving young people, treatment may incorporate changes to routines by friends and family. Be ready to make changes that are necessary for your loved one’s recovery.


For example, the therapist may recommend that certain ways of communication or certain ways of handling conflict change.
It can be hard to acknowledge that something you do or say could be affecting your loved one’s disorder. Remember: you didn’t cause the disorder, but you may be able to help your loved one recover from it by changing some things about your behavior. Healthy recovery is the ultimate goal.
 It can be easy to slip into a “support” mode that can feel smothering to a person struggling with an eating disorder. Remember that a person struggling with anorexia already spends a great deal of his/her time thinking about food, weight, and body image. Don’t let the disorder be the only thing you talk about or focus on.


For example, go out to the movies, go shopping, play games or sports. Treat the other person with kindness and care, but let him or her enjoy life in as normal a way as possible.
Remember, people with eating disorders are not their disorder. They are people with needs, thoughts, and feelings.
 Struggling with eating disorders can feel intensely isolating. While you don’t want to smother your loved one, reminding him/her that you’re there to talk or be supportive can help with recovery.


Find support groups or other support activities for your loved one to join. Don’t force her or him to join them, but make the options available.
 Your loved one may find certain people, situations, or things “triggering” to his/her disorder. For example, having ice cream around may pose an impossible temptation. Going out to eat may cause anxiety over food. Be as supportive as possible. It can take some time to discover triggers, and they may come as a surprise even to the person with the disorder.Past experiences and emotions may also trigger unhealthy behavior.
Stressful or new experiences or situations may also act as triggers. Many people who suffer from anorexia are desperate to feel in control, and situations that make them feel uncertain may trigger the need to perform unhealthy eating behaviors.

