 Examine the gem under magnification, ideally through a 10x triple-lens jeweler's loupe. Hold it so light strikes it at an oblique angle, in one narrow beam if possible.If you see tiny flaws or irregular patterns within the stone, it is likely a real gem — although not necessarily an emerald. If your gem is very clear, with almost none of these "inclusions," it may be a synthetic emerald (man-made but real), or not a gemstone at all.


Gas bubbles only appear in natural emeralds near other inclusions of different shapes. If you see a swarm of bubbles alone, the gem is probably glass — but it could be a synthetic emerald.;
, Real emeralds produce little to no "fire," or colorful flashes that appear under light. If your gem produces a rainbow of flashes, it is not an emerald., The mineral beryl is only called emerald if it is dark green or blue-green. Yellow-green beryl is called heliodor, and light green beryl is just called green beryl.A yellow-green gem might also be olivine or green garnet.The line between emerald and green beryl is blurred — two jewelers could disagree over the classification of a gem.
 Glass and other weak materials wear down quickly. If the edges of the facets look soft and worn, the gem is likely fake.Fake glass "gems" often develop a dimpled "orange peel" texture and slightly rounded facet edges.Look for these features under slight magnification.
 "Soudé" imitation gems are constructed from two or three layers of different materials, often a green layer in between two colorless stones.If the stone is not mounted, you can easily see these layers by immersing it in water and viewing from the side.It's more difficult to see this in a mounted stone, but you can try examining the area around the girdle for odd color changes.
 Some gemstones appear different colors from different directions, but you'll need a cheap tool called a dichroscope to make this obvious. Hold the gemstone very close to one end of the dichroscope while you look through the viewing window. The gemstone must be illuminated by a strong, diffuse light source as white as possible, such as an overcast sky.Rotate the gemstone and the dichroscope to view it from all directions. Real emeralds are dichroic, appearing blue-green from one angle and a slightly yellow green from another.Strong dichroism (two very distinct colors) is a sign of a high quality emerald.It is possible to get unusual results due to an internal reflection off a facet, due to properties of fluorescent light, or due to light reaching the viewing window without passing through the gemstone.Use this along with other approaches, not as a single, definitive test.
 If the deal seems too good to be true, trust your instincts. A natural, vividly green emerald with a brilliant luster typically costs at least $500 USD per carat.If the price tag seems suspiciously low, you are probably looking at glass or crystal, not emeralds.


Synthetic emeralds are much cheaper than natural emeralds, but not as cheap as most other synthetic gems.$75 USD per carat is a ballpark figure for small, synthetic emeralds.
 If you still have doubts, take the gemstone to a jeweler and have it professionally appraised. The jeweler will have access to specialized tools that will give you a definitive answer, along with a lengthy description of your gemstone.


Look for a jeweler with accreditation from a national organization, such as the American Society of Appraisers or American Gem Society. A trade school degree in gemology is also a good sign.
Avoid appraisers associated with a particular retailer, especially one that is trying to sell you the gemstone you want appraised.
Fees vary greatly, and may be per-item, per-hour, or per-carat. Do not agree to an appraisal that charges a percentage of the emerald's value.