 Because Valentine's Day is a holiday associated with love and romance, it’s an extremely popular day to get married, particularly if it falls on a weekend. That can make it difficult to find an available space and other services for your wedding. If you want to get married on Valentine’s Day, decide as far in advance as you can so you have more time to arrange the event.If you want a large, formal wedding, you’ll likely want to decide at least a year in advance that you want a Valentine’s Day wedding. Planning two years in advance will probably give you the most options, though.
If you prefer a small, low-key wedding, you likely don’t need as much time to arrange the event. However, you’ll probably want to have at least 6 months to plan the wedding.;
, If you want to get married on Valentine’s Day but don’t necessarily have the time or budget to pull off a traditional wedding, you may want to think about a destination wedding. It is often easier to put that type of wedding together quickly because convenient packages are available.Valentine’s Day will still be a popular day for destination weddings, so be sure to arrange yours as far in advance as possible.
Caribbean islands are popular locations for destination weddings. Local resorts often have packages that can make planning your wedding easier.
Las Vegas, Nevada is another ideal option for a Valentine’s Day wedding. Most of the major hotels and casinos have wedding facilities and there are independent chapels throughout the city so you have plenty of options.
 You should find a venue for a Valentine's Day wedding as soon as possible because it can be difficult to find an available space. You’ll need a catering hall or ballroom for a traditional wedding reception and a church or other place of worship if you want a religious ceremony. Some venues even hold special group wedding services on Valentine's Day, which can be an ideal way to save money.If you’re having a small, casual wedding, you may have an easier time finding a restaurant or smaller venue for the reception on Valentine’s Day.
If you’re planning a Valentine’s Day wedding on short notice, consider holding the event at a friend or family member’s home.
For a casual, short notice Valentine’s Day wedding, you can also get married at your local city hall or marriage bureau.
If you're interested in a Valentine's Day group wedding, check with local venues, such as hotels, ski resorts, and municipal sites, to see if they're holding an event.
 For a Valentine’s Day wedding, you probably want to create a color scheme that makes uses of the shades traditionally associated with the holiday. Look for red, pink, and white shades that you like to form your wedding’s color palette.Consider adding gold accents to your wedding’s color scheme to incorporate some shiny, metallic elements into the decor.
 A Valentine’s Day wedding is the perfect time to add a few twists to the traditional dress. Incorporate red and/or pink elements in the wedding dress, such as a belt and/or silk rosettes or beads woven into the skirt.For a non-traditional look, a red or pink dress can be a striking option for a Valentine’s Day wedding.
 Depending on whether you are planning a casual or formal wedding, grooms can wear a simple suit or a tuxedo. A red or pink tie can complement either option, as can a matching vest. If a groom is wearing a tux, a red or pink cummerbund is also a nice touch for a Valentine's Day wedding.If the groom doesn't want to wear a colorful tie and/or vest, adding a red or pink pocket square to his suit or tux can help tie his look into the Valentine's Day theme.
 Red and pink shades are ideal options for the bridal party’s attire at a Valentine’s Day wedding. You can choose a single shade for the dresses or have the bridesmaid all wear slightly different color for an ombre effect. Men can wear red or pink ties, vests, and cummerbunds to tie the look together.As with the wedding dress, choosing bridal party dresses with rosette details can help play up the Valentine’s Day theme.
 People often make plans for Valentine’s Day, so if you want to be sure that your friends and family will be available on your special day, you should send out save-the-dates as soon as you’ve arranged the wedding venue and other key details. That will help give them advanced notice so they don’t make other plans on your big day.When you’re designing your save-the-dates, use the Valentine’s Day theme. Consider sending heart-shaped cards or a cupid’s arrow design to really play up the occasion.
When you’re deciding on your guest list to send out the save-the-dates, think about which friends and family members you want to be part of the bridal party. Make sure to give them advance notice too, so they know you want them to play an important role in your Valentine’s Day wedding.
 Just as with the save-the-dates, play up the Valentine’s Day theme when you’re choosing your invitations. Look for designs that incorporate hearts and arrows, and feature red and pink shades.Roses and carnations are also ideal options for the invitation design.
 Roses are extremely popular for Valentine’s Day, so they’re the ideal option for your wedding’s floral arrangements. Go dramatic with red roses, or soften the look of the arrangements with pink and white blooms.Carnations may be simple, but they work well for a Valentine’s Day theme too. They’re also less expensive than roses, so they’re an ideal option if you have a tight budget.
In addition to using roses for the bouquets and boutonnieres, consider adding heart-shaped decorations to the floral arrangements. Pin fabric hearts among the flowers in shades that contrast with the blooms so they stand out.
Traditional floral arrangements will work will to decorate the church and reception venue, but you can also work in some heart-shaped floral wreaths to play up the Valentine’s Day theme.
 The cake is an important part of any wedding’s decor, but it can make even more of a statement at a Valentine’s Day event. Instead of the usual white frosting, you may want to have a red or pink cake. Be sure to include some rose- and heart-shaped decorations too.You should choose your favorite type of cake for your big day, but a raspberry filling is perfect for a Valentine’s Day wedding because of its red color.
You may want to decorate the cake table with traditional Valentine’s Day candies, such as conversation hearts.
 If you are having your wedding at night, consider dimming the lights and adding some candles to the tables at the venue. Soft candlelight has an extremely romantic feel that’s perfect for a Valentine’s Day wedding.Twinkle lights can also help create a romantic vibe for your wedding. Consider adding red or pink battery-operated twinkle lights to clear mason jars, and place them among some floral arrangements as centerpieces for the tables.
 It’s traditional to provide favors for guests to take home with them so they remember your special day. For a Valentine’s Day wedding, holiday-related candy is a perfect favor option. Use conversation hearts, red cinnamon heart candies, and foil-wrapped heart chocolates to create gift bags that you can leave at each place setting.Pink, red, and white M&M’s and red- and pink-wrapped Hershey’s kisses also work well.
You can layer red and pink jelly beans in decorative bags or containers to use as favors too.
 As with any wedding, it’s important to decide what your budget is for the big day. For a Valentine’s Day wedding, though, you will likely find that costs are a little higher because of the day’s popularity as a wedding date and the other special events that usually take place that day. Create a concrete budget of what you have to spend, so you know what type of Valentine’s Day wedding you can pull off.Start determining your budget by figuring out how much you and your partner can save between now and Valentine’s Day. Be realistic so you don’t count on money that you won’t have.
The longer that your engagement is, the more time that you’ll have to save. That’s another reason to plan a Valentine’s Day wedding as far in advance as possible.
Talk to both families to see if they will be able to contribute any funds to the wedding budget.
Keep in mind that the more formal and grand that you want your Valentine’s Day wedding, the larger the budget you’ll need. If having your wedding on Valentine’s Day is very important to you, you may need to scale back according to your budget.
 In addition to a venue for the ceremony and the reception, you’ll need an officiant who is legally able to marry you on Valentine’s Day. If you want a religious ceremony, you can contact your place of worship to find someone who is available to marry you. For a civil ceremony, you can use a judge, clerk, or justice of the peace.Check your local regulations to see who can legally perform a ceremony in your area.
Just as with wedding venues, officiants are likely going to be very busy on Valentine’s Day. Make arrangements as soon as you can to ensure that you have someone to perform the ceremony.
In some locations, you can also choose to have a friend or family member officiate your wedding. They will need to be ordained by some type of online church before the ceremony and register with local authorities to ensure that they are legally permitted to marry you. Check your local regulations to see what the exact requirements are.
 As with the wedding venue(s) and officiants, other wedding service providers, such as photographers, makeup artists, and hairstylists, will book up quickly for Valentine’s Day. Identify the service providers that you wish to work with, and book their services as soon as possible.The best way to identify photographers, makeup artists, and other service providers that you’d like to work with is to ask friends and family for recommendations. You can also use review websites to find more options.
Make sure to examine the online portfolios of service providers to see if you like their work. It’s also a good idea to arrange a meeting so you can explain your vision for the wedding with them to see if it works with their style.

