 From your resident pets to your neighbor’s dog, scent should always be given priority whenever you introduce your new dog to other animals. Avoid forcing two dogs into meeting face-to-face by pulling their leashes and bringing them too close to each other.While this is how humans meet each other, head-on physical posturing can be a sign of confrontation and will likely make your dogs uncomfortable.
Instead, let the dogs exchange physical places by walking around each other, showing each other their profiles, and sniffing each other. If you trust your dog, keep the leash relatively loose, but be prepared to hold tight and recall your dog if there are any problems.  

, When you introduce your new and resident dogs, start by offering them scent articles that smell like the other dog. This is how dogs shake hands. Then, bring them both to a neighbor’s yard or other neutral, fenced area.Keep both dogs leashed, but try to keep leashes loose so the dogs know they’re in a stress-free situation.
If all goes well, bring both the dogs into your home separately, and keep them in separate rooms at first. Let your new dog out of its crate or closed room and bring it around the house for about 15 minutes. Put it back in its crate or closed room, and repeat the process with your resident dog.
Finally, if the dogs have been calm thus far, introduce them through a sturdy baby gate. Keep them both leashed. If all goes well, allow them to interact without the gate for short periods of time. Try to keep them separated for the majority of the first couple weeks, depending on their response, and don’t leave them alone together.
 Give both your new and resident dogs equal attention. When getting your new dog used to all its family members, it can be tempting to give it a little extra affection. However, it’s important that you avoid making either dog jealous, or you’ll jeopardize the socialization process.Jealous dogs can act aggressively and identify the other dog as a rival, which could result in long term behavioral issues that will require professional assistance.
 If you want to get your new dog and resident cat used to each other, keep them separated at first. Offer the dog a scent article that smells like the cat. Give it a pat or positive praise so it understands this new scent is a good thing.


Let them into the same room, and keep your dog on its leash. Make sure the cat as a way out of the room if it feels the need to get out. Monitor their interaction closely, and be prepared to pull the leash and recall your dog if it starts to growl or if the cat hisses. Avoid forces the animals to interact, but allow them to sniff and meet each other on their own terms.
Be patient, and try to keep your new dog and cat separated most of the time until they get used to each other.

