 For MLA style, you'll embed a reference to your citation in the text, then include a works cited page at the end of your essay.
 Directly after the sentence in which you reference the information from the website, put in a reference to your works cited page.Do not put a period at the end of the sentence (yet).Put your reference in parentheses. Start the parentheses one space away from your last word.If you know the author of the website, cite the author's last name. Usually MLA citations include the author and page number; however, because most websites don't have page numbers, you can simply use the author's last name.If you don't know the author's last name, use the title of the piece, placing it in quotations. If the title is long, you can use what's called a partial title. For example, shorten "Yiddish Theater in 19th-Century Prague" to simply "Yiddish Theater."Close the parentheses. The close parenthesis should come directly after the last letter of the author's name or after the last quotation mark.Put a period at the end of the sentence. The period ending the sentence should come directly after the parentheses without a space., Use the following format with the first line not indented but the subsequent lines indented.Author's Last Name, Author's First Name. "Website Name." Version number (if applicable). Publisher or organization, date of publication (year). Publication medium (Web). Date you accessed the material (day month year).
Note that MLA no longer requires the inclusion of URLs in works cited page citations because URLs aren't necessarily static. If your instructor requires one, place it directly after the date of access: Date of access. http://www.piesforeveryone.com.
The citation looks like the following when complete: Smith, Jess. Pies for Everyone. The Baking Company, 2005. Web. 25 July 2007. http://www.piesforeveryone.com.
If you are citing one page on the website, place the page title in quotation marks before the website name: Smith, Jess. "Cherry Pie for Beginners." Pies for Everyone. The Baking Company, 2005. Web. 25 July 2007. http://www.piesforeveryone.com.
Leave the author off if one isn't listed. Use "n.p." in the publisher's place if you can't find one and "n.d" in place of the date., Use the first word in each citation to alphabetize them on the works cited page.

