 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the brownies, it’s important to preheat it. Set the temperature to 325°F (165°C), and allow it to fully heat., For the brownies, you’ll need an 8-inch by 8-inch (20-cm by 20-cm) baking dish or pan. Use a piece of parchment paper to line the pan, making sure that two sides of the paper overhang the pan so you can easily lift the brownies out when they’re done.If you prefer, you can grease the baking dish with butter or nonstick cooking spray rather than lining it.
 Add ½ cup (115 g) of chopped, unsalted butter and 1 ⅓ cup (200 g) of chopped dark chocolate to a large microwave-safe bowl. Heat the mixture in the microwave on high in 15 second intervals until the chocolate melts completely.Be sure to stir the chocolate mixture after each heating interval so you don’t overheat the chocolate.
If you prefer, you can melt the chocolate and butter together in a double boiler on the stove top.
 Once the chocolate mixture is melted and smooth, add ½ cup (100 g) of sugar, ½ cup (100 g) of brown sugar, and 1 teaspoon (5 ml) vanilla extract to the bowl. Beat the mixture on medium with a handheld electric mixer until it is fully combined.If you prefer, you can use a stand mixer to prepare the brownie batter.
You can also mix the brownie batter by hand, but it will take a little more time and effort.
 When the sugars and vanilla are incorporated, add 3 large eggs to the bowl. Mix them in on medium-low one at a time, making sure that each is fully blended in before adding the next.You can use egg substitute in place of the eggs if you prefer.
 After the eggs have been completely mixed in, add ⅔ cup (85 g) of all-purpose flour. Blend it in on medium-low until it is fully incorporated and the batter has a thick, smooth consistency.It’s a good idea to sift the flour before you add it to the brownie batter.
 When the brownie batter has reached the proper consistency, add ½ cup of chopped, mini creme eggs to the bowl. Use a rubber spatula to gently fold the candy into the batter so the eggs are evenly distributed.You can use large creme eggs for the brownies, but you’ll need to chop them more than you do with the mini version.
 After you’ve folded the creme eggs into the batter, transfer it to the lined baking dish. Use a rubber spatula to smooth the top and ensure that the batter is spread in an even layer across the pan., Once the batter is spread evenly in the pan, place it in the oven. Allow the brownies to bake for 25 minutes or until they are partially set.The brownies shouldn’t be cooked through at this point, so don’t be alarmed if they are still fairly soft on top and jiggly in the center.
 After the brownies have baked for 25 minutes, remove them from the oven. Place 3 large creme eggs that have been cut in half across the top of the pan, gently pressing them down into the brownies. Return the pan to the oven and bake the brownies for 20 to 25 minutes more.Space the mini eggs evenly apart in the brownies and place them with the cream side facing up.
You can use mini creme eggs that are cut in half to press into the brownies. You’ll just need more of them to cover all the away across the top of the pan.
You’ll know the brownies are finished baking when they’re no longer jiggly in the center.
 Once the brownies are finished baking, remove the pan from the oven. Let the brownies cool completely for 30 to 45 minutes before cutting them into squares and serving.It’s important that the brownies are completely cool and set before you try to cut into them, so you may want to chill them in the refrigerator for an hour or two before slicing them.
Store any leftover brownies in an airtight container. They should stay fresh for 3 to 4 days at room temperature.

