 Drinking water helps you lower blood sugar levels through urine. As you drink more water, the body flushes extra sugar out of your blood through urine. Then, you'll have to replenish the fluids in your body.You should drink a minimum of 8 glasses of water each day., Recent research has shown that cinnamon may have a positive effect on blood sugar by lowering fasting blood glucose. Adding cinnamon to your dishes can be a helpful way of managing your blood sugar. However, it is not to be used in place of medication.


If you are ingesting more than a teaspoon a day, buy Ceylon cinnamon. It is more expensive, but it's milder and doesn't contain the ingredient cassia, which contains coumarin. Some people are sensitive to coumarin, and when they eat a lot of coumarin, can end up with liver toxicity.
Try using cinnamon in spice rubs for meat. Or put it in oatmeal, cereal, or a salad.
You can also take cinnamon as a supplement., Isolated incidents may not be cause for worry. But if your blood sugar is irregular for three days or more, there might be cause for concern. Ask yourself what could be causing the irregularities. Is it only in the morning? That might mean you are producing too much sugar during the night and need to see a doctor. Look at your food, lifestyle, and habits for the past week or two. Try to determine the cause of the irregularity.


Have you stopped managing portion sizes? This might mean you are overeating.
Have you stopped paying close attention to the ingredients in your food? Maybe you are eating too many carbs with a high-glycemic index. If this is the case, restructure the way you eat and see if that helps regulate your blood sugar.
Have you decreased your physical activity? That could cause your blood sugar to rise.
Are you taking your medicine regularly?
Are you sick? Even drinking a cup of orange juice for the added vitamin C might change your blood sugar levels., When you are stressed, your body puts glucose in your blood as a source of energy. Trying to manage your stress can help you refrain from spiking your blood sugar.


Don't put yourself into high stress situations if you can help it. There's no reason to cause unneeded stress on your body.
If you are feeling stressed, take a step back. Realize that it is a stressful situation and try not to let the stress overwhelm you. Take a few deep breaths, meditate, squeeze a stress ball, or whatever other kind of stress relief method you have., Medication and insulin can help reduce your blood sugar. If you feel you need medication to help you regulate your blood sugar or insulin injections to help, see your physician.