 There are many different career opportunities within forensics. Some lean more towards social sciences while many positions are heavily oriented towards biology and chemistry. The following jobs are all sub-fields within forensics:


laboratory analyst
forensic odontologist (dentist)
forensic engineer
crime scene examiner
forensic psychologist.
psychological profiler
forensic accountant. See Work in Forensic Accounting.
forensic IT specialist
forensic pathologist (medical examiner);
, To become a medical examiner, you will have to attend medical school and receive your MD degree. While this takes a long time, your salary is likely to be higher than in other sub-fields of forensics. Your job duties include inspecting deceased bodies and determining the cause of death. You should have a strong stomach for this job. Work hours are also less predictable because you could be called in at a moment's notice.Pursuing an undergraduate degree in biology or chemistry is a smart choice. These degrees will help you gain entrance into medical school.Upon completing medical school, choose a residency where you can focus on forensics.See Become a Medical Examiner for additional details.
 For this job, you work in a laboratory environment and conduct analyses of samples from the crime scene or deceased person. Your hours are more predictable and your pay is decent. You will repeat many of the same tasks.


For the best preparation, major in chemistry.If you want to specialize in DNA testing, pursue an undergraduate degree in biology with focuses on genetics and biochemistry., An on call job, you will rush to the scene of crimes to begin preliminary analysis. You might photograph or draw the scene. You will mark evidence and work with detectives and police officers.This work is exciting and unpredictable. Your pay is not fantastic.Pursue a degree in natural sciences (biology, chemistry, physics) and specialize on crime scene investigation or law enforcement. Alternatively, you could major in criminal justice with a minor in natural sciences.You will need to write reports so consider taking English classes., Specialize in electrical, civil, traffic, materials, or mechanical engineering. Your hours and pay will be good and you will investigate cases involving traffic accidents, fires, and unlawful injury. Your work will be similar to that of a crime scene examiner except that you will be focusing on the non-biological aspects of a case. , Your primary job will be working with convicted people in therapeutic settings. You will have personal appointments with offenders and assess whether the person is likely to commit another crime or whether they are at risk for self-harm. You might design treatment programs for offenders or be a witness in courtrooms. You are likely to work a normal forty hour work and your pay is decent.Major first in psychology with a minor in criminology.Pursue a master's degree in forensic psychology.See Become a Forensic Psychologist for more tips.

