 Bagging a lunch at 7:30 in the morning can be quite stressful, not to mention the fact that the foods that you insert in your panic may be unhealthy. Prevent this stress by packing your lunch the night before. It is okay if you need to make something in the morning because it might not be warm if it is sitting out all night; just have your materials ready in the morning, so all you have to do it pop the food in the microwave and put it in your lunch.;
, Eating tuna fish sandwiches and orange juice every day can be quite boring. Eating the same thing every day will make you get sick of the food, and even tempt you to throw away your lunch, therefore skipping a meal, which is very unhealthy. To prevent that from happening, make a monthly meal plan.


For example, tuna fish sandwiches on Monday, tacos on Tuesday, a salad with nuts on Wednesday, veggie burritos on Thursday, and pizza on Friday.
Mix up your choices along the week for every month, so your lunch seems like something different every day. Change the food that you pack each month, so you don't get tired of the other foods that you have been packing. It is okay to pack something special or different once in a while; just keep most of your meals consistent.
 Eating all junk food every week doesn't sound very healthy, now does it? You should always pack a variety of healthy foods, not a variety of unhealthy stuff. Make sure that you have all of these five items in your lunch: veggies, fruits, grains, proteins, and dairy.


An example of a healthy lunch could be a cup of greek yogurt (dairy) with fruit in it (fruits), a slice of whole-wheat toast with butter/jam on it (grains), a handful of almonds (proteins), and a small serving of veggie pasta (grains and veggies).
You don't necessarily have to have one of each food group every time; just try to make sure that the servings of these five items are fairly equal. Experiment, and try your own combinations of foods! You might create a dish that you really like!

, You might be tempted to skip meals, or throw away part of your lunch, but don't. This is the most important part of eating healthy in Middle School. You can create the healthiest lunch in the world, but if you don't eat it, then all of that goes to waste. Even though some of your friends might finish faster, or skip meals, take the time to eat your lunch. Don't talk too much during mealtimes, because while you are talking away about your vacation to Hawaii, your friends will be finishing up their lunches. Instead, talk about small things, like "I love your vest!", or "Ugh, there is so much rain nowadays!"


Do not rush just because your friends finished eating faster; eat at your own pace, as they will wait for you, or you will catch up with them at the courtyard or library. They are your friends, after all, and you would do the same for them.

