 Wash your hair thoroughly every time you bathe, or every other time, if you have especially dry or damaged hair. Shampoo first and rinse completely, then apply conditioner and allow it to sit for a few minutes. Work the lather into your scalp to wash away dirt and oil, and condition the shaft down to the tips. Use hair products that contain healthy vitamins, proteins and oils so that your hair will stay strong and healthy.Washing your hair too much can also damage it. Your hair needs a light coating of natural oils, so consider only shampooing every other day (or even every two days for those with curly, frizzy hair) and use a little conditioner on the ends in the meantime.Cleansing conditioners and natural shampoos that make use of essential oils can also get your hair clean without drying it out.
 Invest in a good soft-bristled brush or wide-toothed comb and use it often. Combing and brushing rids hair of pesky knots and tangles, which can cause damage if left untreated. If you want the kind of smooth, flowing, silky hair you see on your favorite celebrities, you should make frequent brushing a hair care priority.Brush your hair before you shower to prevent it from being poofy once it dries.
Choose a brush that works best for your hair type and the style you’re trying to achieve., Too much straightening, curling and blow drying robs your hair of its natural moisture and leads to breakage. Use these styling techniques sparingly, and make sure to protect your hair with heat-treatment products when you do. If you usually blow dry your hair, start using a medium or low heat setting instead of turning it on full blast. It will take longer, but you’ll have luxurious hair to show for it.Use quick, smooth strokes when straightening, and low heat when curling, to minimize the damage that the heat does to your hair.
Pulling your hair back too tight, wearing a hat all day or spending a lot of time in the sun can also be bad for your hair., Just like heat, the chemical agents in certain hair products can strip and damage healthy hair. Look for shampoos, hairsprays, styling aids and other products that are organic or water-based and don’t contain harsh chemicals. These are much better for your hair and scalp, and are becoming less expensive and easier to find as the popularity of natural hygiene products increases.Check the label before you buy a particular hair product to see if it’s made with natural ingredients.

