 It’s easy to lose your sense of self-identity and confidence and, as a result, isolate yourself. However, you must challenge yourself to remain connected to your friends, family, former teammates, and other members of your support system. Resist feeling isolated, disconnected, or unsure of yourself.Reach out to someone when you need to, whether it’s a family member, old teammate, or your counselor. You could call a friend and say, "My confidence level is really low today, and I could really use a friend. I know I want to discover a new sense of purpose, but I don't even know where to start. Do you have time to grab a coffee or just chat on the phone for a bit?"
If you want to talk about your feelings, you should. However, just spending time with loved ones can comfort you and remind you that you are connected to other people.
Keep in mind that it is okay if you don’t feel like spending as much time with people, but it is a good idea to continue to maintain some social involvement. Try to spend time with friends and family as you normally would, even if you have to set a time limit or have some quiet time after to recover.
 Many former dancers and athletes treat coping with the end of their career like a performance or game: you either do the right dance step or not, or you either win the game or not. This either/or, linear way of thinking can leave you feeling even less confident or like you’re doing something wrong if you have trouble coping.Instead of thinking that there are right and wrong ways of coping, remember that everyone copes differently. Think of coping as an open process. Accept that you might have setbacks and bad days, but try not to let them define you.
 Your dance or athletic career becomes a major part of your identity, but you should remember that you are a unique person with many other talents and qualities. Take some time to reflect and write a list of things about yourself that you admire.You could list your core values, like honesty, sense of duty, or humor. You could write down your relationships with other people, like being a parent, son or daughter, sibling, or best friend. List your other talents or hobbies, like being great at board games, gardening, bike riding, or music.
Carry this list with you and read over it regularly, especially when you start to feel down. You can also post it somewhere that you will see it often, such as on your computer monitor or on a mirror.
 Athletic and dance careers typically end relatively early in life, and you should celebrate this fact. Take time to feel proud of your many accomplishments at such a young age and realize that you are off to a great start towards accomplishing your life goals. It can be daunting to think, “What am I going to do with the rest of my life?” However, instead of letting fear and worry win out, think to yourself, “It is incredibly exciting that I have so many possibilities ahead of me!”Think of all the experiences your life has in store for you: marriage (if you aren’t already), children, grandchildren, embarking on a new career, vacations, and making a difference in someone else’s life.

