 Let any student read who wants to.


However, don’t force anyone to read.
You can have them read from their seats or go up to a podium/the front of the room.
They may be more comfortable in their seats, but having them stand also gives them experience reading in a public forum.
 Remind the students (and yourself) that this is not the time for criticizing—utilize positive feedback, as these are only first drafts.


Tell the student what works, and help them to see the direction the work could take.
Ask pointed questions to get them going in the right direction.
 If you are adding critique time to your workshop, you should have students either bring more polished work in or turn it in ahead of time.


Having a critique can be a great way to make sure that your students understand how their work is developing.
Let students exchange work. Turning in work ahead of time is harder to organize, but it gives students time to read each other’s work.
If you are reading in class, you can either exchange print materials or have the student read. You can even do a combination of both.
If the group is too big, try dividing into smaller groups. You won’t be able to critique each student’s work, but students will be able to offer suggestions to each other.
 Criticism should be something the writer can actually work on, rather than something vague.


For example, good criticism could be something like “I think you overused the word ‘like’ in this piece.” rather than something vague like, “I don’t like this sentence.”
Every criticism should be backed up with an explanation as to why, such as, “I don’t think the rhyme scheme works because the rhyme limits your word choice too much; it becomes sing-songy when you’re writing about a very serious subject.”
Also, each person should strive to also find something positive in each piece of writing.
 Give your students something to read, or leave them a writing prompt to take with them.


Tell them how they can continue to develop the writing they worked on in class.
Reinforce what you’ve learned in the class. Talk again about the form, trying to use examples from students’ writing.
Maybe offer suggestions of how the students could get their writing published by telling them about good websites like Duotrope.

