 You can find airsoft guns online (a simple search will turn up lots of sites, as well as good old eBay) or at a local retailer (many sporting goods stores sell airsoft guns). Remember that you get what you pay for, and while that Walmart gun is a lot less expensive, you'll be lucky to hit anything with it. A quality pistol should run you from 80 to 150 USD, and a quality assault rifle should go for about 130 to 250 dollars,and the best guns range from about 250 to 500 bucks, but you don't always need to spend that much to get a great gun. If you're new, you probably shouldn't spend lots of money to get a scoped rifle or a sniper rifle, as you won't have the skills necessary to use it effectively.;
, Empty plastic water bottles work well. Try hitting them from increasing distances, at odd angles, and while moving. Remember, you have to account for drop. Air resistance slows the plastic BBs, and gravity causes them to fall. The farther you are, the higher up you will have to aim to hit the same target.
 Find a local airsoft team, or try with your friends. The more you do it, the better you will become. If you are brave enough the best thing to do is let someone empty a magazine on you. It hurts like heck but it will help you to become more acquainted with how badly it hurts, thus allowing you to be that much bolder for it.
 Being prepared for what your opponent will do is essential. For the sake of keeping this short, we will recklessly break down the myriad numbers of styles and skill levels into two basic types - Defense Oriented and Offense Oriented.
 The harder to 'kill' of the types, skilled D.O. players will have selected a tactically superior position and have hidden themselves well. If they are experienced, you will not see them. Try to listen for where the gun shot is coming from and take cover You will have to pay attention to their work. Allies dropping 'dead' at a seemingly deserted intersection is a good indication that an enemy sniper is present. Try to track the possible locations the sniper could be lying in, based on the location of his kills. Attempt to maneuver around his field of fire, and creep up out of sight until you can see him. Take careful aim, and remove him from the battle.
 The problem with this is, is that if the sniper can see you pretending not to see him, he will not leave cover to engage you. He will stay where he is and shoot you.
 They are easier to find, coming through the brush looking for you. But wait, that seemingly easy target could be a trap, bait intended to locate you. Find the nearest cover you can, as quietly as you can. Scan the area around and behind the O.O. player coming at you. If no one seems to be escorting him, then take him out. Engage the enemy with a minimum of movement and sound, so that if he is being covered, they may not see you.
 Don't be disheartened if you can't seem to win. Ask fellow players for help, and keep trying. Good luck, be safe, and over all - Have Fun!

