 You can do this from the Start menu (Start Button >> All Programs >> Electronic Arts >> Need for Speed Carbon) or from the desktop by double-clicking its icon.;
, When the game loads, press Enter to display the main menu.
 Choose the first option on the main menu, Career, by pressing Enter.
 On the Career menu, choose “Resume Career.” This will take you to the Safe House you accessed most recently or the one nearest to the point you last were in the game world.


A Safe House is a hideout in the game world that offers respite from the cops and where you can customize your car(s) and manage your racing crew.
Depending on your career progress, there may one or several Safe Houses scattered all over the game world (a fictional city called Palmont).
 The Safe House menu allows you to install different types of parts on your car.
 On the Safe House menu scroll rightwards and choose “Customization” by pressing Enter.
 On the Customization menu scroll rightwards and choose “Performance” by pressing Enter.
 On the Performance menu, the following categories of upgrades are available: Engine, Transmission, Suspension, Nitrous, Tires, Brakes, and Turbo.


Select which category you’ll be upgrading by scrolling downward or upward (Down or Up Arrow key, respectively) to highlight the category you want then pressing Enter.
 There are different upgrades in each category, and each is priced according to how much it improves your car. Scroll downward or upward (Down or Up Arrow key respectively) to highlight the upgrade you want and press Enter to choose it.


This will put the upgrade in your shopping cart.
 Once you have selected all the performance parts you want, press Escape to return to the Customization menu.
 Everything else on the NFS Carbon Customization menu (apart from the Performance section) is pretty much dedicated to improving the visual appearance of the car. These sections are: Autosculpt, Aftermarket and Visuals.


The Aftermarket section allows you to install visual parts that are not by default installed on the car by the manufacturer while the Visuals section mostly tackles paint.
In Autosculpt, you can modify Aftermarket parts like Bumpers and Roof Scoops to better suite you car.
The procedure for installing a visual part is like that of a performance part, but the order is important, as shown in the next steps.
 Scrolling rightwards on the Customization menu and pressing Enter when the category you want is highlighted.
 The categories under Aftermarket include: Body Kit, Hood, and Wheels. Use the Left and Right Arrow keys to scroll from a category to the next.
 Use the Down and Up Arrow keys to highlight the upgrades/parts under the categories. Pressing Enter will put the part into your shopping cart.
 After Aftermarket, return to the Customization menu (Escape) and choose “Visuals.” Here you can select the paint color for different parts of the car, i.e., Body and Wheels.


Scroll rightwards on the Visuals section and press Enter when the category you want is highlighted.
 Use the Left and Right Arrow keys to scroll from a category to the next.
 Use the Down and Up Arrow keys to highlight the upgrades/parts under the categories. Pressing Enter will put the part into your shopping cart.
 After Visuals, return to the Customization menu (Escape) and choose “Autosculpt.” This is where you can modify the parts added from Aftermarket to your tastes.
 Categories under Autosculpt are identical those under Aftermarket and can be selected by scrolling leftwards or rightwards and pressing Enter.


The Left and Right Arrow keys can be used to alter the parts, e.g., the positioning of a Roof Scoop or the height of a Bumper.
 The last part is to pay for the upgrades in the shopping cart and thus apply them to the car. Press Spacebar to view the shopping cart and Enter to complete the process.


At this point, your car is much better than when you entered the Safe House!

