 Take some time to think about what kinds of changes you want to make to the appearance of your Nerf gun. Do you want to change the colors? The shape? Or just add some minor customizations to personalize your gun? You may want to make a sketch or two to plan out your modifications.


Use your imagination--there are many different modifications you could make, depending on the look you want For the amount of work you are willing to put in. If you need some inspiration, there are many websites where people have posted their favorite Nerf gun modifications, sometimes with tips for creating similar looks.
The extent of the changes you want to make will determine the supplies you need and how extensive the project will be.;
, Depending on the type of gun you're starting with, you may wish to add components or even remove parts to create a more appealing look.


For example, some Nerf guns have large stocks that serve little or no function. If you have such a gun, you might want to saw off the stock to create a smaller gun.On the other hand, you might wish to add visual elements to your gun. You can use super glue, model glue, or rubber cement to add anything from parts of other Nerf guns, small items from toy, craft or hardware stores, or even to custom-created decorative elements, such the foam rubber blade added to a Nerf Maverick shown here.
Again, think creatively about additions you might want to make. The possibilities are endless!

, Many serious Nerf enthusiasts like to create custom looks for their guns with full-body paint jobs. This can be as simple as sanding the gun down and spray-painting it with a color you like.You must sand all the glossy surfaces down to make certain the spray paint will stick.
Disassembling the gun, or at least removing the larger parts and painting them individually, will allow for a more thorough paint job.
To get a multicolored look, you can paint your gun one color, let it dry, then tape over with masking tape the areas you want to remain that color. Then, paint the gun with another color of spray paint, let it dry, and remove the tape.
 Once your paint is dry, you can further customize your design with a paintbrush or permanent marker.


With a model brush and paints, you can add highlights that give your gun a metallic look, if desired.