 Straightening your hair works best on freshly washed or day-old hair. When washing your hair, tailor your shampoo and conditioning products to your hair type. For thick, frizzy hair, use a smoothing shampoo and conditioner. For thin, flat hair, use volumizing products. Once hair is washed, give it a quick towel dry, then blow-dry with a hair dryer. This will help to pre-straighten your hair, so you will have less work to do with the straightening iron.


Dry the roots of your hair with the hair dryer first, then work through the lengths of your hair.
Turn your head upside down while drying to add more volume.
Use a paddle brush to work through tangles and hold hair taut as you dry.;
, Investing in a good heat protection spray which you apply every time you straighten is one of the best things you can do for your hair, without forgoing straightening altogether. The heat protection spray locks in moisture and prevents hair from becoming dry and frazzled. Apply the heat protection spray evenly over dry hair, holding the can about six inches away from your head.Don't apply the heat protection spray to your roots, as this can cause them to look greasy.
Heat protection sprays can be found at most drug stores and hair salons. It may be worth investing in a brand name product which will do a better job of protecting your hair. Try asking your hair stylist for recommendations.
 Dividing your hair into sections will ensure that you straighten your hair properly, without missing any strands. The easiest way to section your hair is to divide it into three layers.









Create the first layer by taking the front sections of your hair and scooping them back with your thumbs to grab all of the hair on the crown of your head. Separate this layer by twisting it and securing it with a hair tie or butterfly clip.Create the second layer by scooping up the hair that remains above your ears and securing with a hair tie or clip.
The third layer consists of any hair which remains unclipped, which should be the hair at the back of your head, growing around the nape of your neck.
If you have very thick hair, you can divide your hair into extra layers. If you have very thin or fine hair, you may not need to divide hair at all, or you can just split it into two sections.
 Most good quality hair straighteners give you the option to adjust the temperature of the irons. Using the right temperature for your hair will ensure you get the best results and will prevent you from doing unnecessary damage to your hair. The temperature your straightener should be set to will depend on your hair type:Fine or damaged hair should use a temperature of between 200 and 300 °F (93-149 °C).Hair of average thickness which is in pretty good condition should use a temperature of between 300 and 350 °F (149-177 °C).Very thick or coarse, frizzy hair should use a temperature of 350 to 400 °F (177-205°C)., Straightening your hair with a straightening irons does not involve anything very complicated, but there are a number of helpful tips you can follow in order to achieve the best results:









Use the right size strands. For best results, straighten your hair in strands that are 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5.1 cm) wide and no more than half an inch thick. IF you use sections that are much bigger, your hair won't straighten properly, but if you use smaller sections, it will take too long.
Hold the hair taut. Use one hand to hold the section of hair taut as you clamp the straightening iron around it and smooth it through the hair. If it's not completely straight the first time, don't worry, just pull the straightener through again.
Begin straightening about an inch away from the roots. This will leave a little volume in your hair and make sure it doesn't look too flat.
Use smooth rather than jerky movements. Try to run the straightening iron over the hair in one smooth, fluid movement. If you move it jerkily, you will end up with horizontal lines across your hair.
 If this happens, it means that your hair is not fully dry. Stop, turn off the hair straightener and use a hair dryer to get your hair completely dry before you resume straightening. Using a straightening irons on damp hair is very damaging and will leave your hair in bad condition, so avoid whenever possible.
 Once you have straightened the bottom layer of hair, unclip the next section and begin to straighten it using the same technique as before. The top layer of hair should be the last section of hair you straighten.
 It can be easy to overlook a strand or two throughout the straightening process. Don't forget to check the back. If you spot any waves or kinks, just go over them with the straightener one more time.


You can check the back of your hair by standing with your back to a mirror while you hold a second mirror in your hands. You should be able to see the reflection of the back of your head in the hand-held mirror.
 You may need to position the straightening iron in a certain way to get it out of your face or to help it style a certain way. Twist the iron slightly when you get to the end of each strand to create little flicks at the bottom.









It’s very important to do these touch ups before applying any finishing products because some styling products (such as hairspray) are flammable and can catch fire under the heat of a straightening iron.
 You can use a silicone-based serum to add shine, or spray your hair with hair spray to hold your hair in place. Just don't add any mousse or water-based product as this will dampen the hair and cause it to turn wavy.








