


After your model finishes with the petroleum jelly, apply a thick layer over the back of her upper thighs, her buttocks, and her lower back (or as high as you want the cast to reach).Make sure the coat of petroleum jelly is smooth and there aren't any long hairs poking out.
Your model may wish to shave or trim her pubic hair before you begin, just to make sure nothing gets caught in the plaster.
For extra protection, your model can use a plastic wrap to cover her her anus and labia, protecting them from the wet plaster., If one leg must be lifted slightly, use a phonebook to prop the leg up.


If you pose her in too difficult or uncomfortable a position, you may be forced to stop before the plaster has dried. Try to find a pose that fits your artistic vision and takes her comfort into consideration, too., Do not leave the bandages in the water to soak--the plaster will come off and the bandages won't stick. Slide the wet bandage between your middle and index finger to wipe off excess water. Be careful not to wipe off the plaster as well.Make sure the water is warm so it will be less shocking when you place it on your model's skin.It is quite helpful to have an assistant wetting the plaster bandages and handing them to you, as you will have to work very quickly once the process has begun.
Don't let the water get too white or milky with plaster, or your bandages may separate later., This will make it less likely your cast will have holes or leaks.Use your hands to gently smooth any air bubbles out and releasing them from the sides of the bandage.Don't press too hard on the wet bandages or you may create dimples that will affect your finished mold., Instead of covering the entire area with bandages and then starting again with a second layer, you want to be covering each area with at least three layers as you move up the body. Let the different layers criss-cross and weave over each other so the cast will be tightly sealed, strong, and firm.To prevent the edges from breaking when you remove the cast, make the edges at least six layers thick., This should take no more than 10 or 15 minutes, and you can begin cleaning up while you wait.Tap the cast gently to test if it has hardened--it will sound firm and will feel dry., The cast will be difficult to remove--there will still be tiny hairs stuck in the plaster, despite the petroleum jelly.Though it feels hard, the cast is actually quite delicate, so be very careful as you lift it.Ask the model to wiggle slightly, as this may help loosen the plaster from her skin.Make sure you have a robe or clean, dry clothes for the model to put on immediately.
 To avoid damaging the mold, you can place it on a soft surface, with the hollow side down.You can also tie a string around the cast and hang it from a hangar or a nail in the wall.Cover the completely dried cast with an oil-based varnish to strengthen it and prevent mold.Once dry, your plaster mold is ready for use.

