 A split can occur in a variety of locations on the frame depending on how it was damaged.


The middle of the frame is a common area to become split, particularly if the door is forced open or shut with too much force. This is most often encountered during burglaries or other forced door entries.
A kicked door can cause a split lower on the door frame (including damage to the door itself).
 Use a chisel and hammer to pry the door stop and molding away from the frame. Start at the bottom of the frame and work your way up.


Take care not to damage the stop as you remove it from the frame. Place the claw end of the hammer on the side of each nail to support even removal.
Remove any remaining finishing nails left in the molding.
 Mark the measurements with a pencil. If the damage is at the bottom of the frame, mark just above the damage.
 Use a small hand or power saw to make an accurate cut.


Apply screws just above and below the marked measurements to help hold the frame tight and help guide the cutting process.Be careful not to cut too deep into the frame. You don’t want to damage the structure of the house.
 You want to cut the timber of the same length and width as the damaged portion removed from the frame. Use the same type of timber as the rest of the existing frame.


Weather-treated pieces of 2x4 timber are the most commonly used type of wood used for door frames. These are available at DIY stores such as Home Depot and Lowes.
Never use pressure-treated materials as they will twist once they dry out.
Door frame/jamb replacement kits are available for purchase that feature pre-cut selections of timber in various sizes and thicknesses. These can be further modified to suit your needs.If you believe your door frame is made from a non-standard wood, take the damaged portion to your local hardware store. Experts there can help you identify the type of wood that was used and supply you with the necessary materials.
 Use wood or carpenter’s glue to affix the replacement timber into place. Once fit, allow the glue to dry.


Wood or carpenter's’ glue sets thin, minimizing gaps between wooden parts. This glue also comes in waterproof varieties, making them ideal for wood-based projects. Hammer two nails into the top and bottom of the new timber for a more secure fit.
 Use sandpaper to sand away any glue residue or imperfections between the new and old frame.
 Mix enough body filler, also called bondo, to cover the entirety of the repaired areas. Apply and smooth with a putty knife. Allow to dry. The filler will fill in any gaps in the glue and help maintain the repair.


Most brands of body and wood filler are similar in the tasks they can handle. The eventual hardness, natural color, and malleability of each filler will differ depending on brand and ingredients. If pricing is a concern, body filler tends to be cheaper than wood filler. , Sand the applied filler smooth with sandpaper. Once smooth, finish with one coat of primer and two coats of paint.

