 If your eyes are itching, it can be tempting to rub them, but any rubbing or touching can actually make the itchiness worse. Instead, try using another method for relief, such as using a cold compress., A cold compress can help soothe itchiness while reducing swelling in your eyes.Try soaking a towel or wash cloth in cold water. Roll it up, and place it over your eyes as you lie down. Keep it in place for about 20 minutes before removing., Eye dryness can cause redness, stinging, burning, and itching in your eyes. It can occur because you don’t make enough tears to moisturize your eyes. This usually happens in specific settings, like on an airplane, when the air conditioner is on, after staring at a computer screen, or while riding a bike or driving with your windows open.Keep a daily journal of your symptoms. On days when your eyes feel dry and itchy, write down what you did that day. Look over your notes to determine the likely cause of your dry eyes.
If you can determine the cause of your dryness, avoid that situation or prepare yourself beforehand by carrying eye drops or wearing glasses or goggles.
 Tear-replacing eye drops (artificial tears) are available at any major drug store or pharmacy. For occasional dry eyes, use lubricating drops such as Visine or Refresh Tears. Use them as directed on the bottle.You may only need to use drops once a day, or you may need to use them several times per day. If your dry eyes are chronic (long-lasting), use them even when your eyes feel fine.If you use eye drops more than 4 times a day, be sure to get drops that don’t contain preservatives. These come in single-use vials that you throw away after use.
 Eye ointments are thicker than eye drops and can provide a lot of relief for dry, itchy eyes. However, they can cloud your vision, so they should not be used during the day if you have to drive or work. Use hydrating eye ointments before bed., Some medical conditions can cause or worsen your dry eyes. If your eyes are bothering you, talk to your doctor about your health history. If you get the underlying cause under control, your eye problems may improve, as well.Some conditions that can cause dry eyes include diabetes, lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, scleroderma, Sjogren’s syndrome, thyroid problems, and being low in vitamin A.
Ectropion is an eyelid disorder that can cause chronic dry eyes. If you have ectropion, ask your doctor for a referral to an eye surgeon who specializes in plastic surgery of the eyelids., Talk to your doctor about your medicines and ask if it’s possible to switch to a different medication. Never stop taking your medicine without your doctor’s supervision. Some medications that are known to cause dry eyes include:Antihistamines, decongestants, hormone replacement therapy (estrogen, etc.), antidepressants, and birth control.
Drugs to treat acne, high blood pressure, and Parkinson’s disease.
 Some people find that including more omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids in their diet improves their dry eyes and associated symptoms. Include foods in your diet that are rich in omega fatty acids, such as salmon, mackerel, sardines, flaxseed, and vegetable oils., Smoking can cause or worsen dry eyes. Stop smoking now to improve your itchy eyes.While you’re quitting, be sure to only smoke outdoors in an open area, and wash your hands thoroughly when you go inside.
 There are a number of more extreme treatment options if your dry eyes are severe. Talk to your doctor or an ophthalmologist about what your long-term options might be. Some possible solutions include:Tiny inserts that you place between your lower eyelid and your eye, which create artificial tears
Drugs that stimulate tear production, such as pilocarpine and cevimeline
Medically plugging your tear ducts so you lose tears more slowly
Special contact lenses called scleral lenses or bandage lenses
Light therapy and eyelid massage
Castor oil eye drops (there is less evidence to prove these work, but some people find relief with them)