 Legitimate charities should be willing to provide substantial information to potential donors. For example, they should share the following information:the charity’s identity
its mission
costs
how donations will be used

, You can learn a lot about a non-profit by reviewing their financial statements. Many non-profits put their financial information online for you to look at. You may also check a website such as GuideStar. Pay attention to the following:


Are the statements audited? If not, then that’s a red flag.Do sources of revenue change dramatically year to year? That’s atypical for a non-profit.
 If you feel like the charity representative is a used-car salesperson, then you are probably not dealing with a legitimate charity. Avoid any charity that tries to pressure you into giving a donation.For example, the rep might insist time is of the essence and not let you do proper research. There is no reason for a non-profit to apply pressure to get you to donate.
 A fraudulent non-profit might be hard to spot. However, there are common red flags you should be aware of, including the following:


The non-profit has a name that is similar to a better known organization.They may be trying to confuse the public.
The non-profit thanks you for a donation you don’t remember giving.The non-profit asks for cash donations. You should be able to donate using a check or credit card.
The charity attempts to collect the donation quickly. For example, they ask for overnight delivery service. There’s no reason a legitimate charity would need a donation that quickly.
 Some non-profits employ sweepstakes to raise funds. Under this scheme, you get a chance to win the sweepstakes in exchange for a donation. However, federal law in the U.S. prohibits making eligibility contingent on giving a donation.Avoid any non-profit that employs this scheme.
 Fortunately, there is a wealth of information on the Internet about non-profits that is easy to access. Perform thorough research before donating to any organization. Check the following sources:Better Business Bureau’s Wise Charity Alliance. BBB accredits charities that meet its standards for accountability. You can search by charity at its website.Charity Navigator. This watchdog organization grades charities based on their financial health and their accountability.Charity Watch. This organization analyzes the financial reports of non-profits to determine how efficiently they will use your donation. It sometimes conducts special investigations of charities.However, you must become a member to access their information.

GuideStar. Use this site to obtain balance sheet data for up to five years and IRS filings for up to three years. You can also find revenue and expense data for the current year.