 As the core component of PROTECTIVE SERVICES, Personal Security is divided among several specialties focused on the type of person being protected. Individuals trained to handle corporate executives, politicians, dignitaries and high net-value families fall under "Executive Protection" or "EP" in contrast with those trained to handle Celebrities, Actors, Musicians, Professional Athletes and other high-profile, public individuals are commonly referred to as "Talent Security". All qualified Practitioners are driven to be visibly low profile and are capable of adapting to and remaining as unobtrusive to your lifestyle as possible.;
,, Contrast these specialists with the stereotypical 400-pound thugs working for Britney Spears or Madonna. These "bodyguards" are only able to REACT to a threat and are usually working as bouncers or bounty hunters and "sidelining" as a Bodyguard and generally lack the specialized training.
 Learn the name of the required license for “Bodyguard” or “Personal Protection Officer” or something closely related. The candidates will need this license in order to work for you. That said, do not assume that a "Bodyguard" license from any state is in and of itself a good indicator of their abilities. The majority of states have no requirements other than a Concealed Handgun License, a few have very stringent training requirements and the rest have appallingly low training requirements that meet no professionally recognized minimum training standards. These licenses have names like Personal Protection Officer (PPO) or Personal Protection Specialist (PPS) and are probably required for the individual to work for you but most are acquired with very little training that anyone can get if they have a "Security Guard" license and $100 to pay for a "Bodyguard" course.
 Oatman & Associates in Maryland

National Protective Services Institute in Texas

Gavin de Becker & Associates in California
The former Vance International in Virginia

International Training Group in California

Texas A&M University's TEEX in Texas

Academi/US Training Center in North Carolina

Executive Protection International in Massachusetts.
There is also a University that specializes in Personal Protection Management and offers Bachelors, Master's and Doctorate level Degrees (see Henley-Putnam University)
If a candidate attended a school not listed above, ensure that the instructors openly identify themselves, have extensive experience (10+ years) in Government Protective Services or a civilian equivalent and that the course was a MINIMUM of 100 hours of formal personal security training.
As a second choice, consider “Executive Protection/Protective Services/Corporate Security” personnel from Fortune 500 corporations like Microsoft, Dell, Boeing, IBM, etc., with direct (not limited or collateral) experience.



If a candidate claims to have been a member of a US military Special Operations Force, like Army Special Forces "Green Beret", US Army Ranger, Navy SEAL, Air Force Combat Controller, Marine Corps Special Operations (MARSOC), etc., ask them to provide you an ORIGINAL copy of their DD214. This document is issued to all former military service members and will give you the names of schools they graduated from and their professional character while in the service. If they claim their background is "Classified", they are lying to you. The only thing actually classified about their military background would be missions they took part in.
,,,, If s/he gives you a list of names, those names would likely be okay and can most often be verified by contacting the company, government office or a celebrity's agent or representative. However if a candidate starts revealing personal information it is possible that they are violating non-disclosure and confidentiality statements they agreed to. At the same time, do not accept the response, "I can't tell you for reasons of privacy." Good bodyguards are very careful about divulging information about former clients or protects, and will find a way for you to verify their claims without violating confidentiality agreements.
 Again, there are very few recognized and respected schools in the US that teach these skills;


Scotti School of Defensive Driving (SSDD)
Bill Scott Raceways (BSR)
Vehicle Dynamics Institute
Bob Bondurant School of Performance Driving
Crossroads Training Academy
Advanced Driving & Security Inc. (ADSI)
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center's Vehicle Ambush Countermeasures Training Program (VACTP).

