 Deep breathing is the perfect tool to use right in the midst of extreme emotions. As soon as you notice the physical cues (i.e. racing heart, clenched fists, pit in the stomach, etc.) of a strong emotion approaching, you can step aside and practice a few seconds or minutes of deep breathing. This can reorient you and cause you to respond more mindfully within the situation. This can also serve as a relaxation technique to keep you from acting out in a way you would regret.


Start by breathing as you normally would, but pay close attention to each breath. Then, take deeper breaths in through your nose, expanding your stomach as if you are filling a balloon. Place your hands on your belly to notice these movements. Exhale slowly, deflating the balloon that is your stomach. Repeat this technique until intense emotional states subside.
 General mindfulness meditation involves grabbing a cozy seat in an area with minimal distractions. Cross your legs and close your eyes, if that feels comfortable to you. Breathe in and out deeply, noticing your stomach contract and relax with each breath.


After you have done the above for several complete breaths, bring to mind the emotion you are feeling. Perhaps you can recall in your head the situation that evoked this emotion. Continue to take deep, slow breaths. Recognize how your body feels in response to this emotion. Is your chest tight? Stomach cramped? Head aching?
Once you have become aware of the physical sensations you feel with this emotions, just sit with the emotion for awhile. Accept it as a temporary, changing part of you. Continue to breathe as you focus on this feeling of acceptance. If you ever get caught up in the emotion or worry that it is taking over, return to focusing on your breath and your presence in the room.
People often resist strong feelings because they fear the response. By participating in mindfulness about your emotions, you are able to recognize that these emotions alone cannot hurt you. They will eventually fade. You can manage them.
 It may be especially hard to motivate yourself to engage in physical activity when you're experiencing strong emotions, but the benefits are worthwhile. Just as regular exercise provides amazing benefits to your physical health, it can also benefit you mentally. Exercise reduces the levels of the body's stress hormones, and increases the production of endorphins, which elevate your mood and act as natural painkillers.Find an activity that can help you burn off the residual effects of your intense feelings. If you feel angry, you might try running or boxing to relieve this emotion. If you are feeling sad, a light walk or yoga may help.
 If a strong emotional state causes you to feel tense in your body, take a few minutes to try this relaxation technique. Progress muscle relaxation involves gradually contracting and releasing different muscle groups in your body. It functions as a way to relieve stress and make you more aware of tension in your body.


Have a seat with your thighs parallel to the ground and your arms parallel to your upper body. Relax your posture. Close your eyes or try not to focus on any stimuli in the room around you. Take several deep, cleansing breaths. Starting with your feet, move up through your body. Select a muscle group and clench all the muscles (toes, for example). Hold them contracted for a breath, noticing the tension. Then, release them and notice how the tension melts away. Continue doing this with each muscle group.

