 Talk to the people in the checkout line with you, the folks around the water-cooler at work, or classmates in the hall at school. A good way of becoming more of a people person is to make yourself engage with people more often.


Every time you leave your room is an opportunity to engage with someone.
The more often you try to strike up a conversation in passing, the better you’ll be at it.;
, In most daily routines, you’re asked a series of questions that act as polite greetings like, “how are you?” It’s easy to give a typical response to these types of interactions, but adding personality can zest up the conversation. Tell them how you’re feeling that may generate a follow-up question like, “I’ve had better days. I spent too much money last night and I’ve got nothing to show for it.”Getting too personal can make some people feel uncomfortable. You won’t always induce a meaningful conversation.
More than often the person you’re talking to isn’t a people person, and they’re more comfortable with an autopilot response.
Don’t divulge anything you wouldn’t feel comfortable discussing.
 People like talking about themselves. The more interest you show in their life, the more they’ll find you interesting. One best ways to open up a conversation is to ask a few simple questions.Try something like:


”Where are you from?”
”How did you get to work today?”
”Do anything fun over the weekend?”
Make a comment about their wardrobe.
 If you ask somebody a question, you should be able to follow their response.People can tell if you aren’t listening to them. It is rude and won’t produce a meaningful or interesting interaction.


Be sure the person is finished speaking till you give your response.
Avoid cutting people off when they’re talking to you.
 Your tone and voice modulation matters in everyday conversations. If you are in a rush and ‘want’ to rush through a conversation, the recipient will be able to tell. Take time to reflect in what condition you are in if you feel stressed out. Taking time to evaluate your emotional condition can also help your tone and prevent coming across as rude.