 Your parents will always be protective so show them that you are old enough to handle the responsibilities of a relationship. Firstly, show your parents that you are responsible and can follow all rules. If your parents think you are too young for a relationship, be on time, do your chores, and study. If you can gain your parents trust, then your parents will soon realize that you are mature enough to handle a relationship.
 Parents often forbid relationships for fear of unplanned pregnancies and sexually transmitted infection. Ensure that you and your partner truly understand these risks. There is a real possibility that if you are not prepared and you do have an unwanted pregnancy or contract an std, your parents may not be there to support you.You may not agree with your parents rules but communicate with your partner and respect each other's boundaries to ensure you are both prepared and safe.


Know that you should be respected by your significant other and that they should listen to your choices. Compromise is vital in a relationship but this is one area where neither party should have to compromise their beliefs. Know that if you are eager to take the relationship to another level but your partner isn't ready, you have a duty to respect their choice. Never pressure your partner.
 Be discreet about your affection. You never know who is watching. A trusted friend may accidentally tell your parents in passing, not knowing that your relationship is a secret.


Stealing kisses in public and other forms of PDA may seem harmless but remember that if your parents find out they may think that your relationship has already crossed further into the intimacy threshold.
 If it is possible to do so, owning a separate cell phone can help you on concealing information, but please remember that you must hide your new phone properly or you will be in trouble. If you are not able to buy one new phone, put a password in your original cell phone and computer. If your parents know your passwords, change them so that you can message your partner

with impunity. However, if you have been using a family computer with no password, it will be suspicious if you suddenly put one on.


Delete all the messages on your phone when you sleep or leave your phone unattended.
Erase browsing history after you have been online. However, this may look suspicious if the browser history has never been erased on a shared device.
In case your parents check your phone, either don’t put your partner’s number on your phone or use your partner’s nickname or surname instead of his actual first name. It is also possible to use the masculine or feminine form of their name. For example, Brian becomes Brianna and Stephanie becomes Stephen.
 If you have a social media account or use other instant messaging apps, your parents could check up on you or hear from someone else with access to your account.


Create an alternate account that you can use to be romantic with your partner. This is a very useful tool when dealing with long distance relationships.
 You can ask a trustworthy friend to corroborate stories to your parents if you're on a date. Such a friend can also be a great cover-up for phone calls or texts.


If your friend has concerns about your partner or refuses to continue being your alibi, heed her advice. It’s easy to think that one source is wrong but if multiple sources are telling you not to continue your relationship, perhaps it’s best to listen to their logic.
 Hide all the gifts you receive from your partner or keep gifts at her place. You're going to draw attention from your parents if you suddenly lock your closet or room. You can also agree to treat each other to lunches or movies rather than giving physical gifts.

