 This is particularly important if you need to send thank you notes to people who gave you gifts. It's also a much neater and easier way of storing the lovely things people have sent to you in the past than simply hoarding piles of old cards; you can even catalog them if it helps!;
, There are many possibilities for using old greeting cards, limited only by the materials you have to hand and your own preferences. The following steps make a number of suggestions to help inspire you.


Keep the cards in one easy-to-access box. A large shoe box is ideal, such as the types that hold hiking boots. Or, use any box that is no longer needed, provided it has a lid to keep off dust and to prevent the cards from slipping out. You'll be able to delve into this box every time you start a new project, and if you order the cards by color, texture, size, etc., this will make it easier to be inspired.
 Turning old greeting cards into new ones is a simple process and fun too. Glue the front cover of the card onto a new, blank card or cardstock. If you want, you can also redecorate or improve upon the design of the card and add your own new embellishments, such as small ribbons, costume gems, glitter, etc.


Read How to make a birthday card, How to make a Christmas star card, and How to make Christmas cards for more inspiration.
 Cut the greeting cards into smaller sizes to turn them into gift tags. Simply cut a strip or rectangle out of the card, fold it down the middle, and write the "to" and "from" in it.


Another method is to add interesting features from the original card to small cardstock tags that you've already made. Simply glue in place and write the "to" and "from" on the blank part (as shown in the image).
 This can make use of several greeting cards that look good together, whether by color, theme, or texture.


Read How to make a gift box out of a greeting card for more details on this project.
 Gift cards can be turned into a notebook or portfolio by cutting the card in half and inserting blank paper or even other greeting cards (as a memento) in the middle portion. Then, simply punch holes through the lot, including the front and back of the card, which will also form the front and the back of the notebook or folder. Sew or weave through a binding thread or coil and knot or tie at the end of the looping. Check that it can move freely, and make any adjustments needed.
 Cards can be reused to create a pouch for the insertion of a small gift such as jewelry, a CD, an MP3 player, a gift voucher, perfume, etc.


Read How to make a gift pouch from a greeting card for the instructions on making this project.
 Greeting cards can make excellent bookmarks and they're as simple as anything to produce quickly. Cut the greeting card into strips about an inch and a half (4cm) wide and 6 inches (15cm) long. Punch a hole near one end and add a tassel to the hole. Tuck a homemade bookmark into each book you give away.


Read How to make a bookmark tassel for more details.
 Agree with a friend to send the same greeting card back and forth year after year, or trade two cards between yourself and a friend. Over the years, the card accumulates notes and becomes a memento, and it might just keep both of you in touch longer. Feel free to enclose sheets of paper as many years' notes accumulate in the card, or use the portfolio method suggested above to keep cards together.
 There are numerous paper crafts that are just ideal for using old greeting cards. Here are just some possible ideas, using the most interesting or colorful parts of old greeting cards:



Use the cards for decoupage,

Do a collage,

Make scrapbooks.
 Pretty card designs can be treasured while eating or enjoying a drink, especially great for nature, animal, and seasonal themes.


See How to make placemats from greeting cards for further instructions.
 The stiff, colorful paper makes an excellent background for them.


Read Make place cards for more instructions.
 Simply cut off the front "cover" of the card if it is flat and send it as a postcard to someone else next year. Postcards usually cost less to send, too.
 You can also make matching or other themed cards into envelopes to accompany the card.


Read How to make a greeting card envelope for the instructions.
