 Think about what you want in your ideal keyboard. Focus on your daily patterns of use and how certain functions could improve your speed and lifestyle. Some questions you could ask are: Do you type a great deal and want a keyboard that adapts to your phrasing over time? Are you comfortable with swiping or do you want to stick with typing methods? Do you need a keyboard where numbers or symbols are especially accessible?

, There are a wide variety of third-party keyboards available for download via the App Store. To choose the one that is right for you, browse the App Store and narrow it down to five keyboards of interest. Then, type the names of those five into major search engines to see what kind of user reviews are available.


You can also find websites that will list your keyboard options in a side-by-side comparison, allowing you to quickly scan competing features, etc.You will also want to consider cost. Some keyboards are free, others require a small upfront cost, and others are a bit pricier. Many of the keyboards encourage in-app purchases which could also impact your bottom line.
Some of the keyboards will also ask for access to your emails, files, Facebook information, etc. SwiftKey, for example, uses this information to predict your word usage patterns, thus increasing the speed of your typing by offering tailored suggestions. But, you will want to consider if you are comfortable sharing this information with a keyboard app.Don’t discount non-traditional keyboards. If you are fond of using emojis, there are emoji keyboards available for purchase from the App Store. They can help you type strings of emojis at an accelerated speed., Once you’ve decided on a particular keyboard, go to the App store. Find your keyboard, download and install the app. Go to Settings, tap General, tap Keyboard, tap Add New Keyboard, and select your Keyboard from the list shown. Enable “Allow Full Access” and you will be good to go.


To switch between installed keyboards when typing, select the “Globe” button next to the spacebar.
Decide to keep it or delete it. Remember that making an app purchase doesn’t necessarily have to be a permanent move. If you play with your new keyboard for a few days and don’t particularly like it, you can uninstall the keyboard or simply work from another keyboard in the future.

