 You may one day have a use for these packing peanuts, so store them until you do. They are lightweight and like to blow around, creating a mess, so try storing them in a box, garbage bag, or even an old pair of pantyhose to keep them contained.
 They will allow your plant to drain properly and are hidden from view. Because they are very light in weight, they will also make the planter easier to move and lift., When you are out on the water, thread a few polystyrene packing peanuts through your key chain. They will help keep your keys afloat.
 Stuff a zippered pillowcase with packing peanuts to make a cushion for your pet. It will provide a lightweight, cool place for your pet to rest. You can also use them as fillers for bean bag chairs., Use them to make a fat belly, rippling muscles, or to stuff a scarecrow. The light weight makes them easy for children to wear., Instead of using popcorn, string packing peanuts together. You can even add glitter or color to make them more festive.
 If you have children, they could make a snowman, a snake, or any other creation from the peanuts. Simply glue them together and decorate them how you wish., Fill a zipper-locked plastic bag with packing peanuts and stick it in an ice chest. The ice in the cooler will last longer and the contents will stay cold longer. Use a small zip-closure plastic storage bag filled with packing peanuts and ice as a way to keep food cool in a lunch bag.


Avoid using packing peanuts for building insulation as they are not treated with flame retardant.
 Glue a small magnet to a packing peanut and attach it to your refrigerator. Use a pin to attach notes and lists.
 Stamp pages of scrapbooks or homemade cards with packing peanuts dipped in paint. Many of the peanuts already resemble letters or you can cut them into shapes. For example, some come in an “S” or “C” shape, but you could cut them in half to make a half-moon stamper. You could also cut them to resemble squares or triangles, or even glue two pieces together to make circles., Use packing peanuts to cover sharp tips, such as those on needle-nose pliers or even screwdrivers. This will keep someone from accidentally getting jabbed or poked when rummaging around in the toolbox.