 Because they tend to have low credit limits, gas and retail store credit cards can raise your credit utilization rate, which can hurt your credit score. You can calculate your credit utilization rate by dividing the amount of credit card debt you have by your cards’ credit limits. A high percentage is going to hurt your credit score. A good credit utilization rate is below 20 to 30 percent.For example, if your credit limit on a gas or store card is $500 and you put $300 on it, your credit utilization score is 60 percent, which is high.
 Most retail and gas cards only work at the corresponding store or gas station. Others will only award you the benefits of the card if you make purchases at the corresponding business. Because of this, you should try to spend your money at the establishments where you have a credit card in order to maximize its benefits.For example, if you have a gas card through Shell, you should make an effort to purchase gas at Shell gas stations.
 Like any credit card, it is important that you maintain your regular spending habits with a gas or retail store credit card. Many people rack up a lot of debt because they want to reap a card’s rewards. It is important that you resist this urge and try to stick to your normal spending habits.At a retail store, you should avoid making out-of-the-ordinary purchases, like buying expensive items that you have not budgeted for.
With a gas card, avoid buying junk food and other items at the gas station, which can add up quickly.
 Be sure to make your credit card payments each month. To avoid any late fees, be sure to make your payments by the due date. Ideally, you should pay off your card’s balance each month and avoid interest payments. If you cannot afford that, you should still try to pay more than the minimum each month.Because these cards tend to have high interest rates, paying the interest will likely negate the benefits of having the card in the first place.
 Because store and gas cards are easy to obtain for people with low or no credit, they are a good way to build up your credit score. As long as you make your monthly payments and avoid putting any large purchases on the card, you can gradually build up your credit score. However, if you fail to use the card responsibly, you can easily hurt your score., If you qualify, a regular credit card with a good rewards program might be a better option than a store or gas card. Because regular credit cards tend to have better rewards systems and larger lines of credit, you get more with each purchase and are less likely to hurt your credit score. Also, a regular card will give you more flexibility when making purchases since it does not limit you to one store or station.For example, with gas, there are certain cards that give you extra rewards when you buy gas and make purchases at gas stations.