 Over time, mineral deposits from your water build up in your machine. To remove these deposits, clean, or descale, your espresso machine every three to four months with a commercial descaling solution. To prepare the solution:









Fill your machine’s reservoir with fresh water.
Add the descaling solution to the water and let it dissolve.
Always read and follow the instructions listed on the descaling cleaner., Place a container under the steam wand to catch the solution. Turn on the steam wand. Allow approximately one cup of solution to run through the steam wand. Turn off the steam wand.









The descaling solution contains citric acid. If not collected, the citric acid will tarnish the espresso machine’s metal exterior., Let the machine rest for twenty minutes. During this time, the descaling solution will start to work.


In order for the descaling solution to work effectively, you must let it sit in the machine for twenty minutes., Turn on your machine. Place a container under the steam wand. Flush approximately ¼ cup solution through the steam wand. Turn off the steam wand and set the container directly under the portafilter. Turn on the group and run approximately ¼ cup solution through the portafilter.









If you have a super-automatic espresso machine, run ½ cup of solution through the steam wand. Do not run any solution through the group., Allow the machine to sit for another twenty minutes. As it sits, the solution will continue to break down the mineral deposits., After twenty minutes, turn on the machine. Place the container under the steam wand. Flush half of the remaining solution through the steam wand. Move the container under the portafilter. Turn on the group and drain the rest of the solution from the machine.









If you have a super-automatic machine, run all of the solution through the steam wand., Fill the reservoir with fresh, clean water. Run the clean water through the steam wand and portafilter. Run a second reservoir of fresh water through the machine if desired.









Place a container under the steam wand and portafilter to collect the water.
If your espresso machine is super-automatic, flush all of the fresh water through the steam wand.