 Medium or long-haired dogs, who require frequent grooming, should always have their hair as long and thick as possible during the winter months. No dog should be shaved if they are living in a cold climate. This is an important part of helping them stay warm and clean during cold weather., Since dogs are more prone to dry skin and dandruff in the winter, it’s important to comb them with a soft brush at least once a week to help condition their coats and skin. Doing so will remove dead skin cells while distributing the natural oils in their skin that help protect them against the elements.Double-coated dogs, like Huskies and Collies, should be brushed daily to help maintain their undercoat, which is what keeps them insulated.
 Cold weather dries out your dog’s skin, and giving them a bath can make the situation worse. If you do need to wash your pooch, do so using only water or a hypoallergenic, moisturizing shampoo.Never let your dog outdoors with a wet coat. Cold temperatures can quickly lead to a frozen mane and hypothermia, so always give your dog enough time to dry after a bath before they go outside. Use a blow dryer if necessary to speed up the process.
 You may need to clip your dog’s toenails more often in the winter since they’re probably going outside less and meeting with less hard surfaces when they do., Your dog’s paws take a particular beating during the winter due to ice, snow, and rock salt. Keep them clean and trimmed to avoid irritation, dryness, and cracking.Rinse your dog’s paws with warm water after each outing. Use a towel to wipe between the pads of their feet to get rid of any lingering salt, grit, or ice.
Check your dog's pads for signs of roughness or cracking. If they are, use a specialized foot-pad balm or a natural cooking oil such as coconut or olive oil to soften them up. Protect their pads by rubbing them with petroleum jelly before your dog goes outside.Keep the hair around your dog’s paws and the pads of your dog’s feet short. Trimming it regularly with a scissors will prevent snow and ice from matting on their fur or forming balls that are painful for your dog to walk on.

