 Look at your face in the mirror. Scan your face to figure out what portion is the widest. This will give you insight into your face shape.If your forehead, cheeks, and jaws are roughly equal in length, you may have a square, round, or oval face.
Your face may be heart-shaped if your forehead is widest.
Wide cheekbones may indicate a diamond-shaped face.
A wide jaw can indicate a triangular or pear-shaped face.;
, After determining the widest part of your face, look at your jaw. How round your jaw is indicates your precise face shape.








Round and oval faces have very round jaws.
Square jaws are found on square or diamond-shaped faces.
A pointy jaw indicates you have a heart-shaped face.
 Think about how long your face is. Is it longer than it is wide? Draw an imaginary line below your eyes running from ear to ear. Then, draw an imaginary line from the top of your nose to your chin. Compare the lengths to get a sense of your face shape.








Round shaped faces are generally equally as long as they are wide.
If your face is longer than it is wide, you may fall into any categories other than a round-shaped face. Most faces are slightly longer than they are wide.
 Think about the various factors affecting face shape. Which category does your face most often fall under? This should give you a sense of your personal face shape.For example, the widest part of your face is your forehead. You have a pointier jaw and your face is a little longer than it is wide.
Based on this information, you most closely fall into the heart-shaped category. Apply blush according to guidelines for a heart-shaped face.
 With heart-shaped faces, apply blush from the top of the temple down your cheekbone. Make a c-shape that follows the natural line of your cheekbone. You should have more blush near your cheekbone and have it fade out as it makes its way up to the temple.
 Smiling can help you figure out where the apples of your cheeks fall. Focusing on the apples of your cheeks works for a square-shaped face. You should make small circles on the apples of each cheek.For a long face, make small circles on your apples, but then blend them out slightly towards your temples.
 If you have a round face, slight slimming is key. Apply blush at the apples of the cheeks. Then, draw an angle moving to the temples. Blend the line out as you move into your temples.
, Depending on your face shape, you may apply blush on or above your cheekbones. You should never apply blush below your cheekbones. You should draw contour lines rather than blush under your cheekbones.
 You want your blush to blend into your natural skin tone and any foundation you're wearing. You want your cheeks to look rosy and natural without harsh lines. After applying your blush, make sure to use a separate makeup brush to blend your blush out into your existing skin and makeup.
 Always blend upward towards the temples if you have a round face. Do not blend your blush towards your nose. This can make your face look rounder rather than creating the slimming effect.







