 The Nokia PC Suite is a free software that can be downloaded from the Nokia site (http://www.nokia.com/global/support/nokia-pc-suite/).


If you are downloading Nokia PC Suite from the above site and are unsure of your Nokia phone's compatibility, please check it by clicking on the compatibility link on the page (http://www.nokia.com/global/support/nokia-pc-suite-compatibility/).
The installer file is of around 66MB (.exe file) and is supported by Windows 7 and Windows XP operating systems.
 Note that this method is only for S40 phones and other devices like S60, etc. might not work with this method.
 You will be guide through a series of prompts by your computer/laptop and windows will do the installation, normally under the C drive.


Choose and customize the installation as per your preferences.
,


Note that out of all the three connection types mentioned above, the IrDA is the slowest and most difficult while the USB is the fastest and most reliable over all the other methods.
If you have a compatible USB cable, connect your phone with the computer using this cable and then launch the PC Suite application on your computer.


On the other hand you can also click on the desktop icon of the PC Suite application.


If you have properly connected your phone with the computer using either a USB cable or Bluetooth connection, you will find that a pop up window opens on launching the PC suite application
This new window contains several icons and one of them is in the shape of a vault/safe. This is the backup option. This is the option that will materialize the transfer of the phone book contacts from the Nokia S40 phone to the computer/laptop/system.
Click on the backup icon on the PC Suite application to start the backup process.Upon clicking on the backup icon, a new pop window will emerge which is 'Nokia Content Copier'. This new window contains a number of options and one of them is as : "Back up the desired phone contents to a backup file which is saved on the PC".

There is a small icon of a vault/safe to the right of this message with a blue arrow pointing inside it. Click on this icon.


The application will look for the types of things to be backed up. A list of items will follow on the next screen like 'User files from the phone memory', 'User files from a memory card', 'Contacts', 'Calendar', 'Notes', 'Messages', 'Bookmarks', 'Settings', etc.

Note: select only the Contacts option and not all the options. If the other options are also selected, then please deselect them and select only the Contacts option.
 The application will ask for the path where the contacts needs to be saved.


Provide a path on your computer where you want the contacts to be saved on to

The path as you will need to go back to the saved contacts for retrieval and transfer back to your Android phone.
, To view the file extension type, uncheck the option: "Hide extensions for known file types" under the View Menu under Folder Options in the Tools option.


You will be able to see the extension of your contacts back up file which is a .nbu file.
 If a warning message is displayed by window for instability/unusability, ignore it for the time being and proceed with it.
,, On opening this folder you will find another folder named "backup".



Find another folder named as "WIP" inside the backup folder. Click on it again to open this WIP folder.
Under this WIP folder find another folder called "32". Click on this folder 32 to open it.
 This contacts folder contains all the phone book contacts in a .vcf file format which is compatible by Android phones. All your Nokia phone contacts will be stored inside this contacts folder and each of them will be having a .vcf extension.
 The USB cable option is the faster of the 2 methods.


Move onto the next step.
 Paste it either on the external memory card (SD Card) of your android phone or on some other location such as the phone memory or on the internal storage.
,, The menu can be invoked by pressing the Menu button on the phone which is placed on the lower most left hand corner of the Android phone.


There will be a list of options asking for copying/importing the contacts from.
, It will ask you about the location where you want your contacts to be copied to


Select Phone contact as you will naturally want your contacts to be on your phone
However you can also choose other options like your Gmail id's too but since we are discussing over transfer of phone book contacts on the phone memory, we will just stick to the Phone contact option.
,


To select all contacts, select Import all vCard files option
Press on OK button to finalize imports. The import will start and all the Nokia phone contacts will be copied on the Android phone automatically.
 This is the easiest way to import/copy/transfer your Nokia S40 phone contacts to your new Android phone.

