 Adding a bit of green spinach in your mac ‘n cheese will make this classic dish even tastier. You could add a few roughly chopped handfuls to a prepackaged mac ‘n cheese when you mix in the powder.But you could also make a delicious spinach mac ‘n cheese from scratch.For instance, cook eight ounces (227 grams) of whole-wheat macaroni noodles. When it’s done, strain but reserve ¾ cup of water.
In another pot, melt two tablespoons of butter over medium heat. Add two medium-sized, finely-chopped shallots and cook for about three minutes or until soft. Stir occasionally.
Add three cloves of crushed garlic and cook for two minutes. Stir occasionally.
Add three tablespoons flour and stir regularly. It will congeal and form a paste.
Pour ½ cup (118 milliliters) milk and the pasta water you set aside earlier into the mix. Whisk constantly for four minutes.
Add 2/3 cup (158 milliliters) shredded mozzarella, 1/3 cup sour cream, 2/3 cup shredded Swiss cheese, and one tablespoon grated parmesan.
After the cheese has melted, add six packed cups of spinach and stir for one minute.
Add the pasta, ¼ teaspoon pepper, one teaspoon salt, and nine ounces (255 grams) of roughly chopped artichoke hearts.
Stir everything together and pour everything into a two-quart (1.89 liter) baking dish. Top with 1/3 cup (80 milliliters) shredded mozzarella and three tablespoons grated parmesan. Preheat the broiler, then place the dish in the oven for two minutes.
Remove and allow to cool. Eat the delicious macaroni ‘n cheese.
 Chop a handful of spinach into fine, thin bits. Add half a cup (eight tablespoons) to your quesadilla before cooking.For instance, you might make a cheesy spinach quesadilla. In a nonstick skillet, mix together three ounces (85 grams) of baby spinach, four chopped green onions, one small chopped tomato, two tablespoons of lemon juice, one teaspoon cumin, and ¼ teaspoon garlic powder. Stir together over medium heat until the spinach wilts.
Remove from heat, then add 1 cup (100 grams) of shredded Monterey Jack and ¼ cup (63 grams) ricotta. Stir together until the cheeses start to melt and become gooey.
Put a six-inch (15 centimeter) soft flour tortilla shell on a plate. Spoon some of the gooey mixture over the top half of the circular tortilla. Fold the bottom half up over the top half. Place the folded tortilla on a griddle coated with cooking spray. Cook over medium heat for 1.5 minutes.
Serve with sour cream.
 Adding spinach to pizza is a great way to get your daily dose. To get started, preheat your oven to 450 degrees Fahrenheit (232 degrees Celsius). Spray a large pan with cooking spray. Heat on medium high.Add ½ cup (75 grams) of diced onion, and two teaspoons of minced garlic. Cook for three minutes. Stir occasionally.
Add spinach and cook for two minutes, until the spinach is wilted and dry. Stir occasionally.
Place a 12-inch (30 centimeter) prebaked thin pizza crust on a baking sheet. Spoon ½ cup (115 grams) of tomato sauce over the crust and spread it into an even layer with the back of a large spoon. Alternately, you could skip the tomato sauce and make a “white pizza” by using a light layer of olive oil in place of the sauce.
Mix ½ cup (50 grams) shredded mozzarella, ¾ cup (53 grams) shredded ricotta, and ¼ cup (20 grams) grated parmesan in a small bowl. Spread the cheese in an even layer across the surface of the pizza crust.
Add the spinach, garlic, and onion mix onto the cheese. Spread everything out across the surface of the pizza in a relatively even layer.
Add ½ cup (50 grams) mozzarella across the top in an even layer.
Bake for about 15 minutes or until the crust is golden brown. Remove from oven and allow to cool ten minutes. Cut the pizza into eight equally-sized slices. Eat with friends.

