 Sensory processing disorder is a nebulous condition which manifests in diverse ways. Since many pediatricians and health professionals are reluctant to diagnose it as such, you should know for yourself what kinds of behaviors might indicate the condition. High or low tolerance to pain or touch, clumsiness, sensitivity to light or loud sounds, or fear of crowds are some of the most widely recognized symptoms of sensory processing disorder.Additionally, your child might exhibit autism- or ADHD-reminiscent symptoms, such as poor social skills, poor impulse control, or difficulty focusing on tasks.;
, In order to treat your child’s perceptual issues, you’ll first need to better understand what stimuli they find problematic. Do so by taking notes about your child’s behavior, noting any tantrums or incidents of bad behavior, as well as any other problems you suspect are related to their sensory faculties. Write down what seems to have triggered a tantrum, how your child responds, and how long the tantrum lasts.For example, some parents reported thinking their children’s tantrums were random and impulsive. Upon tracking their triggers more closely, though, they found that the tantrums actually occurred every time the child had to put on footwear or heard about having to do so., One of the most widely reported symptoms of sensory processing disorder is extreme epidermal sensitivity to clothing. Sartorial features which other people fail to notice or find only mildly uncomfortable can seem unbearably irritating to the sufferer of sensory processing disorder. If your child complains about clothing or throws fits when getting dressed, try buying soft, natural fabrics and avoiding artificial, chafing ones, such as acrylic or polyester.Instead, try using clothing that can provide comfort, such as heavy clothing, weighted vests, or compression jackets. These items have been shown to have a calming, soothing effect on some anxious or frightened children and even animals., Many children with sensory processing disorder have trouble adjusting to changes in routine, feeling that these changes indicate their lack of control and security. You can combat these anxious feelings by drawing up a schedule for your child and sharing it with them well ahead of time. This calendar will provide them a much-needed sense of structure and reliability, as well as help them prepare for future events or activities.Make sure that your child can easily see and read the calendar, and ask them for input or to help drawing it out when you’re creating it. This participation will help them feel like they have some control and input in their routine.
 Even children with the most mild cases of sensory processing disorder will become overstimulated and need to withdraw from others from time to time. During these episodes, your child will need a safe place to retire for a half hour or so, so make sure your child has a special retreat within your home that they can go to when feeling stressed or overwhelmed.Many parents find that this measure can even help prevent future tantrums. If your child gets overstimulated easily, have them take a break from social playtime or other stimuli every thirty minutes instead of waiting for an episode.For example, build a pillow fort in your child’s room, hollow out a corner in their closet, designate a ‘safe place’ armchair in the living room, or make a treehouse or playhouse into a specially designated zone.
 Many children suffering from sensory processing disorder find that certain ‘sensory-friendly’ toys can help distract, entertain, and soothe them. Such special toys can also provide the sensory stimulation they crave and even ultimately improve their symptoms.Look for toys that light up, make sounds, and provide interesting textures. For example, sensory balls, tactile puzzles, beads, blocks, and Bop it! or Simon Says boards are all good sensory toys.
Additionally, familiar tokens such as worry stones and favorite stuffed animals can help suffering children feel relaxed and secure.
 Outings are some of the most exciting times for your child, so they can also be a prime time for tantrums or episodes of overstimulation. Packing a portable kit full of calming, re-orienting tools will mean that you can meet and address such behavior even when you’re out of the house.For example, fill a pack with noise-canceling headphones, a favorite toy, sunglasses to shield bright lights, a compression vest, and a snack to prevent hunger tantrums or sugar crashes.
 Despite the reluctance in professional medical circles to define, accept, and standardize the diagnosis of sensory processing disorder, parents and community groups have had considerable success organizing special facilities and events for affected children. These venues and events feature softened lighting, decreased sound volumes, time-out areas and break times, and other sensory-friendly amenities.Check out online sensory processing disorder support forums in order to find local theaters, libraries, museums, theme parks, and even hair salons that offer special programming for your child.

