 Purchase clay bead piercing pins from any manufacturer that produces tools for working with clay.If you are unable to find bead piercing pins, sharp skewers or large sewing pins might work well enough. The instrument you use simply needs a sharp, pointed tip and a sturdy metal shaft similar in thickness to 20 gauge wire. It also needs to be long enough to completely pierce through at least one bead.
 Lightly grasp the bead in between your fingers using your non-dominant hand. Using your dominant hand, gently push the sharp pin tip into the spot the hole needs to be at.


Your fingers should be positioned on the smooth side of the bead and clear from the entrance or exit point of the desired hole.
Hold the bead just lightly enough to keep it steady, but do not squeeze it.
 Twirl the piercing pin between your fingers as you push it through the entire bead. Continue twisting and pushing until the pin pokes out from the opposite side.


You may also need to twist the bead lightly as you insert the pin.
Keep the pin straight as you push it through. Work slowly and gently to minimize possible distortion to the shape of the bead.
 After pushing the pin all the way through to the other side of the bead, pull it back into the hole by about 0.4 to 0.8 inches (1 to 2 mm)


As you push the pin through the bead, a little speck of clay will usually poke out from the opposite side. By pulling the pin back in, you can pull this speck back and prevent it from hardening onto the outer surface of the bead.
 Mild distortion is fairly common, so you might need to use your fingers to gently reshape the bead before setting it.


With the right piercing pin and the right technique, you may not encounter any distortion at all. It can take practice before getting the process right without misshaping the bead at all, though, so you should expect a little difficulty the first time you try it.
 Place the skewered beads on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper or wax paper and bake them as you would bake any polymer clay piece.


Check the instructions on your polymer clay label to determine the correct temperature and correct amount of time. In most cases, you will need to bake the clay beads for 15 to 20 minutes in an oven preheated to 275 degrees Fahrenheit (135 degrees Celsius).
Most pins should be oven-safe, so you shouldn't need to remove them prior to baking. Check periodically during the baking process to make sure that the pin is not melting or smoking, though.
 Remove the finished clay beads from the oven and wait a few minutes for them to cool slightly. As soon as they are cool enough to touch, pick up each bead and pull the pin out through the entrance of the hole.


It is best to remove the pin while the clay is still somewhat warm and soft.
Check the hole after you remove the pin. It should be clear and complete from side to side.
Once you finish this step, the process is complete.

