 This style is characterized by densely packed, angular letter forms, and a uniform style of vertical strokes. Blackletter font may be best used to express the wonder and fear on book covers, posters, records, or film titles. They could also express seriousness on diplomas or award certificates. , This style is best known for being dense and having angular letter-forms. The letters share many shapes to create a uniform and flowing piece of work. Here are important skills to use:


Keep the pen angle at 30° to 45°
Draw straight vertical lines
Draw short, diagonal lines for decorative tails
Use small, controlled movements
Create a flow and a rhythm among the letters

, Although there will be a slight angle variation as you write, the angle will still add uniformity and character to the overall work., Instead of one fluid motion to form a letter, you will use two to four strokes to create each one that will form a pattern among the letters. Even though each letter is different, there are certain shapes that many of them have in common., For h, m, n, r, and t, the first stroke will be the same. Hold your pen at a 30° angle, and make a straight line down and a sharp 45° tail up and to the right. The tail should be small with a sharp edge and not interfere with any part of the letter., For b, d, l, u, and y, the first stroke will be the same. You will create a straight stroke downwards with a soft 45° tail that angles up and to the right. The curve should be more rounded than sharp., For b, c, d, e, o, p, g, and q, you will start from the top, and move right and down to form the top part of their circles. Once you reach halfway around the circle, pick up your pen, and start a new stroke that moves from the right and down to the left. End the circle when you reach the main vertical line., Some tips and lines require softer, 30° angles, letters like k, v, w, and x all require 45° strokes. To make their downward lines, start at the top, and move either to the right or left being sure to move at a 45° angle. When you reach the bottom of the line, make an upward 30° curve.
 The "a" is unique, and it requires three separate motions. Hold your pen at a 45° angle. Create a tail at the top by moving to the right and up, and then make a line going down and to the right. Finish the stroke with a tail that curves up and to the right. Lift your pen, and make the bottom part of the circular pattern by moving from left to right, and stroking upwards. Move from right to left as you finish the top of the circle by starting at the first straight line, and finishing at the start of the second stroke., Make the middle of the "s" first by drawing a downward stroke from left to right. Create the bottom curve moving from left to right and wrapping upward to the bottom of the center line. Finish with the top moving from left to right, starting from the middle line and curving up and then, back down.
 Horizontal strokes are made be moving left to right. To create the curvature of the "z", slightly curve up where you start and end. Remember to keep the angle of your pen consistent. Create the middle line by starting at the right end of the top horizontal line, and stroking down and to the right at a 45° angle. Finish the letter with another horizontal line that starts at the bottom tip of the middle line, and strokes to the right with an upward curl at the beginning and end. The two horizontal lines should have identical curves.
 Although "g" and "f" have some different strokes, the main downward stroke with tail are the same. Start by moving your pen down, and create a small tail to the left. Do not finish the tail by moving your pen up. Pick up you pen, and start a new stroke that moves down and to the right. This stroke should meet the small tail of your first stroke.
 All letters in calligraphy follow the same basic strokes. Practice each letter using this guide so there is a uniformity among all of the letters.

