 Wear jeans or other pants made from thick material, heavy leather shoes, and thick gloves, just in case the scorpion somehow gets close enough to your body to strike.;
, In Arizona, where scorpions are a common sight in bedrooms and backyards, large, long tweezers are sold at hardware stores. These allow you to pierce the exoskeleton, then grasp the scorpion and dispose of it. If this tool isn't available in your area, a pair of scissors with long blades, a long knife, or another long, sharp object will work.
 Scorpions aren't typically very fast, but act quickly to make sure you're able to kill the scorpion before it gets away. If necessary, pierce the scorpion again until you're sure it is no longer alive.


You can also use a blunt object, like a heavy book, shoe, or sledgehammer, to crush the scorpion instead of piercing it. However, some scorpions have the ability to flatten themselves as thin as a coin, so just hitting the scorpion with your hard striking surface may not be enough to kill it. You'll need to twist your shoe, rock or other hard object will ensure that the scorpion is crushed and killed. When the scorpion has stopped moving or when its body is in several pieces, it is likely dead.
 If scorpions are becoming a problem in your household, you can get rid of them by methodically killing them at night, when they're active. Get a black lightbulb from the hardware store and place it in a flashlight. Shine the light on walls, in corners, along baseboards, and in other areas where scorpions tend to spend time. Their exoskeletons will glow in the black light.


Don't forget to check outside walls on your property, too. Scorpions can also be found in outdoor rock piles and other sources of shelter.
 If the thought of interacting with scorpions makes you want to run and hide, consider calling a professional to help you out. In some areas you can hire a professional to come to your house and hunt scorpions for you.


Some pest control agencies might suggest using a pesticide application instead of killing the scorpions by hand. It might be worth a try, but many people have found pesticides to be ineffective in getting rid of scorpions.
 Cats are predators of scorpions, and most will be happy to hunt, kill and eat them so you don't have to worry about getting rid of them yourself. If you don't already have a cat, consider adopting one.
 Chickens also enjoy eating scorpions. They keep other pests at bay, too, including insects scorpions eat, making them doubly effective at reducing the scorpion population.
 This natural substance is made from ground up fossils. It's a fine white powder that can be sprinkled in doorways, cracks and crevices both indoors and outdoors. It's completely safe for humans and pets to be around, but the tiny shards of fossil effectively pierce scorpions' exoskeletons when they happen to scuttle over the powder. Diatomaceous earth also kills spiders, roaches and other insects.
 The same traps that can be used to get rid of mice or roaches work for scorpions, too. Set them up in dark corners and near sources of water. If you catch a scorpion, throw the trap away and set out another one in the same area, since it's likely a spot that more scorpions will be attracted to.
 Scorpions like to live in dark places that provide shelter. Check both inside and outside for items that might be acting as convenient hiding places for scorpions.


Make sure your boxes are sealed and stored off the ground on shelves.
Get rid of clutter. Keep your clothes and shoes well organized and off the floor, if possible.
Remove wood and rock piles from your yard.
 Scorpions feed on insects, so if you have other pest problems in your house, it'll be hard to control the scorpion population. Keeping the house clean, sprinkling boric acid or diatomaceous earth along baseboards, and using insecticide are all ways you can eliminate pests.
 Scorpions are able to flatten their bodies to fit through very small holes and cracks. Examine your home's foundation for spots that might be serving as entry points. Fill them with caulk. Check your doors, window frames, vents, chimney, and other spots for areas where scorpions can get in, and make sure they're properly sealed.
 Scorpions are attracted to wet spots. Make sure none of your pipes are leaking, and install a ventilator in your bathroom so it dries quickly after use. Don't leave wet towels on the floor.