 Start with five words that describe your idea or concept. For example, if you want an antique-themed wedding, your words might be: lace, light blue, ivory, wood, silver.;
, If you will be getting your images from the internet, set up a board on Pinterest (or similar), a bookmarks folders in your web browser, or a folder on your desktop. If you will be getting your images from books, catalogues, or magazines, get a multi-pocket folder. This way, you will have everything ready., You can finds lots of images on the internet, books, catalogues, or magazines. Plan on finding about 10 to 20 images. This will give you enough to work with, but not so much as to be overwhelming.


If you are browsing the internet for images, you can save them to your designated storage system as you search.
If you are browsing through a book, catalogue, or magazine, you can mark the mages with post-it notes or pieces of paper.
 You should have been saving your digital images as you browsed, but if you didn't, go ahead and do that now. If you were leafing through a book, catalogue, or magazine, tear out the pages, and tuck them into your multi-pocket folder.If you don't want to ruin a book, catalogue, or magazine, you can scan the images into your computer or photocopy them instead.
 Go through your images and note any similarities, patterns, or differences. Focus on theme, color, shape, material, texture, mood, etc. Sort the images according to the similarities you find.If you find a reoccurring theme that is not part of your keyword list, consider adding it to that list, and making another search based on it.
 Go through your images once more. Set aside the ones that don't work with your theme or don't look as nice when compared to the other images. Keep the ones that match or look good together. You only want the best of the best for your board, so don't hesitate to be picky!Don't throw away the other images. As you organize your board, you might find that they work after all!

, Print off any digital images first on good-quality paper. Use a pair of scissors to trim your images down further, if needed. For example, if you have an image of a dress, you can cut just the dress out, and leave the background. If your image has a textbox, you might want to crop it and leave the textbox out.
 You can use a large canvas, a poster, or even a foam core board. If you want to create your mood board on a physical wall instead, spread the images out on your table. Place the largest, most important images towards the center, and the smaller, less important images on the edges.Consider overlapping the images for a more interesting effect. Make sure that the smaller images go on top of the larger ones.
If something doesn't work, consider going through your discard pile.
 You can glue the images down using a glue stick or rubber cement. You can also attach them using pieces of double-sided tape. If you are making a mood board on your wall, you can attach the images using pins or mounting tape. Another option would be to stretch a pieces of yarn or twine across your wall, then use clothespins to hang the images.

