 Dehydration can cause dry skin. it can also weaken your immune system by not flushing out toxins through sweat and excretion. This makes it harder for your body to heal surface wounds such as acne scars.Staying hydrated can also improve the skin’s elasticity. This can reduce the appearance of wrinkles and depressed acne scars.
Drink at least eight ounces of water every two hours to keep your body hydrated. You should aim to drink at least two to four liters of water per day.
If you drink caffeinated beverages, drink at least one liter of water for every cup of caffeine.
 The combination of sugar and dairy products is particularly detrimental to the sebaceous glands causing acne. Studies in various parts of the world among indigenous people showed that their teenagers were free of acne when they did not eat dairy products and sugar, but ate what indigenous people consumed. But when they adopted a Western style diet, they developed acne like teenagers in the rest of the world.
 Green tea is rich in antioxidants called polyphenols that stimulate collagen production and repair skin cells, thus reducing the appearance of scars. The antioxidants also help fight harmful free radicals. They protect against ultraviolet radiation and reduce wrinkle. Green tea can also reduce stress.You can brew green tea by steeping two to three grams of green tea leaves in one cup of warm water for three to five minutes.
Green tea can be taken two to three times daily.
Topical treatments that contain green tea may also reduce the appearance of scars.
 Research shows that vitamin A, also known as retinol, helps boost collagen production.Vitamin A also helps protect the skin from harmful free radicals and ultraviolet radiation.


Good sources of Vitamin A include salmon, tuna, egg yolks, carrots, green leafy vegetables, and yellow or orange fruits. Natural sources of vitamin A have no side effects. It is also available as a supplement at most drug stores.
You can increase absorption of vitamin A by eating a diet free of unhealthy fats. Avoid margarine, hydrogenated oils, and processed food.
The recommended daily dose for Vitamin A is 700–900 micrograms (2334-3000 IU).High doses of Vitamin A (higher than 3,000 micrograms or 10,000 IU) can have toxic side-effects, including birth defects and depression. Intake should be carefully monitored.
 Vitamin C is also important antioxidant and immune system booster.You can take vitamin C as a dietary supplement with a recommended dose of 500 mg, split into two or three times daily.You can also add vitamin C-rich foods to your daily diet. Good natural sources of vitamin C are sweet red or green peppers, citrus fruit and non-concentrated citrus juices, spinach, broccoli and brussel sprouts, strawberries and raspberries, avocados, and tomatoes., It also helps protect the skin from harmful ultraviolet radiation. It can promote cell renewal, and keep the skin moisturized.Vitamin E is in foods such as vegetable oils, almonds, peanuts, hazelnuts, sunflower seeds, spinach, and broccoli.
The recommended dosage for adults is 15 mg (22.35 IU)per day. However, newer studies have shown that this valuable antioxidant is safe at 268 mg (400 IU) per day. Ask your doctor about the amount best for you.Eating vitamin E in foods is not risky or harmful. As a supplement, high doses of vitamin E can have serious health consequences.
 Some studies show that zinc can help in the reduction of scars. You can also apply zinc to the skin as a cream to speed wound healing.


Zinc is an essential trace mineral found in many foods you eat on a regular basis. It has antioxidant properties that help protect cells in the body from damage caused by bacteria and viruses.The best dietary sources of zinc are oysters, shellfish, red meats, poultry, cheese, shrimp, crab, beans, sunflower seeds, pumpkin, tofu, miso, mushrooms and cooked greens.
Zinc is available as supplement and in many multivitamin capsules. Easily absorbed forms of zinc are zinc picolinate, zinc citrate, zinc acetate, zinc glycerate, and zinc monomethionine.
A daily dose of 10-15 milligrams is recommended.You should consume a daily dose of 10-15 milligrams.This can be easily attained through a healthy diet. Taking too much zinc can decrease your levels of copper and weaken your immune system.
Use zinc creams only with a recommended prescription from your doctor.

