 Decide where you will be going and how long. If you aim to see only Lhasa and/or areas around it, a four-day visit is sufficient. If you aim to see Mt. Everest, you should be free for at least a week.
 The principal language of Tibet is Tibetan, which is not an easy language to learn. There are several dialects of Tibetan, too, and almost all Tibetans can speak Mandarin, with the exception of the nomadic groups living in Far East Tibet. It is highly recommended to know at least basic Tibetan, but definitely Mandarin Chinese in order to communicate with the Tibetan people.

Keep in mind that there is political opposition to using Chinese in Tibet. If you talk to Tibetans in Chinese, you are linking yourself with the Chinese, who the Tibetans have some bitterness against because of the way the Chinese treat them. However, there are many Tibetans who see Chinese as a fundamental lingua franca and only knowing several pleasantries in Tibetan can help you to make friends with Tibetans.
 Tibetan culture may shock you, as their customs are different from those in many other countries and places. Thus, it is important to reduce this shock by knowing what is proper and improper manners in Tibet to avoid trouble with people there.

Refrain from taking pictures of Buddha statues when visiting the Tibetan monasteries. This is allowed in some of them including the Tashilhunpo Monastery, though you will be charged.
Never smoke during your visit to a monastery. Wear professional clothing; avoid wearing shorts and sunglasses.
Avoid sensitive topics of conversation, such as the political situation in Tibet. Discussing these can lead to arguments, or you may offend people this way.
Always ask permission before going into a monastery.
At a Tibetan dinner, avoid eating with an overfull mouth, and always try to chew quietly. If the host/hostess gives you an item such as a cup of tea, use both hands to take it. This shows gratitude and respect.
 Those differ contingently on whether you are staying in Lhasa or outside of it. For hotels in Lhasa, you can be fairly comfortable as there are heaters and in winter the water is hot. If you are not feeling well at any point, there are doctors that can care for you. Hotels in small towns and cities located outside of Lhasa have basic facilities, and there may not be a heater or hot water during winter. Thus, it is best to stay in Lhasa during the winter if you plan to go to Tibet around then., Anytime from May to October is the best time to go, since the weather allows for comfort and people can breathe in more oxygen. Do keep in mind that Tibet is closed to foreigners during the majority of February, and in March due to this being around Tibetan new year., There are specific requirements for packing because of the conditions in Tibet, including weather and altitude.

Take along warm clothing, such as a fleece or a sweater. This is also necessary during summer, since the temperature drops heavily at night. In addition, take along mountain winter clothing if you are traveling in winter.
You will need sunblock and sunglasses because the sunlight can become strong.
It is very dry in Tibet, so lip cream is necessary to keep your lips moist.
Bring extra snacks in case you are not fond of the Tibetan food, or you don't think you can eat much of it.
Bring altitude sickness medicine and take it at least one day before arriving in Tibet. This will protect against altitude sickness.

