 Start by removing items like work or sporting equipment. Depending on your activities, you may have gear that you use on the weekends, toys that belong to your children, or your gym bag. Place these items off to the side until you are ready to arrange them in your vehicle.

As you pull stuff out of the car, ask yourself if you really need to have it in your car at all times. In the case of your child’s sports equipment, your gym bag, or the tools you use for work, you may decide that you do need it. On the other hand, you might not need the large toy that your child no longer plays with or the summertime beach toys if it’s December.;
, Throw away or recycle items like old water bottles, food packaging, food bits, napkins, broken items, or other debris. You may want to use a trash bag or can for this step, depending on how much trash you have in your car.

Remember to look under the seats for trash that may have gotten pushed underneath.
 Go through your car and remove the smaller items, such as sunglasses, travel tissues, kids’ books, and CDs. Place these items near your larger items that you plan to return to the car.

As you remove the items from your car, see if any of the items can be placed inside your home rather than inside the car.
 Use a soapy rag or a product that is made to clean car interiors to wash the dirt and debris from the dashboard, console, steering wheel, doors, and especially the cup holders. Since cup holders often gather grime, do a second pass with a clean rag to make sure that you get all of the crumbs., While this step is optional, if you have kids, pets, or eat in your car a lot, it’s a good idea to vacuum it out. Crumbs can attract bugs and can start to smell over time. It will be easier to get yourself to maintain an organized vehicle if it is also clean.

Try using an attachment hose on your vacuum cleaner.
If you have a handheld vacuum, that can be a good option as well.
If you don’t own a vacuum cleaner and cannot borrow one, consider visiting a car wash. Most car washes have vacuums that are made just for cars, and oftentimes you don’t even have to get your car washed to use it.

