 Fiber-rich foods aid digestion in a variety of ways. Eating these foods can speed digestion by reducing constipation and maintaining general bowel health.Fiber works by absorbing water, adding weight and mass to your stool. For this to work, adequate (and sometimes increased) water consumption is also needed. Otherwise, constipation can occur.
By adding bulk to your stool, these fiber-rich foods regulate digestion. This can also help reduce gas, bloating, and diarrhea.Some high-fiber foods include: whole-grain products, fruits, vegetables, legumes, nuts, and seeds.
 Yogurt is a great natural source of probiotics, and other live cultures that are essential to digestion.The digestion benefits of yogurt are thought to come from the way that yogurt:


Encourages the growth of good bacteria, due to its naturally occurring live cultures.
Decreases the length of time it takes to recover from infections, as well as lessens the immune system response in people with irritable bowel syndrome.
Speeds the time that food takes to go through the bowel., Ginger has been used for thousands of years as a digestive aid, and its popularity has continued to the present day. Ginger is thought to stimulate the release of enzymes in the digestive tract that increase the efficiency and ease of digestion.Ginger has been shown to increase muscle contractions in the stomach, helping to move food to the upper small intestine faster., Foods high in fat and fried foods can cause acid reflux and heartburn because they overwhelm the stomach's ability to properly break down its contents.Your stomach finds these foods hard to digest, and slows the entire digestive process.Examples of high-fat and fried foods are: processed meats, french fries, ice cream, butter, and cheese.
 Spicy foods can irritate the throat and esophagus, leading to acid reflux and heartburn.Additionally, these foods can upset the gastro-intestinal (GI) tract, slowing down digestion and causing diarrhea and other digestive ailments., Yogurt, in general, helps people. However, if you have any symptoms of lactose intolerance, yogurt should be avoided along with all other dairy. Although the exact mechanism by which dairy causes indigestion and constipation is unknown, it can definitely hamper the digestion process.Intolerance to lactose can cause bloating, gas, and indigestion, all of which can be the result of slowed or impaired digestion.
 Red meat can make you constipated, and prevent the regular bowel movements necessary for speedy digestion. There are a variety of reasons for the negative effect of red meat on digestion.


Red meat is high in fat, so the body takes longer to process it.
Red meat is rich in iron, which can also lead to constipation.

