 Most guys 'want' something from girls. It could be sex, social status, physical intimacy, showing off, etc. Even if they get it, they don't feel satisfied. Why? It's because human mind is inherently needy or insatiable. It always 'wants' something.Read last step of the article Stop-Being-Needy for more insight. Here's the deeper truth: In essence she's a human being just like you. Which means they have been through phases of suffering and happiness, have a life story, passions or interests etc. Isn't that enough to make a deep genuine connection with them? The deeper you go into it, you will realize that sex or physical intimacy is just a by-product.


"Be content with what you have; rejoice in the way things are. When you realize there is nothing lacking, the whole world belongs to you." - Tao Te Ching.
Make a habit of often talking to the "least attractive" girls, or even guys, when you go out and genuinely practice to make a deep connection with them. It not only helps you to perceive people beyond their looks and change your existing paradigms, but it's a practical way to get yourself in a social mood. So when you approach that hot girl you find attractive, you are already in a more fun and confident state. Plus, you can stay longer in a conversation with a less attractive girl. Here are few conversations topics that can help; passions, childhood, goals, personality, traveling etc
At the same time be practical about it. Yes, attraction towards good-looking girls is a great motivator.. So it's fine to use this motivation to approach but at the same time be aware that the motivation is coming from attraction towards their physical looks or you will remain stuck at that level. Read last step of Become Mentally Flexible for more.
In the long run its about your priorities. What is important to you? Physical looks(sex, showing off) or meaningful connection or both and to what degree? Be very truthful. Cause only knowing and accepting the truth will take you beyond that state.
 Romance has a very high value for women because of the fundamental idea its based upon. In ancient times, men were the ones who used to provide for the family and women used to rear children and take care of the house. That's what has a great momentum, from thousand of years of conditioning, and is hard-wired in our brains, despite how independent we are. Romantic connection implies to a woman that a man will be there for her when she needs him. That's what makes it so powerful and rare. This is something to become aware of and allow to grow naturally., Girls are very good at testing your patience and you as a person overall. It's inherently hardwired in their brains so at times they don't even know that they are testing you. They will do all kinds of shenanigans and play games, just to get a rise or reaction out of you. It's like they are qualifying you to see if you deserve them or not.


For example: If they say something like 'You are quite older than me, I am just a little sophomore girl', what would be your normal response? Something like 'Yeah I know, but I am not that old' or 'I have dated girls your age before'. These are very defensive and supplicating responses.
Instead turn the tables by saying something like 'Yeah, I am old. I don't think you can handle me' or 'I always wanted to be a sugar-daddy', or something like 'Yeah, you better watch out. I am a pedophile'. This way you can also qualify them.
It's like using the opponents energy against themselves without using force. Like what is seen in non-aggressive martial arts like Aikido or Tai-Chi. So play it cool. Once you pass a test, she will like you more. As non-reactive and non-needy mindset is extremely attractive to most high value girls.
Second example: If they say something like, "I have a boyfriend", "I am seeing someone" etc, then instead of replying with generic answers like, 'Okay, nice meeting you' etc.. Remain non-reactive. Reply with something like, "Oh yeah, me too", or "Amazing, let me give you a hug" (then go in for the hug), or "and I have a maths test....I thought we were talking about things we can cheat on" etc. It's like subconsciously telling the girl, "I don't care, if you have a BF or not. I'm gonna have fun".
Third example: When a girl rejects you, instead of reacting just bow down as you leave or say something like "I am just gonna tuck in my tail and go talk to that girl," or you can simply express what you are feeling like, "Man, that hurts." or "I knew it. You are so out of my league." It's therapeutic when you just express what you are feeling and/or just channel your reactions in a creative and constructive way.. Note: Reaction are not you but conditioned patterns. So don't let them dictate your reality.
Don't react, as in the long you would realize that rejections are more valuable experiences than favorable responses. Also, more you fail at something more likely you are going to succeed at it. . Its also called as 'fail-fast mentality'. As in the long run you may realize that no experience goes waste.
According to Tao Te Ching "She is good to people who are good. She is also good to people who aren't good. This is true goodness."
If you just practice non-reaction and making deep, genuine connections with women(or people in general), then the below conversation practices are no more than supplements to boost your conversation skills.
 It's a quite persuasive conversation tool to keep the girl engaged. It can also make both of you feel comfortable pretty quickly. It means making the conversation about 'both' of you rather than you and the girl. For example; if she says she likes the video game 'Sims', then you can reply with something like "You know what we should play 'Sims' at my place. I will order pizza and you bring the soda. We can build a home together with a garden full of lilies and roses. Also what color do you think we should paint the room for our baby?". It's like bringing her into your world or bubble you made for both of you. Don't be too serious, you could push her away. Have fun but she'll wonder if you are seriously interested in her. It can be quite powerful.


Use the 'us' mentality in accordance with your personality and humor, or it's not going to come out as genuine. So experiment to get a better understanding of your humor and personality. You could try using sexual or plain lame humor in your conversations and see what you are more comfortable with and find more fun. If the girl finds it fun too, then that's what makes a good connection.
Remember it's about you and not about the girls. You always have to put yourself first. It sounds selfish but it's not. It's cause when you are having fun, then in the long run, people in your company would have fun too., This means you both play roles in an imaginary scenario created by you. Read the conversation in the image to get a better idea.
 If your motive is to have sex with the girl then sexual hints are quite essential. Some of these ideas may come in handy to create sexual energy.


Thinking about having sex while talking to a girl, charges the conversation with sexual energy.
Use sexual humor during conversations but don't force it. Use common sense. Let it come naturally as if you were talking to a friend.
Show intent with body language. For example: Lean in a little closer while interacting to a girl, touch her, sub-communicate your intentions with facial gestures etc.
Keep a strong eye contact. It's so effective to keep a strong eye contact. Your eye contact should be piercing her soul, as the expression goes.
Physical escalation. This is gold if you do it right. It works best in the night. Read Make Out with a Random Girl and Pull a Girl Home for more details.
Stop masturbating. Keeping yourself from masturbating, or at least reducing the frequency, helps naturally build sexual energy within you that may surface during your interactions. Keep in mind that this may or may not work for you. Also whenever you masturbate then think of your sexual experiences or fantasies, rather than masturbating to porn. As it helps improve your imagination and doesn't let you to use porn as a crutch. Which can affect your sexual life, There are funny and informative memes and vines posted regularly on these apps that you can use for your own life situation. Not only does the information on these apps help you fix the problem of 'running out of interesting things to talk about', but it also helps you be more funny.
 This means to keep a right balance between disinterest (teasing, sarcasm, playfulness, etc.) and interest (compliments, praise, etc.) and not being too interested or too uninterested. It's like keeping the girl on toes.


Verbal examples: "You look cute (pull) but you don't seem to be my type (push)", "Here, put your number in my phone (pull), but promise me you won't call me again and again (push)", "Let's go to my place (pull), but promise you won't touch me below my waist (push)", "You forgot my name? Go away I don't wanna talk to you. (Push).","I forgot your name too (pull).".
Physical examples: While making out, 'push' at the right moment, when her craving for you is the highest. This will make her want you even more. Another example would be, while touching the girl don't go for her breasts or vagina (push), instead gently touch around other areas (pull).
 Persistence is when you continue to persuade or try to pull the girl into a conversation, when the girl seems interested but is bound by social conditioning(Yes or Maybe girls). Signs could be like laughing at your average jokes, trying to walk away but still not leaving, smiling, keeping a longer eye contact than usual, playing with her hair, giving vague answers when you ask for her number or to go for a beverage etc. Use common sense while looking for these signs though. Read Cold Approach a Girl for more.


Keep it simple. If a girl is not replying your texts or calling back, take the hint that she's not interested or has other priorities. So no need to persist, move on. Yes, some girls do like to play games but in the long run you may realize how irrational and futile they are.

