 This makes finding a dateable girl easier as girl's will notice the player more with a higher Sex Appeal percentage. New haircuts, clothes and tattoos all help increase the Sex Appeal percentage.
 These can be easily distinguished by looking for the blue arrows over their heads. Once you meet the individual girl's requirements and respond positively to her advances, her home can be found on the game map as a heart-shaped icon.
 This is needed to increase your relationship percentage, as well as unlocking new perks. Collect the girl from her house and drive her to a location she enjoys, such as a restaurant or bar. Once the activity is completed, you must drive her home. As your relationship progresses, you will be given the option to give gifts such as flowers, to kiss, as well as an invitation to go inside for coffee after a successful date.
 This is done by completing successful dates, as well as giving gifts and through kissing. Once the relationship reaches 50% and 100%, a new perk will be unlocked. See Tips for detailed information on percentage increases and decreases.
 Each girl comes with a unique set of perks, and unlocking them all will benefit gameplay greatly. There is no penalty for having more than one girlfriend at a time.



Name: Denise Robinson
Job: Gang Member
Meeting Place: Met during the mission 'Burning Desire' for the C.R.A.S.H. service in Los Santos.
Home: Ganton not far from Grove St in Los Santos
Time: 16:00 - 6:00
Seduction Condition: Maximum Sex Appeal
Driving Speed: Fast
Favorite Locations: Fast Food and bars. She also likes to hang around enemy territory and kill other gang members.
Reward when met: Nothing
Reward at 50%: Her Hustler's key.
Reward at 100%: A Mac's uniform.;
,


Name: Helena Wankstein
Job: Weapons Expert
Meeting Place: In Blueberry, Red County, up a flight of stairs to the left of Ammu-Nation
Home: A farm in Flint County
Time: 8:00-12:00 and 14:00-2:00
Seduction Condition: 25% of Muscle maximum and small amount of Fat
Driving Speed: Normal
Favorite Locations: Restaurant
Reward when met: Four weapons available at her farm: a chainsaw, a pistol, a flame-thrower and Molotov's Cocktails.
Reward at 50%: Her Bandito's key.
Reward at 100%: A farmer's uniform.



Name: Michelle Cannes
Job: Car Engineer
Meeting Place: San Fierro's driving school in front of CJ's Safehouse.
Home: In a garage/Pay'n'Spray Downtown.
Time:0:00-12:00.
Seduction Condition: 50% of Fat minimum and maximum Sex Appeal.
Driving Speed: Fast
Favorite Locations: Bars
Reward when met: Free Pay'n'Spray service
Reward at 50%: Her Monster's key.
Reward at 100%: A pilot's uniform.



Name: Katie Zhan
Job: Nurse
Meeting Place: North-East of the the golf course near a bush in Avispa Country Club
Home: Paradiso, near the Las Venturas highway
Time: 12:00-0:00
Seduction Condition: 75% of muscle minimum and maximum Sex Appeal
Driving Speed: Normal
Favorite Locations: Restaurants near her house
Reward when met: Free hospital care.
Reward at 50%: Her white Romeo's key.
Reward at 100%: A doctor's uniform.
Tips: To reach 100% quickly, dying in front of her house will cause you to respawn in front of her house with 10% more relationship with her. Repeat until you reach 100%

,


Name: Millie Perkins
Job: Crupper at the Caligula's Casino
Meeting Place: Met during the mission 'Key to Her Heart'
Home: Prickle Pine, North of Las Venturas
Time: 12:00-18:00.
Seduction Condition: Maximum Sex Appeal
Driving Speed: Normal
Favorite Locations: World of Coq's Steak House
Reward when met: Nothing
Reward at 30%: The security card for the 'Breaking Up at Caligula's' mission
Reward at 50%: Her Club's key
Reward at 100%: Nothing
Tips: To receive the security card faster, kill her whilst on a date. You will receive a call from Woozie and you will be able to enter her house and get the security card.



Name: Barbara Schternvart
Job: Cop
Meeting Place: Police Department's parking in El Quebrados, Tierra Robada
Home: Police Department in El Quebrados
Time: 16:00-6:00
Seduction Condition: 50% Fat minimum and maximum Sex Appeal
Driving Speed: Slow
Favorite Locations: Restaurants near her house
Reward when met: Get out of jail free with all weapons
Reward at 50%: Her Ranger's key
Reward at 100%: A Cop's uniform.

