 Ask the audience’s position on a particular topic to get a sense of where your audience is coming from. This helps the audience get invested in the information you’re sharing and makes it relevant for them. For a speech about how to winterize your car, you could ask the audience something like, “How many of you have ever felt your car slipping on an icy street? Or who here has had their car stall on the side of the road during freezing temperatures?”

, By asking the audience a question about your topic, you engage them almost instantly. The audience members will hear the question and begin to ponder their own answers, thereby becoming involved in the topic of your speech.


If you are giving a speech about holiday traditions, you could ask, “What was your favorite holiday tradition growing up?”

, Lead your audience through a very brief visualization exercise to inspire their imagination as it pertains to your topic. They may not remember your words as much as the images that were evoked in their minds during this part of the speech.For example, if you’re giving a speech about booking a dream vacation, you might start with: “Imagine you are on a tropical beach. Feel the sand under your feet and the sun beating down on your shoulders. You can hear the ocean waves and wind swishing through the palm trees.”

, When people listen to a speech, they often are looking for answers to questions that they have. Giving your audience the opportunity to ask questions up front can help shape your speech and make sure you’re addressing their specific concerns.


If you’re giving a speech about teaching online classes versus in-person classes, you might ask, “What’s your biggest concern about teaching an online class?” Call on a few people to hear their concerns. Chances are, you’ll be addressing their concerns in your speech already., Start off your speech by asking your audience to share something with their neighbor. This breaks the ice, making a more friendly and communal learning environment.You might say to the audience, “Turn to your neighbor and tell them your favorite kind of exercise.”

, If you need to persuade an audience to buy into an idea or to purchase a product, explaining to that audience why that idea or product relates to their own lives can be an effective way of getting them interested in what you have to say.


If you are trying to explain why the audience should buy a certain kitchen utensil, open by describing a common scenario that might happen in the kitchen for which that utensil could be used.

