 Quietly make your bed first of all.
 A good choice for a typical school day is a nice skirt or a pair of jeans, and a top that you know you will be comfy in and that you can dress up with jewelry and accessories. Don't go overboard with color, and make sure that you have something to go with it.


It is a good idea to have your clothes for the day prepared the night before.
 Eat a wholesome, healthy breakfast/ Generally, this should involve eating grains, some form of milk and a little fresh fruit. This is a good choice for students in middle school or high school. Eat oatmeal, toast with jelly, and milk or soy milk. Throw in a special fruit, if you like.


If you find it hard to eat breakfast, have a smoothie.
 Fix your hair in a suitable style, such as a braid, ponytail or just a good brush.

If you wear makeup, do this now. Never wear too much makeup, your young skin doesn't need it.
 There are many options to accessorize with, such as necklaces, bracelets, earrings, scarves, and rings. Do what you please, but do not go overboard.
 Think about what you'll be doing during the day. If you've got soccer practice after school pack your socks and cleats. If you're going to be standing around in choir class, don't wear flip flops or heels. If you're wearing all brown clothing, don't wear bright red sandals.
 You'll seem a lot more confident, and smiling brings out the best in everybody.
 Make sure you get at least 8-10 hours of sleep, depending on your level of activity. If you get at least 45-60 minutes of aerobic/vigorous exercise daily, get 10 hours of sleep. If you have 25-30 minutes, get 9 or 8 1/2 hours of sleep. If you get 0-20 minutes of exercise daily, sleep for at the least 8 hours. Also, keep in mind that you'll need enough time to prepare your things in the morning.
 Look at your agenda or planner to see what you'll need to pack in terms of a sweater, an umbrella, homework, and permission slips. Ask your parents if you've asked them to remind you of something. Leave notes for yourself, as well.

