 Every character has smash attacks, special moves and more. Special moves are activated with the B button and standard moves use the A button. It is important to know all of these moves and how to use them to your advantage.
 Just like every other character, Duck Hunt has 4 specials.


Neutral B, Trick Shot. Use this to pressure your opponent, edge guard, and combo after grabs. Another good trick is to catch your opponent off guard by hitting the can into them when they least expect it.

Side B, Clay Pigeon. This is good for racking up early damage. At early percentage, you can grab your opponent after the pigeon hits and follow up with some F-airs.

Down B, Wild Gunman. This special is a great wall for other projectiles that are hurled your way. It also good for setting up into U-air at high percentage or gimping in some rare cases

Up B, Duck Jump. This special is only good for recovering and has no offensive purposes. It's wise to throw out a trick shot can (Neutral B) before recovering to try to prevent your opponent from attacking you in the air.
 Duck Hunt's aerials are very good and can be used to string together combos.


F-air. This move has very good reach and can hit your opponent from a safe distance. Stringing together multiple F-airs are a good way to rack up damage.

B-air. Same as F-air but has more power behind it and can be used as a kill move

U-air. One of Duck Hunt's few good kill moves. Can combo into itself at low percentage. Will start to kill at around 100% depending on the character.

D-air. Like most D-airs, this one can spike and is really satisfying to pull off. Spiking is this moves only real person, so use it when you are able to.

N-air. This move can launch your opponent far and can kill if you land the sweet spot. It does soft damage if you barely land it.
 Duck Hunt's grab is good. It comes out pretty quickly and you usually won't get punished if you miss. His throws aren't anything to write home about but can be used to get some good early damage.


Forward Throw. This can be used to rack up about 40% early damage if done correctly. Use the clay pigeon when your opponent is at low percentage then grab right after. Use forward throw then follow up with a dash attack and finish the combo with 1 or 2 F-airs. This is a good opening combo if you can land it.

Backward Throw. This throw is mainly for throwing your opponent off the stage. It's Duck Hunt's most powerful throw but it's hard to combo off of it.

Up-Throw. This is Duck Hunt's most useless throw. It's hard to combo off of and only kills at around 200%. Avoid using this throw.

Down-Throw. His down-throw isn't that great either. If you're lucky, you can follow up with an up-air to kill but this it's hard to land since his down throw launches the opponent at an awkward distance.
 There's no need to go into depth about Duck Hunt's smash attacks. They can kill like every other smash attack but unlike the rest Duck Hunt's are very unreliable and leave you wide open. Unless you are certain you can land one, it's best to avoid using them., Duck Hunt has 2 different jab combos. Mashing the A button will make him do a rapid jab that is very difficult to get out of. Hitting the A button like 1,2,3 will make Duck Hunt kick the opponent away. Try the rapid jab, since it is good at racking up damage., Lastly are Duck Hunt's tilt attacks. His left and right tilts have good reach and can be used to edge guard. His down tilt isn't too useful but can be used to poke opponents away from you. His up tilt can combo into itself at early percentages just like Mario's up tilt. At high percentages it is able to kill so remember to utilize that when you are able to., The only way to get better is to fight others. Invite some friends over and try your Duck Hunt out on them. Be sure to utilize all of his good moves and little combos while doing so., If you have Internet, a good place to hone your skills is For Glory 1 on 1. Tons of experienced players are on there so it's a spectacular place to train., If you don't have friends or Internet, just fight Level 9 CPUs! They're no push over and will get the best out of your Duck Hunt for sure.