 There are five eligible bachelorettes. Each of these girls has a boy who will play your rival for her heart. For the first few days talk to all of the villagers and mainly seek out the bachelorettes. Elli can easily be found at the bakery, or outside with her grandmother. Karen you will find at the Vineyard on some occasions, the bar at night and at the beach after cut scenes with her father. Maria is always in the library except for Mondays when the Library is closed, she will be around the mountain area. Ann is always going to be at the Ranch in the field with her brother Gray. Popuri will be in the flower shop or outside watering the flowers.;
, Do you find Ann’s ranching attitude a match made in heaven for your farm life? Perhaps the love for novels and short stories attract you to Maria. When you have made your decision on which of the girls you decide to marry you need to find out what they like. Elli loves milk and eggs. Karen loves any kinds of berries that you find in the mountain area. Maria loves bugs and cabbage. Ann true to her ranching nature loves corn and wool. Popuri loves flowers; all of the girls will accept flowers as well.
 Note they will not be available on festival days for anything you give them will not contribute to their heart level, only how you interact. Their heart level indicates how they feel about you. Each girl will start out with white, which means neutral. As you progress through the courtship the color will turn blue, which means friendly. Once you hit a green heart, you know you are getting somewhere. Green means flirtatious, and will change to yellow. Yellow means they are falling in love with you. The last color is pink which means they are completely in love with you.
 These gifts do not have to be their favorite gifts but be sure to give them something every day.


Especially on birthdays.
Elli – 1st day of Fall
Karen -11th day of Winter
Ann-14th day of Summer
Maria- 11th day of Winter
Popuri-22nd day of Spring.
 When a festival arises visit her and if there is a dance at that festival, choose her to dance with you.
 However, the most notable two are when you have reached a yellow heart. Your lovely lady will fall sick, and you must visit her at her house. This is triggered with a green heart or with a yellow heart. If you skip too quickly to a yellow heart, the scene will still come. This will increase her affection for you.
 Each of the rescue cut scene is different but your character will have a dream the night before indicating the whereabouts of this scene you must activate. This cut scene is very crucial and will boost the heart level more than any gift you give. Be sure not to miss this! All of them can be found in places to complete the dream event: Elli will sprain her ankle and will be in the forest/mountain area. Maria will be in the library and there is a book on the table, you have to give it to her. Popuri can be found in the mountain area behind the carpenters house, press A near the tree to climb it. Karen can be found at the Vineyard prompting you to enter the wine cellar with her. Ann will have fallen at the area behind the carpenters, talk to her to complete the events.
 If you have completed the events and never missed her birthday, continue to give your lady her favorite gift until her heart turns pink. Once she has reached a pink heart visit the Tool shop, which Rick owns. It is in the upper left corner of the town. You will notice he has a new item. It will appear to be a blue feather. The cost will be 1000 G. Take note you will need to have upgraded your house and buy a kitchen before you can get married. The blue feather will only appear once you have completed this.
 You will receive the photograph from the wedding and when you awake the next morning, your wife will be present.

