 Sometimes, they will bicker simply to get your attention. Refrain from giving them attention for negative behavior. Try your best to stay out of it. Removing yourself from the room when they start to squabble will send them the message that their arguing does not garner any attention from you. No need to say anything, just simply and quietly go into another room when they start up.Be careful to monitor the situation to make sure it does not go beyond minor teasing and into the realm of hurtful abuse. If there is one child that is always targeted or even picked one by a group of siblings it may be time to step in to protect the child in the minority.;
, As long as they are not physically or emotionally hurting each other, they can learn a lot from refining the process of solving their own squabbles.You can offer them a framework to start the process off in a positive light. You can do this by modeling active listening and problem solving within your relationships in the household.
For example, when one person is talking, others should face their direction and refrain from interrupting until the person has finished speaking. Offer solutions that allow everyone to benefit like "Okay, so we both want to watch TV, but we have different choices. We can watch your pick for an hour and then watch mine."

, These consequences should be logical and systematically used. You can also involve the kids in setting up the consequences so they know what happens if they don’t work things out and why it happens.Deliver consequences that are logical and apply to everyone involved. For example, all the children who are bickering may lose the same amount of minutes spent arguing from an activity of choice. The children have the chance to decide for future cases whether taking part in the argument is worth missing out on that activity.
 Focus on what makes each child unique and do activities around that to give them as much positive attention as possible. Focus this time on getting to know each child and exploring their individual needs.If both parents are in the household, each parent should find a way to spend at least 10 minutes alone with each child every day. Show the kids that you are readily available for positive time together so they do not feel the need to fight to gain attention.

