 Water has a neutral pH, which can help neutralize stomach acids and help your body absorb nutrients easily. Aim to drink at least eight ounces of water every two hours. Two liters of water is the daily recommendation for the average adult. Alkaline water with a pH of 8.8 may be more beneficial for people with severe symptoms of heartburn and GERD.If you drink caffeinated beverages, drink one liter of water for every cup (one fluid oz.) of caffeine.
Not getting enough water can also lead to dehydration. Dehydration can cause headaches, irritability, dizziness, irregular heartbeat, and shortness of breath. Non-caffeinated, glucose-free sports drinks with electrolytes can help alleviate dehydration as well., There is no one specific diet that will prevent all symptoms of heartburn and GERD. The only way for your doctor to design a meal plan appropriate for you is to discover which foods you tolerate well and which foods aggravate your reflux. Try to keep a detailed food record for one or two weeks. Your food record may have three categories:


The type and quantity of food or beverages, such as one cup orange juice. Note any spices you may have used in your meals as well.
Time of day
Symptoms and the severity of the condition, such as mild acid reflux.
 Eating 5-6 small meals each day aids digestion, promotes weight loss and increases energy levels without causing acid reflux.Ask your doctor about your recommended daily calorie intake to manage your weight while eating healthier meals. Other ways you can practice portion control to eat smaller meals are:Split large entrées with a friend instead of eating it all, or box half the meal to take with you.
Control snack portion by placing an exact amount into a bowl instead of eating from the box.
Serve food on individual plates, and keep serving dishes in the kitchen to reduce the temptation of additional servings.
People tend to consume more when they have easy access to food. Move the healthier food to the front of the fridge and cabinets, and keep less healthy options out of sight.
 Refined carbohydrates, fried and processed foods, sugary beverages, red meat, hydrogenated oils, and margarine can increase inflammation in the esophagus.High-fat meals and fried foods also tend to decrease lower esophageal sphincter (LES) pressure and delay stomach emptying, thereby increasing the risk of reflux.


Chili peppers and black pepper contain compounds such as capsaicin and piperine, which can increase stomach acid production and should be avoided. However, sweet bell peppers are safe as they do not contain these compounds.
Chocolate should also be avoided as it contains methylxanthine, a compound that relaxes the LES, allowing stomach acid to back up into the esophagus.
Your doctor can help you create a personalized meal plan if you are allergic to certain foods or if you experience bloating and indigestion due to acid reflux.
 Many healthy options do not encourage stomach acid production, reduce inflammation in the esophagus and stomach, and provide you with necessary nutrients to support various bodily functions. These foods also have the added benefit of helping you maintain a healthy weight and a high fiber content that promotes the digestive system. However, too much fiber can slow down stomach emptying in people who have gastroparesis. Ask your doctor or a dietician to help you come up with a meal plan that is right for you. In general, you should try to eat more:Green leafy vegetables such as spinach or kale which are high in antioxidants and plant fiber.
Artichokes to aid digestion.
Sweet bell peppers, which are high in vitamin C.
Whole grains such as brown rice, quinoa, millet, oatmeal, and flax seed.
Dried beans and lentils. Canned varieties should be avoided as they have a high sodium content and may have additives such as animal saturated fat and sugar, which can contribute to a variety of diseases.
Lean poultry such as turkey, quail and chicken.
Fatty fish such as salmon, mackerel, tuna, and sardines.
Nuts such as almonds or walnuts.
 While fruits and tomatoes are beneficial to your health, the citric acid in these foods may increase the risk for heartburn and GERD. Eating non-citrus fruits may help reduce stomach acids. Try apples, bananas, cucumbers, and watermelon., Some vegetable oils such as flaxseed, canola, olive, and soybean are rich in omega-3 and omega-6 essential fatty acids that help prevent heartburn by neutralizing stomach acids and coating the esophagus to reduce inflammation.Rice bran oil is often used to help relieve symptoms of acid reflux.
You can also use these oils as salad dressings.
 Probiotics are naturally occurring bacteria found in our stomach that help promote digestive health, boost the immune system, and help fight inflammation.Probiotics can be found in yogurt, certain types of milk, soy products, and as dietary supplements.Eat yogurt or take a probiotic supplement on an empty stomach with 4-6 oz. of water. You can also twist or cut the capsule and empty the powdered bacteria into a glass, add the water and a teaspoon of soda bicarbonate to neutralize the stomach acid.
You should consult your doctor before taking probiotics if you have a weakened immune system or are currently taking immunosuppressant drugs.
 While garlic and onions do not cause acid reflux, studies have found that they may aggravate symptoms for people who regularly experience acid reflux and heartburn. They may increase the acidity of meals, thus triggering reflux.Garlic and onions have been found beneficial for many heart and respiratory conditions, therefore may be used in moderation and smaller doses for people with other conditions to avoid triggering acid reflux.
 While moderate consumption of alcohol helps improve heart and digestive health, it may cause inflammation and damage to the esophagus for people with symptoms of heartburn, esophagitis, and gastroesophageal reflux disease.Most experts have found that drinking alcohol, especially large quantities, increases the risk of GERD. Any form of alcohol such as beer, wine, or spirit may cause acid reflux and should be avoided. Try to limit your intake to one glass per week.