 This exercise twists the lower body in the opposite direction of the upper body, lengthening and flexing the spine. First, lie down on your back and then bend your left knee up and move it over to your right side. Keep your arms flat on the ground and look up, or even look to your left for an extra stretch.









As you twist your body from side to side, make sure to use a slow and fluid motion to avoid injury. Keep your abdominal muscles contracted to support your back muscles.
Hold for 10 seconds and then release. Do the same for your other leg.
 With this exercise, you will drape your body over an exercise ball before stretching to extend your back. Drape yourself over the ball so your stomach and pelvis are comfortably resting. Then place your hands behind your head, as if you were doing a sit-up, and stretch your body upward, making your back concave. The stability ball provides extra support and helps the spine to curve naturally, as you stretch your back.








Engage your glutes and your hamstrings so that you don’t overarch your back and so that you have a stable base for the exercise., This stretch helps you to relax both your back and your hamstrings. First, lie flat on your back and place your legs together. Then, lift your knees up so that your thighs are perpendicular to the ground while your shins are parallel to the ground. Keep your arms at your sides as you feel the stretch in your back.









From the 90/90 position, you can gently pull your knees into your chest to stretch the back even further.
You can also tilt your legs to the right and left sides, keeping the small of your back pressed into the floor.
 This exercise requires you to sit on the floor and to twist your upper body to either side at the waist, stretching the back. First, sit down with your legs stretched out. Then, tuck in your left knee until it faces up and then move it over your right thigh. Keep your right leg extended while your left knee is facing upwards, and twist to your left side. Place your right elbow to the side of your left knee to intensify the stretch. Hold the stretch for at least 20 seconds and repeat it on your other side.








Focus on stretching your body upward as well as to the left or right.
If you're stretching to the left, try looking over your left shoulder for a bonus. Follow the same process on your right side.
 Performing this stretch will help you to increase the flexibility of your upper back. Breathe deeply during the exercise, expanding the lower kidney area of the back as the lower rib cage opens up.
 The seal pose requires good flexibility and should be avoided if you have a back injury. However, for those in good condition, the seal pose will round out the lower back while strengthening the abdominal muscles. First, sit down on the ground, then bend your knees. Lift your legs until your thighs are almost vertical to the ground with your shins pointed outward. Place your feet together but create a space between your shins and thighs.









Then, move your forearms through the space between your thighs, tuck them under your calves, and reach out to wrap them around your ankles.
Hold this pose for at least 20 seconds if you feel comfortable with it.

