 If you are not yet in a relationship with the person you love, try not to let on that you are interested in anything more than friendship at first. Treat the person like a friend and don’t flirt too much when you are first getting to know each other. If you come on too strong in the beginning, the person may feel pressured and avoid being around you., You may be tempted to spend every waking moment with your new love, but don’t. It is necessary for both of you to have space and to keep living your lives. If you fail to keep other commitments to spend time with your new love, you may end up damaging your other relationships and your new love may not find this behavior attractive., Research has shown that when people talk about themselves, they feel the same pleasure as when they eat or receive money.To get to know someone better and make them feel good in the process, ask questions about their life and interests.


Try starting with normal questions such as, “where did you grow up?” and then progress to more interesting one’s like, “If you could be famous for something, what would you want it to be?”, Flirting can show someone that you are interested in them and it can also be a good way to propel a relationship forward. Make sure that you keep flirting with your new love even if you two are in a relationship. Simple things like a touch on the arm, a wink, or a cute comment can count as flirting.Some other flirtatious moves you might try include:


Eye gazing. A lingering gaze can let someone know that you are interested and it may also increase their affection for you. Facing the person you like. Facing and mirroring the position of someone else’s body can show them you are interested.Smile. Smiling will let someone know you are interested, but to all else it might just seem like you are being friendly., Sometimes love is just not meant to be. If you have been pursuing someone for a while and they don’t seem to respond to your advances, don’t waste any more time on the person. It may be that they are not interested or just not ready for a relationship. Put your time and energy into someone who reciprocates your feelings.

