 When exposing yourself to your fears, it is important to start small and progress slowly.

You may have too much anxiety around strangers to walk up to someone you do not know and say “hello,” but you can work up to this goal. One good way to start is to simply look at strangers from a distance. As you do so, pay attention to the feelings of fear that you are having and try to wait for those feelings to pass.

If you live in a big city, then watching strangers walk by from a safe place, such as through a window in your apartment.
If you live in a rural area, then you might drive to a local fair or shopping plaza and watch people from inside of your car.
 After you have spent some time people-watching, you can move up to being closer to strangers. Try to pick a place or situation that will be enjoyable for you, but that will also force you to be around strangers.


For example, if you enjoy museums, then go to a local museum. If you like baseball, go to a baseball game.
If you are concerned about becoming too overwhelmed, then you may want to ask a friend to accompany you for support.
 Next, you can expose yourself to a slightly more intense version of your fear by forming a silent connection with a stranger. Try to make quick eye contact with someone you do not know and exchange a friendly smile.


For example, you might make eye contact with someone who is getting onto the same elevator as you or who holds a door open for you at a grocery store. Make eye contact, then give the person a quick friendly smile as well.
The person will most likely return your eye contact and smile with a friendly smile or even a “hello.” As you experience this connection with a stranger, pay attention to how it makes you feel. Do you feel nervous, worried, happy, excited, etc.? Are your palms sweaty? Has your breathing become a bit more rapid than usual? Allow yourself to feel these emotions and physical sensations.
 After you have become comfortable with silent exchanges, you can move on to casual chit-chat with strangers. You do not have to go out of your way to have these exchanges, you can just look for little opportunities throughout your day.


For example, if you are in a book store and you notice someone looking at a book that you recently finished, then you might say something like, “That’s good! I just finished it!” Chances are the person will either thank you for the endorsement or ask you questions about the book.
Or, you might simply ask someone for the time or for directions. You can do this even if you already know the time or know how to get where you are going.The point is to see what happens and how it makes you feel. Chances are that the stranger will tell you the time or do his or her best to give you directions.

