 Accept life in Christ's way "I give you peace, not as the world gives" (real joy/peace). Take no unnecessary thought about tomorrow. There is no point to worrying, but coming up with a game plan -- in work or play, good tactics and strategy (to tackle your short-/medium/-and long-term goals) -- is essential. If you are worrying, think about God's blessings and promises. Let go, and let God lead you in what you can not. Don't try to control things that you really aren't able to control anyway. God is in ultimate control, but you are by no means like a robot.

College and career: Prayerfully fill out applications to colleges or for employment. Get up/Go into action, such as making and sending resumes, filling out applications online, knocking on the right doors, or whatever you need to do to find your needs. Knock on doors, or whatever you should do.
School and/or work day -- "How can you get going?" -- by following Christ in the path that God has placed in front on you. Walk in it and live in God's plan (without wavering/wandering). He has the whole world in his hands, so we don't need to worry about world events. Live in the present time... As Jesus said, "Who of you by worrying can add a single day to your lives?" You can't. So there is no point in doubt, vague fears or regrets.



 

;
, Follow God's commandments, for example Jesus said: "A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another, even as I have loved you, that you also love one another. By this all men will know that you are My disciples, if you have love for one another." (John: 34,35).
 Don't worry about it. What you think about you (and what God thinks about you) is all that matters, as you do right by others. You can never please everyone, so stop trying so hard to please self-centered people. Paul said in Galatians 1:



"Am I now trying to win the approval of human beings, or of God? Or am I trying to please people? If I were still trying to please people, I would not be a servant of Christ." You can't please both God and people (the world). Generally you have to pick whether you are going to try to please God or the world (silly fads, immorality, wild-living). And as John said,


"If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father (God) is not in him." To try to please the world all the time is to love/and-follow the world, so we need to be careful not to do this.
 This includes things you did as an adult and all way back to things you have done at any time since you were born. You can't change the past, so let it go, forgive yourself and move on. You won't really have God's best in general until you make God's best for/with yourself. You need to generally like yourself and get along with yourself, because you will always be there. You can't get away from yourself. Wherever you go, there you are. So become your own friend, then you will have God's best spiritual presence inside of yourself. God, the perfect and holy one, even gives you grace; so give yourself grace. You never have been and never will be perfect. So get over trying to be. Amen

, Confess what you need to (wrongs/sins) and then forget about it. God says he will remove your sins as far as the east is from the west when you confess them and admit you were wrong. He puts them out of his mind and you should too. There is no sense beating yourself up over something that you can't change. Like a famous prayer says about acceptance, "God help me accept the things I cannot change." Amen.
 The only thing you can change about the past is the damage you may have done to relationships. You may need to make amends with some people and say "sorry". Sometimes it feels like we have unfinished business, if we leave something in a state of tension. Break the ice, admit you were wrong, and then you and the other person can let go of any bitterness and move on. Sometimes God won't let us rest with ourselves and be at God's best place unless we take care of certain things. The Bible says in Matthew 5:



"Therefore if you are presenting your offering ... and remember that your brother has something against you, leave your offering there before the altar and go; first be reconciled to your brother, and then come and present your offering." Another good verse that is related to this is in Mark 11.
 But if you do not forgive, neither will your Father who is in heaven forgive your transgressions." -- to avoid consequences! So we need to forgive others and we need to ask for their forgiveness, if we have done them wrong. When Jesus was asked how many times we are to forgive others He said, "70 times 7", as in, countless times. Decide as Joyce Meyer says, "Do yourself a favor and forgive," because you will never truly have God's best until you forgive everyone and anyone who has done you wrong., Enjoy what you do, have fun, and find joy in life. Take a Sabbath; one day a week to do nothing much, but worship and meet with fellow believers. Give yourself breaks. Get a massage, if you have aches and pains. Enjoy relaxing at a nearby a river, lake, mountains or a beach. Get outside and walk a park or in the woods. If you don't live by such places, enjoy walking through a market or shopping mall, etc. Get a pet that will make you laugh.
 It is possibly occultic. It seems innocent, but it can open a door to Satan in your life. Avoid this personal experience. Seek for God's best, not things of this world. Amen.
 Sow the best seeds to receive God's best:

"Whoever sows to please their flesh, from the flesh will reap destruction; whoever sows to please the Spirit, from the Spirit will reap eternal life…" (Galatians 6:8).
 And thus you avoid the possible "love-of-money" knowing that "the love-of-money "(or anything of economic value to you) "is the beginning of all evil"


Do right in relationships: "Do not repay evil with evil or insult with insult. On the contrary, repay evil with good blessings, because to this you were called so that you may inherit a greater blessing/reward." For great is your reward in truly following Christ, in any case -- not so in the world of the flesh, in its bondage and corruption of not following Him closely.
 Whatever Jesus said was not his own words but came from our Father in Heaven. Jesus said:



"Truly I tell you, whatever you did for one of the least of these brothers and sisters of mine, you did for me." (Matthew 25:40).

"Truly, I say to you, as you did not do it to/for one of the least of these, you did not do it to/for me." (Matthew 25:45).

