 Pay special attention to the area behind your ears, the back of your neck and sweaty spots, such as your armpits and your inner thighs.;
, If you have sensitive skin, avoid soaps with heavy perfumes or antibacterial ingredients.


If you're a female, gently scrub the area under your breasts; this area tends to get sweaty and smelly. Also, wash your vaginal area thoroughly.
Scrub your anus. If you have any fecal residue around your anus, it can make you smell bad.
 This will help it to stay looking good. Massage your shampoo and conditioner into your scalp, and rinse it off with clean water.
 Be sure to scrub between your toes. When you're done with your shower, dry your feet thoroughly with a towel., Your detergent doesn't have to be expensive, and it doesn't have to be loaded with strong fragrances. It does need to get rid of hidden odors within your clothes.
 Always change into clean underwear after a shower.


If you're smelling not so good "down there," then change your underwear at lunch or after you get home from school or work.
If you're a female and you're menstruating, change your underwear often and also change your pad or tampon every few hours to keep yourself smelling fresh.
 The odor from dirty clothes will keep you from smelling good.



Never put dirty feet into clean shoes. The biggest key to keeping shoes smelling fresh is to always clean your feet and wear clean socks.
Alternate your shoes on different days. Wear one pair one day and another pair the next day to give your other shoes time to air out.
Take your shoes off as soon as you get home. Doing this gives your shoes a chance to dry and prevents bacteria from growing inside moist leather or fabric.
 In the morning and at night before you go to bed are good times to brush your teeth. To keep your mouth even cleaner and fresher, brush your teeth after every meal. Also, thoroughly brush your tongue to remove any film or residual odors that can cause your breath to stink.
 Dental floss cleans the areas between your teeth that can harbor bits of food and bacteria that cause hidden odors., Alcohol will get rid of bad breath in the short term but will ultimately make it worse.
, If you have hyperhidrosis (excessive armpit sweating), use a deodorant like Driclor or Certain Dry.
 You can also use special inner soles in your shoes that can be taken out and washed when they become smelly.
 Splash your cologne all over yourself. If it's perfume, spray it on the pulse points on your neck, behind your ears and on your wrists. You can also spray perfume on your clothes. Just make sure that you don't overdo it so that you're the only thing that people can smell in a room.
 These sprays can irritate your vagina and upset your vagina's self-cleaning mechanisms.
 These must-haves will save you from sweat and odor when you're on the go:


Wet wipes – use this to wipe up any grease or odor from your body
Powder – apply on hair (blondes) or body to feel refreshed and absorb sweat
Cologne – baby colognes works best to cover up any smell
Mints – have no time for brushing? Suck on some mints to avoid bad breath
Hairbrush and hair serum – for that bad hair day to go away
Oil blotting paper – to wipe off any shine from your face
Hair deodorizer - spray it on your hair to cover up the hideous smell of sweat
Extra shirt - in case you really get smelly
Deodorant - make sure it is small so you can freshen you anywhere
Extra feminine products - keep a pad or tampon discreetly stored in your kit

, Go alone so that you can attend to your body without drawing a lot of attention.
 Before going out in public, apply on your skin a cream or a body lotion that has a good scent, such as aloe vera, peaches, lilac, ozone, fresh linen, etc. Re-apply if needed (for example, after washing your hands or face during the day).

