 Start on one foot, say the left. You're going to hold it for two beats, rather than one. Most people are accustomed to switching on every beat, so holding it for two may seem difficult at first, but it stays in time with the zydeco music, which is based on eight beats.Which foot you start on depends on your partner. You usually start on opposite feet so that you're stepping on the same side.;
, Once you've held for two beats on the one foot, you switch over to the other foot, say the right foot this time. On this foot, you only step for a single beat, rather than two. This rhythm is known as a syncopated rhythm., Now, switch back to the other foot, the left one, but only hold for a single beat. When you go to your right foot this time, you'll hold for two beats instead of one. It takes some getting used to, but with some practice, you can get the hang of it., The last two steps take a single beat each. Just like throughout the rest of the dance, you'll alternate. You'll step on your left foot for a beat, then your right foot for a single beat.To recap from the beginning, you'll step on your left foot for two beats, right for one, left for one, right for two beats, left for one, and right for one, which equals a total of eight beats. Then you repeat from the beginning.
 It can be hard to remember to hold for the extra beat, so zydeco dancers use different techniques to make holding easier. For instance, you can twist or turn your foot to take up an extra beat. Alternatively, you can take a little step, or try a brush, where you sweep your foot along the floor for the extra beat., To get the beat and steps down, try practicing in place by shifting back and forth on your feet to take a "step." Count it out loud as "slow," "quick," "quick," "slow," "quick," "quick." Once you get the beat down, you can add in movement., The closed position is what you typically think of when two people dance together, such as in a ballroom dance. One person has their hand on the other person's waist (usually the person who's leading), while the other person has their hand on the first person's shoulder. With the other hands, you clasp them together, holding them outward., The open position is, as it sounds, much more open. You stand further apart, about 2 to 3 feet. You mostly don't touch, though sometimes you will touch one hand together (the one that you normally clasp together). You dance facing each other, trying to stay mostly in sync., You don't have to stay in one position the whole dance. You can change it up. Start out in the closed position, for instance, and move into the open position for the middle part of the song, then change back to the closed position for the end., Often, you'll just be shifting your weight back and forth on your feet in zydeco, so it's the extra steps where you'll get movement. For instance, once you go through the first eight beats, you can add a rock step on the first beat, the "slow" beat. A rock step is just where you step back with that foot and rock back on it, shifting your weight back. Then, move your foot back forward.It helps to pull towards your partner a bit before you step back.
You can use the rock step to move into the open position. As you rock back, take another step or two back, just staying connected with your clasped hands.
 If you already have the rock step down (or even if you don't), you can also add a side step. You don't actually need to move, but on the other slow step, you step out to the side, then bring your foot back in. So you step out to the side, take two quick steps, then rock back on your other foot., One way to add movement to this dance is to use the slide. When you take a "slow" or two-beat step, slide to one side. Your partner should be moving with you. When you get back to the next two-beat step, you slide again the other direction. In between, you shift your weight back and forth on the beat.The slide is done in the open position.
You can also change up what you do when you are doing the "quick" beats, such as tapping one foot instead of alternating or creating a "V" with that foot.
 As you get used to the stepping movements, you can move around the dance floor by taking steps in different directions. Make sure one person is leading, guiding the other person around, so that you don't crash into each other.