 As the camera panned the audience who was cheering happily, the announcer for the show would scream into the camera "All these people want to know" then the theme music sung by the a capella group would chime in with their music of "Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego?" as the show's logo entered the picture. After this, the scene would segue into the greeting of players. During the first three seasons the players would be standing in the hallway prior to the main entry area of the stage where the show would be taped - some reading the newspaper, some using the phone, others just standing around waiting - though this was only how they were cast. During the fourth and fifth season of the show, players entered from the "Chief's" room door directly onto the stage.;
, Based upon the results of a National Geographic survey that indicated that Americans didn't know enough about their geography, this show was presented to alarmingly see just how much children knew and understood about geography in a series of questions which resulted in the capture of a crook and the master hench-woman herself, Carmen Sandiego. (You'll see game play information below.), Each of these contestants would be called "gumshoes" because they would be spying for clues and trying to solve a mystery of which henchman took a piece of a location. Each gumshoe was informed of who took the loot and sometimes even tried to discuss the crook's reason for stealing such a priceless item. During season 2 only, the viewer would see new graphics be presented where a file cabinet's drawer would open and discuss the crook, but the ultimate knowledge that players needed to know wasn't really what was in the drawer but what clues were given otherwise., Round one was rather easy. Through a variety of sketches and clues, players would take guesses at trying to track down the episode's crook. The three contestants would be awarded a free 50 points to begin the game.

Research on the Lightning Round to the show. Questions relating to the locations of where the loot was stolen from was called the Lightning round. Unlike what you'd find in rounds that go faster with a name similar to "lightning", this didn't involve fast questions. Starting with season 3, the stage would flash with "lightning effects" but without loosing the power. If the player buzzing in answered it correctly, they would be awarded 5 crime bucks. If they didn't answer or buzzed in and were incorrect, they wouldn't loose any points but wouldn't gain these extra points.
Watch the comedy breaks in the show. The Chief would call the host (described later) into her office. Normally this would be a comedy break in the show after a period of 5 or so airtime minutes, during which both would mention the ultimate prize of winning the show - an all-expenses paid trip to anywhere in the continental United States (during season 1) or an all-expenses paid trip to anywhere in North America (seasons 2 and 3). Most of the way through season 3, they introduced a new bit. Viewers could enter a contest - after writing down what was stolen and from where over the course of 4 episodes, the viewers could send in this information in an envelope (you got-to remember, this was a time before the Internet was well-known) and would be entered into a contest - some people won these contests as was displayed on screen. (Each winning contest winner would receive a Carmen Sandiego T-shirt).
Watch the Training exercise that began after the host met with the Chief (who was the announcer who'll you meet with later in this article). Training exercises began after the Chief's sketch. The gumshoes each opened one of three trash cans to grab a card. On it had a flag of the country in which the crook was hiding out, along with questions relating to the clue that the host had to answer. Such things included "language of the location" or "major religion" or one of many others. Play later moved inside to try and find out this location. Players who buzzed in and answered correctly would win 10 crime point/bucks. Players who didn't wouldn't loose any points, but wouldn't gain any either. This clue game only began in the 5th and final season of the show - something that wasn't very developed when the show ended.
Understand the Phone Tap. All of a sudden, the host would talk to the gumshoes that ACME intercepted a call between Carmen and the crook that would lead to clues of where the crook was hiding yet again. These phone taps would always happen. If the player guessed in correctly, they'd win 10 Crime buck points. If incorrect, they wouldn't loose anything.
Research the Chase round. The Chase was a rather weird round. Following a sketch that had several of Rockapella's members chasing each other one in back of the other (as a comedy to introduce the segment, though this comedy sketch only began starting with season 3), players would try to track the crook through various locations on one of several maps. From the location according to that received during the phone tap, players would guess this country, mountain or (in later seasons outside of season 1 and 2) river and, if correct receive 5 crime buck points. If they didn't answer correctly, they wouldn't be penalized.

Final clue destination question: At first, the host would ask the players to wager points out of their available points - anywhere between 0 and 50 only in increments of 10 - of which they'd have cards to denote each. Rockapella would sing a classic tune that all viewers knew by the end of the series though most would be not typeable here since it had a hint of incorrectly understood lyrics (until you checked the closed captioning) on the show. The gumshoes would try to wager based on their knowledge of the map on the TV screen they had in front of them. Clues would be given, then one last question was asked. The players would try and answer the question. If they were right, they'd gain their points they wagered. However, unlike other clue answers, if they guessed incorrectly, they'd loose these points. Wagering worked best when you lots of knowledge towards each of the areas on the map board - sometimes this would be the United States or North America.
The top two-scoring teams passed into Round 2. The third gumshoe left the episode with some departing gifts that more often that not contained a electronic address book tool (that was the envy of every kid before the Internet, PDAs and iPhones were well-known).


During season 1, before the gumshoes and host left for the location obtained in the very last question, the host would segue into a Photo Recon session then leave for the location's room that was used for round 2, carrying suitcases as if they really traveled from one place to another. However, past season 1, things got a little hairy. Photo Recon happened after they arrived in the new location starting with season 2, and in season 3 there was even a skit where monochrome videos were shown and you'd hear voiceovers of the Chief and the host bickering over how they were getting to their destination. In Season 5, they changed the walk into something a little more "virtual" and they were beamed up (and later beamed down) after holding their breaths into an showerhead-like external modem that came down from the ceiling. They grabbed bags as they walked out the door. Photo Recon was ever rarely anything useful for the next round but to explain the place to the gumshoe player and what was up on their board to choose from and to more inform the player of what that location had to hold.
 Sometimes called the Photo Recon round in a special room that looked like a train station, Round 2 generally started with Photo Recon starting with the second season after the host placed a special "card" or other object that was supposed to visually transition over to the chief into the machine-board. The boards contained a total of fifteen landmark locations from which the gumshoes had to find three items. To complete the board, they had to find the loot from the days show, then the Warrant then the crook (and only in that order). If they found any of these special tiles, they would be able to choose another tile. This round was much like the game of Memory that you might have played as a kid. If they found tiles that had footmarks on them; these were bad and they'd lose their turn and turn would be passed to the next player of the two. Generally, when a player found either the loot, warrant or crook, their house band Rockapella would sing what they found - and even starting with season 2 would change what they'd found into things a little more comical. Until all three have been found. Season 3 added Rockapella singing that the team had found a dud when they located the footprint tile. Sometimes, the crook had a special "send-off" - (Patty Larceny would be sung "P-P-P-Patty", but there were other notable variations once you've seen each type in action a few times.

The only time when the gumshoe ended up choosing this order first, without seeing other tiles, the gumshoe Ali Haider was at the board. On his very first pick which was the very first player of the round, he chose all three of the correct tiles in the correct order. Was this just a fluke, or was he briefed beforehand off-screen? He was later asked to find a $100 savings bond hidden within the remaining tiles where the footsteps tiles would have appeared - (spoiler for remainder of the sentence) he later missed finding this tile but was found just below one of the tiles he picked. You can find this episode online in the case called The Gateway Getaway (episode 6 of season 1) if you look on YouTube.
 The gumshoe then walked over and put the crook away. There was a metal rope (with a green handle loop at the bottom edge) that the gumshoe would pull down a fair distance which would trigger the graphics of the program which would put the crook behind bars and out of sight.

Shortly thereafter, the departing player would be told what they'd depart with as per gifts. Most often times, this included a year's subscription of National Geographic World and/or a communicator like the one handed to the departing contestant from round 1.
 The winning gumshoe then was asked to write down where they'd like to go if they won the grand prize which was an all-expenses paid trip to anywhere in the continental United States (season 1) or North America (seasons 2-5) in a portfolio styled notebook. This segment would generally be oversung by Rockapella's classic song that began 'Where do you wanna' go? Yeah, yeah!" then concluded with misunderstood audible words to their same song. This segment would generally last about 60 seconds - therefore, the answers would generally be written down quickly and there would be no artistic works inside the portfolio., The crook would then call the set that would be received in the telephone box on the wall. The crook would tell the player where they last knew Carmen would be. During season 1 this could have included the United States, South America, Europe, Asia, or Africa. During season 2-5, United States expanded to North America. After a classic host moment of the Chief saying "Greg" and the host saying "Let's go to the map", they'd run across to the set the final challenge would be set up, and where if completed correctly the gumshoe would capture Carmen Sandiego. This is the last time the viewer hears about the Crook who stole the loot., After the introduction, the player and host would run over to the final challenge of the game which was a huge map on the floor that was a political map to a continent with several circular placemarks on it. There was a huge map of the continent or United States (season 1)/North America (all others) placed on the ground where along with several dots on it. During season 3-5, there'd be additional arrows that indicated bodies of water. The gumshoe had 45 seconds (60 seconds if the map was Asia) to locate the 7 items that the host would read off. Each item was read off and they used blue-light special like markers to mark the location of the item on the map. If they got their answer right, great! If they got it wrong, they could move it one time. If they got it wrong on the second attempt, they were asked to leave the marker where it was - few understood that and many picked up the marker to move it - but didn't get too far following that., While some players won this round and captured Carmen (and in turn the newspaper clipping would show Carmen being put behind bars of a jail cell), many times the player missed her and she'd escape (no bars would be seen and she'd be in the newspaper clipping looking for the next thing to steal in her side profile way). A newspaper listing would come up on screen if she escaped capture, and by the 4th season her logo in the newspaper would inevitably disappear (in other seasons preceding the 4th, her face profile logo would stay on the page. If the player was able to make it, the portfolio would be tossed to the host who'd reveal the prize vacation the player won. For those who didn't make it for the grand prize, their portfolio was never shown, and all they won was the generic prize package instead., During round 1, each player had to grab a cardboard sign from in front of them. Upon verbally answering, they'd have to hold up their sign that stated what they were verbally going to say in front of their chest until all players have answered or the answer had been mentioned. (As you'll learn later, for the episode containing guest stars along with the gumshoes to help them out, only one teammate had to hold the sign while the guest-star verbally answered the choice.) During the Photo Recon round, players stood in front of a board containing many Memory-like pieces that turned and players gave their response verbally. In the Map Round, players ran around a giant board with several "blue light special"-type lightpoles that strobe-light-flashed a red light when placed at the right location to mark their answers., As players finished the final map puzzle or had run out of time, they'd look at where the player was going (if they lost or didn't finish the map correctly, they didn't look at what their choice was.) then the host handed over the duties of telling the player what they won to the announcer/the Chief who'd say that they won several things (but this varied) and also their status with ACME changed from "gumshoe" to sleuth. Then, the scene would segue one more time; the host would remind the player what their last job was for the show (apparently being briefed before the show on this). Both the host and the player would say "Do it, Rockapella" as they cheered with throwing their left arm into the air. During the credits (of seasons 2-5), the audience was allowed to come up on top of the map to dance and sing with the theme song. However, for season 1, the audience wasn't that lucky. The Chief would always state "This is Lynne Thigpen speaking for Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego?, and remember, and she'd continue with something rhythmically comical of prose.

Sometimes during the first season, the Chief would call a contestant into her office. She'd ask the member to answer a single geography question. Whether or not they got this right, they were asked to return as a contestant for the following season. If they got it right, they were given a Carmen Sandiego sweatshirt, but if they got it wrong, would be given a National Geographic World Atlas instead.
According to the written statements at the end of the credits, all gumshoes were briefed before the show as to the rules, but was stated that this was the case by the end of the show.
Also, none of the season 1 episodes ever returned in repeats. In 1991, the Soviet Union breakup happened during the off-season and PBS didn't want inaccurate information floating around to the outside world after the breakup.
Lastly, there was a verbal statement that ended up being spoken that said "All geographic information was accurate as of the date this program was recorded." However, during the second season, this wasn't mentioned except in text on the screen during the credits.
 During the question rounds at the beginning, players would be shown their question and a map of the area on an older-style TV set. During the first season, the TV would be turned on by the host, but this segue would later be discontinued and ended up coming on and staying on without needing to be turned on by the host following the first season., Greg Lee was this show's host, and although this was his only real TV game show he was really appointed host of, he really got into his work and enjoyed the challenge of hosting this show. The onstage title he was given was that of "ACME's Special Agent in Charge of Training New Recruits" (later changed from the third season onwards to Senior Agent in Charge of Training New Recruits". Greg would generally enter the show with a blue suit jacket and a tie with a white dress shirt underneath it. He'd generally open the stage door to enter the staging area at the beginning of each and every episode. He would later leave the set prior to the Jailtime Challenge round when the players would need to be promoted to the next round, grabbing his hat in between. (During season 5, Greg would leave this stage using a digital graphic of the players and him disappearing through a modem connection beaming them up and dropping them where they needed to go, but this looked awful to the viewer and was one of the causes of the demise of this program.,
Double Trouble were a pair of almost-conjoined twins who almost always mirror each other in their monochrome skin colors.
Eartha Brute is a muscle-heavy workaholic. She even exemplifies that of a workaholic when she wears her pink singlet uniform and VILE initialed-weight belt.
Kneemoi is an round alien from another planet out of our galaxy. Although this villain is pretty much a pink ball of ectoplasm, this villain can change herself into any form and color she desires.
Patty Larceny is a blonde-haired schoolgirl who has an beyond just-giggly attitude but who has just a kindle and polite manner under her skin without letting her attitude show.
RoboCrook is a robot spoof who appeared to be the crook beginning in an episode in the third season. It was originally mentioned that his real name was "RoboCrook Unit 059" but those additional details were rarely mentioned and he was never called this full name when he was the crook for the show.
Sarah Nade is a punk-rock teenager with a rainbow colored hairdo.
Top Grunge is a muscle-builder, smelly motorcyclist. He always has flies hanging over him. He rides a motorcycle that is definitely not finely-tuned: it always has smoke coming out the back. But the viewer never sees this biker without his large sunglasses which always stand-out from the normal appearance of your traditional biker.
Vic the Slick is of the salesman variety who always comes dressed in a polyester suit and tie, as well as shifty eyes and well-combed black hair. Most often times, Vic would hit on Carmen calling her "sweetheart" and "doll face". Apparently, he had this special love for the titular character, Carmen Sandiego, though he knew he would never catch up with her in the end.
Wonder Rat is a superhero parody who wears a rat costume who is strapped via a bungee cord to a flying helicopter.
Carmen Sandiego was the ultimate crook who was the ultimate person who each gumshoe player had to "catch" at the end of the show. She'd generally wear a red down-coat, along with a red long-brimmed South-American-like hat and black slim gloves on her hands. We rarely saw her lower extremities, so what she wore there still remains a mystery. The viewers ultimate goal of each show was to watch the gumshoe catch her after successfully completing the World Map, and jailing the crook after the Jailhouse Challenge round. She'd be the instigator of the group of crooks and would always speak to the gang in several portions of the episode including the Phone Tap in the middle of the Questions/Clues round.
 While this was described in the Question round with players standing at a podium with a long desk, a TV screen for the Host, and window and several clippings up on the walls with the host in the Question round room, you could also see a door that led to a hallway. Another door to the left of the contestants (from the viewpoint of the viewer) led to the chief's office. The Chief's office looked like the office of a spy and a desk filled with paperwork was shown along with file cabinets and papers galore, several books on a bookshelf (that included information on the crooks that were in place during each seasons' episodes) and various other knick-kacks. Past this, you could never see any other round's info until the round came up. During the Photo Recon, the set looked like a train station followed by a board that had several turn-around spots. Players stood in back of a solid set of a line - the board was set up a little higher than normal on a slight pedestal that only was emphasized for the board alone. During the Map scene, you could often see the audience situated around the edges to the Map room (though Seldom you could see the final Map from the introductory sequence). As was described before, this Map changed from show to show so this set looked different almost every single time. (As you'll see later, things looked quite different when a spin-off of this show occurred and had looked more like the inside of a Star-Trek like space ship/time traveling device and rooms with Portals that will be described later.), The player's costume's never changed. Each player would wear a red sleeveless vest, along with a yellow dress shirt. They would wear this same costume throughout the entire show and never had to change it until the episode was over. The shirts the players would have on would contain a neck piece that would be folded down, and on the vest would be the "ACME Crimenet" logo on the right side, and their yellow, square nametag would be on their left., Rockapella was a common stage band that performed at this show, and who still performs to this day. They acted to introduce the Chase round, and sung several things, helped with singing clues when the clue needed to be sung (this didn't happen too often) and they even helped out with other unsung clues in the hallway. They helped sing the reprised version at the end of the show, and could even be spotted during the balcony(season 1 only) and hallway seasons(following seasons) and at other times. They were an integral portion of the well-used cast who performed their jobs rather well. There were 4 members of this house band when this band performed in the show., Although there were times when special episodes occurred, most often times episodes would air as if the people on it were just normal contestants. In one episode in the fifth season, Greg Lee and Marc Summers (host of the popular Nickelodeon kids game show called Double Dare and it's more current inclusionary programs called Super Sloppy Double Dare and Family Double Dare) co-hosted together for a few moments and even introduced the clue together for a question. On another episode during the second season(first episode of the second season), celebrity guests helped the players out - including a special reminder for viewers to watch their show they were a part of during the phone conversation after the Jailtime Challenge round prior to having the villain tell them where Carmen would be sending them to complete her challenge - the only time guest stars would help the gumshoe players out., Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego aired for five seasons generally at the 5pm ET slot daily every weekday of each week but only from September to December on the viewer's public broadcasting networks such as PBS under the discretion of several sponsors and the support of "viewers like you". It was produced by WQED Pittsburgh and WGBH Boston. It generally aired without advertisements in a 30 minute time slot and would never rerun an episode twice (all episodes were "fresh out of the box"). It had 5 seasons on air and it aired 295 episodes during this time span.Season 1 aired every weekday between September 30, 1991 and December 27,1991 airing 65 episodes.Season 2 aired every weekday between September 28, 1992 and December 25, 1992 airing 65 episodes.Season 3 aired every weekday between September 27, 1993 and December 24, 1993 airing 65 episodes.Season 4 aired every weekday between October 10, 1994 and December 23, 1994 airing 50 episodes.Season 5 aired every weekday between October 9, 1995 and December 22,1995 airing 50 episodes.There was an episode that never aired but apparently was an un-aired pilot episode that was titled "Auld Lang Gone" where the contestants were tracking Patty Larceny and the person captured Carmen San Diego as well through the Map of Europe., The announcer for the show had a varied responsibility. Although she was known more often as just "The Chief", she partook to mocking fun at the tough role her Chief responsibility took her, and even starting with the third and fourth season helped transition the group (with the help of Greg in her office - another common response during most episodes) to helping to show past winners of the weekly game where viewers would collect information from four shows (including what was stolen and from where and then mailed those in to the show). This person's name was Lynne Thigpen who went on to have other jobs in the entertainment industry including more major major-character roles out in the workforce., When this show went off the air after the 1995 season due to it's decreasing popularity, another show picked up where this show left off. And while Thigpen (explained earlier) reprised her role, things changed. The show that aired was called "Where in Time is Carmen Sandiego" and even that show didn't last all that long either - basing the clues on time periods instead of world's popular places and things. It included new villains and changed the host, included a famous robot motor that would transport it's players through time (called the "Chronoskimmer") and introduced a 3-person crew that would operate it's motor. On this show during the bonus run, players would enter time portals and exit through to catch Carmen. However, it only ran 2 seasons.