 Every year, you child will be expected to learn certain things by the end of the year. If you know what those things are, you can work on them at home throughout the year. The school may have those objectives up on their website, or you can ask the teacher about it., If you indicate to your child that homework is important, it will help them make it a priority, too. Homework is important in a large class because it gives your child a chance to practice what they've learned, which they may not get to do in class.While your child may need a break (such as a snack) when they come home from school, have them work on their homework before any major play time.
Another way to help show homework is a priority is to make a study space just for them. Set up a desk with a lamp and supplies so your child has a place to work.
 If your child is in a large class, the teacher may not be able to offer as much individual help to each child. That means that your child may not get all their questions answered in school, so you need to be ready to jump in. That doesn't mean you should do your homework for them. Rather, you should just be there to help them understand the work, so they can figure out the answers themselves.You don't actually have to sit and supervise your child. Just be in the vicinity. In fact, you can be doing something else, like a (quiet) chore, so you're not just sitting there waiting., As a busy parent, it can be difficult to find the time to help your child learn. However, children are learning all the time, and you can sneak learning in any time you're interacting with your child. You don't have to set aside special time to "teach" your child.For instance, incorporate a nature talk on the walk to school, or talk about math when you're cooking dinner.
It can also help if one parent can rearrange their work schedule so that they are home in the afternoon.
 In a large class, the teacher may not have time to teach proper study skills, so you may need to step in. For instance, you can help your child organize information into units, as well as use memorization aids such as flash cards and mnemonic devices.You can also teach them how to review information before a test, including testing themselves to find out if they've actually learned the information.
 A tutor can provide your child with the individual attention and help that they might need, so this might be a good way to help your child succeed. Look for a tutor in your area or a tutoring center where you can take your child for appointments with a tutor.

