 If you want to connect with someone immediately, then smiling and making eye contact, which go in hand, are absolutely key as you introduce yourself and start the conversation. Research has proven than smiling is actually contagious, and your smile will make the person more likely to smile and to be open to you.Sustained eye contact can make the person feel like you really care about what he or she has to say and can make him or her much more likely to like you.


Though you can break eye contact occasionally so the conversation doesn’t feel too intense, you don’t want the person to think you have other things on your mind.
You can practice smiling at people just when you’re walking by them so you’re more likely to radiate positive energy.
 Using a person’s name can make that person feel important—or at least important enough for you to remember his or her name. Just saying something like, “It was great to meet you, Amy,” at the end of the conversation can really make the person feel much more connected to you. There’s nothing that will make a person feel more insignificant than saying, “What was your name again?” or “I just can’t seem to ever remember your name…” and if you really want to connect with new people, then you should not only remember their names, but use them.


Don’t use the fact that you have a supposedly terrible memory as an excuse. If you really want to immediately connect with people, then you should make a real effort to remember their names.
 Your body language can help you look more approachable and more open, which will instantly make people like you more. If you want a new person to connect with you immediately, then you should turn your body toward that person, stand tall, avoid fidgeting or crossing your arms over your face, and direct your energy toward that person without coming on too strong.


If you’re turned away from the person, fold your arms over your chest, or slouch, then the person will feel like you’re really not interested in what he or she has to say.
 You may think that small talk is meaningless and only meant for people who want to make superficial connections, but making good small talk will actually allow you to make real connections and build toward deeper relationships with people. When you start connecting with people you know, you don’t talk about the meaning of life or how your life was affected by your grandmother’s death right away; you first ease into a more serious relationship by talking about lighthearted subjects and getting to know people little by little. Here are some tips for making great small talk:


Use simple topics to transition into deeper conversation. You can casually comment that there was perfect weather over the weekend and then ask your conversational partner whether he did anything fun to take advantage of it.
Ask questions that are open-ended instead of ones that can be answered with a simple “yes” or “no” to keep the conversation going.
Notice your environment. If you see a flyer for an awesome concert on campus, you can ask the person you’re talking to whether he’s going or what he thinks of the band.
Keep things lighthearted. You don’t want to turn someone off by talking about dark or intense topics too soon.
 Though you don’t need to shower the person with endless praise, just making a small comment that makes the person see that you think he or she is impressive or interesting in some way as soon as you can will definitely help you connect with new people. At the end of the day, all people want is to feel special. Here are some casual comments you can make to make the person feel special right away:


“I’m so impressed that you wrote an entire novel. I can’t imagine doing that.”
“It’s amazing that you can speak three languages.”
“I feel like we’ve met before. It’s so easy to talk to you.”
“You have such a unique laugh. It’s contagious.”

, Another way to get a person to like you right away is to focus on being interested instead of interesting. Though you can try to impress the person by being utterly fascinating or entertaining, it’s much easier to show a genuine interest in the person and to show that you actually care about who the person is and what he has to offer to the world. Though you don’t need to make it seem like an interrogation, just a few simple well-timed questions can make the person much more likely to connect with you. Here are some things you can ask about:


The person’s hobbies or interests
The person’s favorite bands
The person’s favorite things to do in town
The person’s pets
The person’s weekend plans

, People like to feel happy and upbeat more than they like to feel sad or upset; it’s only logical that people are much more likely to connect with you and to want to spend more time around you if you keep things positive and work on talking about the things that excite you and make you happy. Though everyone likes to complain, you should focus on being positive and complaining a bit when you know the person, if you really need to. You want to send of positive energy that makes other people feel more positive around you; this will make it much easier for you to connect with people than being sad or angry the whole time.


If you catch yourself making a negative comment, try to counter it with two positive comments so people still think of you as upbeat.
This doesn’t mean you have to change your entire personality or fool anyone. It just means that you should focus on the good things in your life when you meet new people if you want them to remember you fondly.
 Taking the time to really listen to people can be one of the best ways to make them connect with you right away. When a new person talks to you, make sure you really hear what the person is saying instead of interrupting or waiting for your turn to speak; once the person is done talking, respond in a way that shows you’ve really taken everything the person has said into account. This will make the person feel much more connected to you.


If you bring up something the person said earlier in the conversation, the person will feel really impressed. Most people feel like people don’t hear them out enough, and if you can show that you’re really listening, you’ll be making a great impression.

