 In some parts of the world it can be hard to get to know people of other races. It's natural to gravitate toward people who seem similar to you, and sometimes that means we end up with friends who are all of our own race. Go out of your way to learn about other cultures and ways of experiencing the world. This will enrich your own perspective of the world and help your friends, family, or children to view friendships with people who are different as normal and acceptable.


Visit cultural fairs, festivals, and meet-and-greet activities in your community. Visit the local library or community center to find out information.
Join a club, start a new hobby, visit a church or house of worship, or join a team to meet new people.
 Race has become a very taboo topic because many people have been taught since childhood that its rude or inappropriate to discuss race. But as long as racism exists, discussion, willingness to learn, and empathy are vital; studies show that talking about race leads to increased understanding and tolerance.Take the opportunity to initiate discussion.


If you are a parent, talk to your children about race. Don't shush them if they mention that someone is a different color than they are; its normal for kids to notice differences. Teach them that differences are good! Say something like, "Yes, isn't that neat? Joe has dark skin and you have light skin. We are all so different!"
When your children are old enough to understand, talk to them about racism. If you are a minority, you can prepare your child for what she will likely encounter and help build up her self-esteem and confidence so that she will know how to react appropriately if something ever happens. If you are not a minority, it's still vital to talk to your children about racism. Teach them the history of race in your country, and talk to them about why some people are racist towards others (prejudices, stereotypes, bigotry, etc.).
 If you are able, donate money or volunteer with organizations that work to end racism in your local community or nation. Some examples in the United States include:


The Southern Poverty Law Center
The Anti-Defamation League
The Human Rights Campaign

