 Pneumonia, in some cases, can quickly spread from one sheep to another and result in deaths. Take the afflicted sheep and put them in a quarantine separate from the rest of the herd making sure they do not share grazing land, food, or water supplies.


For recovery sake, you'll want them to be placed in a warm and dry environment. This will prepare them to weather symptoms better as humid environments can exasperate breathing problems and extreme temperatures can hinder recovery.;
, The vet can test for pneumonia using a simple blood test that can identify the presence of certain pathogens in the blood or use a chest x-ray. If it's viral, there are no medications to specifically help the pneumonia. However, they can provide an anti-biotic that will help with the complications of the viral infection. A bacterial infection can be treated using anti-biotic. , This is particularly critical in lambs.The most common types of medication given to sheep with pneumonia include: Naxcel and Nuflor. These are both given as injections for two to three days consecutively or as directed. If you are injecting your sheep, choose a muscular area, such as the back of the neck, to give the injection. Make sure to sanitize the injection site prior and have help to hold the sheep in case they become frightened. If your animal has a fever, give them an acetaminophen, such as Tylenol. The dosing should be 3 mg/kg of body weight. You can give these orally in your sheep's food. If they are not eating, your vet may give you a liquid or injectable form that can be forcibly administered.
 There are special vitamin mixtures given in addition to their normal diet that can give your sick sheep a boost such as SheepDrench. These vitamin mixtures can be purchased at any feed store. You will also want to give them a probiotic paste to help promote good digestion while using anti-biotics. Add soybean meal or beet pulp to give the food a high burst of nutrition. In extreme cases, the sheep may stop eating altogether despite medications and need a feeding tube to be inserted in its stomach. Your vet will make this assessment. If your sheep is not drinking, make sure to give them electrolytes. If they have no interest in water, you can give an electrolyte mixture, purchasable at any feed store, through their mouth forcibly. It can be mixed into a syringe that can be squirted into the sheep's mouth, or put in a bottle for lambs. , Parasites can be a common cause of pneumonia. Sometimes bacteria from the parasite can spread into tissues further weakening the animal and an anti-biotic treatment can help alleviate these ancillary problems. They are found using tests but can also be narrowed down using symptoms such as listlessness or diarrhea.


These parasites are overwhelmingly internal and require an injectable anthelmintic medication such as Moxidectin or Ivermectin. The dosing is based on the weight of the animal and can range from 1 oz per 100 pounds or 1ml/10 pounds. 