 You can play any type of music you find relaxing. If you cannot think of anything, here are a few suggestions:


Zen
Jazz
Classical
Instrumental pieces, especially piano
Nature sounds, such as rain, streams, and birdsong;
, Bright bathroom lights are often garish. If you have a headache, they can make it feel even worse. Candles have a soft glow, and can give your bathroom a more tranquil, relaxing feel. Keep them on the bathroom vanity, where they won't fall.


If you are worried about using real candles, consider using battery-operated ones instead. Many of the newer ones have a soft, flickering orange glow, just like a real candle. Some even come scented.
You can also consider getting a Himalayan salt lamp. Some can be plugged in while others require a candle. They have a very soft glow, and can help purify the air., Tie some lavender into a bundle with a piece of twine. Add a loop to the end of the bundle, and hang it from your showerhead. The heat and steam from the shower will help the lavender release its wonderful, calming aroma.Many people also find eucalyptus and lemongrass to be both relaxing and refreshing.
You can also fill a diffuser bottle with essential oil and leave it near your shower instead.
 Not only will this give your bathroom a hint of color, but it may also help it appear more serene and relaxing. Choose plants that like a lot of moisture and not a lot of sunlight, such as orchids, ivy, and philodendron.


Philodendron doesn't, even need soil. They can thrive in a small vase filled with fresh water.If you don't have a green thumb at all, consider decorating your bathroom with fake plants instead. Choose green, ivy type plants, over flowers. This way, they won't look out of place.
 Choose your largest, softest, fluffiest towels. If you have any with a fancy pattern or trim, get it out. These will help make that relaxing feeling from your shower last longer.


Large, white, fluffy towels in particular have a spa-like feel. Spas in general tend to be very relaxing.While you're at it, consider having a soft, fluffy bathrobe ready for you to slip into after your shower.
 This will give your bathroom a more luxurious feel which, in turn, can make your shower feel more relaxing. Choose some pretty glass bottles with pumps, or soap dispensers, and pour your liquid soaps, shampoos, and conditions to them.If you have a bar of soap, consider keeping it on a pretty dish.

