 Before making any plans at all, you need to spend a little time examining your finances so you can form an idea of how much money you have for the trip.


Consider any money you may have set aside for traveling. In addition, consider regularly putting aside some money for travel. This can be a very small portion of your fixed income or of a part-time job.
Account for any incidental or recreational money you may have built into your normal day-to-day budget. This money can be diverted to traveling.
Avoid using your savings or fixed income that is earmarked for day-to-day living expenses. You’ll need this money to live on.
Don’t accumulate debt just to travel, unless you must for some sort of family or social obligation like a wedding, funeral, or another similar event.
If you simply don’t have the money to travel for a family obligation, let your family member know. For instance, say something like “I’m sorry I can’t attend Josh’s wedding, but I’m on a really tight fixed income.”;
, After figuring out how much money you have, you should spend a good deal of time researching how much major elements like lodging and travel will cost.


Use travel websites like Travelocity, Expedia, and Priceline.
Call hotels, car rental companies, and airline companies to check their prices.
After a decent search, you should have a good idea of if your available funds will pay for the major components of your trip. If they won’t, you may have to reconsider your trip or shop around for even lower prices., Once you’ve researched major components of your trip, you need to put together a preliminary budget. Your preliminary budget will detail the cost of major expenses such as travel, lodging, food, and recreational expenses.


Include the total cost of lodging. This should include the quotes you gained from popular travel websites, but also associated costs such as taxes.
Include the total cost of travel. If you’re traveling by car, you should include the cost of an oil change and gasoline if you’re using your own car. If you’re using a rental car, include the cost of the rental and gasoline. In addition, consider toll charges if you’ll be traveling on toll roads.
Include the cost of food. Take the opportunity to plan how many full dine-out meals you will eat. Plan to eat mostly food you prepare yourself, whether that is cold cut sandwiches or egg or tuna salad.
Include the cost of recreational expenses. Depending on the type of trip, you may spend money on recreation. If so, try to estimate how much this will cost.
Build in 10% to 20% extra (in total) for any overages you may experience beyond your estimates., After drafting an initial budget, you’ll need to book your reservations. Booking your reservations should be relatively easy since you already researched what you want to book.


Use whatever service or company quoted you the lowest price when you compared prices.
Booking in advance is important, as prices may rise the closer you get to the day you need to travel or use lodging., Another way to travel on a tight senior budget is to time your trips so that you can take advantage of low seasonal costs and other discounts. By doing this, you’ll avoid crowds and save money.


Most of the time, booking early will save you money. However, there are some instances – like booking hotels in the off season – when you might be able to get discounts for booking last minute. This will vary on location, so do some internet digging to see if it applies to your trip.
If you’re planning a trip where you’ll need to book lodging, plan it to avoid peak season. This is true for renting cabins in the mountains or houses on the beach during the summer. Instead, plan your beach trip to Panama City, Florida in October, when it’s still relatively warm, but when prices will be low., You should also consider traveling with friends or family to save money. This could save money since you may be able to travel together or get group or bulk rates on lodging or recreational activities.


One of the easiest ways to save money when traveling with others is on ground transportation. For instance, if you’re driving a long distance to your destination, consider taking one car or renting a van or sports utility vehicle.
If you’re traveling with a large group, inquire about group rates for lodging or group discounts for destinations like Disney World.
Make sure the people you plan to travel with are on the same page as you and understand your monetary limitations. While you don’t want them to foot the bill for you, you do want them to realize that you may not be able to do everything they do., Experienced travelers will tell you that the easiest way to break a travel budget is to splurge on unexpected extras. As a result, you should:


Avoid high-priced dining out.
Avoid detours on road trips that may increase your fuel expenses or prolong your trip.
Avoid upgrading your seat on a plane or your room in a hotel., One of the biggest challenges of staying on budget is eating. Thus, you need to take several steps so that your food budget doesn’t break your entire budget. You can do this by:


Packing sandwiches or other homemade food whenever you can. Bring snacks, like chips, fruit, and more.
Avoiding eating places where you need to tip a server. Instead, try healthy options at fast food restaurants, or self-serve restaurants like Panera or Chipotle., Another good way to stay on budget is to use cash to pay for your transactions. By using cash, you’ll make sure that you’re only using money that is set aside for a specific activity. In the end, you’ll help yourself avoid the pitfalls of using a credit card – an action that can rapidly increase the costs of a trip.


Withdraw all the spending money you will need for a trip. This excludes costs for transportation, lodging, and other major expenses. Book these on a credit card or debit card.
Estimate the cost of your daily expenses and take the corresponding amount of cash and put it into an envelope labeled with that date.
Include the pre-estimated 10% to 20% overages in each envelope so if you experience higher-than-expected costs, you’ll have the money to cover them.
Place the envelopes in a secure location until you use them.
Do not use money you have not budgeted out for a specific day or a specific item.