 Pour 20 ml of liquid latex into one graduated medicine cup. Pour 20 ml of distilled white vinegar into a second graduated medicine cup.


Perform this experiment in a well-ventilated area since vinegar and liquid latex can produce mildly to moderately irritating fumes.
It is very important to measure out the two ingredients precisely. When used in disproportionate amounts, the chemical reaction involved will be altered and the latex may not solidify properly. If desired, graduated cylinders can be used instead of graduated medicine cups.;
, Combine the liquid latex and vinegar in a 3 oz (90 ml) plastic cup. Stir with a Popsicle stick until well combined.


The liquid latex is packaged in ammonia. When you add vinegar to it, it should neutralize the ammonia and cause the latex to solidify very quickly.
Only stir the two ingredients together until the substance congeals into a soft solid. Do not allow it to harden past the soft solid stage.
 As soon as the mass solidifies, remove the substance from the cup and begin rolling it in between your hands. Mold the latex substance into an evenly rounded ball.


You will need to work quickly since the latex will continue to solidify. It will eventually solidify to a hardened state, at which point it will be impossible to mold.
After forming the rubber into a ball, allow it to sit for a few minutes to finish hardening. When the rubber returns to its formed shape after being pressed, you can proceed to the next step.
 Submerge the completed ball into a basin of lukewarm water. Scrub and gently squeeze the ball with your hands.


You can also wash the ball under running water in a sink.
As you wash the ball, gently squeeze it to remove excess water and trapped bubbles of vinegar.
If you do not already have safety goggles, you should wear them during this step since the vinegar could splash into your eyes as you squeeze the ball.
 Remove the ball from the water and thoroughly dry it with clean paper towels.


While drying the ball, continue to gently squeeze it in your hand to remove any excess water from inside.
 Drop the ball onto a hard surface and watch it bounce.


The finished ball should be relatively soft and capable of bouncing slightly when dropped or thrown. It ball should remain in this state permanently.

