 Before you try to get a job in marketing, you should research what marketing actually means to make sure that you're a good fit for the work. Though marketing is a broad category that can range from advertising to being a Facebook social media manager, there are still some qualities you should possess to be a good fit for the role.


Are you a creative thinker? Can you look at traditional situations in a new way and help reframe something bland in a way that makes it fascinating?
Do you have top-notch verbal communication skills? Are you a strong writer who can clearly and concisely communicate your thoughts?
Can you organize and interpret complicated data?
Can you spot problems and figure out a way to solve them?
Do you have strong research skills that can help you understand a situation from multiple angles?
If you answered "yes" to a few or all of these questions, then a career in marketing is perfect for you.;
, Remember that many people in the career field do not have experience in marketing. Many of them have degrees in English, history, economics, or even foreign languages. Whatever your degree may be in, you can use your background to show that you have the skills that are necessary for marketing. Here's how to do it:Show your abilities to be a great researcher. Marketing requires problem solving, and problem solving often requires you to do some research to get to the bottom of a problem. It's likely you've done some research no matter what degree you received, so don't forget to stress your experience, whether it was for winning an award for a final paper, or in writing a distinguished undergraduate thesis.
Show your creative side. Marketing employers are looking for people who can think outside the box, no matter the circumstances. If you have creative writing experience from your English degree, that is a perfect way to stress your creative side. But almost any degree must have required you to give a presentation, or make an elaborate project at some point, and you can stress the creativity you used to put it together.
Demonstrate your organizational skills. Strong organizational skills are important for any marketing degree, since you'll be balancing a variety of projects. Show that you were able to balance a busy schedule of classes, being active in your fraternity or sorority, and taking on a part-time job at the same time.
Play up your knowledge of a foreign language. Many marketing companies are expanding their product to a non-English speaking market, so if you're a Spanish or Chinese major, you may be a great fit.
 Though you may not feel you have marketing experience, if you spend some time with your resume, you'll be able to find a way to give your experience a marketing-friendly skill. You don't have to lie or even stretch the truth to show how your experience can be relevant to the marketing field. Here's how to do it: Don't discount any of your sales experience. Even if you feel that working in a coffee shop or clothing store may not apply to marketing, you can talk about how your knowledge of a specific product has helped you understand how to market it, even if it just means you helped put up friendly signs around your store or to find a new way to sell the product to customers.
Discuss any creative aspects of your job. Even if you're an English teacher or tutor who wants a job in marketing, you can talk about the creative strategies you used to engage your audience and to teach an old concept in a new way.
Play up your team work experience. Whether you're talking about an intense group project in school or a project you worked on in your office, you should stress your ability to communicate with others and to collaborate, because many marketing jobs require you to do just that .
Show initiative and drive. Demonstrate that you're a go-getter that went above and beyond the requirements of your job. Even if you were just a work-study library aide, you can talk about how you took the initiative to reorganize the contemporary fiction display to make twice as many students check out books.
Take advantage of your involvement in undergraduate clubs and activities. You may not think being your sorority's rush chair can help you land a marketing job, but you can talk about how hard you worked to essentially market your sorority and make it appeal to a wide variety of girls. If you were on your school's tennis team, talk about how you marketed your home matches to a variety of students.

