 It takes something significant to break a femur bone in an otherwise healthy individual. That something would be of such force that the trauma alone is likely to have caused serious injury to the patient in other areas. It would not be uncommon for the patient to be unconscious, either from lateral injuries or from passing out in sheer pain.


Airway. The patient must have an open airway or all else is a moot point. If you have to breathe for the patient, it won't do any good if the air is not getting to the lungs. Use the head tilt, chin thrust method to make sure the airway is open to the lungs.
Breathing. Ensure that the victim is breathing, if not on her own, then you must breathe for her. She needs oxygen to survive. Even if she has a pulse, she will not for long if she is not breathing.
Circulation. Check for a pulse for about 10 seconds. Feel the carotid artery with two fingers while you are listening to breathing sounds from his mouth and watching his chest for rising and falling movements. If no pulse is found, start cardio pulmonary resuscitation immediately.;
,, You will feel crepitus, which is a definitive sign that there is a fracture; besides the fact that your patient will be in some of the worst pain imaginable.
 Though in pain, the patient must be kept still to prevent the pieces of bone from rubbing against each other or severing that artery.
 This is going to require an additional rescuer.


One person must grab the patient's heel, straighten out the leg and pull. It does not sound pleasant; however, the victim will feel instant relief when the bones are no longer rubbing, scraping or knocking against each other.
Find sticks, lumber, pipe; any kind of rigid material will do. It has to be long enough to reach from the groin area to well below the knee. Take belts, rope or anything you can find to tie the stick to the leg.
While maintaining traction, place the stick just under the groin or crotch and under the back of the knee. Take the belts and secure the leg to the stick above and below the site of the break. You might need more ties above and below to ensure that the leg is immobilized completely. Check pulse at the knee frequently to ensure proper circulation. Make sure the victim can feel sensation in the feet as well.

