 Meeting with an employee to let them go in person is a very important part of making sure that your downsizing is handled with care. Do not fire your employees via email or over the phone; doing this will make your employees feel disrespected and undervalued.


Laying someone off is a very uncomfortable situation, but it is important that you do it face-to-face so that the employee feels respected, even if they are upset or hurt.
 In addition to meeting with employees face-to-face during the layoff, it is also important that you meet with each ex-employee one-on-one so that they do not get embarrassed by being let go in front of other employees.


Meeting with ex-employees individually will also give them the chance to ask you questions. Be prepared for anger, sadness, and many questions about the downsizing that your ex-employees are certain to have.
 Consider how you would feel if you were told that you were not seen as an invaluable part of the company you worked for. You would probably feel pretty rotten. Do not become distracted with other things while you are giving this horrible news to the person that you are letting go. Becoming distracted and doing other things could make your ex-employee feel disrespected and downright depressed. While meeting with employees that you are letting go, do not:


Take a phone call.
Check texts or emails.
Interrupt the person when they ask you questions about the downsize.
Rush through the conversation.
Show impatience of any kind.
 Getting let go can be a hard and hurtful experience. While you may not be the one getting let go, it is still important to show empathy towards the person who are you are firing. Despite the fact that you may have plenty of justifiable reasons for downsizing the company, you must keep in mind that you are completely affecting the lives of each individual that you lay off.


Remain calm, collected, and sympathetic.
Do not try to convey fake compassion; be sincere and offer your deepest apologies.
Answer any questions that the ex-employee may have with a calm and compassionate tone.

