 This will delete everything on the Xbox 360, but it will not remove parental restrictions. To remove parental restrictions, you'll need to prove to Microsoft that you are authorized to remove them. See the next section for details.;
, Resetting your Xbox 360 to factory settings will delete everything on it. Before proceeding, make sure you back up anything you want to keep.Connect a USB hard drive to your Xbox 360 so that it appears as a storage device.
Press the Guide button on your controller and select the "Settings" tab.
Choose "System Settings," select "Storage," and then select your Xbox 360 hard drive.
Select "Transfer Content" and then select your external drive.
Select what you want to transfer and then click "Start." You may have to wait a while for the transfer to complete.
 This is the center button that has the Xbox logo.
 This will display the different categories of system settings.
 This will display a new window with various information about your console.
 This is the serial number for your Xbox 360, and you may need it when resetting the system. You can also find your serial number next to the USB ports on the front of your Xbox 360, or on the back on the console above the A/V port., This will display all of the storage devices connected to your Xbox 360.
 This will open the Device Options menu for the hard drive.
 You'll be prompted to confirm that you want to erase everything on the hard drive. If you're sure that you've backed everything important up, you can proceed.
 You may be asked to enter your console serial number before you can begin the format. This is a safeguard to help prevent accidental formats. Enter in the serial number you wrote down earlier.This will not remove any parental controls that have been set. See the next section for details on removing parental controls.
 After the format, you'll be taken back to the Home menu. You'll be logged out of Xbox Live, and all of your games will be gone. Go to Settings, System, Storage, then the location of your user, and delete it., Go to Settings, System, and press Confirm your choice.