 Most people try to breathe into their cupped hand in order catch a whiff of their own breath, but too often this just give you an idea of how your hand smells. Since our nasal passages are connected to our mouths, such a technique is not an accurate indicator of your breath’s odor. The best way to recognize bad breath on the spot is to consult someone you’re comfortable with. Find a loved one — someone you won’t turn off too badly — to quickly sniff your breath. Don’t make it obvious. Just a quick exhale will do the trick., Step to the side and lick the inside of your wrist. Because your wrist doesn’t rub up against many things, it’ll be a better indicator of your breath. Wait for your saliva to dry and then give your wrist a whiff. This is one of the most accurate ways of smelling your own breath., Take a spoon and place it upside-down on the back of your tongue. Slowly, but deliberately drag it to the front of your mouth. Now examine residue that you’ve collected on the spoon. If it is clear, then you probably don’t have bad breath. Most likely, it will be a milky-white or even a yellowish color. What you’ve collected is a film of bacteria that has accumulated on your tongue. This bacteria is what causes bad breath.It is important to scrape the back (posterior) of the tongue when you are brushing your teeth. This is prime real estate for bacteria that cause bad breath.
Similarly, you can perform this test with a piece of gauze — found at any pharmacy. Spoons tend to be more accessible in everyday situations.
 The Halimeter test looks for sulfide signatures in your breath. VSCs or sulfur compounds are commonly found in the human mouth, but high levels of sulfur signatures can indicate bad breath. Sulfur smells like eggs — this is not the smell you want in your mouth during an important meeting. Most likely, your dentist will have to administer the test, but if you really want your own Halimeter, you can purchase one. They are very expensive., This test measures sulfur levels and several other chemical compounds found in your mouth. This is the most effective test and its readings are considered to be the gold standard.