 Make sure to fully detangle your hair before proceeding. If you have curly hair, gently run a pick through to manage and detangle your curls. Remove any and all hair accessories, such as bobby pins or barrettes, before attempting the hairstyle.


If your hair is freshly washed and a little slippery, chopstick styles can be a little difficult to manage. Many women think that chopstick hairstyles work best on hair that hasn’t been washed in at least 2 days, but it really just depends on your hair. If your freshly washed hair isn’t slippery, you should have no issues.Have some hairspray and a few bobby pins within reach when doing this style, just in case you want a little more hold or security.
 Holding your low ponytail in your left hand, use your right hand to slide one of the chopsticks (pointy end up) diagonally under the ponytail. Twist the chopstick itself around clockwise, making sure that when you stop, the pointy end is pointing up, just like at the beginning.Twist the chopstick clockwise as many times as your hair will allow. Some people will only be able to do it once, others will be able to twist it several times around. Once you start feeling your hair pull a little at your scalp, stop twisting.Hold on to the ends of your hair as tightly as you can throughout the remainder of the process, since the twist won’t be fully secure until the final step.
 Taking hold of the blunt end of the stick, pull it away from your head until it’s almost horizontal. The pointy end will be pushed up against your scalp at this point. Continue this motion until the pointy end is facing down, and the blunt end facing up.Once you’ve done this, the pointy end of the stick should be nestled about 2 inches deep at the very top of the twist.
 Stop pushing once you have approximately the same length of stick poking out of the top and the bottom. The stick should pass through the twist itself, as well as the hair directly below the twist.
 It may take a couple of attempts before you get it just right, but after a little practice you’ll be able to do this easily.


At this point, you are only using one chopstick. You can stop there, or if you want a look using both sticks, slide the second stick carefully through the twist, taking care not to bump into the first stick.
If you have short layers in your hair, the ends may be sticking out a small amount. One option is to bobby pin them and use a bit of hairspray to secure the twist.
Another option is to make this a very casual look, allowing your layers to hang loosely around your face. Arrange them until you like what you see.
 If you're worried about the security of your style, try a short mist of hairspray all over the hairstyle. If you have bangs, arrange them in the way you like best and give it all a short mist of hairspray to lock it in.

