 There are many contradicting opinions regarding water and amber. While some jewelers recommend using soapy water to clean amber, others strongly advise against it.


If your piece is particularly dirty and you wish to try this method, you may consider performing a test on an inconspicuous area of the amber, or on a bead in the back of the necklace.
 The bowls should be large enough to fit the piece you will be cleaning. One bowl will be used to wash the amber, and the other bowl will be used to rinse it.
 Stir the soap and water so that it is mixed, but not so much that the solution begins to froth.If you do not have any liquid hand soap, you can use a liquid dish soap, but avoid any harsh detergents, such as dishwasher fluid. If you would not put your hand in it, do not use it.
 Gently run the necklace through your fingers to remove any dirt and grime.


If there is dirt between the beads, you can use a soft-bristle toothbrush to reach it. Simply run the toothbrush over any cracks and crevices until you cannot see any more dirt. Use gentle pressure and do not scrub too hard, or you may scratch your amber.Avoid tugging on the beads, as this can cause the string to break.
Avoid soaking your amber for long periods of time. Prolonged exposure to water, especially hot water, can damage amber, making it appear cloudy.
 Dip your amber necklace into the bowl of clean water and move it around to remove excess soap.
 You can use any soft cloth, such as flannel or microfiber. Again, avoid tugging on the amber necklace, or scrunching the beads together, as this may damage the beads. Do not allow your amber to sit and dry off on its own, or you risk it becoming cloudy.
 Do not put the olive oil on the jewelry directly. Instead, place a few drops of olive oil into the palm of your hand and rub your hands together. Then, run the amber necklace between your hands. This helps restore the amber's luster and shine. Wipe the olive oil off your amber using the soft cloth.


If you do not have any olive oil, another light oil may be used instead, such as an almond oil.

