 Though working as a police officer is still valuable experience for becoming a private detective, you can also work for insurance or collection companies, in finance, as a paralegal or a lawyer, or as an accountant. You can also have worked in the military or even in a federal intelligence jobs. Many people even become private detectives as a second career.Basically, any work experience in a field that is somewhat relevant to being a private investigator will help you become a better candidate for the job. No one would want to hire a private investigator who has absolutely no work experience.
 Most states require you to be licensed as a private detective or investigator, so check out the requirements of your state. Some states have far more requirements than others. If you carry a handgun, then you will most likely have to meet additional requirements as well, depending on your state. Remember that you will need a permit to carry a firearm.If you're a computer forensic investigator, then your state may require you to be licensed as a private investigator as well. Even if it's not required, the license will help you follow up on investigative work.
 Some private detectives also get certification, which help them move up in their careers. If you specialize in negligence or criminal defense, then you can get certified at the National Association of Legal Investigators. If you specialize in security, then you can get certified by ASIS International, which offers the Professional Certified Investigator certification.
 This is typically the first step before you can go out on your own. Most of these agencies are small, without much room for advancement, and they do not have definite steps or ranks that you can follow to move up in your career. Still, you should gain a few years of experience at this agency before you try to make it on your own.
 If the private detective agency isn't your thing, you can also work as a corporate or legal investigator. This position is just as demanding as the work at a private agency, though you may spend less time in the field.
 Once you have enough experience and have built up a client base, you can start your own firm if you want to be more independent. You can employ others or work on your own; though it may be difficult to start your own firm, you will reap the benefits when you succeed.

