 The topic sentence should tell you what the paragraph is about. For example, if you were writing about your best friend your topic sentence might be something like this: "Allie is a really great friend.";
, The tomato is going to be a detail. A detail should some how connect with the topic sentence. An example is: "Allie is always there for me, no matter what."

, The cheese is going to be another detail that connects with the topic sentence. An example is; "Allie is a really good friend because she helps me with my homework."

, The burger is just another detail that connects with the topic sentence. An example is: "Allie is lots of fun when we play together."

, An example is: "Allie is a really good friend because she makes me happy when I am sad."

, The onions will be the last detail that connects with the topic sentence. An example is: "Allie shares her lunch with me, when I forget mine."

, It will wrap up the whole paragraph. An example is: "I am really glad Allie is my friend and I would not be the person I am today without her."

, Here's our example in all its glory.
Allie is a really great friend. Allie is always there for me, no matter what. Allie is a really good friend because she helps me with my homework. Allie is lots of fun when we play together. Allie is a really good friend because she makes me happy when I am sad. Allie shares her lunch with me, when I forget mine. I am really glad Allie is my friend and I would not be the person I am today without her.
If you think your paragraph is of a similar structure and quality as this example, well done, you've written a hamburger paragraph.

My friend Allie is really great, always there for me when I need her, no matter what. If I need help with my homework, Allie helps me. We have fun playing together too, lots of fun. Allie always makes me happy whenever I am sad, even if I am sad because I'm hungry! Allie shares her lunch with me if I have forgotten mine. I am really glad Allie is my friend: I would not be the person I am today without her.
Which paragraph do you think is better?

