 Give your Shihpoo a good quality food. Look at the label on the bag and make sure a named meat is the first and second ingredient on the bag. It can include meat byproducts or grains, but it should be farther down the list. The Shihpoo should be fed dry kibble because the breed has a high risk of dental problems.Use the amount recommended on the pack as a starting point. Shihpoos love to eat and can over eat easily, so you have to monitor his food intake.Regularly weigh your dog to make sure he is not gaining too much weight. Your dog should have a waist line when viewed from above or the side, and you should be able to feel his ribs easily, but without the ribs standing out through the skin.
A Shihpoo can be fed once or twice daily, according to your personal preference.
Never exercise your dog immediately after eating. Wait for at least 90 minutes before exercise. There is a risk of the dog's stomach flipping over and becoming twisted, which is a life-threatening condition called bloat.
 Grooming your Shihpoo will depend on his coat type, which could be curly or long and smooth. Brushing your dog daily in order to keep the coat in good order and knot free. This also conditions your dog’s skin.Bathe your dog once a month because Shihpoos can have skin conditions.
Trim the genital area on your Shihpoo. The long hair can get urine and feces caught in it. You can also get a groomer to shave the lower area.If the Shihpoo grows long fur on their face, it can get in his eyes and cause irritation or act as a blindfold. Either keep their face trimmed short, or gather the long fur up in a topknot to keep it away from their eyes.Check your dog over after each walk. Look for grass awns that may be lodged in fur around the ears or paws.
 Take care of your dog’s teeth by getting into the habit of regular tooth brushing. Use a special dog toothbrush or a finger mitt. Wet the brush with water and gently rub it on the outer surfaces of the teeth. Once the dog is happy with this, you can introduce a blob of dog toothpaste onto the brush. You can do this once a week.These pastes are tasty to dogs, don't need rinsing and are free from substances harmful to dogs if swallowed, such as fluoride.
Never give a dog human toothpaste.
 Use reward-based training with your Shihpoo. Find what he is prepared to work for, such as his favorite treat, toy, or even affection.If his attention span is short, opt for shorter but more frequent training sessions, such as five minutes, four times a day. These are going to be more successful than less frequent shorter ones.
If you are struggling to housebreak your Shihpoo, know that you must not punish him for having accidents in the house. Instead, give him plenty of opportunity to go outside and stay with him so that you are there spot to reward him when he does go in the right place.

