 You may make it yourself or buy it from a store, but be sure it fits you well and suits you. In KHI Kairi wears a white spaghetti strap top and a lavender velvet skirt. In KHII she wears a pink dress with three silver zippers. In her childhood she wears a white neckholder shirt with a light-purple skirt under it. The one from KHII is the most recognizable one, but then again Kairi is in 3 other games KHI style, so decide freely what suits you the most.;
, The more you spend, the better quality you get. For example, if you buy her school uniform for $39.99, it'll be pretty cheap. If you pay more than $60.00, you'll get amazing quality. But be careful of swindlers on the Internet! If you´ll sew your cosplay by yourself, always try to buy high quality fabric.
 If you chose the outfit from KHI, try to find a white shirt and a black shirt and sew them together. Try to get her bracelets, her belt, her choker, her necklace and the lines at her shirt. For the skirt you have to look closely at the quilling and the left side of it - there the skirt is sliced and you can see a pair of shorts underneath. For the shoes, just wear white slippers and color them up with textile color. You can also add sparkly loops to the mid-toe. If you chose the outfit from KHII, try to find a sleeveless pink dress or sew it from a great piece of textile. Then you should get three zippers (plus a fourth one if you want to sew it in the side of your dress, but that´s optional) and sew them in. The shoes are pretty easy to get: just buy a pair of lavender converses with black soles and white tips, then tie them with a pair of black shoelaces - make sure the laces lace up your calves and tie them in a bow. You also need a white neckholder shirt and a black hood - if you want, make it so you can put it over your head. For the bag, you should try to get a little bag with a lavender ribbon that will fit into the cosplay and some material you can use as holders. She also wears suspender remnants around her waist. Lastly, try to find three bracelets that will fit into her outfit in the colors of blue, black and white.
 Kairi is an outgoing, kind girl who is not afraid to speak out her mind, even if it will anger others. She always smiles at other people and carries many hopes and dreams with her. So should you: try to be always polite and friendly towards others, hug people you are very near to and greet them with all your warmth. Also, try to get a sweet, playful and cheerful behavior, and if you like you can tease friends a bit - but stay playful and make sure they know that you don´t want to hurt them.

