 Most air mattresses have either a one-way air valve (which allows air to easily enter the mattress but not leave it) or a simple hole somewhere on the side of the mattress. Your first step should be to locate this and remove the protective cap — you can't put any air inside the mattress without an opening to do so.


Note that some modern mattresses have pumps built into the side of the mattress. In this case, simply flip the "on" switch, and, provided the pump is receiving power either from an outlet or batteries, it will start to inflate the mattress.;
, Whether you're using an electric pump or a manual one, your next step is the same: insert the pump's nozzle into the hole or valve opening. The pump should make a tight seal with the material around the valve. If it doesn't, there's a chance that air may escape around the pump, making it harder to fully inflate the mattress.


If you can't get a tight seal around the pump (for instance, if you're using a pump that wasn't made for the mattress), you may want to try laying duct tape around the pump to keep it seated in the valve, though this can be ineffective if the pump is very loose. Another option is to melt plastic around the pump to make it thicker and give it a tighter seal, though this can present challenges for novice repair experts., Most modern air mattresses come pre-packaged with an electric air pump. If this is what you're using, make sure it's plugged in or has battery power, then turn it on! The mattress should immediately begin to inflate.


Note that electric pumps are usually quite loud, so you may want to be careful about running them around where others are sleeping.
 If you're working with an older air mattress or you lost your electric pump and had to buy a replacement, you may only have a manual pump at your disposal. Though these aren't as quick and effortless as electric pumps, they're usually quite effective in their own right. The two main types of manual pumps used for inflating air mattresses are:


Hand pumps: Usually large, standing pumps operated with an "up-and-down" motion. However, smaller hand-operated bicycle-style pumps are occasionally used.
Foot pumps: Usually take the form of a foot pedal attached to a hose and nozzle; stepping on the pedal repeatedly forces air into the mattress.
 Once the mattress is filled to the point that it is fully inflated and firm to the touch, remove the pump, then screw the valve or hole cap back on to trap the air inside. You're now ready to sleep! Grab some sheets, blankets, and pillows.


Note that air mattresses with one-way valves will automatically trap air inside. It's still a good idea to screw the cap back on for these mattresses to provide another layer of protection against deflation. Mattresses with simple air holes (and no valves), on the other hand, will immediately begin to deflate as soon as the pump is removed, so you'll need to screw the cap back on quickly!

