 Picking, popping or squeezing a pimple can cause further breakouts and permanent acne scars. The fewer breakouts you have, the less likely you are to develop acne scars. Treating acne is important to prevent scarring, especially with any of the following:Severe, painful cysts and nodules. Nodules are hard, large and inflamed pimples. Cysts are pus-filled, painful pimples, both of which occur deep in the skin and can often cause scarring. This is called "cystic acne."
Acne that began at a young age. This often develops into severe acne within a few years. Dermatologists recommend that a preteen who has acne receive a dermatologic exam. Treating the acne before it becomes severe reduces risk of developing acne scars.
Blood relatives who have acne scars. The tendency to develop acne scars often runs in the family.;
, Dirt and bacteria on your hands can clog your pores and cause acne if you touch your face too much. If you feel irritation due to acne, use a gentle, oil-free daily facial wipe to remove excess dirt and reduce irritation. Resist the temptation to touch our pick at your face.Keep your hands clean by frequently washing them or using a hand sanitizer on the go.
Do not squeeze or pop your blemishes. This increases the risk of developing scars. In some cases, squeezing a pimple may spread the bacteria even further.
Do not cover blemishes with your hair. Keep your hair away from your face with ponytails, headbands or hair clips.
Dermatologists also recommend that you wash your hair regularly if it is oily. The oil can transfer to your forehead and face and lead to breakouts., Moderate sun exposure is beneficial to your immune system. It helps your body produce vitamin D. But, acne scars that are exposed to excessive ultraviolet radiation from the sun often become permanent.Excess exposure to sunlight may also cause sunspots, known as solar lentigines. Sunspots begin forming beneath the layers of the skin and cause small dark spots on the surface of your skin as you age.
To protect your skin from sun damage, use a sunscreen with a minimum SPF (sun protection factor) of 30.
Some chemicals in sunscreens may cause allergies. You may want to consult with a dermatologist to find the sunscreen that’s right for you.
 Some cosmetic products can worsen acne and increase the risk of scarring. Choose non-toxic cosmetics and apply them sparingly.


Use paraben-free skincare. Parabens are preservatives used in many cosmetic products. They can cause skin irritation and inflammation for people who suffer from acne, and may be a potential allergen. Butyl and propyl paraben are more toxic than methylparaben and ethylparaben. But, the latter is more easily absorbed by the human body.Do not use cosmetic products with synthetic dyes. Your skin absorbs almost 60% of all substances applied to its surface. Avoid cosmetics with synthetic colorings. Specifically, avoid E102, E129, E132, E133, and E143. Besides being bad for your skin, they are neurotoxins and may also promote cancer.Use oil-free cosmetics for your skin and hair.
Do not apply makeup immediately after washing your skin as it can also clog your pores, leading to more acne breakouts.
 Smoking can cause smoker’s acne. This is a condition in which the body does not produce an inflammatory response to heal the skin as quickly as it would with normal acne.Smokers are also four times more susceptible to moderate post-adolescent acne. This is particularly true for women between the ages of 25-50.Cigarette smoke may cause skin irritation for people with sensitive skin.
Smoking can also cause other skin conditions such as wrinkles and premature skin aging by creating free radicals. Free radicals are chemically reactive molecules that can damage cells.
Smoking also impairs collagen production and degrades skin proteins. Collagen is a structural protein with anti-aging properties. It promotes cell growth and repair, improving the durability and appearance of our skin. Not having enough collagen can greatly reduce the effectiveness of acne treatments. Reduced collagen production can also slow down the rate of healing for scars.
 Studies show that emotional stress can worsen acne, especially in females.Some ways to manage stress are:Listen to music. Listening to soothing music can decrease blood pressure, heart rate, and anxiety.
Make time for recreation. Replace unnecessary time-consuming chores with pleasurable or interesting activities. If the source of stress is in the home, plan some time away, even if only for an hour or two per week.
Meditation. This can help reduce blood pressure, chronic pain, anxiety and lower cholesterol levels. This is promoting physical and emotional well-being.
For a simple meditation exercise, sit with your legs crossed in a quiet environment and take slow, deep breaths for at least 5–10 minutes. Try to get at least five minutes of meditation time every day to help keep your stress in-check.
Other meditation techniques include exercises such as tai chi or yoga, biofeedback, and massage therapy.
 Collagen production and cell repair is faster and more effective when you’re sleeping. You must give your body enough time to heal itself to get rid of scars.


Having a regular sleep schedule helps to ensure better quality and consistent sleep.
Avoid caffeine, nicotine, alcohol and sugary drinks four to six hours before sleeping. These can act as a stimulant to keep you awake.A quiet, dark, and cool environment can help promote sleep. Use heavy curtains or an eye mask to block light. Keep the temperature comfortably cool—between 65 and 75°F—and the room well ventilated., Exercise helps reduce stress hormones such as adrenaline and cortisol. It also helps strengthen the immune system to fight off bacteria, viruses and harmful free radicals.This plays an important role in reducing acne.


You should get at least 30–40 minutes of moderate exercise or 10-15 minutes of intensive exercise each day. Moderate exercise includes walking or recreational swimming. Intensive exercise includes activities such as such as basketball, soccer, and hiking.
 Do not wear tight-fitting synthetic clothes that rub against your skin. Keep your pillowcases clean.Helmets, masks, headbands and other tight-fitting sports equipment can rub against your skin and make acne flare up. Be sure to keep sports equipment clean and shower after exercise.
Pillowcases and sheets can trap bacteria, dirt and dead skin cells. These can get into your pores when you sleep, causing more acne breakouts that can lead to further scarring. Change your pillowcases often.
Consider putting a fresh towel on your pillow every night if you apply an overnight acne treatment.

