 To help the break up the mucus, use nasal saline. Place your baby on their back and their chin tilted. Use a dropper to drop one to two drops into their nostrils. If the saline comes in a bottle with a pump, use the squirt pump to place one to two squirts into the nostrils. Try to let the saline solution stay in the baby’s nose for 10 seconds.You can buy unmedicated nasal saline at a pharmacy.
You may also make your own saline solution. Dissolve ¼ teaspoon of salt into eight ounces of warm water. If you make your own, throw the solution out at the end of the day and make a new solution the next morning. Store it in a covered clean glass jar during the day.
Don’t use saline drops on your baby for more than four days in a row. This can dry out their nasal passages.
 After you put the saline solution into your baby’s nose, wait for around two to three minutes. Hold your baby with their head lower than their feet. This helps the solution get down into the nostrils. The baby’s congestion may break up and the nostrils may clear. However, if after a few minutes your baby’s nose is not any better, then you need to clean it out., Take the rubber bulb syringe and squeeze the air out. This creates a vacuum to suck out the mucus. Carefully place the tip of the syringe against the nostril. It should fit snugly to create a seal. Gently let go of the bulb to pull the mucus into it.If your baby resists this process, stop and try again later.
Make sure not to stick the tip too far into your baby’s nose. This can cause an injury.
 Before you do the same thing to the other nostril, you must remove the mucus from the bulb. Remove the syringe from the baby’s nose. Squeeze the syringe to clean the mucus out of the bulb. You may have to use some force when you squeeze to get it out. Then clean out the second nostril.Place a tissue around the tip to catch the mucus you expel from the tip.
 Your baby should be breathing better after cleaning the mucus out of their nose. However, if their nose is still stopped up after five to ten minutes, repeat the entire process again, including the saline solution.Make sure you only clean out your baby’s nose two to three times each day. More than that may irritate their nose. Your baby may get the most benefit before eating or going to sleep.
 When you are finished, wash the syringe with soap and warm water. Place the tip of the syringe in the soapy water and squeeze the bulb to suck water into it. Shake the syringe to get soap all around the inside. Then squeeze it out.Rinse the syringe by squeezing warm clean water into the syringe multiple times. Continue to rinse until the water you squeeze out is clear. Even with regular cleaning, some bulb syringes can be prone to mold growth. Look for one that twists apart for easier cleaning and drying.
Let the syringe dry by placing it with the tip down in a glass.

