 Meanwhile, prepare two 8-inch (20-cm) square baking pans by greasing them and dusting them with a light coating of all-purpose flour.

Cover a clean, dry paper towel with a generous dab of shortening, then wipe the shortening over the bottoms and sides of both pans. You could also grease the pans using butter or nonstick cooking spray.
Sprinkle about 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of flour into each pan. Carefully shift and rock the pans from side to side, continuing until the entire bottoms are coated with flour. Dump the excess flour out of the pans.;
, Combine the cake mix, eggs, water, and melted butter in a large mixing bowl. Beat the ingredients together using an electric mixer set to medium or high speed, and continue for several minutes, or until evenly combined.

While these ingredients are standard for boxed cake mixes, consult the instructions on the back of the box for more precise amounts; follow the brand instructions for best results. Some cakes may call for more eggs, water, or fat.
Note that most boxed mixes will instruct you to use vegetable oil instead of butter, but using equal amounts of melted butter will give the cake a much richer flavor., Evenly split the cake batter into your two prepared baking pans. Gently shift the pans from side to side, making the batter level., Place both pans onto the middle rack of the preheated oven. Bake the cake for about 30 minuets, or until a toothpick inserted into the centers of both portions comes out clean.

Exact baking times may vary depending on the cake mix you use; consult the box for more precise instructions, when possible.
If you're uncertain about how fast the cake will bake, it's best to start checking it after the first 20 minutes of baking time. Continue checking every 2 to 5 minutes until the cake is ready.
 Remove both pans of the finished cake out of the oven. Allow the cake to cool to room temperature inside the pans, then carefully tip both portions out onto a clean work surface.

Afterward, wrap both portions with plastic wrap, then place them into a freezer for about 15 minutes. While this part of the process isn't strictly necessary, it may make the cake easier to cut and manipulate while minimizing the amount of crumbs left behind.
 Each half should measure about 4 inches (10 cm) wide by 8 inches (20 cm) long.

This step should result in four evenly sized rectangles of cake. You'll need to trim and stack these rectangles in various ways to create the body of the ship.
After dividing the cake into these four rectangles, center one rectangle over a cake board or piece of parchment paper. This rectangle will be the bottom layer of cake.
 Pipe this frosting on top of the bottom cake layer, creating the outline of the hull.

Create a rectangle measuring about 4 inches (10 cm) wide by inches (15 cm) long, starting at one end of the cake.
Just beyond the first rectangle, draw a curved triangle over the remaining cake that meets at a point in the center of the untouched end.
Fill in both outlines with about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of buttercream to help define the shape and hold the layers together.
 Stack another rectangle of cake directly on top of the first layer. Draw the shape of the hull on top of this layer, as well, using piped buttercream.

Note that the shape of the hull should be about the same for both layer.
 Using a sharp knife, cut the third portion of cake into three separate pieces, working along the length of the rectangle.

One piece should measure about 4 inches (10 cm) long, and the other two should each measure about 2 inches (5 cm) long.
Set the middle section aside for now. Use the longest portion and opposite end for the next step.
 Position the long section of cake over the triangular portion of icing, matching the layer end-to-end. Place the short section of cake over the rectangular portion of icing, matching it end-to-end with that side.

Using icing, pipe the same triangular outline over the front end of the hull, matching it as closely as possible to the previous two layers.
Cover the tops of both pieces with buttercream to help the final layer stick.
 Using a sharp, serrated knife, carve the front hull out of all three layers. Follow the buttercream outlines previously created, using them as a guide to shape the hull.

You can round off the corners of the rectangular end, if desired, but doing so is not strictly necessary.
 Slice the final rectangle into two 4-inch (10-cm) square pieces of cake.

Using the serrated knife, carve one of these pieces into the same triangular shape currently featured at the front of the hull.
If you rounded the back corners of the main body, you should round off those corners on the other piece of cake, as well.
Since the cake becomes less stable as you stack the layers, it's best to carve these portions of cake before stacking them onto your previous layer.
 Stack the triangular front hull piece on top of the matching front hull of the main cake. Stack the 4-inch (10-cm) wide rectangle on top of the back end, cover it with buttercream, and stack the final 2-inch (5-cm) rectangle on top of that.

Position the two back pieces so that the back ends lie flush against the back of the overall cake.
 Using the other half of the open can of frosting, spread a thin layer of buttercream over all exposed sides of the cake.

Don't worry if crumbs dislodge and get caught in the frosting; the point of a crumb coat is to catch these crumbs and prevent them from sneaking into the final, visible layer of icing.


Alternatively, you can refrigerate the cake 8 hours to overnight instead of freezing it.
It might be tempting to skip this step, but doing so would be highly discouraged. Room temperature cake will be difficult to frost and decorate in an elaborate manner.


It may take some practice before you'll be able to make the frosting smooth, especially around the awkward inner corners of the cake.
To make the process as easy as possible, spoon generous portions of frosting over all areas and patiently glide it over the flat surfaces using an icing spatula. Work carefully and slowly; do not attempt to rush through this part of the process.
 Cut four to eight square pretzel snaps in half. Line them up side by side along the front edge and back edge of the ship, creating railings.

Place the pretzels cut-side down into the icing, pressing just firmly enough to hold them in place.
If desired, consider using chocolate-covered pretzel snaps or covering the pretzels in milk chocolate on your own before using them to decorate the ship.
 Use mini peanut butter cups to add a few round windows to both sides of the ship. Place two windows on either side of the pointed hull, and three windows on either side of the rectangular back. You can add a final window at the very back of the ship, as well.

Press the wider end of the peanut butter cups into the icing, using just enough pressure to help them stick.
If you're allergic to peanut butter, consider using round pretzels or other small cup-shaped candies instead.
 Trim to size, if necessary.

If you are unable to find chocolate sticks, consider using a shortened pretzel stick. You can even use a trimmed straw or the mouthpiece of a party horn if you don't mind this part being inedible.


These two pieces of construction paper will become the sails.
 Poke one wooden skewer through one sail in two places, threading it all the way through until the flat end of the skewer rests at the top of the sail. Repeat with the other skewer and other sail.

For cleaner holes, consider punching the holes with a hole punch instead of poking them out with the skewer itself.
Note that the skewer should enter and exit the sail from the same side of the paper. Place the enter and exist holes about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) away from the top and bottom of the paper, and keep the holes centered long the long side of the sail.
When finished, you'll have two masts to add to your ships.
 Carefully insert one mast through the front center of the ship. Insert the other mast through the back center.

In addition to adding further decoration to the cake, these skewers should help hold the layers steady, making it more difficult for the cake to fall apart on accident., The pirate ship cake is now fully decorated and ready to show off. Keep it in the refrigerator until you're ready to bring it to your guests.