 You likely know that stress can cause a variety of health problems, and the stress that you endure from bullying can do just that. Eating right, exercising, and getting enough sleep can reduce your stress and improve your health.


Focusing on a healthy lifestyle won’t stop the bullying. But it can reduce the negative effects it has on you., In addition to making healthy lifestyle choices, it may also be helpful to equip yourself with a stress management toolbox. Collecting an arsenal of healthy strategies to ease tension and promote relaxation will help you manage until you can end the bullying for good.



Breathe deeply. In the midst of an episode of bullying it can be tough to maintain your composure. But, a reaction is often what your bully is looking for. Instead, try deep breathing. Inhale air through your nose for 4 counts. Hold it for 7 counts. Then, release the air through your nose for 8 counts. Repeat as needed.Journal. Writing down your thoughts and feelings can be a great way to unload after experiencing bullying and get insight about how the experience is affecting you. Journaling can also help you brainstorm solutions for stopping a bully.Perform a body scan. You may hold tension in certain parts of your body when stressed. A body scan practice allows you to bring awareness to this tension. Lie down and start at the top of your body. Move down the body gradually, focusing on each area. Breathe in relaxation and breathe out the tension until your entire body is relaxed., Confide in your family and friends about the abuse you are enduring. They may be able to offer support and encouragement during this time. They may even be able to offer you advice for coping.Tell friends or loved ones, “I have been targeted at college because I am Muslim. Has something like this ever happened to you?... How did you handle it?”
You can also seek out support groups and spiritual or religious advisors for help.
 Bullying can affect your mental, emotional, and physical health. You may experience anxiety and depression and low self-esteem and low self-worth. In extreme cases, bullying can lead to substance abuse and suicidal thoughts. A qualified counselor or therapist can help you deal with these feelings in productive ways and help you strategize the best way to deal with the bullying. Your therapist will provide you with a safe place to express yourself and discuss feelings of anger, isolation, shame, sadness, or any other emotions you may experience.

A therapist may also be able to connect you with support groups so you can speak with others who have had similar experiences.
 Bullying is traumatic and can leave both physical and emotional scars. Although you may feel like you just want to “disappear” during this time, doing so may be the worst thing you can do. Continue to engage in the activities you enjoy, and with the people you enjoy doing them with. You’re already going through a bad time — depriving yourself of what you love will only make it worse.

