 Grease comes off easily in stainless steel pans with salt. Cover the grease areas with a small amount of salt. Add hot water if you need extra cleaning power, then wipe up with a paper towel. Dump any salt in the pan into the trash.This can also be done on enamel and ceramic pans, ovens, and grease fires.
Do not use salt on non-stick surfaces. It will damage the finish.
 Hot water mixed with salt can prevent grease blockages in the drain. This must be done while the water is hot. For clogs that have already formed, mix a cup of salt, a half cup of white vinegar, and a cup of baking soda. Pour the mixture down the drain., Have a pot of boiling water on hand when dealing with the clog. Ten minutes after the salt, vinegar, and baking soda mixture has gone down the drain, chase it with the water. Rinse with warm water when you’re done to ensure the clog is gone and the mixture no longer affects the plumbing.
 Equal parts of salt, flour, and vinegar can be combined to make a paste that polishes most metals, including silver, gold, steel, and pewter. Place the ingredients into a bowl. Mix them until they form the paste., Use a cloth to pick up the cleaner and place it on the metal. Spread it around to cover the entire surface. Allow the cleaner to sit for an hour.
 For shining copper and brass, try citrus juice instead of polish paste. A simple way to do this it to squeeze the juice out of a lemon half and then add salt to the rind. Rub the lemon half over the surface of the metal.A lime is a possible substitute for the lemon.
 Combine equal parts cream of tartar, salt, and water in a bowl. All of these items can be found at a grocery store. Mix them into a paste and combine them as you would a polish by spreading them out over the rust spots with a rag.Lemon juice and salt also works. Use a squeezed out, salted lemon half on the rust.
 This should only be done for metals being treated for rust. The sunlight warms the mixture and activates it so it eats away at the rust. Leave it alone until it dries.
 No matter how you treated the metal, get it under warm water if possible in order to remove the paste. Another option is to use a clean cloth. Add warm water to it, then rub it over the metal surface. Make sure you get all the paste so it doesn’t damage the finish.
 Rather than leave the water to damage the metal, get a clean cloth. Wipe it all over the surface of the metal so that it removes all the water. The metal should look shiny. You can buff it with a clean, soft cloth to make it look better.

