 It should be about head sized—about 5 gallons (or 5 liters). Jars that size are often used for storage containers or water-cooler bottles. You can find them new in most retail stores that have kitchen supplies, or try Goodwill or Salvation Army.


Aside from not being leaky, quality is not important: the cheaper it looks, the better! The imperfections in the glass or plastic will distort features and be extra creepy looking.;
, You could try grave robbing, for that perfectly rotten look. However, that's generally frowned upon in civilized society, and it smells pretty bad, too.


Look for a picture of a corpse head. Do a search on Google for "face texture" or "zombie texture" and take your pick. If you start with a regular face texture, you can use a photo editor such as Photoshop to make it truly horrific. Give the skin and lips a bluish tint, add gashes and rot, and other signs of decay. Be creative!

, First determine the direction your scanner scans. Most go from right to left. If so, place your right ear on the scanner bed, and start the scan. As the scan light moves across the bed, rotate your head so that it stays illuminated.


Here's a tip: if you scan at a higher resolution, the scan will be much slower, making it easier to track the scanner as it moves.
 Once you've got your face texture ready, edited, and prepped for pickling, scale the face to a realistic size and then print it out.


Measure your eye-to-eye distance, then scale the drawing to the same approximate size. Eyes are somewhere between one and two inches apart, for most people.
 With deadly sharp scissors, cut your face out. You may laminate the paper to make it a little more rigid, or simply print it out on cardstock or a heavy paper.


For extra creepiness, get some fake eyeballs, and put them into the eye sockets...or let them float freely.
 Roll the face up and drop it into the jar. Stuff the jar with paper so that the picture is flattened against the inner surfaces of the glass.
 Add the hair. You can use theatrical hair like the kind you'll find in a Halloween store, but it may look too fake. You can also use real hair that you can probably get for free, right from the floor of your local barber shop or beauty salon.


Stuff the hair into the jar so that it looks messy and rotten. Work it around with a screwdriver to get the desired amount of grossness.
 You do not what that head getting out, terrorizing you and your family in the middle of the night.
 For a final touch place it somewhere visible so that it will creep people out.

