 It may seem like rich people wear all designer clothes, but they really don't. To pull off the old money look, your style should be elegant, conservative, classic, and chic. Ideally, you should have the following in your wardrobe: Pencil skirts, cashmere sweaters, cardigans, a few sun dresses, slacks, skinny and wide leg jeans, and button up blouses. Don't wear sweatpants in public. Don't wear shorts and a baggy tee to bed, wear a silk nightgown.;
, Don't be afraid to splurge a bit on shoes, they can complete your outfit. You should have a few pairs of high heels (no bigger than 3 inches), flats in different patterns and designs and wedges.
 Accessories can make many outfits look like they cost way more than they really do. If you're on the fortunate side, a nice Tiffany key or two is always wonderful! If you don't have the money for something that expensive, there is no need to fret. Good places to look for jewelry that looks expensive but isn't are Forever 21 and Target. Try to wear pearls, gems, diamonds, and gold.


Always carry a bag with you. If you can't afford designer bags, shop at a place like Marshall's or TJ Maxx. If you can only afford things from places like Walmart or Target, find one that looks like its copying designer bags. Make sure it isn't fabric, it should look like it is made out of leather. Also, make sure there is no name or designer label on the front of the purse.
 Wealthy people always have good hygiene. Remember the obvious: shower daily, wash your face twice a day, brush, floss, use mouth wash, and whiten your teeth if needed.
 Having a good, classic hair cut is a good idea. The wealthy don't follow fads or trends. A long flowy cut with bangs is cute, or a nice bob. Also, try to stick with your natural hair color as much as possible. Your natural color is much more beautiful than a fake one!

, Keep your skin clear and acne free. Keep your nails clean as well. Keep them groomed, short and nice and smooth. Paint them in pinks, reds, clear, or french tips. Bright blues, purples, and greens are tacky.
 Keep it natural. Use a liquid foundation and/or powder that is oil-free and matches your skin tone. Use a light pink blush and only use it on the balls of your cheeks. It should fade lightly as it heads towards your temples. Use a base on your eyes. This helps the eye shadow stay on throughout the day. Use a gold color and cover your entire lid. Use a light brown on your crease. Use a shimmer white or silver under your brow line, this makes your eyes look bigger. Use a brown or back eye liner or pencil to make a straight thin line on your top lid. Use the same color underneath to make a thin line that ends about 1/2 to 3/4 of the way to your inner eye. Use a black mascara and eyelash curler to finish things up. Use mascara on top (two coats), and on bottom (one coat). Lastly, use a sheer pink lip gloss and swipe it onto your lips.
 You don't have to wear $300 perfume to seem wealthy. Just about any perfume from Bath and Body Works smells great. The key is to not put too much on. One to two sprays should be plenty!

, Wealthy girls have a certain presence about them. They are confident, happy, smart, and sweet. They have everything, but they don't let it get to their heads. Be nice to everyone and make new friends. Always be happy and never complain or whine. Try not to swear! It makes you look trashy and uneducated. Don't do stuff with boys, you need to have a good reputation. Don't drink beer or smoke. Go to parties and dance dirty, but when the alcohol arrives say you have somewhere else to be. It will even add a little mystery to your life from the views of others. Also, try hard in school, get all A's, and a couple B's. C's are not good enough, remember, you are better than just average!

, Eat healthy, especially in public. The most unhealthy thing you should ever be seen eating is a fruit smoothie. At school eat a salad, a deli sandwich, water, and an apple, an orange, or a banana. Be seen drinking Fiji water. Sounds crazy, but Fiji water is what many wealthy people drink. Playing a sport is not required, but if you want to there is only certain ones that will keep your wealthy reputation up. Play tennis, golf, or take dance lessons (only ballet, jazz, pointe and/or modern.)

, After-school activities are also huge! Other than being on a sport you should join clubs (art club or a public service club are good choices), be on student government, learn french in your spare time, paint, take piano lessons, read old literature or American history books.

