 Whether you want to surprise your mother for a birthday, Mothers' Day, or just because, quality time together trumps material gifts every time. Organizing an outing together might not be the most shocking surprise you could possible organize, but it might be the most meaningful. Put your phone away and give your mother some quality time and attention. Talk to her. Listen to her. Be with her.


Organize a quiet day together, having afternoon tea at the house and talking. Go for a walk in a nearby park and spend the evening watching family movies, or movies your mother likes. Go through old picture books. It doesn't have to be complicated. Gather photos, old family video, or other trinkets and go through them together. If you're feeling really ambitious, you could edit a family video compilation for her and have the premiere.
Go for a walk around an exciting part of town your mother doesn't often visit and show her around, or go on a long hike, bike trip, or run together if your mother is the adventurous type.
Take your mother to church, or to visit other relatives she may not get the chance to see often. Whatever you do, just arrange to spend the day–all day–together.;
, An excellent way to surprise mom is to make the day less stressful by cleaning up the house, especially if it's not a chore you often undertake without being told to in advance. Even spending a little bit of time tidying up can make a big difference. It'll mean a lot.


Start in your room to make sure you get that all the way done while you have time. Take your clothes to the laundry and tidy up your belongings, putting things in the right place. Then, move to the living room and other areas to finish as much as you can before your mom sees. If you don't have time to do a serious cleaning, just organizing books, straightening pillows, and picking up can look great.
Dishes, garbage, and dealing with recycling are all added bonus steps. Clean up the kitchen, then wipe down the countertops to give them a little sparkle. If you get the chance, finish by running the vacuum. You'll be the favorite of the siblings.
 If you've cleaned up indoors, you might move outside to do anything that needs to be done. Cleaning up outdoor toys, or other yard clutter, is a good place to start before moving onto yard maintenance and other tasks.


Mowing the lawn is a classic, though it might be more of a favor for dad, depending on how the chores are split up around your house. Depending on the season, raking leaves, shoveling snow, and trimming any bushes around the house can also be a great way of letting your parents take it easy and making the house look great.
 It might take some negotiating, but calling up some of your mom's closest friends, or some of your extended family members that your mother enjoys spending time with can be a great way of surprising her for a special occasion, especially if you organize a dinner yourself and don't force her to host. If you’re organizing around mother’s day and the spring weather is nice, make it a picnic. Organize plenty of food and drink and bring your mother to a pre-planned spot where fun guests are waiting. It'll be a great and memorable experience.


Plan a simple meal that you can prepare ahead of time and get it ready. Set the table and prepare everything for the evening, so your mother won't need to scramble when surprise guests arrive. Let her talk and visit with them, and take care of the other stuff yourself.

Prepare a thoughtful toast before the dinner, as tribute to your mom, if the occasion is right. You'll bring the house down.
If a big dinner with friends and family would stress your mom out, go for the simple. Show up with a pizza, six pack of beers, and Tremors 2 on VHS. Have a goofy quiet evening hanging out and joking around, just the two of you.
 One of the cheapest and most heartfelt ways to tell your mother how much she means to you is to write it down. If you want to surprise your mother with something meaningful, it doesn't need to be any more complicated than a sincere letter. Write down funny memories, stories, and thank you's. Let her know how you feel.


Get some nice cardstock that you can fold into a greeting card and decorate it with drawings and funny pictures for added flair. She'll love it.
Alternatively, hang little notes all around the house, in places where she’ll be sure to notice. Make each one a separate "thank you" for something she does every day that goes unnoticed.
 Homemade gifts will always trump store-bought things. Making your mom a little trinket, a card, or a picture is a great and easy way to surprise her and show her that you care.Weave a simple bracelet or necklace, or get more complicated with crocheting or knitting, if you're feeling ambitious.
Collect a bunch of drawings that you've made and bind them into a book. Dedicate it to her and give her the one and only copy.
Go for a walk and collect flowers, then present her with a bouquet of pretty greenery for the table.
 As long as you don't make a racket and burn the toast, one of the best ways to surprise your mom is preparing breakfast in bed. Set an alarm to get up at least an hour before your mother typically wakes and get the coffee going.


The trick to pulling off the breakfast in bed is going simple. It's probably not a good idea to try eggs Benedict, which is difficult and messy to eat, and it takes a long time to make. Try running out for some fancy pastries the night before and hiding them, so you can surprise mom in bed with coffee and croissants. Even making some cinnamon toast or making up a fruit salad can be a great breakfast.

