 This is the first thing many players do in the game to make a safe place for themselves.


If you're trying to get creative, make yourself a place with style! Try adding stairs, windows, wall decorations, and more to give your home a "finished" feel. This can make your home something you're proud of — not just a place you stop to use the crafting table.






Looking for an extra challenge? Try to recreate your real home in the game!

, A person's home is their castle! Once you've finished your Minecraft house, give it a set of walls. Stone blocks are plentiful and look great for this project. Not only will you make your home look more impressive — you'll also protect yourself from mobs if you're playing in survival mode.


If you're looking for an extra project, try adding a secret underground entrance so that only you can get through the walls.
 One easy way to get noticed is to build something so tall that it can be seen from miles around. Building a super-tall tower isn't terribly hard, but if you're playing in survival mode it's easy to die from an accidental fall, so watch out!


For an even cooler project, try putting a spiral staircase in your tower so that you can actually climb to the top of your tower.
If you build your tower near water, you can jump off the top and you won't be hurt (as long as you land in the water).
 Minecraft's block-by-block building style makes it easy to write out giant words and messages. For example, you might try marking your territory by building your name in huge letters or recreating the Hollywood sign. The possibilities are endless.


Careful with dirty words and profanity — some servers may ban you for this.
 What's better than one house? A whole community! Building a collection of small buildings is a fun way to make your mark on the Minecraft world. You might even try making special buildings to hold crafting tables, furnaces, treasure chests, and so on.


This is especially great if you often play with friends — each person can make their own house for a village you can call your own.
 This project isn't that hard to actually make, but it can throw newbies who don't know how to build it for a loop. Start by building a tower up to the height you want your fortress. Then, build a thin bridge out to the side. Make a wide, flat area of blocks connected to the bridge. Build your fortress, then, when you're done, get rid of the bridge. Your building will stay floating in the sky!


Try using the /sethome command while you're inside your floating building. Later, you can use /home to teleport yourself back so you don't have to build another bridge., After you've been building amazing projects for a while, reward yourself with a monument to your glory. For example, you might try making a giant statue of yourself in shimmering gold blocks. Alternatively, if you're a little more modest, you can try making something more abstract, like a pyramid or an obelisk.


Consider using the sign block (crafted from six wooden planks over one wooden stick) to give your monument a plaque at the bottom. After all, what use is a monument if no one knows who it's to?

, Minecraft's blocks are perfectly square, just like the tiny pixels used to make 2-D computer images. One ambitious project is to make an exact replica of a pixelated image. Video games are a common source of inspiration for projects like this. Minecraft experts sometimes go to great lengths to make exact replicas of Mario, Megaman, and other heroes of the 16-bit era of video games.


To do this, you'll need to have a copy of the pixel image you can look at while you're building. It's easy to find pixel images of video game characters on Google Image Search and similar sites, but you can also make your own pixel art here., In terms of the time and attention required, it's hard to beat making your own city. Getting an entire city perfect down to the last block of sidewalk can take weeks or months, but the result is truly impressive. You can make your own city from scratch or use an existing city for inspiration. Minecrafters have replicated everything from modern day New York City to fantasy cities from The Lord of the Rings and Game of Thrones.


For an added challenge, make buildings that you can enter and interact with, not just hollow boxes.
 History's biggest, most impressive architectural achievements are ripe for imitation in Minecraft. Making a scale model of something like the Eiffel Tower can take some serious time, but they're guaranteed to look amazing when they're done — after all, that's why they were built in the real world.


As other examples, you might try to recreate The Great Pyramids, The Empire State Building, The Colosseum, The Great Wall of China, or another famous piece of architecture.
 Water physics in Minecraft can be complicated, but you can make some truly amazing structures if you figure them out. For example, you might try building an area filled with long, curvy slides full of running water to make your own water park. Don't forget to build a way to get to the top of the slide!


You'll need plenty of buckets for this so that you can transport the water. You can craft a bucket from three iron ingots arranged in a "V" at the bottom of the crafting box.
 Bored of ordinary Minecraft building projects? Using the game's specialized command blocks, it's possible to make simple computers within the game world.These computers can then be programmed to perform various tasks — just like real computers!


Building one of these in-game computers is a very complex process. Luckily, there are a few good video guides available online, including this one. Know that you'll need lots of redstone ore for this project to build the command blocks and their "circuits".

