 There are many different bronzing lotions to choose from. Choosing a bronzing lotion based on your skin type, color, and you desired tan will help you achieve the results you are looking for. Some bronzing lotions allow you get instant results while others take up to a week. Some are longer lasting while other are more temporary. Consult online blogs and websites devoted to bronzing lotion and self-tanners to decide which product is best for you.If your skin is very light or pale, consider using a gradual bronzing lotion. Gradual bronzing lotions contain amino-acids that produce brown pigments in your skin. The color of gradual bronzing lotions usually peaks around 5 to 7 days after application.Some bronzing lotions are white and opaque in color, which often means they are more difficult to apply. If you don’t have much experience applying bronzing lotion, choose a bronzing lotion that is tinted so that you can apply it evenly.;
, Thick and coarse hair can get in the way of bronzing lotion and cause a patchy and uneven application. Wax or shave all areas you plan to apply bronzing lotion to.


You will most likely not need to shave if you have very fine hair.
 Bronzing lotions cling to dry and dead skin which can often result in an inconsistent and patchy application. Be sure to exfoliate thoroughly before applying your bronzing lotion for an even and smooth application.Use oil-free exfoliants. Most oils, even natural ones, will prevent the bronzing lotion from being absorbed.
 Applying bronzing lotion in large quantities will take a long time, especially if you have limited experience. Give yourself a few hours in the evening to prepare and apply your bronzing lotion.
 Wearing gloves will keep your palms from getting tinted and absorbing the color that is meant for your body. Try using a cheap pair of latex gloves while you are applying your bronzing lotion.If you are allergic to latex seek out a non-fibrous alternative online or at a beauty supply shop.
 Squeeze out a small portion of bronzing lotion into your palm and start with one body part at a time. Use broad, circular strokes to apply the bronzing lotion evenly. Be careful to avoid naturally lighter spots on your body, like under your arms. Don’t panic if you get some bronzing lotion on these spots, instead, simply wipe it off with a moist cloth.Have a friend help you apply bronzing lotion to your back, or use a strap or band for accuracy.
Follow the instructions on the bronzing lotion bottle to find out how long you should rub in and apply your bronzing lotion.
Try to dilute the bronzing lotion with moisturizer when applying to drier areas, like knees and elbows, as drier areas will absorb more of the lotion and appear darker than the rest of your body., Start with a small pea sized amount of bronzing lotion and apply it to your face in a broad, circular motion. Apply the bronzing lotion up to your hairline. If you have not achieved your desired color keep applying the bronzing lotion to your face in small quantities each day until you achieve your results.Be careful if you have light, blonde, or color treated hair and bronzing lotion can leave traces in your hair color.
If you have darker spots on your face from previous applications apply a small amount of clear, wax-based lip liner to the darker spots to deter absorption before applying bronzing lotion., If you applied your bronzing lotion in the evening, go to bed and take a shower first thing in the morning. Your body temperature heats while you sleep, which increases your skin’s absorbency. Avoid contact with water and try to avoid any activity that might make you sweat.


Apply powder to your body to avoid sticking to your clothes or bed sheets.
 Most bronzing lotions and water don’t mix. Apply a light body oil a few minutes before showering to reduce the amount of bronzing lotion lost when you need to clean. Try using a body cleanser that says it is pH balanced and avoid harsh soaps that remove moisture and color from your skin.


Try not to use scrubs or rough brushes as they remove some dead and dry skin as well as your new tan.
 If you notice that you missed a few spots, put a fresh pair of gloves on and apply a small amount of lotion in your palm. Apply the lotion in the same way as before. Be sure to apply the bronzing lotion lightly the second time and blend it around the edges so that appears even.Wipe off any excess bronzing lotion with a moist cloth.
 Dead skin will begin to peel and flake naturally as your skin begins to dry. The quicker your skin dries and flakes the quicker your tan will fade. Regularly apply a skin moisturizer in order to prolong your new sunless tan.