


Balconies and Patios can be great spaces for gardening. Depending on the size of your balcony or patio, pots or raised garden beds can be used for gardening.
If your balcony or patio is not large enough for growing containers, consider using your handrails to hang suspended pots.;
, Make note of your findings, as they will be useful in deciding what plants you will grow.


Full sun: about 6 hours of sunlight a day.
Partial shade: about 3 hours of sunlight a day.
Full shade: 1-2 hours of sunlight a day.



Analyze what produce your family eats most often.
Consider what produce your family uses occasionally, but cannot be purchased in small enough quantities. You can save money and reduce waste by growing these items in smaller quantities
Use these findings to draft a list of fruits/vegetables you might grow.



Check local plant nurseries or online shops for the plants or seeds you might grow. Make a note of their price and care instructions for later use.
Make sure your garden’s location will provide the plant with adequate sunlight.
Ensure that the plants you choose are hardy in your area.
Find rough estimate of the plant’s yearly production to help you decide how many individual plants to purchase.
 Potting soil comes in a variety of blends, so be sure to read the ingredients. Often an all-purpose blend will suffice for container gardens.



If you have more space, you can created a raised garden bed. Raised garden beds can be purchased from home improvement stores in various sizes, or built at home. These containers provide you with lots of space for growing.
If you have less space, a potted garden might be for you. When purchasing pots, consider ones that are as large as possible and have holes for drainage.
 Pre-grown plants are often more expensive, but they take away the hassle of starting your plants from seed. Starting your garden from seed can be personally rewarding as well as less expensive.



Total up the amount you typically spend on the fruits and vegetables you plan on growing. This can be an estimate, or a calculated average.
Total up your estimated cost, considering the price of seeds/seedlings, soil, tools, and containers.
Compare the two numbers.
 Include your seeds/seedlings, containers, soil, fertilizer, hand tools, and gardening gloves. Be sure to note the quantity of each.
 Check local home improvement stores, garden supplies, and online. You can find the most economic options by comparing prices among the three.
 If you decide to start your plants from seeds, you'll need seed starting materials. You could purchase a kit from your local garden supply, or gather the materials separately. You will need small containers with holes for drainage, a seed starting mix, and your seeds.


Fill the containers with seed starting mix.
Create a small hole in the seed starting mix, about half an inch deep.
Place the seed in the hole and cover with seed starting mix.
Provide the growing seedling with plenty of light, warmth, and water while it grows.
Be sure to start your seedlings in a timely manner. The information on your seed package should give you further details. Typically you need to start seeds 4-12 weeks in advance.
Once your seedlings have reached maturity, you can move to the next step.
 Make sure you're working in an area you won't mind getting dirty. If you are planting your garden in a raised bed, you'll need to assemble it in its permanent location.
Set up your containers. Have your raised bed assembled, or your pots set out and ready.



Fill your raised bed or pots with soil.
Dig a hole. The hole must be deep enough so that when the plant is placed in the hole, the top layer of potting mix is level with the top layer of soil.



Hold the plant’s container, and gently pinch the stem of your plant near the base between your forefinger, and thumb.
Gently squeeze or tap the bottom of the container to dislodge the soil, and pull the plant from the container. The potting mix should remain intact.
Gently break apart the potting mix and roots at the base.



Place the plant in the hole.
Gently press the soil up against the stem, filling in any gaps between the potting mix and the surrounding soil.
Plant with adequate space to grow. The care instructions will indicate the amount of space to be left between plants. Properly spacing your plants will ensure that they have room to grow and adequate nutrients.
Water the soil thoroughly after planting. This will help the roots settle in.
, Now that everything is planted, you must ensure that your plants receive adequate water. Each plant has different water needs, so it is important to pay attention to individual plants. Also, pay special attention to the weather to avoid over or under watering your garden.
 There are two types of pests you need to be aware of.


Fortify against insects. When dealing with insects, you can protect your plants using either organic or chemical pesticides. Do some research to find out which option is best for you.
Fortify against small animals. Animals such as deer, rabbits, and groundhogs can cause damage to your garden if it is at ground level. Consider using netting or fencing to keep small critters away.
 Clip away any dead leaves or unhealthy produce. Pull weeds from the surrounding soil.
 As your plants begin producing, collect produce as it ripens. You can then prepare your produce fresh, or consider home canning to keep home grown fruits and vegetables through the winter months.

