 The employer must fill out the necessary forms and submit them to the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) or other appropriate authority. If you are the worker (called a “beneficiary”), then you cannot file the forms yourself.;
, If you are trying to get an H-1B visa for an employee, then you need to electronically file an LCA with the Department of Labor or other appropriate government department.You must apply by visiting the website at http://www.foreignlaborcert.doleta.gov/. Click on “File an LCA” in the “I Want To…” box. You will be directed to a screen where you must create a Portal Account. To begin creating the account, click on the hyperlink that says “Create Your Portal Account Today.”
Click on “Create an Employer Account” and then enter the requested information. If you have questions, then call (312) 353-8100 or send an email to LCA.Chicago@dol.gov.Be sure to submit the LCA no earlier than six months before the job starts.The Department of Labor or other body will review your LCA within seven working days. If something is incomplete or inaccurate, you will be contacted.
 There are many classifications for temporary, nonimmigrant workers. Each classification has its own form to fill out. To find the appropriate form, visit http://www.uscis.gov/working-united-states/temporary-workers/temporary-nonimmigrant-workers and look on the left hand column under “Temporary Workers.”


Click on the link of the appropriate classification. You will then be taken to a page which will contain links to the forms.
 Which form you use will depend on the classification. Many classifications use Form I-129, “Petition for Nonimmigrant Worker.” You can either download the form by clicking on the link and saving, or you can order forms by calling 1-800-870-3676.Be sure to download the instructions as well. These instructions contain important information for how to fill out the forms correctly.
You should never have to pay anyone for the forms. They can always be accessed for free from the USCIS.
 Before sitting down to fill out the form, you should gather necessary information so that you are not scrambling when trying to complete the paperwork. Form I-129, for example, will ask for the following information:your name and address
your contact information (phone and email)
Federal Employer Identification Number (FEIN), IRS Tax Number, or Social Security Number
Nonimmigrant Classification requested
the job title and its location (city and state)
the compensation for the job
the basis of the classification (such as new employment or continuation of previously approved employment)
most recent petition/application receipt number
the name of the beneficiary (the worker)
the beneficiary’s contact information and Alien Registration Number
the beneficiary’s date of birth and location of birth

, Once you have downloaded the form, you should fill it out by using either a typewriter or by printing legibly in black ink. If requested information is not applicable, then write “N/A” or “none.” Do not leave the space blank.Once you have completed the form, you must make a duplicate to submit to USCIS along with the original. Also keep a copy for your records.
 The amount you need to pay will depend on the classification that you request. If you file an I-129, then the filing fee is $325.You can pay by check or money order. Make payment to “Department of Homeland Security.” Do not abbreviate this name.There may be other fees, depending on the classification you are requesting. For example, if you are petitioning for an H-1B visa, then you might have to pay an additional $500 Fraud Prevention and Detection fee. You also must pay another $2,000 fee if certain conditions apply. See the instructions for detailed discussion of fees., Where you mail the completed form will depend on the type of classification you are requesting.You should see the instructions for information on which center to mail your completed form to.


Generally, you should not file the form more than six months before the job’s start date.For example, if a job is scheduled to start on October 1, then you should not submit the application before April 1.
 A lawyer can help you figure out what classification you need in order to bring the employee to the United States. Because each classification has slightly different requirements, the lawyer can help you complete the required paperwork successfully.To find a qualified immigration attorney, you should visit your state’s bar association, which should have information about how to get a referral.
You should also see Find an Immigration Lawyer for helpful tips.
You also need to talk with the attorney about how much you will pay in filing fees. The USCIS fee structure is complex, and some nonimmigrant visas will require much more than the initial $325 filing fee. You are encouraged to meet with a lawyer before submitting your application.
 If you need help, then you should contact USCIS at its National Customer Service Center, 1-800-375-5283.Be sure to take down the name of the person you speak with and summarize the conversation so that you can refer back to it later.
 As the person coming to work in the United States or other country, you have certain rights. For example, you have the right to:fair compensation and treatment
not be held against your will
keep possession of your identification documents
not be retaliated against for reporting abuse
request help from groups, such as unions or labor rights groups
access the United States courts to seek justice

, There are many organizations committed to helping non-citizens in the United States. If you are being exploited on your job, then contact the following organizations:The National Human Trafficking Resource Center runs a 24 hour toll-free hotline: 1-888-373-7888.
The Trafficking in Persons and Worker Exploitation Task Force runs a complaint line at 1-888-428-7581. You can call Monday through Friday, 9:00 am to 5:00 pm Eastern Standard Time.

