 If you smell burning toast while you’re working the gears of the car, this is probably an issue with your clutch. But it could also be your break pads.


You could be riding the clutch pedal too hard, which creates friction between the clutch facing and the clutch slips. If you lighten up on it, the smell should disappear. The material is made of paper, which is why the smell has the faint odor of burning paper.
If you’re pressing your brakes too hard, you might be overheating your brake pads. This can also cause a burning smell. It could help to downshift. You also could have a dragging brake because a brake caliper piston might have seized. Another possibility is to make sure you didn’t leave your handbrake on while driving.
One way to check the brake pads is to see if any of your wheels feels hot. If none of them does, then maybe it's the overheated clutch instead of a dragging brake shoe.
 Figure out why you smell oil burning. Burning oil has an odor that is thick and acrid. When you smell it, you need to determine right away whether you are running out of oil.


Another possibility is that your engine is overheating. If neither one of these things seems to be the answer, check to see if there is oil leaking onto your engine block. You may need an oil change if you are smelling burning oil.
You could also check your transmission fluid using a dipstick. Maybe your transmission fluid is low. This can cause it to burn in the transmission because the gears get too hot because they are not properly lubricated.
 If the smell is closer to rubber burning than oil burning, check to see if a hose came loose under your hood.


It’s possible that it’s touching a part of the hot engine. Sometimes an oil smell is from a leaking crankshaft seal.
If that’s the case, you’ll also find oil on the pavement beneath the car most likely., If the car smells like maple syrup after you’ve warmed up the engine (or even after you’ve shut it off a few minutes later), you should take immediate action.


This smell might mean that your coolant is leaking from somewhere like a radiator or heater hose. This kind of a problem means it's a good idea to take your car into a professional.
If you smell maple syrup outside the car, this might mean that you have a leaking radiator cap or that the radiator itself has a leak. If you smell it inside your car instead, this might mean that your heater core has gone bad.