 For best results, it's ideal to start at least two weeks before the concert you want to attend is scheduled, and the longer in advance you prepare, the better.;
, Write down (or print out) where the concert is taking place, how much it costs to go, when it is happening, and who is performing.
 The more they know about it, the more comfortable they will feel about you being there.
 However, discuss the concert with your folks before you buy the ticket, because if they say no after you've bought one, then you might be stuck with an expensive ticket you can't even use!

, Get clear written directions if you have never been there before. The important thing is who will be driving you there and back. Your parents will feel better letting you go if the driver is a reliable, respectable person. As a rule of thumb, the older the driver is, the happier your parents will be.
 (Make sure the driver knows this too!) It may seem dorky, but consider asking your parents to drive you. Riding a bus or other public transportation would work well too.
 Try to make sure your friends don't look too scary when they first meet your parents, and get them to act polite.
 You're safer together than you would be alone.
 Your parents may want you to "earn" the trip to the concert. So if you don't get along well with your parents, make sure your behavior is very good for at least a week before you mention the concert. Be considerate. Do chores without being asked more than once, say "please" and "thank you," smile, and tell them a little about how your day at school was.
 The concert is your time to have fun, but consider choosing an outfit that is reasonably modest and low-key. Your parents don't want you to attract "the wrong kind of attention." Remember, the music will be just as good no matter what you're wearing.
 Mosh pits are actually somewhat dangerous, and your parents may not want you near one. Tell your parents you won't go in the mosh pit, and they will be more likely to say yes to the concert. (But don't say it unless you mean it.)

, Play one or two of their more positive songs, tell your parents about the band's great charity work in Africa, and so on. Be truthful, but show the band in the best possible light. Explain why seeing them live is so important to you.
 Again, your parents like to know where you are and what you're up to, and knowing you'll be home at a certain time gives them assurance.
 You won't be able to hear it ring during the show, but you will be able to keep in touch with your family if there is a problem. Call your parents after the concert, when you're leaving to come home.It would be better to text during the concert.

