 Sci-fi, adventure, mystery, non-fiction, fiction, realistic fiction?
What authors do you like? Research books by authors you've enjoyed in the past. Chances are they'll have another publication that you'll also enjoy, and by searching by authors, you can get more of the same types of books that the author wrote.

Is there a type of book, or a specific book you would like to try? If there is, search the book up and read its summary. That will help you decide if the book is right for you.
Are there any books in a certain series you would like to read? If you know the series then you can search the series online and you can find the books. You can also go to the library and see if they have the series that you are looking for.


What are your interests? Insert your hobbies into your library catalog search and set it to, "Keyword." By doing this, you will find books that you can read that you might like.;
, Often times good books will be quietly collecting dust in your own house. Maybe you forgot about one, or someone who is living with you has a couple good books. Also by search your house, you can find books for yourself, that you can read, and it won't even cost you any money.
 You can ask your older sibling, your mom, your dad, your best friend, or even your English teacher. Friends or family with whom you have things in common can often make excellent book recommendations. Local, small bookstores often have wonderful recommendations, and when they get to know you, it's even better! You should ask people that like the same genre of books that they have read, so that you can match books that you read.
 Read the bestseller lists published in most newspapers or weekly magazines. Find out which new books are making headlines, and why.
 Being a book club member is often a way to experience new books you might never have had the motivation to read otherwise. Joining a book club or making a book club helps you know who else likes the same books as you, and you can read books that others have read and discuss them. Get people that like to read books to join your book club.
 If it does, then look on the library's search engine. You can use the search engine to find a certain book, books by a certain author, or anything as broad as just a certain genre. You can also do this at home.
 He/she will be happy to help you.
 If you see anything that looks appealing, pick it up and read the back of the book. Skim over the back of the book or the inside flap, wherever the summary is. If that holds your attention, read the first page or so. If it still holds your attention, then it's probably a good book for you. The subject might be interesting to you, but the writing style can be key to enjoying it. If it looks interesting, put it in your pile. Keep doing this until you have a few books.
 Of course, if you have many books, this can be time consuming. Reading the first chapter of a book can help you know what books and genres of books that you like, and so that you won't have a hard time looking for books again.
 If you would rather have book 1 over book 2, put book 2 back. Keep doing this. If you would rather have book 3 then book 1, put book 1 back, etc.
 Chances are great that you'll like what they recommend. Make this list where you can see it, so that you can keep adding to this list as time goes on.This way you can see what books you have already read, and what books you really want to read.
 These two sites have loads of free e-books that you can download, print, or read on your computer. If your school or library has its own e-books then you can go see them too from there.
 Grab anything vaguely interesting off the shelves, check it out, and read it! You'll be surprised at what you like.,