 Maybe you’re one of those people who drags out of bed after hitting the snooze button four times. Setting an intention to take 30 minutes to an hour for yourself when you rise can be just the motivation you need to roll out of bed at the first sound of the alarm.


To ensure that you actually get out of bed, choose an activity that you find rewarding or rejuvenating. Make it anything you want. Consider doing yoga, meditating, making a nice wholesome breakfast, or turning on your DVR to watch the episode you missed of your favorite TV show. Using morning time for something like exercise, practicing gratitude, or affirmation journaling can also set the tone for a positive day.
If waking up early is a chore, aim to get up 15 minutes earlier each day until you reach your goal time. Increase your chances of being successful by getting in bed 15 minutes earlier, too. Doing this not only gives you time to yourself, but you will also feel nourished and in a better mood to go about your daily activities.;
, If you are bogged down running errands or attending events, opt to drive solo. While this doesn’t change your schedule, it does give you several minutes to catch your breath before reentering a demanding social situation.


Turn on the radio full blast. Refresh your lipstick or hairstyle. Pray. Take deep breaths. Do whatever you need to do to revive and recollect yourself as you move between stressful holiday activities.
 Do you find yourself complaining each week because you never seem to have any time to do things you want to do? Plan them. During the busy holiday season, you can’t expect a window of free-time to magically open up. You have to make it.Pencil a candlelight dinner with your partner, a movie night, or a massage into your calendar at the start of the week. Don’t get into the habit of pushing these back because then you will never end up doing them. Make these activities priorities in your schedule.
 Giving in to other's demands can lead to you having no room in your schedule for yourself. Start carefully evaluating what you say "yes" to in order to make more time for you.


If other people’s demands start to encroach on your me-time, say “I’m so sorry, but my calendar is all booked up for the week. Next time, can you give me advanced notice?”
If saying no makes you uncomfortable, have a friend practice with you so that you can become more comfortable with saying no in various ways, even when pushed.
 Getting more time for yourself during the holidays could be a matter of simplifying. Is your daily and weekly calendar filled to capacity with various obligations that bring little joy or meaning to your life? It may be time to reevaluate.


Look at your planner or calendar and jot down all the obligations you have in a week beyond the necessities like work or school. Go through each activity and consider if it’s something you truly enjoy doing. If not, see if you can pass it off to a friend, family member, or coworker—or, completely get rid of it altogether.Keep in mind that sometimes you have to let go of certain activities if the stress of doing them outweighs the benefit.
 If you have children, then you might consider doing a childcare swap with a friend. Arrange to watch her children one day or afternoon and then let her do the same for you. This will provide each of you with some additional time for self-care.