 A violation of public policy is based on a specific statute or regulation, or on your state constitution.


For example, you cannot be fired for exercising a legal right such as taking time off work to vote or serve on a jury.Consider consulting an attorney. Claiming your former employer violated public policy when she fired you entails making legal analysis. Although you can review the law on your own, you won't understand it the way an attorney would. Even if you can't afford to have an attorney represent you for the entire case, you may be able to talk to someone about your initial complaint.
 Before you start drafting your lawsuit, pull together all the documents or witnesses you have that will support your claim that your former employer violated public policy when she fired you.


For example, if your boss sent you an email that said "You should have participated in early voting. If you leave work on election day to vote, don't bother coming back," that might support your claim that she fired you because you took time off to vote.
 Wrongful termination lawsuits based on public policy are rather complex, and can cost a lot of time and effort. Send your former employer a letter describing your findings and conclusion and offer to settle the matter out of court.


You don't want to threaten your former employer, but you do want to remind her that court cases like this can be costly, and may cause her damaging negative publicity.
Come up with a reasonable demand and offer to compromise. Give your former employer a deadline to respond to your letter before you file a formal lawsuit., If the basis of your public policy suit is discrimination or retaliation, for example, you may be required to first file a complaint with a state or federal agency and exhaust that administrative process before you file a lawsuit in court.
 Check with the clerk of the court where you plan to file your lawsuit for forms or samples that you can use as a guide to draft your lawsuit.


Each court has its own rules regarding other forms that must be included with your summons and complaint to initiate a lawsuit, such as a notice of hearing or a cover sheet. Make sure you have forms or examples of each of these documents.
Once you've completed and signed your complaint, you'll need to make at least three copies of all the documents you intend to file with the court.
 Take your original documents and your copies to the clerk's office and file them to initiate your lawsuit.


The clerk will stamp all your documents "filed" with the date. Depending on the court, he may also schedule a court date for an initial hearing or other court appearance.
You will have to pay a filing fee to have your lawsuit filed. If you don't think you can afford to pay the fee, you can fill out an application for a fee waiver in the clerk's office. If your application is approved, you won't have to pay any fees., After you've filed your lawsuit, you must serve your former employer so she knows you are suing her and when and where she needs to show up in court.


You complete service by getting someone over the age of 18 who isn't involved in the case to give the complaint and summons to your former employer.
You also can serve your employer by sending the documents using certified mail.After your former employer is served, you'll have to complete a proof of service form that tells the court you served your lawsuit., You can use a neutral, third-party mediator to help resolve your dispute more quickly and inexpensively than going to trial.


Mediations tend to be less formal than a trial, so you don't have to worry about knowing all the rules of evidence and procedure, as you would if you went to trial.
Because mediation is confidential, the process allows you and your former employer to resolve the case without a public record, which your former employer might prefer., Before trial, you will exchange information and evidence with your former employer during the discovery process.


You may send questions to your former employer that she must answer under oath, or you may request documents such as your personnel file that are relevant to your case.
Participating in the discovery process requires extensive knowledge of the court's rules of evidence and procedure, so you should consider consulting an attorney to help guide you through it.