 If you get an infection, you're going to have to tell your parents, because you may need medical treatment. Tattoo aftercare includes not picking at or scratching your skin, which could make your parents suspicious, anyway.Don't try to hide your new tattoo by re-wrapping it. The tattoo artist will cover the piece immediately after tattooing and instruct you when to take it off. Do not wrap it again, with a bandage, cloth, or anything else.Tattoos cannot be submerged in water for at least two weeks afterwards, so if you are on the swim team, wait until the off-season.Tattoos can "weep" for a few days, so be aware some fluid (clear or the color of your tattoo) may soak through your clothes. You should try to wear something loose anyway, so the tattoo can get air and heal., Once your tattoo is fully healed, you can disguise it with makeup. There is high-quality makeup made for this specific purpose, and it actually works. Many are strong enough to stay on all day, won't rub off, and may even be waterproof.In a pinch you can use white face paint to cover a tattoo. Paint two layers over your tattoo (allowing the paint to dry in between layers), then cover with liquid foundation the color of your skin. A spritz of hairspray can help keep it in place.If your tattoo is very dark or has bring colors, purchase a primer as well. This will neutralize the colors of the tattoo so it won't show through your coverup., If you strategically placed your tattoo, it should be easy to hide with long sleeves, a thick watch band or bracelet, a bandaid or a ring. Just wearing your hair down can cover a tattoo behind your ear or on the back of your neck.
 Try not to be adamantly anti-tattoo. Say something like, "Actually, I think they can be really beautiful if they're done well." You could even hint that you would consider getting one someday. If you say there's absolutely no way you would ever get one in a million years and then your parents see the one you've been hiding, you're going to come of as a bigger liar.

