 While it may be unavoidable, large family gatherings usually require a large space. Get away from any rude family members by simply changing locations. Be polite and greet him with a handshake and a smile; you’re not obligated to engage in anything more.


Stay out of earshot. Even if you change locations, you may still be able to hear something infuriating. Be sure to move into a room where his voice will be muffled or close the door of the room he is in.
If it is a family member that you will see everyday like your sibling, schedule yourself to limit your time with him. For example, join extra-curricular activities after school so you won't have to be at dinner with your rude younger brother.;
, Many times rude people are simply trying to get attention by eliciting a reaction. If you know what topics she enjoys evoking, avoid them by bridging to a more neutral conversation that won’t require her opinion or reaction.


For example, steer clear of her political views and talk about topics that you know she enjoys and remains positive about like her recent home improvements. Say something like, “That is a difficult issue that I’d like to read more about before I place my vote. Speaking of reading, I read an article on how to build a really great deck. How long did it take you to build yours?”
If it is a family member that you have to interact with every day, keep cordial. Talk about common interests or dislikes to form a bond.
 Depending on the size of the family gathering, there may be opportunities to break away and start an activity. Large family gatherings may need people to help supervise children, prepare the meal, or clean the location. Delegating a job that he enjoys will keep him occupied.


For example, ask for help with your car, home renovation tips, or playing sports with the kids.
Be careful not to include him in an activity where he could offend more people. If you ask him to participate in activity with a lot of social interaction, you could be fueling a volatile situation.
Keep busy around the house or take up a new hobby to stay away from any rude siblings. Better yet, fuel the interest or support the hobby of your rude family member. For example, if your rude brother likes a certain type of book or video game, buy him several of that genre to keep her occupied.