 One of the primary rules is that generally you want to look broad and large as a male model. If your shoulders are angled away from the camera, it slims your profile. Keep your shoulders relaxed and facing forward.To enhance the look of your shoulders, lean forward about an inch or two (2.5 cm to 5 cm), bringing your shoulders closer to the camera.
There are times when you’ll be photographed from the side or that you’ll want angled shoulders, but most of the time squared shoulders are best.;
, If you have any amount of gut, you’ll want to pull it in slightly by tightening your abdominal muscles. Make your stomach as flat as possible without sucking it in too much. This will slim your waist and also push your chest out a little. It also helps to straighten your posture, which lengthens your core muscles., Walking is a common “pose” for the male model. Practice walking with your body straight and your head held high.The pose requires one leg extended forward with the toes about one inch (2.5 cm) off of the ground. The back foot should be up on the ball of your foot. One arm is extended slightly forward while the other is slightly back.Lengthen your stride slightly beyond how you'd normally walk. This helps emphasize the pose, especially if you tend to take small steps.
 You have many options for how to lean, which are variations of leaning with your back to the wall or with one of your shoulders to the wall. If you lean with your back to the wall, bend one knee and raise your foot against the wall. Leaning on a shoulder, cross the foot that is closer to the wall over the other foot.If you lean with your back to the wall, you don’t have to raise one leg, but don’t keep both legs completely straight. Bend one leg and have one forward and one back a little bit.
When you are leaning, stay almost straight up and down. You don’t want your feet so far from the wall that you are at a significant angle.
 This is a classic pose of confidence and calm. You have two options: either put your whole hand into your pocket, or put about half of your hand into the pocket leaving the thumb out. Hook your thumbs around your belt loops for a variation.Another option is to only put one hand in the pocket. With this hand position, it's good to place your other hand on the opposite shoulder or run it through your hair.
 If you want to show relaxation or thought, place your hand somewhere on your face. You have many options with this. Put your forefinger and thumb around your chin or curl your fingers and place them against your chin.Your hand on your face gives you a lot of looks to work with. Test out different hand positions to see which seems to convey what you are looking for.
 If you are wearing a full suit and tie, putting one hand to your tie is a classic and classy pose. Place your thumb and forefinger so that one is on each side of the knot of the tie. You don’t have to actually move the tie at all. Placing your hand there will give the appearance of movement.A slight variation to this pose is to put your second hand about halfway down the tie. If you were going to tighten it, this is how you’d look, but this pose is distinctly different from the one hand look.
 For a serious or commanding pose, cross your arms as you normally would. To adjust the pose for modeling, place both of your hands on the opposite arm, rather than tucking one of the hands under. Keeping both of your hands visible looks better.A variation on this look is to leave one arm hanging straight down and grabbing around the elbow with the other hand. It’s a way to cover part of the torso but gives a different impression than both arms crossed.
 Wide eyes are not generally right for male models. Raise your bottom eyelids slightly in a squint. This gives you a look of deep thought or careful consideration. It evokes confidence and poise as opposed to fear or confusion., If your chin is resting, you’ll often show extra skin under it. Push your head forward so that your neck extends. Don’t raise your chin revealing your nostrils, but angle it downward about 10% lower than normal. This removes the double chin and it also hides a portion of your neck.If pushing your chin forward does not give you the right look, think about pushing your ears forward. This will move your whole head in the way it needs to go.
 A winning smile for a male model must reveal some of your teeth. Don’t smile so big that your mouth is spread wide, but don’t keep your lips pressed together. Open your lips just enough to reveal your teeth., Unless the photo specifically calls for direct eye contact with the camera, choose a point above and beyond the camera. Look at an angle toward the left or the right of the camera or look at a point just below the camera.


These give the impression that you are thinking deeply. It also gives you a bit more of a natural look than if you are looking directly at the camera.

