 Select a contour color and/or matte bronzer that is one or two shades deeper than your skin tone. For the highlighter, choose a color that is slightly lighter than your natural complexion.


Cream and powder are both acceptable choices for contouring your face.
Cream provides a glossier texture on your face, while powder provides a matte look.
A makeup blending brush is recommended for applying the makeup. Effective brushing ensures proper blending and avoids streaky makeup.;
, Apply the contour color in a diagonal line just underneath your cheek bone, from the center of your cheek toward your ear.


Elongate your face when applying the contour. This can be done by puckering your lips together (like making a fish or duck face). Your cheekbones become more visible and can guide where you place the contour.
Place the contour higher on your cheeks if you want to go for a sharper look.
 Blend the contour line diagonally from near your ear, along the cheek bone, down toward the corner of your mouth. Use the blending brush to avoid harsh streaks and mask the overall appearance of makeup.
 Place the bronzer below the initial contour line and lightly blend into your cheeks if desired. Brush evenly and gently to get a proper blend.


Bronzer may not be necessary if you already have a darker complexion or the contour makeup was sufficient in creating the illusion of shadows under the cheekbone.
 Apply a blush of your choice above the contour line to draw attention to your eyes and cheekbones. Blend in the same direction as you blended the contour line.
 Apply your highlighter under your eyes and down the bridge of your nose to brighten those areas. This will make the contoured and bronzed area of your face stand out more in contrast to the highlights – dark colors recede and light colors “pop.”If you chose to use cream contour and bronzer, you will need to set the makeup with a setting powder to keep the cream long-lasting and from smearing too easily.
 Alter your hairstyle to better accentuate your cheeks, or to give your face an overall thinner appearance. Pulling your hair back into a ponytail, parting your hair on the side instead of the middle and adding volume to the crown of your head all help your face appear thinner.

