 While it is illegal in the United States to forbid employees from discussing salaries and compensation under the National Labor Relations Act, many businesses frown on such discussions and view it as a reprimandable offence.This means that you could be punished at work for discussing your salary with other employees or inquiring about your colleagues’ salaries. You might not be fired for this, but you still don’t want to get reprimanded at work.
 Since the discussion of money is a relatively sensitive topic, you don’t want to spring it on your boss as a surprise. They’ll need time to gather the necessary information (salary statistics, performance reviews, etc.) and to mull over what they want to discuss with you.If you have an annual performance review meeting, this would be a great time to bring up the discussion. Otherwise, give your boss a heads up that you would like to schedule some time to discuss your performance and compensation.
 Project an appearance of confidence and professionalism when the topic of salary negotiation arises. You want to show your boss evidence of why you feel that you have earned a raise, not simply that you feel you are entitled to one because a certain amount of time has passed since your last raise. Being able to speak confidently and openly about salary expectations will show your employer or associate that you are professional and confident. Getting embarrassed or nervous when speaking about your salary may give the impression that you are not capable of discussing complex issues with coworkers.
Remember that compensation is not a "gift" from an employer, but a negotiated exchange of compensation for expected value to be received by employer. If the employer did not believe they would get that value, they would not make that offer.
 Don’t try to give your boss a presentation about all the reasons you think you deserve a raise. Listen to your boss’s questions and comments and try to tailor your responses to what they want.Don’t offer a lot of extra information or get emotional.
Try responses like, “I feel that I am a valuable asset to this company for reasons X, Y, and Z, and based on my contributions to the success of our business, I feel that I should get a raise.”
If your boss asks you for a specific dollar amount, aim high (but be aware of any salary ceilings). This means that your boss can counter with a lower offer that you both could be satisfied with., If your boss says no to your request for a salary increase, accept their answer. Don’t get visibly upset or start an argument. Once you confidently present your case, the rest is out of your hands.Of course, you can also ask for other forms of compensation like more paid time off or other benefits.
Ask your boss for constructive criticism so that you can do a better job in the future and get the raise you want.
Don't burn bridges or quit even if you don't get the raise you feel you deserve. If you want to start looking elsewhere for a higher salary, remember that it is easier to find another position while employed than unemployed, so stick with your current job until you find something else.

