 Spread your fingers as far apart as possible and flex all of the muscles. The boxing wrap is meant to support the hand while it's in motion, so you should begin by exposing the wrap to all the movements you might use while boxing.
 It's located at the opposite end from the Velcro. Make sure the underside of the wrap is against your hand; if you wind the wrap upside down, you'll have trouble fastening it when you're finished. Most wraps will have a tag or printed place letting you know which side should face down.
 Wind the wrap around the back of your wrist 3 to 4 times, depending on the size of your hands and the level of stability you want to attain. Finish with the wrap at the inside of your wrist.









The wrap should be flat and directly overlap itself with each turn.
If you find that you need to add or reduce length to the wrap at the end, adjust the number of times you wrap your wrist.
 Pull the wrap around the back of your hand, over the area just above your thumb, and across your palm to the other side. Wrap the same place three times, ending with the wrap on the inside of your hand near the thumb.
 Start by wrapping your wrist one time, finishing with the wrap near your thumb. Wind the wrap from the bottom of your thumb toward the top, then back to the bottom. Finish by wrapping your wrist once more.
 Starting at the inside of your wrist, wind the wrap in the following way to secure your fingers at the base:









Wind the wrap from the inside of your wrist over the top of the hand and between the pinky and ring finger.
Wind it back from the inside of the wrist over the top of the hand and between the ring finger and middle finger.
Wind it again from the inside of the wrist over the top of the hand and between the middle finger and index finger. Finish at the inside of the wrist.
 Start by wrapping the wrist, then wrap diagonally from the inside of your wrist to the outside of your hand. Continue wrapping across your palm and just above your thumb. Repeat until the length of the wrap has been used, then finish with one last wrap around your wrist.
 Velcro it to secure it in place. Flex your hand and throw a few punches to determine if it's comfortable. If the wrap is too tight or too loose, redo it.
 It may be difficult to wrap using your non-dominant hand at first, but you'll get the hang of it after some practice. If you need help ask your coach or a partner to do it for you.

