 Even though they may be truly terrifying and stick with you, try your best not to worry about them. Allowing them to cause your more stress and fear will only increase the likelihood of more nightmares in the future.Try to focus on positive life events instead of fear and worry. Thinking of a safe space or a loved one will help keep your mind in a positive space.
Think of how much better your sleep is becoming now that you are improving it.;
, As much as possible, leave any fears or concerns behind you as you lay down to sleep. Dwelling on these negative things as you fall asleep will only increase the likelihood of having a bad dream.As you fall asleep, focus your mind on the rhythm of your breath.
Gently and naturally, follow your inhalations and exhalations with your mind.
If your mind wanders, refocus on your breath.
Focusing on your breath will allow your thoughts to pass by without disturbing your sense of calm.
Try not to dwell on any thoughts as you fall asleep. Let your thoughts pass by without focusing on them or making judgements about them., Throughout the day, pay careful attention to your thoughts. If you find yourself starting to blow your fears and worries out of proportion, stop. Catch these thought patterns and instead focus on positive aspects as best you can.Keeping your problems in perspective will save you unneeded stress.
Don't exaggerate any causes of stress, be as objective as you can.
 If you feel too stressed or find yourself focusing on negativity, try imagining a safe space. By visualizing a safe space, you can find relief from the source of your anxiety for a time, allowing you to return relaxed and refocused.Find a real, physical space that you can get comfortable in.
Start to imagine your safe space. Your safe space can be any place at all, real or imagined, that makes your feel secure and relaxed.
Use all of your senses in your imagining of your safe space. See, hear, smell, feel, and maybe even taste your secure and safe space.
Be aware of your body and any tension you are carrying. Release and relax that tension as you enjoy your safe space.
Be in your space for for at least five to ten minutes. When you feel relaxed, slowly return by opening your eyes and calmly sitting for another minute.
 Negative emotions can lead to behaviors that will only cause further negative emotions. If you find yourself engaging in negative, risky, or impulsive actions, stop.Stop any risky, impulsive, or self-destructive behaviors immediately. Excessive alcohol consumption is a good example of a dangerous behavior to cut out of your life.
Replace these with healthy and beneficial outlets for your feelings. If you are under stress, try reacting with an activity such as physical exercise or peaceful meditation.
 If your nightmares have repetitive elements or happen frequently, you can use imagery rehearsal therapy to rewrite your bad dreams. Follow these steps to take control of your nightmare:If you have a recurring nightmare, write it down in detail.
Make any changes you want with your nightmare or write an entirely new dream that you want to have. For example, if you encounter a monster in your nightmare, try changing it into a kitten.
Before bed, and throughout the day, imagine your new dream with the changes you made. Visualize the new narrative and remind yourself that this is how the dream is now.
Be confident that this new dream is the one you will experience instead of the old nightmare.

