 Instead of "laying down the law" in order to have your child do what you want, it's better to set a limitation and offer a set of choices.In this way you acknowledge that your daughter has feelings about the matter and allow her to have some control over the situation.


For example, let's say your daughter acted out by scribbling with marker on the wall. Tell her that you see that she is angry, but the wall is not an appropriate place to scribble. Offer her the choice of coloring on paper or another acceptable surface.This strategy also works for older children. Let's say your daughter wants to go on an overnight trip out of town with her friends, but you think she is too young. Acknowledge her disappointment about the trip and tell her it's not appropriate for someone her age. Give her other other options instead, such as going on a day trip or staying the night at a closer location., This tends to work best for young children. When your daughter performs the behavior you want to stop, explain what she did wrong and send her to a designated area where she cannot play. In order for this to be effective, you should clearly explain what the child did, lay out the consequence, and tell her should happen in the future instead.


A good rule for putting children in timeout is one minute for each year. So if your daughter is 3 years old, she probably only needs a 3 minute timeout. This may seem an insignificant amount of time to you as an adult, but much beyond this and she will no longer realize she is being punished. Small children are easily distracted and move on quickly., Grounding school age kids from video games or television is often effective. Adolescents tend to respond to restricted participation in social activities and limiting internet and phone access. In this case it is also important to clearly explain to your daughter what she did wrong, name the consequence, and explain what should happen in the future instead.


You might consider grounding her and offering her to restore the privilege as soon as she has done what you want.
 Punishments must be age appropriate and relative to the offense in severity. Punishing too severely likely will backfire.


Very young children have very limited attention spans and may no longer make the connection between the punishment and the offense after just a few minutes.
Stripping teens of all privileges, especially for periods longer than a couple of weeks may leave you without leverage. If the teen has nothing left to lose, there's no incentive to following the rules.

