 No one wants to kiss cracked, dry lips! The silkier the lips, the easier a time you'll have kissing. A quick lick will do in a pinch, but for the best kisses you should moisturize those lips. Keep yourself hydrated, and apply products like lip balm. Products like Burt's Bees, Carmex, or Bag Balm can get your lips smooth and silky.


A lip gloss can make your lips even juicer for kissing, if you like wearing that kind of thing.;
, Good breath with a sweet taste to your lips are important for any make out session. Neck kisses often result in your breath going straight to their face, so be prepared.
 Don't start the make out session at the neck. Start at the mouth and make your way there. This is much sexier (although, there's certainly something to be said for those sneaky-from-behind neck kisses). Trail kisses from mouth to neck for ultimate effect.
 When you kiss the neck and anything around it, aim for sensitive areas. The back of the neck, for example, is much more sensitive than the side of the neck (which is more commonly the source of focus). Ears, the corners of mouths, and the collar bone are good places to try.
 Not slow as in "I'm not sure about this" but slow as in "I know exactly what I'm doing and you're going to beg me for it". Enjoy each touch, each texture, each flavor as you move across their skin. This will have them...eager for more.
 You should vary between the lightest of kisses and firm, strong kiss. The variation is what makes the kiss (and make outs in general) more interesting and fun. You don't want to seem robotic!

, A little nibble or even a strong bite can be a huge turn-on for your partner. This is most effective on the side of the neck, rather than the front or back. Be careful though: this is an easy way to leave marks or a bruise, which may land your partner in hot water with family, school, or work.
 Then, of course, there's the classic sucking. This is most sensual if, like varying pressure, it is a quick suck and then release, perhaps interspersed with other techniques. Be careful though: this is an easy way to leave marks or a bruise, which may land your partner in hot water with family, school, or work.
 Whether a quick probe with the tongue or a long sensual lick from earlobe to collarbone, licking is an important part of a good neck kiss. This is also safer than biting or sucking, as it's not going to leave any marks!

, Changes in temperature trigger those sexy tingly nerves. Get such changes in temperature by lightly blowing over some skin you've just licked. A hot sensation can be created by nuzzling or by blowing out a big puff of air (like you're trying to see your breath). The cold is more effective than the hot, however, contrary to what you'd think.
 Moaning, whispered dirty talk, and sometimes even a growl can be a sexy sound for your partner to hear while you nibble. Don't be afraid to make a little sound!

, While you're kissing, you should be moving your hands to caress their chest, cup their face, grope their...erm...you get the idea. You don't want to seem like a dead fish. Show them just how alive you are by overloading their body with sensation.
 Some people enjoy an hour long neck-snog, but generally neck kissing should be a prelude to something else. You especially don't want to linger too long on the neck, as hickeys can really get your partner in a lot of trouble.
 Apply these techniques to a variety of places on your partner's body. All of the nerve endings that make neck kisses feel so good can also be found in other places, like the inner thigh or the wrist. Bonus: hickeys in these spots are way easier to hide!

, Just wander back to the neck every now and again, trailing kisses like we talked about. The variety is what makes for a great make out.
 If you're really going to insist on ignoring our hickey warnings, we can at least keep you prepared on what to do when you get one!

