 This drug is an aspirin-free pain reliever, which are the recommended choice in treating arthritis symptoms such as morning stiffness. Though acetaminophen does not fight inflammation, it will help reduce your pain and is safe to take more frequently than some other pain relievers.Tylenol is an example of an over-the-counter medication that contains acetaminophen.
Follow the packaging’s label regarding dosage. Take as little as if effective. Do not take more than 3,000 mg per day.Seek advice from your doctor before taking acetaminophen if you have a liver disease or abuse alcohol.
 Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are another type of medication that can help with morning stiffness. As their name implies, these do fight inflammation, and will reduce the swelling in your joints that cause discomfort; however, extensive NSAID use can have negative side effects.Specific NSAIDs include aspirin, ibuprofen (such as Advil/Motrin), and naproxen sodium (Aleve). Make sure NSAIDs are safe to use with any other medications you may be taking.
Talk to your doctor if you find yourself taking NSAIDS more than a few times a week, or consistently for a period over two weeks long. Side effects associated with prolonged NSAID use include heart complications, gastrointestinal discomfort, and kidney damage.Alternatively, try topical medications that contain diclofenac sodium, such as Voltaren gel.
 It may be worth setting your alarm clock half an hour before you want to get up. Place the pill and some water (in a resealable container) near your bed. When your alarm goes off, take the medication and doze off until you need to get up.Even if you are unable to fall back asleep, giving yourself 15 minutes or so before getting out of bed may help. Alternatively, get up to do a basic task, such as make coffee, take a pain reliever, and get back in bed to allow your joints to loosen up before starting the day.
 Capsaicin is found in chili peppers and can reduce the amount of a pain neurotransmitter (substance P) that sends pain signals to the brain. Apply thin layer of capsaicin cream over painful and stiff joints. Apply between two and four times every day for the cream to be effective and therapeutic. Wash hands after applying.Capsaicin must be used continuously to keep substance P levels low.
The cream may cause burning or stinging for the first few weeks of use.
 Let your doctor know about any over-the-counter medications you are taking. They may talk to you about prescribing stronger NSAIDs or other drugs designed to help fight arthritis. New drugs, such as modified-release prednisone, were developed to target morning stiffness in particular. Though they have yet to hit the open market, drugs such as this can be taken at night and may help prevent morning stiffness.