 Washing and waxing the car, washing windows, raking, shoveling snow…tackle your chores and burn calories at the same time! Focus on the cleaning activities that have the highest calorie burn, like scrubbing the tub or vacuuming. Listen to music or an audiobook while you work to make the time fly.Make your chores a real workout by including a set of exercises like sit-ups or squats every 20 minutes.;
, Volunteer for a community-service project, like building a home with Habitat for Humanity. Join or create a local group to clean up a nearby park or beach. Offer to walk your elderly neighbor’s dog. Add social value to your community while you get yourself moving., Normally this isn’t a great fitness suggestion, but Nintendo's Wii Fit actually does a good job of getting you up and moving in a fun and social interaction.Have friends over to challenge each other on a cold or rainy day when you can’t go outside.


Other options out there are Nike training for Xbox360, Your Shape for Wii, EA Sports Active for Wii, Fit in 6 for PS3, Everybody Dance for PS3, and lots more you can find in stores or online., Anything can be exercise if you make it so, even shopping. Go shop in real life instead of online, park far away from the store and walk, take the stairs instead of the elevator, browse the entire store and go down every aisle before you even start looking for what you want, and get yourself another size when you’re in the dressing room. You can even do subtle exercises while you walk around or wait for a cashier to open up. Carry a basket instead of pushing a cart, carry your coat, shop for your heaviest item first and carry it around with you. Do calf raises, butt clenches, front arm raises, and wall sits while you’re hanging out., Like organizing and being in charge? Come up with your own exercise routine to do at home and get a group together to participate. Try a structure like: crunches, planks, squats, plyometrics, push-ups, and triceps dips off the edge of a chair. Create a circuit by assigning a number of "reps" to each activity (e.g. 20 crunches) before moving on. Go through the whole circuit maybe twice when you start, and you can gradually increase how many times you go through the whole routine as your fitness improves.You can also try getting really original and making your own obstacle course. Use old tires, jump ropes, chairs – anything that can turn into something you can climb over, jump over, dodge, or workout with. Challenge each other to races through the course.
 Playing a sport is a great way to be active, make friends, and have fun. Whether you play for your school’s team or look online for local community teams, there are so many sports and activities that you’re likely to find one that excites you. Get the team dynamic with volleyball, touch football, basketball, baseball or softball, field hockey or ice hockey, lacrosse, cricket, cheerleading, wrestling, rowing, or soccer. Get competitive or just have fun with tennis, skiing, running, gymnastics, swimming, skateboarding, or snowboarding. Find an indoor and outdoor sport that you like so you can play during any season., If you like being outdoors and have the space, try your hand at gardening. Peruse your area for local groups that organize activities like camping, hiking, beach days and even bird watching.If you live in a city, go on an urban walking or biking tour of your area and explore your home in a whole new light.
 Walk, skate, or ride your bike instead of driving whenever possible. If you take the bus, get off a mile from home and walk the rest of the way. Take the stairs instead of the elevator when available.Just getting around actively during your day will help you be in shape.
 Look for classes that interest you at your local YMCA, school, church or community center. Lots of places teach classes like martial arts, dancing, ballet, pilates, or yoga. Even activities like acting classes or joining a choir will get you out of the house and moving.If there’s something you want to do but no class around, teach yourself! There are tons of books and websites that teach skills and activities. Yoga, for instance, is a home-friendly alternative to the gym. It is perfectly possible to do yoga at home as guided by books or internet sites that show you technique.You can also break out those goofy fitness DVDs for aerobic-style workouts at home. It’s hard not to have fun while wearing spandex!, There’s truly something for everyone out there. Try something fun and different like water aerobics, hula hoop, jumping rope, rock climbing, hip hop, belly dance, or roller derby. Learning a new skill is a great way to keep your body AND mind active, and it’s fun to push yourself out of your comfort zone.Utilize online discounts like Groupon and LivingSocial, which often have deals on fitness activities and classes. This is a fun way to try something new without breaking the bank and keep your workouts exciting., Doing any activity is challenging if it feels like a chore, but having a great time getting fit starts with motivation! Think about what you want to get out of your fitness. Look good? Feel great? Get stronger? Meet new people while being active? Know your goal, and make it specific and realistic. Write your goal down and your brain will know you really mean it.For example, maybe you want run a 5k a for charity. Set small attainable goals like, “I’ll be able to run 1 mile three days this week, and 2 miles four days next week,” etc. If you want to join your school’s soccer team, set goals about what skills to practice and how to build endurance up until tryouts.
 Make sure you drink plenty of fluids before, during, and after any exercise. Find juices or low-sugar drinks that you like to replace drinking soda.This isn’t an exciting goal, just a really important one for staying healthy. You should drink at least 8 eight-ounce glasses of fluid on a normal day to stay hydrated, but will need more if you exercise that day, it’s really hot outside and you sweat, or if you’re sick., Make eating healthy fun by taking charge of your lunch instead of buying food at school.Help with the grocery shopping, pick healthy items that you like, and make a lunch plan. Do your best to include four servings of fruits, five servings of vegetables, and four servings of dairy products each day.


Try healthy options like pasta salad with fresh vegetables, hummus and veggies for dipping, fun fruits like blood oranges and kiwis, homemade soups, rice bowls with egg and avocado, stir fry, or vegetarian burritos with black beans and sweet potato.Turkey paninis and fresh salads made at home are great options, too.The possibilities are endless!
Help make dinner, too! Get a cookbook you really like that promotes healthy eating, or come up with your own creative recipes. Your family will appreciate it and you’ll love taking charge of your diet. You can also make some extra and pack leftovers for school the next day.
 Involve a friend or a group of friends in your fitness goals. Working out is more fun together and you can motivate each other to stick to a workout plan. Start a sports team with a group, or just get friends together to play Capture the Flag. You’ll be more active when someone is counting on you, and you’ll be encouraging others to get fit, too!

, Try to eat healthy and be active for at least an hour every day, but don’t beat yourself up if you miss a day or have some pizza with friends instead of a salad. Fitness is important, but overall health is about being physically, mentally, and emotionally fit. Be sure to reward yourself for hard work.


Just run that 5k you wanted to? Treat yourself to something you like – a night out with friends, some new clothes or a video game, your favorite (even unhealthy) meal. You worked hard and deserve it.

