 Before actively adding romantic decoration, you need to take away things that detract from the romance of the room. The best way to do this is to clean up the room and remove things that get in the way of romance. Stand in the room and look around at what is present. Let your eye linger on things that seem overly business-like or seem to represent work and responsibility. And consider moving those things to another room of the house.Remove things that are work related, such as a computer or printer, or are household chores, such as piles of clean or dirty laundry. These types of things will remind you of responsibilities and will take away from the romance of the room. Keep work out of the bedroom and get in the practice of finishing chores that must be done there rather than leaving them sit.
Get rid of excess stuff in your room. You most likely have things in your room that you don’t need anyway, so for the sake of romance, actively search the room and get rid of anything that you don’t use or need. Look for piles of papers, receipts, bills and put them in a box. Fill a trash bag with anything you don’t mind parting with and take it to a thrift store.;
, This may not seem romantic when you first think about it, but consider it a moment more. A nicely made bed looks fresh and inviting. It looks like it is calling you to lay down and pose in a romantic way. A messy bed looks like someone else has already been laying down, or rolling around in it.


If you want to maintain the romance day to day, get in the habit of always making the bed. If you want to enhance the romance for one night, then you only to need to make it on those occasions.
This could apply really well if you are wanting to create a romantic look for a night in a hotel room. Consider taking your own bedding to replace the standard, starchy hotel linens and comforter. Using your own soft sheets and more attractive bed spread will enhance the hotel room and give it a feel of home.
 Two main ways to do this are to scent the room itself and scent the pillows and sheets. To scent the room for a special night, or maintain this consistently, candles, incense, or scented plugins are all good options. Scent the pillows and sheets with the woman’s perfume to remind the man of his love for her.


There is not necessarily one scent that is automatically romantic, so you may need to experiment and see what scent works for you. Sandalwood and patchouli are both recommended as romantic scents. Vanilla is also usually considered relaxing and romantic. You may want to go with a woody evergreen that reminds you of a cabin in the mountains, or a beachy scent that transports you to a warm hideaway. The romance is in the scent that calms you and fits your relationship’s personality.
If you are planning for one specific romantic night, make sure you experiment with scent ahead of time to make sure both people enjoy it. A smell that one person doesn’t like will instantly ruin any potential romance, no matter how great the rest of the room is.
For a hotel room, or a room in your house that's larger than the bedroom, make sure you give the candles or incense plenty of time to burn and fill the whole room. The larger the room, the longer the smell will take to really cover the room.
If you are setting up a room besides the bedroom, like a living room, you can still scent the couch or seating. You may even want to spray a basic fabric freshener first to remove any lingering odors before adding a new scent.
When planning romance for a specific night, not just in general, consider if you want to leave the candles or incense burning when the night starts or only have them burn long enough to scent the room properly.
 This may be a step for occasional romance, rather than an all the time decorative option, but both the room temperature and the lighting are important. You want the room to be just the right amount of warm, but not enough to make you sweat. And changing the lighting from the usual can enhance the romance.Set the thermostat between 68 and 75 degrees, depending on the outside temperature. You certainly don’t want to be cold in the bedroom, but too much heat will be uncomfortable too.
For lighting, try changing out your regular light bulbs for ones that are a light, rosy pink, at least in bedside lamps if it’s an option. This shade of lighting sets the perfect mood and tends to make people look better. Also, 60 watt or less is best for bedroom lighting. You don’t want it to be too bright.
Consider what room of the house you are decorating and whether you intend for the changes to last or if they are for a specific moment. You could always move a lamp into a room if ceiling lights are currently the only option. This way, you can easily move the lamp after a specific romantic occasion.

