 Breakfast is probably the most important meal of the day in terms of energy.It gets your metabolism going and is probably the one meal that you can afford to splurge on. Breakfast primes you for the rest of the day. Researchers have even found that a little breakfast cereal in the morning is linked to lower amounts of the stress hormone cortisol.If you're worried about weight, don't skip breakfast. Have a complete breakfast, a smaller lunch, and perhaps a snack for dinner. Eating in the morning is far preferable to eating at night for people trying to lose weight.;
, Eating three large meals spaced out five to six hours can take more energy to digest, causing a huge surge in blood sugar, followed by a fall off a cliff. The idea is to keep blood sugar levels stable all day instead of letting them rise and fall.


Eat foods that will sustain you. At every small meal, choose either carbs (preferably complex), protein, or healthful fats (omega-3, monounsaturated, etc.). These foods will help keep you from feeling hungry an hour or two after eating.
Eat the same amount of food every three to four hours, or go for healthful snacks in between smaller meals. Examples of energizing but healthful snacks include:
Nuts
Olives
Yogurt
Fresh fruit
Legumes



, Just because a little bit is good doesn't mean that a lot is better. Just ask the over-caffeinated person who has trouble getting to sleep at a reasonable hour at night because they've consumed more caffeine that is healthy or balanced. 200 to 300 milligrams of caffeine should be your upper limit — any more and you'll be bouncing off the walls at night and slugging out of bed in the morning., Doctors and scientists alike believe that drinking water is a key component to being healthier and feeling more energized during the day, although there is some disagreement about how much is needed.


One camp says that you should drink enough water to stay satiated. Drink whenever you're thirsty, but be aware of the color of your urine: if it gets too yellow, up your fluid intake (especially water).
Another camp says that humans should drink between 2.2 liters (0.6 US gal) (for women) and 3 liters (0.79 US gal) (for men) per day.Know that alcohol or caffeine can make you dehydrated, so you'll probably need more water to compensate. If you do drink alcohol or caffeine regularly, be aware of that.
 Fiber releases energy at a slow, steady rate, unlike simple carbohydrates, for example, giving your body more energy to work with over a longer time.Some foods that you might consider eating or snacking on that are high in fiber:


Breakfast cereal such as raisin bran, or oatmealBeans or legumes such as black beans or edamame
Popcorn
Pear or apple, with skin
Whole wheat pasta

, People are scared of fats, and sometimes justifiably so. But not all fats are created equal. Omega-3 fats especially, but also monounsaturated fats, can be healthy and even energy-rich.Omega-3 fatty acids, found in nuts, fish, and certain vegetable oils (canola), will help you feel mentally alert in addition to giving your diet a healthy makeover.

