 You want to be confident, not cocky. The best ways to do this are with your body language. Body language will tell a girl a lot of things about you, so pay attention to how you present yourself.


Speak clearly and stand up straight.
Make eye contact when you are having a conversation.
Smile.
Be approachable. Don't appear preoccupied with your phone, or act disinterested in what is going on around you.
 Open doors for her, and pull out chairs to let her sit down. Saying please and thank you are basic manners. Failing to display basic manners is neither sexy or cute. Knowing how to display common courtesy shows that you had either had a good upbringing or have improved yourself. Either could be seen as attractive to some women.
 If you sing, go rock climbing, or speak a foreign language, you should slip that detail into a conversation nonchalantly.The key is picking the right moment.


Ask her questions about herself. If you want to find an opportunity to slip in information about your musical talents, start by asking her what kind of music she likes. Then comment on her response from a musician's perspective. For example, if she says she likes a certain band you can say their guitarist is great and he inspired you to learn to play yourself.
Bragging, boastful behavior can be a big turn off, so avoid going over the top. Avoid talking about money or how many girls you've slept with. Most women aren't going to be impressed.
 Don’t just go in for a kiss. This can be your third or fourth move, but it is not a first move.


Seize an opportunity to gently brush her hair from her face. This shows your soft, caring side.
You could also tell her how pretty she looks, or how beautiful her eyes are.
A kiss on the forehead is sweet and, not too sensual.
Touch her in non-sexual places. The upper back and hands are usually okay places.
 Telling lies scores no points at all. You might have to tell her something and forget. If she brings it up on another date and you don't remember, you will look really bad.
 Tell her if you want a serious relationship, an open relationship, or just some fun dates. Don't get her hopes up falsely. If you are just looking for a fling, let her know. Don't be selfish and break her heart, and always be prepared to be let down yourself.

