 Since the computer will need to be on whenever you want to print, you should install it on a desktop computer that is frequently turned on.


Most printers can be installed by simply plugging them in via USB. Refer to your printer's documentation if you are having difficulty installing the printer on the computer that will be sharing it.
 If all of the computers on your network are running Windows 7 or later, you can use the HomeGroup feature to quickly and easily share your printer. If you are using Windows Vista or XP, skip down to Step 5 of this section.


Create a HomeGroup on the computer sharing the printer. You can access the HomeGroup menu from the Control Panel. Click the Create a homegroup button to set up a new HomeGroup.
Follow the prompts to set up the HomeGroup. When asked what you want to share, make sure that "Printers & Devices" is set to "Shared".
Copy down the password that appears.
 Now that the HomeGroup has been enabled, you can connect to it on your laptop.


Open the HomeGroup menu in the Control Panel on the laptop.
Click the Join now button and enter the password.
Follow the prompts to finish setting up the HomeGroup connection. You will be given the option to pick what you want to share, but this isn't necessary for connecting to the shared printer.
 Now that your laptop is connected to the HomeGroup, you'll be able to select the shared printer as if it was connected directly to the laptop. Make sure that the computer sharing the printer is turned on.


Open the Print dialog in any program and select the shared printer from the list of available printers.
If you are using HomeGroups, this is all you need to do. The next steps are for users who can't use the HomeGroup feature.
 If either the laptop or the computer sharing the printer are running Vista or earlier, you'll have to share the printer manually.


Open the Control Panel and select "Network and Sharing Center" or "Network and Internet" on the computer sharing the printer.
Click the "Change advanced sharing settings" link and then expand the "Private" network settings.
Select the "Turn on file and printer sharing" option and select Save changes.
Return to the Control Panel and select "Devices and Printers" or "View devices and printers".
Right-click on the printer you are sharing and select "Printer properties".
Click the Sharing tab and check the "Share this printer" box.
 Now that the printer has been shared, you'll need to install the printer on your laptop so that you can select it.


Open the Control Panel and select "Devices and Printers" or "View devices and printers".
Click Add a printer.
Select "Add a network, wireless or Bluetooth printer". Windows 8 users will not need to select anything.
Select your network printer from the list of available printers. Follow the prompts to install the drivers automatically. If Windows cannot find the correct drivers, you may need to download the from the printer manufacturer's support site.

