 Once you have compiled many stories from your past, you can start writing a narrative. This narrative will have a structure like a book or movie, but it will involve real events from your life. Choose a story from your past, or have a trusted friend or family member help you to pick one.


This story may be made up of one story from your journal. For example, it might be the time when you saved up enough money from your afterschool job to buy your first computer.
It might also come from several stories that you wrote that all carry a common theme. For example, you might write about how you had to constantly overcome your own shyness to become more assertive.
 A good story usually begins with a description of a safe or successful time in your life. This sense of stability will make the eventual disruption seem even greater when it arises.For example, perhaps you felt very secure after graduating college. You had a great job lined up.
 This disruption will present the first conflict in your narrative. It may be a mistake that you made, a personal tragedy, or an unfortunate accident.


For example, you might write about how you lost your first job in an economic recession.
 There are often many obstacles that may have made it difficult for you to achieve your goals. Describe each of the trials and tribulations you faced trying to overcome your problem.For example, as a relatively inexperienced worker, you struggled with finding a new job. You had to take an unpaid internship, which made it difficult to support yourself and find paying work.
 The story should resolve with you overcoming your problems and achieving your goals. Describe the steps you took that helped you seize control of your life and come out on top. These should be framed as positive actions that empowered you to take the necessary steps towards success. Keep in mind that it is okay to include any missteps you made along the way because this will emphasize your resiliency in that situation.


For example, you learned how to be frugal and efficient. You applied this skill at your internship, which impressed your bosses and got you a full-time job., There should be some moral or guiding lesson that you can derive from your story. This might be a lesson that anyone can benefit from, thus making your personal experience a story that can lead others in your example.


Think about how this story made you who you are today. For example, you might say that the practical financial skills you learned from long-term unemployment taught you how to manage money, a skill which you used throughout your career.
You may also try to come up with a motivational statement or metaphor that sums up your experience. This can be a saying that you then pass on to your team, employees, or mentees. For example, you might say, “Even in our darkest moments, we can learn valuable skills that will help us succeed not just in our careers but in our lives.”

