 Start by just drawing, copying, or adding the images you want in your pattern. The size of the canvas will be the size of each repeating piece of the pattern later on, so remember this as you're working.
 Depending on your workflow and pattern, you may end up with multiple layers. Merge them together by right-clicking in the Layer's Palette and selecting "Flatten Image." Note, however, that this will prevent you from editing the individual layers.


It is often best to use "Save As" to save a copy of the pattern with layers, allowing you to go back and make changes if need be., In the top bar, click on "Filters" → "Other" → "Offset." This will slide the pattern slightly, making it easier to repeat perfectly. Make sure you set the following settings:



Vertical Offset: Set to half of your image's height. If you have a 600px tall canvas, set the vertical offset to 300px.

Horizontal Offset: For now, set this to zero.

Wrap Around: Make sure that this setting is checked., Again, use "Filters" → "Other" → "Offset" to pull up the appropriate menu. Then set the following settings:



Vertical Offset: Set this to zero.

Horizontal Offset: Set this to half of your image's total width. If the width is 100px, you set the Horizontal Offset to 50px.

Wrap Around: Make sure that this setting is checked., When the filter is put into effect, it moves some of your pattern over. You can, however, use copy and paste or create new drawings to fill in the small spaces if you desire.


Remember to flatten your image again if you decide to create more layers or images.
 Remember, this pattern wants to repeat perfectly, so the each side should be balanced with the other. For example -- if your pattern is made up of stick figures, and the top of a head pokes out the bottom of the pattern, that figure's body should be right on the top edge of the pattern, so that they match up when repeated. To get this, Offset the image one more time, using the same settings as the first time.



Vertical Offset: Set to half of your image's height. If you have a 600px tall canvas, set the vertical offset to 300px.

Horizontal Offset: For now, set this to zero.

Wrap Around: Make sure that this setting is checked., Click on "Edit" → "Define Pattern." This saves your pattern in the pattern box. You can choose a new name, then hit "OK" to save the pattern., Open up a new canvas, one at least 3-4 times bigger than your pattern. To use the pattern, select "Fill" from the Edit menu, then choose "Pattern" from the Use box. You can then choose your pattern from the Custom Pattern Menu.You can also use "Layer" &Rarr; "New Fill Layer" → "Pattern..."
The Pattern Stamp Tool, found under the Clone Stamp Tool, allows you to "paint" a pattern on the image.