 If your child is being physically bullied, then he may display unexplained injuries. If you notice any of these signs, it could be an indication that your child is being bullied.Cuts, bruises, or scrapes that your child won't explain.
Torn or beat up clothing.
Broken or missing toys, electronics, or possessions.
Coming home from school hungry. Some bullies will take money or food from their victims and your child may not be eating lunch.;
, Not all bullying involves physical violence. Verbal taunts can be just as damaging as physical attacks. Watch for any unexplained or sudden changes in your child's behavior.A sudden withdrawal from friends or activities. This will often center on activities where the bully is present. For example, if your child suddenly doesn't want to go to baseball practice, there could be a bully on the team.
Sudden mood swings or aggression.
Sudden decline in grades at school.
Difficulty sleeping.
Nightmares or night terrors.
 If you notice any strange marks or behavior in your child, then it might just be as simple as asking if someone is bothering him at school. Some children may be embarrassed or not want to talk about it, but a direct question might give them the push they need to open up.Ask specific questions based on what you've observed. For example, state "I've noticed you're coming home from school hungry lately. Is someone taking your food?" or "I see that your jacket is ripped. Did someone do that to you?"
It's likely that your child won't open up right away when you ask. In that case, make sure to leave the lines of communication open and tell your child that you're always around to talk.
Ask your child indirect questions if he won't answer direct questions. You could witness a bullying scene on TV and ask how he feels about that., Children are usually more likely to discuss problems with their friends than their parents. If you know your child's classmates, you can try to ask one of them if something is going on at school.Generally you should only take this step if you've witnessed other signs of bullying. Questioning classmates should only be used to confirm your suspicions.
 Adults involved in your child's life away from home may have observed problems he has had with other children. If you've noticed any physical or emotional signs of bullying, you can arrange a meeting with one of these adults. Ask if anyone has been bothering your child or if your child has complained about anyone., You should never belittle or criticize your child if he tells you about being bullied. It takes a lot of courage for children to confess this to their parents. If you react negatively, you could force your child further into isolation and endanger his or her emotional state.Instead, listen calmly to what your child is telling you. Say that you believe him and that you're glad he told you.
Children who are bullied often feel alone and isolated, so it's very important to let your child know you're always there to help.
 Bullies get satisfaction from seeing their victims react to their taunting. If your child starts ignoring the bully and walking away when the taunting starts, the bully can lose interest. , Sometimes your child will be in a situation when he can't walk away, like in class or on the field. In this case, you child has to ignore the taunts and teasing to disarm the bully. Acknowledge to your child that this is very difficult to do. It is definitely easier said than done, and your child might resist this idea when you bring it up.
It would help if you did some exercises with your child to help control emotions. Tell your child to close his eyes and count to ten when feeling angry or sad. Deep breathing exercises can also help control emotional responses. , If a bully refuses to leave your child alone, you can encourage him to stand up to the bully. Bully's like to pick on weak targets, and will often back down when someone stands up against them. Tell your child to say firmly, "Leave me alone!" the next time the bully bothers him.
Never advise your child to physically attack the bully. This won't help the situation.
 Bullies are usually more likely to go after victims when they are alone. Your child can avoid this by sticking with a friend or classmate whenever he goes somewhere the bully might be., If these methods don't work, your child needs to seek help from another adult. A teacher, principal, or coach might not even be aware that there is a problem, so your child has to report it. These people can take steps to prevent the bullying., After your child initially tells you about the bullying, it will probably be easier to talk about it in the future. You must, however, make sure you keep checking in with your child regularly. Ask how these methods are working and if the situation is getting any better. If nothing is working, you might have to step in and take more active measures.
 In many ways, the symptoms of cyberbullying are the same as other typical signs of bullying: decreased performance in school, mood swings, loss of interest in activities, sleep disturbance, and others previously mentioned. With cyberbullying, however, your child's anxiety may center on the computer or other technology.You child may suddenly not want to use the computer and express fear about the idea of being on the computer. He may look nervous or anxious when using it.
Your child might close or block the computer screen when someone comes near because he may be embarrassed about the bullying.
Remember that your child can access the internet from a mobile device too, so pay attention to changes in using these devices too. He may decrease usage, use password protection when he didn't before, try to hide the device, or express anger when someone touches the device.
 When you notice signs of cyberbullying, you should not waste time. Ask your child right away if he is having trouble with someone online. That way, you can take action as soon as possible before the bullying causes serious problems for your child., Like with ignoring a bully in real life, ignoring the messages is the first step to stopping the bullying online. When the bully stops getting a response from a victim, he will often lose interest. Hopefully this will be enough to stop the bullying, but be prepared to take further measures if the harassment doesn't stop.Social media sites and email servers often have an option to block certain people. Use this feature if your child won't stop reading or responding to the harassing messages.
 Cyberbullying presents a unique opportunity to present concrete evidence of bullying. It can be difficult or impossible to prove if a bully said something to your child, but texts, emails, and messages are all in writing. If you end up needing to contact the school or law enforcement, having evidence will help your case. Save any conversations or messages your child receives to document the bullying., Schools used to be powerless to stop cyberbullying if it occurred off of school grounds. In several states, however, the laws have caught up with the technology and schools have included cyberbullying in their bullying prevention measures.When you contact the school, remember to have the evidence you've gathered close at hand.
 In many states, making threats of physical violence, even online, are against the law. Contact your local law enforcement office if the bully has threatened your child to see if the police can help you.Again, have any evidence you've collected ready to show the police.
 Unfortunately, it's possible that even with all of your help, your child will still be bullied. In this case you should step in. Set up a meeting with someone at your child's school and report the problem. If you know who is bothering your child, tell the school representative. You want to make sure that the school knows who is causing the trouble so it can respond accordingly., If you know the bully's parents, you might have to talk to them if the bullying continues. They might be unaware that their child has been bothering yours, or they might not care and say that you're making too big a deal of it. Whatever the case, it might help for your to get in touch with the bully's parents.Don't act accusatory towards the bully's parents. Their first instinct will probably be to protect their child. Instead, say something like "I notice my child has been having some problems with yours lately, and I'd like to talk about it," instead of "Your child is a bully!"
Be prepared to talk to them again. It's possible that the bullying won't stop after this meeting, so be prepared to have another talk with them if you have to.
If you don't know the bully's parents, it's better to go to the school. Your child's teachers and/or principal can then approach the bully's parents if they think it's necessary., All kinds of bullying put a lot of emotional stress on your child. Prolonged bullying can lead to depression, anxiety, violent outbursts, and suicide. You can prevent this by taking your child seriously and getting him or her help when it's needed. Contact a mental health professional if the bullying continues or you notice any signs of emotional distress in your child.