 Performing a subcutaneous injection properly requires more than just a needle, syringe, and medicine. Before proceeding, make sure you have the following:


A sterile dose of your medication or vaccine (usually in a small, labeled vial)
A suitable syringe with a sterile needle tip. Depending on the size of your patient and the amount of medication to be administered, you may choose to use one of the following configurations or another safe, sterile means of injection:

A 0.5, 1, or 2 cc syringe with a 27-gauge needle
A 3 cc luer lock syringe (for large doses)
A pre-filled, disposable syringe


A container for safely disposing of your syringe.

A sterile gauze pad (usually 2 x 2 inch)
A sterile adhesive bandage (note - make sure the patient is not allergic to the adhesive, as can lead to irritation near the wound)
A clean towel;
, Most subcutaneously-injected medications are clear and come in similarly-sized containers. Thus, it's easy to get them mixed up. Double-check the medication's label to ensure you have the right medication and dosage before proceeding.


Note - some medication vials contain only a single dose, while some contain enough medication for multiple doses. Ensure you have enough medication to administer the recommended dose before continuing.
 When performing a subcutaneous injection, the less you have to come in to contact with un-sterilized materials, the better. Having all your tools laid out ahead of time in a clean, easily-accessible work area makes the process of injection quicker, easier, and more sanitary. Lay your towel on a clean surface within easy reach of your intended work site. Lay your tools on the towel.


Arrange your supplies on the towel in the order you will need them. Note: You can make a small tear in the edge of your alcohol wipe packages (one that doesn't puncture the inner pocket containing the alcohol wipe) to make them easier to quickly open when you need them.
 Subcutaneous injections are meant to be given into the layer of fat below the skin. Certain areas of the body allow this fatty layer to be accessed more easily than others. Your medication may come with instructions about which specific injection site to use - check with your local health care professional or the medication's manufacturer if you are uncertain of where to administer your medication. Below is a common list of sites for subcutaneous injections:The fatty part of the tricep on the side and back of the arm between the elbow and shoulder
The fatty part of the leg on the outside front portion of the thigh between the hips/groin and knee
The fatty part of the frontal abdomen below the ribs, above the hips, and not directly adjacent to the belly button
Note: It's important to rotate injection sites, as repeated injections into the same location can cause scarring and hardening of the fatty tissue, making future injections more difficult and interfering with absorption of the medication.
 Using a fresh, sterile alcohol wipe, clean the injection site by gently wiping in a spiral motion from the center outward, being careful not to go back over already clean areas. Allow the site to air dry.


Before wiping, if necessary, expose the area of the body where the injection will be given by moving any clothing, jewelry, etc. away. This will not only make it easier to give the injection without obstruction, but also reduce the risk of infection from un-sterilized clothing coming into contact with the injection wound before it's bandaged.
If, at this point, you discover the skin at the injection site you've chosen is irritated, bruised, discolored, or distressed in any other way, pick a different site.
 Because subcutaneous injections pierce the skin, it's important for the person administering the injection to wash his or her hands. Washing kills any bacteria present on the hands, which, if accidentally transferred to the small wound caused by injection, can cause infection. After washing, dry thoroughly.


Be sure to wash methodically, ensuring all the surfaces of your hands receive soap and water. Studies have shown that the vast majority of adults don't wash their hands well enough to kill all bacteria., Set this on the towel. If this tab has already been removed, as in the case of multidose vials, wipe the vial's rubber diaphragm with a clean alcohol wipe.


Note - if you are using a pre-filled syringe, skip this step.
 Hold the syringe firmly in your dominant hand. Hold it like a pencil, with its (still capped) needle pointed up.


Though, at this point, you shouldn't have removed the syringe's cap, handle it carefully regardless.
 Grasp the cap over the needle with the thumb and forefinger of your other hand and pull the cap off the needle. Take care, from this point forward, not to allow the needle to touch anything except your patient's skin when s/he receives the injection. Lay the discarded cap on your towel.


You are now holding a small but extremely sharp needle - handle it with caution, never carelessly gesturing or making sudden movements with it.
Note - if you are using a pre-filled syringe, skip to the next section.
 Keeping the needle pointed up and away from you, use your non-dominant hand to pull the syringe's plunger, filling the syringe with air to the desired dosage.
 Carefully use your non-dominant hand to grab the vial of medication. Hold it upside down. Take extra care not to touch the vial's rubber diaphragm, which must stay sterile.
 At this point, your syringe should still contain air.
 The air should rise through the liquid medicine to the highest point of the vial. This serves two purposes - first, it empties your syringe, ensuring that no air bubbles will be administered along with the medicine. Second, it makes it easier to draw the medication into the syringe by increasing the air pressure in the vial.
 Making sure the needle tip is submerged in the liquid medicine and not the air pocket within the vial, pull back on the plunger slowly and gently until you have reached your desired dosage.


You may need to tap the sides of your syringe to force air bubbles to the top, then expel the air bubbles by gently pressing the plunger, forcing the air bubbles back into the medication vial.
 Repeat the process of drawing medication into your syringe and expelling air bubbles until you have the desired dose in your syringe with no air bubbles.


It's very important for there to be no air bubbles in the syringe when the medication is administered. Forcing an air bubble under the skin can cause a serious medical condition known as an embolism, which, though rare, can be fatal if the air bubble blocks blood flow to the heart, brain, or lungs., Place the vial back on your towel. Do not set your syringe down at this point, as doing so can contaminate your needle which can lead to infection.
 Hold the syringe in your hand as though you are holding a pencil or a dart. Make sure you can easily reach the syringe's plunger.
 Using your non-dominant hand, gather about 1 1⁄2 to 2 inches (3.8 to 5.1 cm) of skin between your thumb and index finger creating a slight mound of skin, taking care not to bruise or damage the surrounding area. By bunching up the skin, you create a thicker area of fat for you to inject into, ensuring the entire dose is administered into the fat and not into the underlying muscle.


When gathering your skin, do not gather any muscle tissue. You should be able to feel the different between the soft upper fat layer and firmer, lower muscle tissue. Subcutaneous medications are not intended for injection into muscle and, if administered into muscle, may result in bleeding into the muscle tissue. This is especially true if the medication has blood thinning properties.
 With a slight snapping motion of your wrist, plunge the needle all the way into the skin. Usually, the needle should be inserted into the skin at 90 degrees (straight up and down, relative to the skin) to ensure that the medication is injected into the fatty tissue.However, for exceptionally thin or muscular people with little subcutaneous fat, you may need to insert the needle at a 45 degree angle (diagonally) to avoid injecting into muscle tissue.


Act quickly and firmly, but without jamming or stabbing the needle into the patient with excessive force. Hesitation may cause the needle to bounce off the skin or pierce the skin slowly, causing increased pain.
 Ease your grip on the patient's skin, allowing it to fall back to its natural position. Keep the needle submerged in the skin.
 Push down on the plunger without applying extra pressure onto the patient until all of the medication has been injected. Use one controlled, steady motion.
 This sterile material will soak up any bleeding that occurs after the needle is removed. The pressure you apply to the skin through the gauze or cotton will also prevent the needle from pulling on the skin as it's removed, which can be painful.
 Either gently hold the gauze or cotton ball in place over the wound or instruct the patient to do so. Do not rub or massage the injection site, as can cause bruising or bleeding under the skin.


At this point, you may secure the gauze or cotton to the patient's wound with a small adhesive bandage. However, because bleeding is likely to be minimal, you may also allow the patient to simply hold the gauze or cotton in place for a minute or two until bleeding stops. If using a bandage, make sure the patient isn't allergic to the adhesive.
 Carefully place your needle and syringe in a proper puncture-resistant sharps container. It's very important to ensure the needles aren't thrown out with the "normal" trash, as used needles can spread potentially deadly blood-borne illnesses.
 You have successfully completed your subcutaneous injection.

