 There are lots of ways you can get your body moving and get your mind off your feelings of loneliness: try exercising, dancing to your favorite songs, jumping on your bed, or learning karate on YouTube.


Exercise gives you endorphins, which boost your mood and may help improve your feelings of loneliness.Just remember not to exercise too close to bedtime or your body and brain will have a hard time winding down and settling into sleep mode. For some people, evening workouts give them the freedom to sleep in a little later while still maintaining their health.
Doing something fun and funny—like playing great music and dancing in your underwear. This will get you laughing, which is a great way to start feeling good instead of feeling lonely!;
, Nights can be notorious for bringing out your most negative emotions, especially when we are all alone. However, you can counteract that by seeking out positive things to make the loneliness more bearable.


Browse Pinterest or Google for inspirational quotes to paste as a wallpaper on your phone or profile photo on social media. Read an autobiography of a successful person you admire. Or, watch an uplifting and educational TED Talk., Read a great book, watch a favorite movie, binge watch a television show, or surf the internet. All of these options will tune your brain onto a different channel and focus your attention away from the fact of your loneliness. When you feel sleepiness start to creep in, then you can head to bed.
 Sometimes the best thing to do is get out of the house (weather permitting). A little bit of distraction and a change of scenery can go a long way toward making you forget about how lonely you’re feeling. You might even see someone you know and have a quick chat. Or, you may stumble upon something interesting along the way.Consider venturing into unknown territory. For example, take a drive to a part of town you’re not familiar with or walk to a neighborhood you don’t usually visit. Just be sure it's a relatively safe area beforehand. This way you’re experiencing something new as part of curing your loneliness, which may give you an extra dose of distraction.
 One expert suggests reading up on loneliness as a way of feeling less alone. The more you learn about loneliness and how common it is, the less lonely you may feel. When you know that even a difficult, painful feeling you are having is shared by others, it makes that feeling a little less terrible.Look at resources online or check a book out of the library. Keep these resources on hand for when you’re feeling particularly bad. You can always pull up those motivational quotes you like and read over them to give yourself a little pep talk when loneliness strikes. One good example of a practical guide about the subject is Emily White’s Lonely: Learning to Live with Solitude., Realize that you are actually really good company for yourself. You don’t need to be around other people or doing exciting things to be happy. While being with others is great, it's also important to learn to enjoy solitude. Spending time alone can be very valuable. If you can embrace being by yourself—and embrace your loneliness—you may end up feeling less lonely.


When you find yourself feeling lonely, take time to relax and close your eyes. Focus on your breathing and the feelings of each part of your body. Try to be in the moment, just focusing on yourself.
Try reciting this self-compassion verse to remind yourself you are not alone in feeling lonely and to treat yourself gently when you feel this way: This is a moment of suffering. Suffering is a part of life. Let me be kind to myself in this moment. Let me give myself the compassion that I need.This technique might not work for everyone. Some people will find it too difficult to relax while concentrating on themselves in the midst of feeling lonely, preferring a distraction instead. This is completely fine and normal.

