 Unlike a handwritten or blog signature, an email signature is not meant to mimic the appearance of your actual handwritten signature, but rather add a bit of personal information at the bottom of every email you send. Typically this will include your full name, contact info, and mailing address. Avoid putting personal information, small catch phrases, or quotes in your email signature., If you have Microsoft Outlook, you can easily create an email signature. To create a signature in Outlook, open the program and take the following steps:


Go to the ‘Tools’ menu, then select ‘Options,’ and then select ‘Mail Format’
Click the ‘Signatures’ button about halfway down the dialogue box
Fill in your signature information. When you’re finished, click ‘Ok’, and then ‘Ok’ again in the earlier box.
 To create a signature for your Gmail account, open your email and follow these directions:


On the upper right corner of the screen, click the gear icon and then scroll and click ‘Settings;
Find the ‘Signature’ section under settings, and select it
Fill out your signature information, and click ‘Save Changes’ at the bottom in order to implement it.
 If you are interested in making a signature for your Hotmail email, open up your account and take the following steps:


Click the gear icon on the top left corner, and scroll down to select the ‘More Mail Settings’ button.
Locate the ‘Message Font and Signature’ button, and select it
Enter in your signature as you would like it to appear in your emails, and hit ‘Save’, Sign into your Yahoo mail account, and follow these directions in order to create a personalized signature:


On the top right corner, select the ‘Options’ button and then locate the ‘Mail Options’ button and select it.
Find the ‘Signature’ button on the left side of this page, and select it.
Add in your signature as you would like it to appear, and select the ‘Show a signature on all outgoing mail’ button so that it sends automatically with your emails.
Save your signature by selecting the ‘Ok’ button.