 First, find a near-empty bottle. The glass or container design is very important however (tall, cylindrical containers, narrow-mouthed bottles, etc), as it should prevent the cockroaches from climbing out of it. Any tall bottle with a narrow neck will do. It will need to have a few teaspoons of wine left in it.If it is a dry red wine, add a quarter teaspoon of sugar and swish it around.
If you don't want to use alcohol, try some sugar and water with a bit of fruit, or just experiment. Boil the water first and let it cool to stop the concoction from going moldy before it has done its work on the cockroaches.
 This will make a slippery slide to the bottom of the bottle.


Alternately, use a pipe cleaner or another long-handled brushing tool to spread petroleum jelly inside the bottle, just below the neck. This will make it difficult for fallen cockroaches to gain traction when climbing back up.
 Place the wine bottle in a spot where you have seen some cockroaches: near the compost heap, for instance, or in a dark corner of your kitchen. Leave it out for at least one night. Bear in mind that it may take a couple of nights to ferment to the right composition to attract the critters.


The cockroaches are attracted to the sweet smell of wine or beer. They climb onto the top of the bottle, slip on the oil, fall into the bottom, and cannot get back out again.
Consider making a "trail" of spilled wine up the side of the bottle. This may help lead the cockroaches into your trap with the promise of sweeter things to come.
 When you check your trap in the morning and find cockroaches in the bottom of the bottle, carefully pour some very hot water into the bottle to kill them. Leave the hot water in the bottle for a minute or two make sure that it's worked – cockroaches are resilient creatures. Dispose of the dead roaches by pouring the hot water from the bottle into a garden, a compost heap, or a toilet bowl.


If one bottle doesn't solve your roach infestation, keep trying. You can set the trap with a new bottle every few days. Over time, the numbers of caught roaches should decline as there are fewer insects around to fall into your trap.
Try pairing the wine-bottle method with the jar method and the duct-tape method. Set up different traps in different areas of your home, then observe which works best. Consider that one trap might be catching more cockroaches due to its location or its bait type – not necessarily because of its trapping mechanism.

