 Dogs who suffer from excitement urination are often high-strung or energetic, and tend to urinate when something unexpected, frightening or thrilling happens. It is particularly common among immature dogs. If your puppy greets you with excitement, and begins urinating while running, jumping, standing on its hind legs or barking, it may be suffering from excitement urination.
 While you may be thrilled to see your puppy, you should avoid riling them up, and instead adopt a calm, encouraging approach. Here are some suggestions:Ignore your puppy until they are calm, then greet them calmly.
Move slowly and avoid reaching or gesturing towards the puppy.
Use a low, quiet tone of voice.
Avoid words that excite that the dog may have learned, such as "walk" or "treat".
Encourage guests to follow these guidelines as well.
 You may be tempted to scold your dog for urinating in an effort to teach them not to, but this will only agitate and excite them more. Remember that your dog is not in control of its urination, and is merely responding to excitement. Instead, simply act like nothing unusual has occurred and wipe up the mess. Only pay attention to your puppy once they have calmed down. , Over-excitement in dogs is often caused by a lack of activity. Walking, playing with other dogs, or playing a vigorous game of fetch are all great ways for your puppy to "let off some steam". This will reduce their level of energy, and make it less likely that they will display excitement urination when greeted., This will not only provide some additional exercise, letting off some of their excess energy, but will help ensure that their bladder remains empty. This will make it less likely for your puppy to urinate when excited., Teaching your dog to lay down, or adopt another relaxed position on command is a very useful tool for dealing with overexcited dogs. When greeting your puppy, calmly give them the command. If they have urinated, ignore it, and give them calm encouragement for being obedient.