 You must prove that your previous attorney owed a duty to you as part of the attorney-client relationship. Therefore, you have to show that the attorney represented you as a client in a legal matter. If you can establish that an attorney-client relationship existed, then you will also have proven that the attorney owed you a specific duty of care.Find your copy of the agreement or document you signed when you hired the attorney whom you are alleging committed the malpractice. If you don’t have a copy of this document, your attorney can request a copy of it from your former attorney later on in the litigation through the discovery process.
Find any bills, invoices or records of payment that are further evidence of the attorney-client relationship.
Produce copies of any correspondence between you and your attorney, or between your attorney and another attorney about your case.
Provide evidence showing that you made payments to the attorney, such as copies of checks or your bank statements.
 You will be required to show that the attorney’s representation did not meet the appropriate "standard of care." This means that the attorney’s actions – or inaction – failed to meet the level of competency, skill, and care that is commonly exercised by attorneys in similar conditions and circumstances.Demonstrate what your attorney did or did not do to meet the standard of care, such as failing to meet court deadlines or statutes of limitations, stealing or misusing money that the attorney kept in trust for you, failing to disclose or resolve conflicts of interest or improper withdrawing his or her representation.
If you can provide evidence that your attorney violated your state’s rules of professional conduct, that evidence may be sufficient to also show that your attorney committed negligence in your representation.
You may wish to use expert witness testimony if the negligence is more difficult to prove. If there is not an obvious incident to point out, an expert can define the legal standard of care and explain how your attorney did not meet it throughout the course of your representation.
It is not always malpractice just because you lost your case or your attorney made a minor clerical error in documents that were filed with the court.
Remember that a lawyer can use what were formerly privileged communications between you and your attorney in order to respond to allegations of malpractice.
 In addition to proving that your attorney committed negligence, you must prove that it was his or her negligence that caused you to lose your legal case. In other words, you would have won your case had it not been for the attorney’s negligence.This is a requirement to prove a legal malpractice claim in all states except the state of Ohio.
Due to this strict requirement, it can be difficult to win a legal malpractice claim based on weak or questionable evidence.
 This information will depend on your specific case. You must show how the attorney's actions led to your injuries.


If you ended up being incarcerated or prosecuted on other charges, show how your attorney's negligence contributed to the sentence. For example, if you were on trial for murder and your attorney failed to object to the murder weapon being introduced into evidence, despite the grounds to do so. In this case, you may be able to demonstrate that you were found guilty due to legal malpractice.
Prove that financial losses occurred as a result of your attorney's negligence. For example, provide judgments or records of monetary or property loss that you suffered in a civil proceeding or divorce case due to your attorney’s legal malpractice.
 You must show exactly what injuries resulted from the attorney’s legal malpractice.


Be as specific as possible. You will need to demonstrate the amount of money, time or property that you lost. You also will need to prove that the injury would not have occurred if the attorney had not acted negligently.
 Your attorney will not be held liable for legal malpractice if that he or she acted in good faith at the time of your representation, but, in hindsight, was able to see errors in judgment. This protects your attorney if mistakes were made, but not from the repercussions of negligent or fraudulent actions.

