 Make sure you keep a low profile so that you can understand the flow of your workplace. Watch the way the club operates. Every club has a certain culture. Your time at the club will be successful or unsuccessful depending on how you blend into it.;
, Your relationship will be different with each of these key people. Always keep it professional and respectful.
 This can be tricky. Make sure you are not overly friendly. Because of the competitive environment,there is a tendency for girls to think you are after something when you are too friendly. Keep it cool and respectful. Do not be too keen on making friends. It will come naturally over time.
 You cannot predict how much money you will make and every girl has bad nights. Be sure to save when you do earn.
 99% of clubs require that you pay a fee to work there. This means that if you've had a bad night, you could be in danger of missing rent. A self-motivated stripper will be a successful stripper. Be proactive work the crowd. Keep the action up for your entire shift.
 It is very easy to lose your money or it stolen in a club.
 They will be secretive, so don't be obvious. Girls protect their money-making secrets since you are competition to them (and they to you).
 Keeping a diary will help you save, monitor what you are spending, maintain a record of your accounts.
 Some customers can get more "touchy" or aggressive after they've had a few drinks. Most clubs have bouncers to protect you. Make sure you are in control and have access to help .
 When hired, you might have had the club's lap dancing boundaries explained to you. Do not cross these. Don't be tempted by extra money to offer more than allowed. You could get fired and, in the end, lose self-respect.
 This may not come naturally to you at first, but it will with practice.
 You are providing a service and should be able to ask for payment. You have earned your money!

, Many will want you to spend time with them somewhere else. This is forbidden. It can get you fired as well put you in a very dangerous situation.
 This will increase your self-esteem as well as your "marketability".
 There are a lot of germs in the club. Wash yourself thoroughly after work.
 The club may have shady customers and girls you would not necessarily meet in real life. These people an get you into situations you may not even comprehend. Beware of these and stay safe.
 Keep your energy up and do not drink too much alcohol or drug use.

