 As time goes on it can be harder to maintain strong relationships with a girl, so you might have to put in a more concerted effort to text or call her. If you still live close to one another, make sure you keep her in mind for social events and gatherings. Remembering a friend’s birthday is also another great reason to reach out to her or give her a visit.


If your friend moves to another state, try staying active with her on social media.
If your friend is busy, go to her. Make it convenient for her if you have the extra time. She will appreciate it down the road.
 The more you accept social invitations, the more likely girls will invite you to future events. This is especially important if the girl is attending an event she doesn’t want to go to, and needs a friend to support her.


If you are busy or have something else to do and can't attend, make sure to tell your friend far enough in advance so she can find someone else to go with.
If you don’t want to go to something, don’t go. Your negative energy will probably make interactions between you and her worse than she would normally be.
 Many people go through different ups and downs, and most people need friends to act as emotional support during the rough times.Being a good friend also means knowing when to back off and allow someone to grieve. Make sure not to be overbearing.
Emotional support is also necessary for stressful but happy times, like before a performance or sporting event.
 One of the easiest ways to destroy a friendship with the opposite sex is to be overtly sexual or romantic when it is not wanted. Not only does it make the girl feel uncomfortable, it might actually also make her sad because she cares about you as a friend, but not in a romantic way. A friendship can eventually blossom into a romantic relationship, but it only occurs when both people want it.


If you develop romantic feelings for your friend, you should tell her. Be wary however, it may hurt your friendship in the long run.
If your friend wants to be romantic with you, and you are okay with that, go for it. The best relationships are built off friendships.

