 If you are using a Mac, double click on the Word icon in your dock. If you are using a PC, click on the Windows icon in the lower left-hand corner of your desktop. Click on the Windows tile.You will see a screen that shows you all of the pre-made templates Word has available. In the search bar, type “Purchase Order.”
Review the different purchase order templates and select one with a layout you like. Look for one with enough room for all of the lines you want to include on your purchase order.
Double click on the icon of the template you want to use. This will open the document.
Word has created the template using a table. You can use the table formatting options to customize the template to meet your needs.
 Click on “Page Layout” at the top of the screen. Use the menu options here to adjust the paper size and margins of your document.Click on the “Size” icon on the upper left hand side of the screen. Choose the appropriate size paper.
Click on the “Margins” icon in the upper left hand corner. Choose one of the preset margin options, or click on “Custom Margins” to enter smaller or larger margins.
 Since this template is a table, it is made of cells arranged in rows and columns. However, the gridlines for these cells may not be visible in certain areas of the template. It might be easier for you to see the gridlines while editing the template.If you want to see the gridlines, first look for the yellow “Table Tools” tab at the top of the screen. Under this you will see a “Design” tab and a “Layout” tab.
Click on the “Design tab.”
To the far right you will see an icon that says “Borders.” Click on it and select “View Gridlines.”
Now you will be able to see the gridlines while you are entering all of the information. You can make them invisible again before printing the purchase order.
 Right-click on the text box that says, “Your Logo Here.” From the pop-up menu, select “Change Picture.” You will be able to browse the web for an image to include or browse through your computer files. Browse and select the image you want to place on the purchase order.Word will automatically insert the image in the text box. If the image is too large or too small, adjust it using the transform tools, which are the little circles on the frame around your image.
 If you have a slogan that you want to include, click on the line that says “Company Slogan” and type it in. If you don’t have one or you don’t want to include it, click on the line and delete it. Word will remove this line from your purchase order.
 Click on the line that says “Company Name” and type in the name of your company. Click on the lines underneath to edit them. Enter the company address, phone number. Enter your e-mail address if you have one. If you don’t want to enter any of these lines, click on them and delete them. .For example, suppose a dog groomer is creating a purchase order. She would enter the name of her company, Puppy Pampering, Inc., the shipping address, 123 Doggie Drive, Puppyville, PA, 19123, the phone number, 1-800-PAMPERME, and e-mail address, groomer@puppypamering.com.

