 Use a clarifying shampoo and don't follow it with conditioner in the weeks leading up to your dreading session. Forego products that are designed to moisturize your hair or make it sleek and shiny, since these make it harder for your hair to stay knotted during the dreading process.;
, Use a comb to separate your hair into even sections, and then keep them separated with small rubber bands. Each section will become a dread, so make them or small or as large as you want according to the finished look you have in mind.


One-inch squares create medium-sized dreads. Go a little larger for big dreads, or smaller for many little dreads. The smaller the dreads, the more time it takes to create them.
If you don't want it to look like you have even rows of dreadlocks, created a zig-zag or brick lay pattern of squares instead. When the dreads form, these patterns will look more natural than even checkerboard rows.
 Take a section of hair and place a dread comb or another fine tooth comb about an inch above your scalp. Comb the hair down toward your scalp, teasing it until some hairs get packed around the roots. Continue until the hair is tightly packed, then insert the comb an inch higher, and backcomb again. Keep doing this until the entire section of hair has been backcombed.


Use your free hand to twist the section of hair as you backcomb it.
Continue backcombing each section until your entire head of hair has been backcombed. Have a friend help if you get tired.
 Place a small rubber band at the root and the end of each individual dread. Make sure the rubber bands are tightly secured, since they will need to stay in place until the dreads have "matured," which takes about 3 months.
 Use a gel containing a natural ingredient like aloe to tame frizz and loose strands of hair. Smooth it onto each section of hair until all your hair has been covered.
 Over the course of three months, the dreads will begin to lock into place. Aid the process in the following ways:


Shampoo regularly. Use a clarifying shampoo and forego the conditioner.
Moisturize your hair with essential oil, such as lavender. Don't use food-based oils, which can cause your hair to smell.
Tuck in the loose hairs. Use a crochet hook or tweezers to keep your dreads looking neat.

