 First cut down the middle of the chili, holding it by the stem or sides to split it. Then remove the seeds by spreading apart the chili and peeling them out with your nail or a spoon. Hold the split and seeded chilies by one end and cut into small pieces. Keep the pieces in a small bowl, these will be added later.;
, You can keep the taste of ginger fresh by freezing it. This also makes it easier to shred. First place it on a cutting board, peel your ginger root with a peeler or knife, slicing off the outer skin till it is completely clean of it. Hold the skinned ginger root over a plate or bowl and slide it against the grooves of a cheese grater. Collect any clinging bits on the underside and keep in a pile on the plate. This will be added later.
 To do this you first cut your onion in half and place the half on the cutting board flat side down. Cut off the top and bottom root ends and pinch to peel off the top layer of each half. Run the halves under cold water to wash off the peel residue. This residue is what causes your eyes to water. Follow by cutting horizontal cuts along each half, making small squares. Set these aside to be used for later.
 Start by separating the bulbs of the shallot with your fingers or a knife. Place the shallot halves on a cutting board and cut away the root ends, then peel lengthwise till the skin is completely removed. You can peel with your fingers or a knife. To get the long strips hold the shallot in place lengthwise and slice along it with a knife, making close thin cuts along the entire length. Set these cuts aside for later.
 Hold the gourd firmly and make thin cuts along the length. Remove the seeds in the middle of the pieces. Cut the circles of each cut of gourd in halves. You can stack them to cut multiple or individually.
 Lay them flat in a pan or any container and sprinkle the salt on top, mix with your hands or any utensil till the salt soaks in, add more if necessary. After 15 minutes have passed, wash the salted bitter gourd twice with water to remove the bitterness and some of the salt. With your hand or utensil move all the pieces of gourd to one end of the container and run water over it, hold the pieces down as you drain it then repeat.
 Slowly thaw if frozen. You can do this by placing it in the refrigerator, keeping the meat in its original package on a plate. If you need to quicken the process, run the meat under cold water or place in a bowl of water to soak till it's thawed. Use the opposite end of your cutting board that you used to but the other ingredients. Hold lengthwise and cut small pieces off the meat , not too thick or thin. Put these in a bowl big enough to hold all the meat and added lime juice for the next step. More or less meat can be added depending on how many people are being served the dish.
 Cut into halves and collect the juice into a medium sized bowl. Place the pieces of meat into this bowl. Make sure they're completely covered in the juice.
 The lime will cook the raw fish with acidity. This is why the recipe requires no cooking, while the meat is still considered cooked.
 Start with the red onion, shallot, chilies, ginger root and bitter gourd, then lay down the meat on top. This can be taken out of the lime juice. Save the rest of the juice for additional taste if it is needed.
 It is recommended to use your hands so the fish won’t break.
 Mix again to spread throughout the bowl. Use vinegar if you run out of lime juice.
