 Perhaps your spouse doesn’t want to move because they don’t want to be steamrolled in the decision-making process. You can combat this by including them in all of the planning. Not only can involvement help them feel like they have a say in the situation, but it may also make them more excited about moving.


Allow your spouse to look at homes with you, scout out neighborhoods, and choose design options. They may find that moving presents them with better choices when they are able to see what the home and area are like., If you want to move to a new city, state, or even country, plan a vacation there. Being immersed in the area may help your spouse to change their mind when they see what the new environment has to offer. Choose activities that will highlight the location and find things to do that your spouse likes. Planning your trip out ahead of time to include what your spouse will enjoy could make all of the difference in the world.


If you are able to, rent an apartment in the new location for a few months. This allows your spouse to really get an idea of what it would be like to move there. You may find that they like the new area because of this, or you may even discover that after living there, you would rather not move at all., If you still can’t come to an agreement, at least try to come to a compromise. Suggest renting your house out for a year, and moving to your ideal spot until the lease is up. If your spouse still isn’t happy, make an offer to move back into your home. However, if your spouse is willing to try out a move for you, you must be good on your word and move back if they don’t love the new location.


To make the agreement even more official, put together a contract of sorts. Include that you agree to live in the new home for a year and you will move back to the original home if you aren’t both happy with the new place. Having a document such as this may make your spouse feel more confident that you will, in fact, move if they don’t want to stay after a year.