 Just like with a drywall ceiling, failing to repair the leak will only result in having to repeat the repairs.


Make sure to wear protective equipment as you do repairs in the event mold has grown due to the moisture.
If your popcorn ceiling was installed prior to 1979, it may contain asbestos. In such a case, it may be better to contact a professional to conduct the repairs., If it's an old stain from a long since repaired leak, you may be able to simply bleach or paint the ceiling to cover the stain.


Try using a one to one water and bleach mixture to remove light stains. Make sure to wear protective glasses and gloves while applying the mixture.
For darker aesthetic stains, simply primer the spot to seal it and cover it with a matching shade of ceiling paint.
 Due to the moisture, it should scrape off fairly easily.Remove the popcorn material from the affected area with an extra inch or so on each side.
Scrape it until only the flat drywall is visible. The drywall may also have water damage on it.
Wear safety glasses and a dust mask to protect yourself from the falling material., You may not need to cut out or repair the water damaged drywall.


If the drywall is merely stained, you can seal it with a product like KILZ paint that will prevent the damage from spreading and serve as a seal. The damaged drywall will not be visible after you apply new popcorn material.
If the water damage to the drywall is substantial, follow the repairing a drywall ceiling steps above to repair it.
 As long as you’re certain the drywall is sound and dry, you can simply apply new popcorn material to the affected area.


If you repaired the drywall, ensure it is dry, sanded and clean so the popcorn material has a sound surface to stick to.
Use the ready-made popcorn material that comes in a tub. The spray can be difficult to control for small applications.Try your best to match the thickness and texture of the existing popcorn material on the ceiling.
 Once the popcorn material is completely dry, you can paint the repairs to match the existing ceiling paint. Painting the entire ceiling will ensure the color matches throughout.

