 Whether you're making a full-on battleship or a little tugboat, almost all boats carry equipment. Radar, extra sails, cannons and top decks are a few ideas of things you might add to your vessel. Anything that cannot be drawn on directly should be added by gluing or taping light cardboard onto the top. Cut out pieces according to your idea and attach them gently to the boat. Make a point of keeping them centered on your boat.


Excess weight could result in your boat getting capsized if you want to make it seaworthy.
You can do this to any boat design, regardless how advanced or simple it is.
 A great craft will come with the artist's added touches. Although you shouldn't try to make a realistic battleship with a paper craft, there is a world of potential difference made in fine details. Even if your boat is floating down the river, drawing on details like chassis studs, stern wear or even little crewmen will bring life to your creation.
 On top of giving it a fresh sense of decor, the water resistance will keep your boat afloat for longer. A steely grey or silver is best if you're going for a realistic-looking craft.


Paint can be applied to the boat with a regular paintbrush.If you're trying to make smaller strokes on your boat and don't have precision toothbrushes available, an old toothbrush can be used for the same effect.
 Most real-life ships are painted different colors: one color for the top, and another for the bottom. Although you could conceivably paint your ship as many colors as you like, a simple two-color pattern should be perfect for a crafts boat.
 Although some boat builders may prefer to keep their boats as purely ornamental crafts, a paper boat with its bottom flaps opened will float on water for a time. If you want, you can fill up your bathtub and see how long yours remains afloat for. Taking your craft to a river or park lake will arguably make for a better photo op.


If you like competition, you and a friend should make your own boats. Place them in the water at the same time and see which one stays afloat the longest!
If you place your boat in the water, chances are it won't be saved for a second use. Luckily, craft boats are very easy to make, so you won't have to worry much if they're lost at sea.

