 Since researchers -- including historians, sociologists, journalists, lawyers, and political scientists -- are the primary archival users, understanding the research process and knowing what sort of sources could be useful can make you a more effective archivist. The best way to develop strong research and writing skills is to earn a degree in history, English, sociology, or another research and writing-intensive major.You could also sharpen your writing skills by publishing a blog about a topic you are interested in but know little about.
Since it can be difficult or impossible to objectively evaluate the quality of your own research and writing, show your work to strong writers and ask for feedback.
Join a writing club in your area (preferably one that focuses on nonfiction writing) to connect with others who can help you develop strong research and writing abilities.
Strong research and writing skills can help you draft useful finding aids -- the guides that let archival users know what the archive contains.
 Having a special area of knowledge can make you more attractive for archival institutions. These specializations are both topical and format-based. Topical specializations include advanced knowledge of a particular collections area such as labor, Asian-American history, modern British culture, ecology, and so on. Format-based archival specialization includes familiarity with a particular type of archival material, including photographs, digital records, cassette tapes, and so on.


The utility of a particular specialization is impossible to gauge, since each archival institution has different collections policies and needs.
 While professional certification is not always necessary to obtain work as an archivist, it certainly enhances your resume. The particular process by which you obtain certification depends on the certifying organization.Generally, however, you will need to register for a certification exam and pay an application fee.
The specific areas of archival science on the certification exam vary depending on the organization. Take advantage of online study guides provided by the certifying organization to identify the topics the exam addresses.
If possible, take sample exams in order to familiarize yourself with the sorts of questions you’ll encounter.
Professional certification might not be offered year round. Contact the certifying organization for more information about when and where you can take the certification exam.
 Many archives contain documents in foreign languages. While the applicability of this skill depends on the institution to which you apply for work, if you know that you are interested in working in an archive that deals largely or primarily with foreign-language documents, learn to read that language.