 Dogs with CCD can get confused if things are different than they are used to. Any change in the home may upset them. To help, refrain from rearranging your furniture.Try not to add new furniture to the house, especially if that means replacing furniture that your dog spends time on.
 To help your dog with confusion, try to establish a routine for them. This can help avoid surprises and help you know when your dog will eat, drink, and perhaps even need the bathroom.A routine can also help give your dog a sense of security.
 Your vet may suggest that you feed your dog a special diet for seniors and their cognitive function. These foods aim to help with the dog’s memory and learning. Some brands you can find at pet stores and supercenters are marketed just for senior cognitive function.Sometimes, a vet may suggest that you give your dog supplements, like vitamin E and C, selenium, beta carotene, Omega-3, and even coconut oil.
Don’t give your dog any supplements or change their diet before talking to your vet.
 Dogs with CCD need mental stimulation. This can be achieved through exercise. You may walk your dog around your neighborhood or even your yard. You may play fetch or tug of war with them. Try to get your dog active at their particular level.Always talk to your vet about an exercise program that is appropriate for your dog.
 Your dog can get mental stimulation from puzzle toys and games. You may try to give your dog food toys that help keep them mentally engaged. You can also try rotating toys each week to keep your dog interested and engaged.Just spending time with you and a toy can provide some mental stimulation for your dog.
 Because of your dog’s cognitive state, they may have trouble finding their food or water bowl. You should place the dog’s bowls in an open area where it can be easily found.You may have to make arrangements to place the bowls in front of your dog during food time, or lead your dog to the bowls.
 Many senior dogs have accidents in the house. This can occur when they don’t realize they haven’t gone outside or don’t remember to go outside to use the bathroom. To help with this, you may want to place your dog in a bathroom area you have made in your house just for them.You can place puppy pads or newspaper on the floor for your dog to mess on.
You may want to take your dog out often to avoid any unnecessary accidents.

