 Establish a GSA the same way you would any other group or club. Look in your Student Handbook for your school’s rules regarding clubs. Some schools require students to go through a process for establishing a club, this could include writing a constitution or showing student interest.;
, It can be very helpful to have them on your side. They can work as liaisons to teachers, parents, community members and the school board. If an administrator opposes the GSA, provide them information about the Federal Equal Access Act (EAA).
 School groups often require a teacher be involved to oversee things in order for a group to be officially recognized. Find teachers or staff members who you think would be supportive or who have already shown themselves to be an ally around sexual orientation and gender diversity issues. Let them know this is something you are serious about and how important it is to you.


See your school rules for more information about who can be a club advisor.
 With the help of your teacher or staff advisor, write a mission statement which outlines explicitly what your GSA will and will not be. This can make it clear whether the GSA will be a club that will only be a safe space, or whether the club might get involved in activist events.

Make sure it says it is all inclusive and non-discriminatory. Be sure to mention that it is for the purposes of peer education and support.
Outline the type of activities you plan to have, as well as the reason a GSA will be an asset to the school and community as a whole.
 If you can demonstrate that there is a significant enough portion of the student body interested in joining or supportive of a GSA at your school, you run a much better chance of getting the club to start. Work with a diverse range of students who are interested in such a group. You may check with other existing clubs for students who might have an interest.
 You may wish to find a meeting place within the school that offers some level of privacy, yet is still accessible.
 There are many ways to advertise – think about how you’ve seen other clubs advertise. This could be any combination of using your school bulletin, announcements, flyers, or word-of-mouth. Advertising your group and having words up such as “gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, two-spirit and queer” or “homophobia, biphobia, transphobia, cissexism, cisgenderism, heterosexism etc..” can be part of educating the school, and can actually make other students feel safer – even if they never attend a single meeting.


If your flyers are defaced or torn down, do not be discouraged. Plan to have people check on them throughout the day and replace if necessary. Eventually, whoever is tearing them down will give up, or be reprimanded by the school.
 Of course you want to have a good meeting, so plan ahead of time. There are tons of things you can do, from discussions to inviting speakers, workshops to games. Visit Student Pride online for ideas.


Obviously, you can't plan out the details of every single meeting well before they happen, but you'll need to plan out your first meeting, as well as the general "format" that your GSA meetings will take.
 You may want to start with a discussion about why people feel the group is needed or important. You can also brainstorm what things your club could do this year.
 Many groups have ground rules in order to ensure that group discussions are safe, confidential and respectful. Many groups have a ground rule that no assumptions or labels are used about a group member’s sexual orientation.
 Develop an action plan. Brainstorm activities. Set goals for what you want to work towards. If you haven’t already done so, contact GLSEN's Student Organizing Department so that you may share ideas, resources and information. You can also look into local GSA Networks in your town or city.
 While it would be nice to believe that students and teachers at your school will be completely supportive of your GSA, this probably won't be the case. You will likely face hostility from the community and from students and parents, and possibly even school staff. But don't let this discourage you. Just remember you are helping hundreds of students have a better understanding, support and change of opinions about being LGBT+, and overall providing a more friendlier environment and community.