 The Resident Advisors are responsible for turning the building around. Resident Advisors must organize the cleaning crew, send records to the central office, and prepare every single room for the incoming residents. There is an end of the year meeting with each building’s respective Community Director to set deadlines and goals for the summer preparation period.
 To start, inspect every single room in the dormitory according to the Room Condition Report. This report indicates the condition of the entire room at the time of move in and move out. Items are shown on the attached image. If anything on this sheet needs to be replaced due to damages, it is up to the Resident Advisor to make a report about it. If no report is made, the residents that occupy the room in the upcoming semester will not be happy when they move in. To keep the residents happy, the Resident Advisor must complete this Room Condition Report flawlessly., When examining the Room Condition Report, if an item was checked as OK at move in but damaged at move out, the person responsible will receive a charge. These charges are placed by the Office Service Clerk and sent to Central Housing Office. The item will be ordered by the Office Service Clerk once all the Room Condition Reports for every room are completed.
 The Community Director will accompany the Resident Advisors as they do a final walk-through of each room. Once the Community Director approves the building, Resident Advisor Training begins.
 This process shapes the Resident Advisor to read and react to an incident. The first week consists of numerous presentations on resources on campus to refer to, how to build community within Residence Halls, and accepting and assisting certain groups of residents. The second week consists of Community Directors recreating scenarios using former Resident Advisors as actors and placing the new Resident Advisor in these situations to respond to a disturbance. Once the scene is over, everybody sits down and explains strengths and improvements on how to handle the incident. Going from a resident to a leader will teach many new abilities, and most of these are learned from these two short weeks.
 On this day, your students will say goodbye to their families and call campus their new home. The new residents will receive help from volunteer staff to move their belongings to their new room while Resident Advisors keep order during the process. After everybody is moved into their rooms, there are meetings held on every floor by the Resident Advisors to introduce themselves, lay out guidelines, expectations, and rules of the building. Then all the Resident Advisors on campus host a welcoming party., The building must be kept orderly and the residents must have an overall satisfaction with living on campus. There are three responsibilities that are met by the Resident Advisor: Meetings, Duty, and Community.
 These meetings discuss how everybody is doing mentally and physically, ideas for improvement in the building, and weekly wrap-ups. These are pretty general and simply just a check up on everybody’s status.
 Duty is defined as the person responsible for the building when the Community Director is not in office. This is the most important step in running a Residential Community. Throughout the course of the night, the Resident Advisor on Duty can be called upon to respond to an incident, must do three rounds, and show presence in the community.
 The Resident Advisor Training sessions come into play in these situations. This is when Resident Advisors are tested in real-life events and try to handle it how the Community Director would. However, if the incident needs higher authority, the Resident Advisor could call the Community Director for further instruction. After each duty call, there will be an incident report submitted to the Community Director to be investigated for further involvement.
 Throughout the course of the night, the Resident Advisor is responsible for walking around each floor and making sure everything is normal. These are called rounds. During rounds, the Resident Advisor checks for any damages in the hallways, trash, and also checks in with residents to check on their satisfaction.
 These programs can serve as a break from everyday life and relax with friends. These help the Resident Advisors to build community and get people involved in the building and around campus. They are meant for fun and can get attendees of upwards of 300 people to come to an event.
 The residents remove their personal belongings, make sure the room is left how they were at move in, and turn their key into the Resident Advisor. The Resident Advisor then does a walk-through of the residents’ rooms to see if there are any damages. Once all the residents are moved out and the building is empty, the process restarts all over again.

