 Use a microfiber towel turban to wrap your hair in after your shower. Leave the hair in the turban while you get ready, eat breakfast, or do other tasks. Check in about 10-15 minutes, and your hair should be on its way to being dry.Make sure to remove excess water before putting it up in the turban. Gently squeeze the water from the strands, then blot the excess moisture from your hair. Then wrap it in the turban.
Instead of buying a special turban, just wrap your hair in a microfiber towel.
 Plopping is a great way to air dry curly hair. Start by applying product to your hair. Wrap a soft cotton t-shirt around your head. Instead of wrapping the shirt like a turban on top of your hair, twist the shirt so it curls around your ears. Each side will look like sausage rolls. Secure the ends at the base of your neck.Keep the towel on your hair for 20-30 minutes before removing.
Make sure to remove excess water and blot your hair before twisting it in the t-shirt.
 A microfiber brush is a brush that has microfiber bristles. These sponges soak up extra moisture in your hair. Keep running the brush through your hair to help remove water.


Try brushing your hair a few times with the microfiber brush. Shake your hair to help the airflow around the strands. Then about 5-10 minutes later, repeat.
 Remove the excess moisture and blot your hair. Then, turn your head upside down and shake it. Use your fingers to separate and fluff the roots of your hair. Hold your hair and gently shake it up and down. Bend over and shake your head around.


The shaking motion helps air circulate around the strands. It also breaks up clumps of hair that contain and hold water.
 The heat from direct sunlight will help dry your hair. If you have the time, sit outside or take a walk as your hair dries. Make sure to remove excess moisture and blot your hair before you walk outside. Shake your hair and fluff it at the roots. This will help it dry faster.


If you do this on a windy day, you will be able to dry your hair even faster.
