 Lola's top was a white crop top showing her stomach with the Tunes Squad logo printed on. Make the Space Jam jersey by using fabric transfer paper and finding the Tunes Squad logo and Lola's number 10. You will also need to paint the edges of the shirt with dark blue fabric paint. If you don't want to go through all the trouble you can simply order the top from online, and if you don't feel comfortable wearing a crop top, wear a tank top instead.
 For the shorts there are two options. You can either wear plain dark blue high-waisted shorts or you can wear white high-waisted shorts. If you decide to wear white shorts, then you need to paint the edges with dark blue fabric paint., Lola does wear white gloves in Space Jam. Check around the house for some white gloves to wear or you can buy a pair at a low price from the store., Since Lola is a basketball player, you should wears sneakers rather than other shoes, preferably white high tops. Although Lola doesn't wear shoes in the movie, wearing plain white high tops will match the costume perfectly., Lola has blonde hair tied into a high pony. Comb your hair, making sure it's free of any knots or tangles, starting from the ends and working your way up. Pull your hair into a high pony and secure with a blue scrunchie or hair tie. Use a wig to really resemble Lola., Lola has stunning blue eyes. Purchase some contact lenses and carefully put them in your eye. Keep in mind this is optional., Apply a white eyeliner on your lids; this will help the purple pop out more. Take a shimmery purple eyeshadow and apply it to your lids., Using a good quality concealer, dab some over problem areas such as blemishes, spots, and dark circles to achieve Lola's face., Start off by curling your lashes; this is optional, but it will give your lashes more length. Apply a couple coats of mascara, making sure it doesn't look clumpy to complete the eye look. You can also wear falsies if you prefer., Wing your eyeliner using a liquid or gel eyeliner. Rest your arm on a hard surface and your hand in your face to prevent your hands from shaking., Challenge your friends to a basketball game; Lola does love basketball after all!