 There are a variety of gift options for the bathroom involving cotton. Try purchasing a nice bath towel or wash cloth for your loved one. Add a monogram to the items to differentiate them from your other towels as something special.


Accessorize your existing bathroom items with cotton! Make a cozy for your soap dispenser or toothbrush holder with cute designs or both of your initials.Many bed and bath retailers will allow for monograms to be customized and ordered to your choosing.;
, Buy a set of matching robes to celebrate your second anniversary, or buy a few monogrammed pillows to mark the occasion. Much like the bathroom, the bedroom lends itself well to a variety of cotton gifts.


Spice up your bed with a cotton canopy! Canopies allow for greater intimacy and privacy in the bedroom. Just make sure your bed can support one.Other ideas for gifts for the bedroom include a matching pair of cotton slippers, or a new bedding set.
Blankets and other similar types of throws allow for great personalization. Try ordering a blanket emblazoned with photos from your wedding!, Think about the things your partner loves and investigate whether there are cottons versions available. A new cotton tapestry set for the kitchen is a great idea for the person who loves to host parties, whereas a cotton hammock is great for the person who enjoy relaxation or reading.


Try sewing your own cotton items in secret leading up to the anniversary! Give them something cozy to wear, such as a pair of socks or a scarf.Make a bouquet of flowers out of cotton and leave them somewhere your loved one will find them.Create a collage dedicated to your relationship made out of cotton. For example, create a felt poster featuring cotton badges of all of the big moments you shared with your significant other. Hang them on the wall, or add it to your scrap or photo book.Cuff links, brooches, and even jewelry can be created from cotton. Use your imagination!DIY websites such as Etsy can provide a range of gift ideas involving cotton that you may not have previously considered.
 Calico is seen as one of the modern alternatives to cotton when it comes to the second year wedding anniversary. Many of the same cotton items that can be purchased as gifts can also be purchased in calico.Calico also refers to the repeating design patterns featuring printed flowers. In the case of the anniversary gift, the calico in question refers to the fabric (though you can certainly purchase a calico or cotton gift with calico designs).
Note that while calico tends to be cheaper than pure cotton, it also tends to be somewhat coarser, making it more ideal for bags or other items that need to be durable.