 If your bird is young, get it used to taking baths in your kitchen sink with about an inch of water in it. Older birds may already be comfortable with a kitchen sink bath, and readily hop into the water. You can also put a shower perch into your own shower. These perches can attach to glass windows or shower walls.Bring your bird into the bathroom a few times before you introduce the shower.
Young birds may require a little bit of unscented glycerine soap, but older birds shouldn’t receive soap. The soap is safe for them, but the soapy residue is very difficult to completely remove from feathers.
You can find small pump-up sprayers made just for bathing parrots online or in specialty stores.
 The hyacinth macaw has the tendency to bond strongly with one person. This can lead to difficulties, and if you don’t explicitly teach your bird to accept commands from different people, it’s likely that he’ll only respond to you. The way to do this is to make sure to teach the command in a variety of settings, with different people, so that the bird learns to focus on the command, rather than on you.Once you’ve taught a particular command, such as “step up”, teach it in different locations, with different background sounds, and with different people.
By teaching this generalization of skills, your bird will be able to adapt more quickly to new people and situations.
 The blue macaw’s bite is strong enough to crack open nuts, so it’s not surprising that it’s quite painful to be bitten! If you react to being bitten by ending a training session, putting your bird back in its cage, then your bird will learn that biting is a quick way to achieve these results.Instead of reacting to the bad behavior, ignore it. Your macaw is less likely to repeat the behavior if it doesn’t see any results.
The same holds true for your bird screaming loudly, or any other behavior you don’t want your macaw to do.
 The hyacinth macaw loves to play. It will chew on wooden toys, and will likely break them due to the strength of its bite. Metal toys are a good choice for these birds. For example, fix nuts holding washers onto a screw, creating something fun for your bird to play with.Metal cups or spoons are a good choice, and you can also put holes in stainless steel bird bowls and place nuts and bolts through the holes.
Never allow your hyacinth macaw to bite rope or wooden toys affixed with rope.
Destructible toys are good because they help to relieve boredom, but can get expensive. A variety of toys is best, for the hyacinth macaw is an intelligent bird who requires a great deal of engagement to stay healthy and happy.

