 If you have a simple and non-legal issue that doesn’t relate to company policy, you may be able to address it on your own. If possible, discuss the problem with your boss or co-workers to troubleshoot the issue with them. Human resources will appreciate knowing any steps you took to find a solution before coming to them.If, for example, you feel your boss is scheduling you for too many weekends, talk to your boss first. You also don’t want to go to human resources with a non-critical complaint like “I don’t like my office space.”

, You may feel that you’re experiencing a violation of company policy. Before you contact human resources, re-read the specific policies having to do with your problem. You’ll want to be able to cite those examples in any discussions you have with human resources.For example, if you’re concerned you’re not receiving enough breaks during work hours, check the written rules on break times. It’s possible that your company only has an informal, rather than codified, break policy, which means that human resources can’t do much to help you in an official capacity.
 Do not hesitate to reach out if you’re experiencing any kind of verbal, physical, or sexual harassment from any source at work. You are legally protected from this kind of behavior, and human resources is obligated to help and protect you.Do not expect that human resources can have off-the-record conversations about these issues, however. Once you report it, they are required to act.
 Human resources can help you plan for any upcoming changes in your work situation, such as if you’re getting ready to take maternity leave. They’ll be able to ensure you receive all your benefits and coverage. They can also contact people at the company who need to be made aware of your changing circumstances., Certain situations may arise at work that entitle you to protection or compensation from the government. If, for example, you’re injured on the job, human resources can help you coordinate coverage of your medical expenses.This will likely require you to fill out paperwork with human resources, so be prepared for this process.
 There may be training or mentorship programs available that would allow you to advance in your company. Human resources can provide you with any necessary information about these options and possibly coordinate your entrance into these programs. This could be a great opportunity to take your career to the next level., Human resources can also help you address any individual needs you may have at work. Your work environment should include resources that allow you to enjoy the same opportunities to succeed as any other employee.If you feel that there aren’t appropriate handicapped resources, for example, human resources will address this problem. The department can also work with you to ensure there’s a designated place for nursing mothers.
 Occasionally, contacting a human resources representative at a particular company can allow you to receive information about current job openings or opportunities for informal, “informational” interviews with current employees. You can also contact human resources to say thank you for a recent interview you completed with their company.If you don’t receive a reply after a week, you can send one follow-up email. After that, you may need to let this company go., Remember that human resources works for the company first, so they’re not the people to go to if you just want to vent. While you absolutely shouldn’t avoid reporting any situations that make you feel uncomfortable or discriminated against, be careful to distinguish between issues that might simply be annoying or petty and more serious, legal problems.