 When wearing a velvet skirt for a formal occasion, try to stick to intricate fabrics and patterns, rather than a solid color. This will keep your ensemble formal, but visually interesting.More masculine or androgynous pieces will pare the velvet down, so if you choose an androgynous top, use your shoes or jewelry to add elegance.
Try to match at least one color in your shirt’s pattern with the color of your skirt to tie everything in.;
, A bright, bubble-gum pink is going to be harder to style formally than, say, a rich red, or a clean navy blue. When purchasing your silk skirt, opt for classic colors, such as red, black, white, and navy.


If you want to be more daring with your ensemble, you can enlist the help of jewel tones or a warm yellow.
Try to avoid neons, as these appear to be more relaxed or laid back by default.
 To keep the richness of your velvet anchored and formal, pair it with a classic piece, such as a fitted button-down, a fitted blazer, or a camel trench. Each of these will keep your outfit classic and formal without sacrificing style or taste.Classic pieces are particularly useful for formal work attire. A simple button down will keep your outfit formal, but not too dressy for the workplace.
 If you want to have a bit more of a feminine taste to your velvet, pair your velvet skirt with a lace blouse or lace tights. Lace will play up the plushness of the velvet while keeping your outfit feminine and flattering.


Lace can be an intimidating item to wear. If you are nervous about a lace blouse or tights, opt instead for a pair of shoes with lace details, or a lace hair accessory.
 For a look as decadent as chocolate mousse, pair a velvet skirt with a simple silk blouse. Although this look is a bit more sultry in nature, it can be made more demure with a straight blazer, or emphasized with a pair of stiletto heels.Many fashion runways use this pairing in their velvet collections, so runway shows can be a great source of inspiration for how to pair velvet and silk.
Pay attention to the cut of your skirt when pairing with silk. If your skirt is loose, use a tight silk top, but if your skirt is tight (say, a pencil skirt), pair it with a flowing silk blouse.
 Emphasize your velvet with your jewelry. Using jewelry, you can lend either a formal, classic look to your skirt, or you can create a more vintage vibe.Pairing your velvet with pearls will instantly create a classic, elegant appearance.
Vintage accessories create more of a boho air to your outfit.
 Shoes make all the difference in creating an outfit, particularly when you are trying to cross the line from casual to formal. Pumps automatically lend a sense of formality to an outfit, so try to pair your velvet with at least a small heel.Stiletto heels are statement shoes and can range from sexy shoes to classic shoes.
 A velvet mini is not going to scream “formal,” while a velvet maxi skirt offers a heavy, luxurious appearance. When you are working toward creating a more classic, formal silhouette, opt for knee-length or lower skirts, as these are taken more seriously and create a hint of mystery.