 Among the model airplane categories there includes fighter, transport, military transport, private, ultra-light, airliner, glider, and others. Choosing what type of model you build is usually as easy as picking your favourite, but some models are easier to build than others. For example, combat aircraft are usually more difficult, often requiring complex camouflage patterns and a familiarity with the proper use of an airbrush. The model you end up choosing should be the result of a balance between your interest and your abilities.;
, Building a model is not as easy as opening the instructions and following them step-by-step. The first thing you must do before assembling any parts is read the instructions thoroughly, from the introductions, steps and paint list, all the way to the parts list. Most model airplanes will be packaged with an alternate set of paint schemes and sometimes even parts. Choosing which paint scheme and aircraft variant must be done before any assembly takes place. Background knowledge of the aircraft may help you choose which type you want to build.
 Configuration may include whether the landing gear are up or down, the doors open or closed, the air-brakes or thrust reversers extended or retracted. In the case of combat aircraft, you must also choose whether to include the weapons and drop-tanks. If the kit you are planning to build includes a pilot or passengers, you must choose whether to install them as well. Finally, choose whether you wish to “weather” your aircraft. Weathering may include soot trailing from the engine exhaust, gun ports, engine cowl, etc… consider the type of aircraft you wish to build and base your choices on the situations that aircraft may find itself in. For example, combat aircraft usually appear more weathered than commercial aircraft. Write down all configuration choices you have made so as to keep a picture of the aircraft fresh in your mind, or at least close at hand.
 Some kits come with weapons racks, vehicles for maneuvering the aircraft on the ground, and/or ground personnel. These objects may be useful to set the place of your model, but may also be inappropriate based on your aircraft configuration (for example: an aircraft in flight on a stand will seem out of place next to a toiling maintenance team). If you are ambitious enough, you may choose to build a diorama or separate elements from scratch. Such a diorama should be sketched out to aid in building it, and a clear materials list must be kept in preparation for its assembly.
 While the paper instructions included with the kit will have a beginning and an end, it may not be advisable to follow the order of assembly step by step. The installation of some parts may inhibit the installation of other parts further along, and if you must paint one part but not the part next to it, you may also have some difficulty. Assembling the aircraft in your head before opening your tube of glue is imperative, and must be clearly defined and recorded to make the assembly as fun and as easy as possible.

