 Find an animal product that your child enjoys and make sure they are getting enough to meet their recommended daily intake. Foods with high levels of B12 include:


Salmon — A 3 oz serving of cooked salmon contains 4.9 mcg
Yogurt — An 8-ounce serving of plain low-fat yogurt contains about 1.3 mcg
Milk — One cup of cow's bilk has about 1.1 mcg
Cheese — 1 ounce (about one slice) of cheddar cheese contains about 0.2 mcg
Beef — The amount of B12 in ground beef depends on how lean it is. For instance, a 3-ounce serving of 70% lean ground beef contains 2.56 mcg, while the same amount of 90% lean ground beef contains 2.3 mcg

, Many people worry that they or their children cannot adhere to a vegan diet because they won’t get enough of this important vitamin; however, there are many ways to feed your vegan child vitamin B12.


Feed your child fortified or whole grain breakfast cereals and fortified milk substitutes. Check the label to ensure it includes B12.
Give your child nutritional yeast. Nutritional yeast is a deactivated yeast (as opposed to the activated yeast you might use to make bread or beer) that has a wide variety of applications in cooking and baking. Obtain a nutritional yeast recipe book to find lots of ideas for tasty foods your child will love.
Serve your child meat substitutes. Most vegan hot dogs, sausages, and deli meats are not only good sources of protein, but good sources of B12, too. Check the nutrition label on your substitute meats to find out if they contain B12.
 Multivitamins that include vitamin B12 are an easy way to ensure your child gets enough B12. If you don’t want to give them a whole multivitamin, you could obtain a supplement of vitamin B12 by itself.


Chewable tablets are best for younger children. Give teens a lozenge or a multivitamin to swallow with water.
 Your child will have different vitamin B12 needs depending on their age. The older the child, the more they will need. Once your child becomes a teen, they need as much B12 as an adult.If you are getting sufficient amounts of B vitamins and you are breastfeeding, your infant should get enough. Make sure that if your child is formula-fed the formula has an adequate amount of B12 and other vitamins.


Babies up to six months old need 0.4 mcg daily
Babies aged seven – 12 months need 0.5 mcg daily
Children one – three years old require 0.9 mcg daily
Children four – eight years old require 1.2 mcg daily
Children nine – 13 years old require 1.8 mcg daily
Teens 14 – 18 years of age require 2.4 mcg daily

