 Which girls will be lucky enough to be part of your crew? 4-6 people is a good amount. Find a beta (like Alicia), a gamma (like Dylan), a delta (like Kristen), and followers (like Claire). You should be the alpha, obviously! Once you find your group, send them a cute note inviting them to your clique! Buy nice stationary from a store like Papyrus. The girls will be thrilled when they receive their exclusive invite!;
, Don't call your clique the Pretty Committee-it makes you look like an eternal wannabe. Instead, come up with your own name that will have people looking up to you. Some examples are the Glossy Posse, Beauty Queens, Six Chicks (if there are six of you), Fab Five or Fab Four. You could also come up with a name that uses your initials (e.g. HOT for Haley, Olivia, Talia or CHIC for Cara, Hannah, Izzy, Carly).
 Get a parent, sibling, or chauffeur to drive you and your BFFs to school. If you have money, get a mini fridge (Massie stocks hers with berries and soda) in the car, and listen to great tunes all the way to school. You can also play games like What Would You Rather? and spill gossip to see who can earn the most gossip points. At the end of the week, the Gossip Girl ( gossip point winner) should get a special prize. Make a rule that nobody leaves the car until they are rated from a scale of 1-10. At least a 7.5 is mandatory, and every girl's ratings are added to their gossip point score. Lastly, ask your driver to park right in front of the school- you want to make an entrance, right?

, Have a strict GLU (girls like us) policy and only invite people from your clique. Have great snacks and fun. Have the sleepover in the GLU headquarters (a room where you and your friends usually hang). You could have a theme for each sleepover like camping, fashion, or special ones for holidays. At these Sleepovers you can gossip, give makeovers, and talk about who's hot and who's not.
 Only invite the coolest and most popular people- discuss a guest list with your friends at your Friday Night Sleepover. Make it a boy-girl party if you're old enough and your parents allow it. Though the party will be exclusive, everyone at school, including the LBR's (losers beyond repair) should know about it. Have amazing food, and play games like spin-the-bottle.
 For example, LBR, GLU, ah-mazing, ah-dorable, rate me, etc. Also have excellent comebacks. Don't use the ones Massie uses in the books-the series is very popular and if someone recognizes one of Massie's comebacks, they might think you're a wannabe. Instead, create your own comebacks - as long as they leave your victim tongue-tied, they work!

, A fun idea is to have each girl in the clique have a signature color, perfume, clothing brand, and lip gloss. Don't go anywhere without your signature perfume and lip gloss, and try to wear your signature clothing brand as often as possible. For colors, possibilities are endless. You could have pens, folders, notebooks, nail polishes, and much more in your personal color. Signature items are important because it shows individuality, but you also need to show togetherness. A fun idea is to get your clique matching charm bracelets with the first letters of your names on them, and one additional charm per person. They will make it known who is a part of THE group (and who isn't). Here is an example from my clique (my beta's signature stuff): Color: Pink, Perfume: Marc Jacobs Daisy, Brand: Marc Jacobs, Gloss: MAC lipgloss in Budding Love, Charm on bracelet: Rhinestone Rose

, IM, AIM, call, text, iChat, and Skype with your friends as often as possible. Make sure you all have a Facebook, (if you are allowed to), and be sure to post about all of your fun times. If you just went to the mall on Sunday and raided Gucci, be sure to let the world know. You can even make a special blog so that your clique can update everyone on what's happening with the A-List of your school-everyone will want to read it!

, Only do this if there is someone you like, but it is good to have one. If your friends have guys too, you can group date-so much fun! If one of your girls doesn't have a boyfriend, help her get with the guy she likes!

, Strut through your schools hallways like you own them and set trends. Become friends with everyone and don't make any enemies. Don't be matchy-matchy with the girls in your clique, because then you won't stand out as the alpha.

