 It may be that the co-tenant also is interested in partitioning the property, but you'll never know that unless you talk to them about it. Before you file a lawsuit asking the court to divide the property, talk to the co-owner to find out their position on the issue.Generally speaking, property partitions are either voluntary or compulsory. Voluntary partitions typically have to go through the courts, but that process will be much simpler and quicker.
Compulsory partitions, on the other hand, can involve a lengthy and expensive court battle that ends in the forced sale of the property.
Particularly if you want a partition in kind, which allows each co-tenant to keep a portion of the property rather than having the property sold and the proceeds divided, you'll be more likely to achieve that result with a voluntary partition.
Send a written letter to the co-tenant telling them you want to partition the property and would prefer a voluntary partition. You might remind them that you have the right to partition the property, and a voluntary partition would save both of you a lot of time, effort, and money compared to a compulsory partition.
If you're not on very good terms with the co-tenant, you might suggest the two of you use mediation to find a compromise. There are many community mediation programs that can facilitate settlement negotiations fora relatively low fee.
 An experienced real estate lawyer can help you navigate the court system and ensure that the transaction is completed as smoothly as possible and that your property rights and interests are ultimately protected.Particularly if any partition will have to be compulsory, there typically will be conditions attached to the judge's partition order. An attorney will anticipate these and can advise you on how to avoid conditions that are unfavorable to you.
Keep in mind that although you have a right to partition the property, you don't have the right to dictate how the property will be divided. An experienced real estate lawyer can help you avoid undesirable outcomes such as a forced sale of the property.
 To initiate a partition action, you must file a complaint or petition with the clerk of the court located in the same county as the property. The terminology, such as whether the required document is called a "complaint" or a "petition," differs among jurisdictions, but the effect is the same.The document you file asks the judge to divide the property between you and the co-tenant. You can request it be divided in a particular way, although the judge has broad discretion on whether to grant your request.
The clerk charges a fee to file your documents, typically several hundred dollars.
When you file your action, the clerk issues a notice to be recorded at the county recorder's office where the deed is recorded. Anyone with an interest in the property will know it is the subject of a partition proceeding.
This can keep the co-tenant from selling or otherwise transferring the property before the judge decides on the partition.
 The co-tenant has a brief period of time, typically less than 30 days, to file an answer or other response with the clerk that states whether they agree with partition of the property. This response will be served on you.If you requested a voluntary partition, the co-tenant typically is not required to file a written response.
The co-tenant also may not file a response if they've decided not to fight the action.
If the co-tenant does respond, typically it is because they prefer a different division of the property, or object to the property being partitioned at all.
 If you asked for a voluntary partition, there may never be a court hearing. However, if the co-tenant objects to the partition the court typically will schedule a hearing in which you both have the opportunity to explain your position to the judge.Keep in mind that the judge has significant discretion over how to rule in a partition case. Once you request a partition, what ultimately happens to the property is left up to the judge.
Typically the judge will order appraisals be conducted before the hearing and filed with the court so he or she has a good understanding of what the property is worth.
You also typically must file a copy of the deed, mortgage, or any other ownership documents with the court.
If you're requesting a split that isn't 50/50, be prepared to explain why you believe you are entitled to a larger portion of the property (or proceeds from the sale thereof) than the co-tenant.

