 Having veins that bulge like a body builder's comes down to body fat percentage. The veins that will pop out are surface veins. The less padding you have between your skin and your veins, the more prominent your veins will be. Eat a diet focused on getting lean by decreasing your body fat.


Below 10% body fat for men should result in most major veins being visible. The lower your body fat, the more visible your veins will be, especially in hard to see places like your abs.For women, the body fat percentage should be around 15%.To get this percentage of body fat, eat clean. That means loads of fresh vegetables and lean protein while skipping junk foods, soda, and dessert.;
, Sodium causes you to retain water. When your body is retaining water, your skin puffs up, obscuring your veins.Keep away from the processed foods and pretty much anything you haven't made yourself. Odds are if it's prepared outside of your kitchen, it's been doused in salt.
Currently, 2,300 mg of salt is the upper limit daily recommendation. That's just one teaspoon of salt. The Institute of Medicine and the American Heart Association suggest 1,500 mg of sodium per day.To make this manageable, buy fresh and use herbs and spices to jazz up your palette.
 To build the kind of muscle that yields protruding veins, you need to focus on serious muscle building strategies. These muscles don't come from 3 sets of 10 reps that most people suggest for workout routines. Serious muscle building comes from 3-5 reps at a heavy weight.


Start by doing 6 sets of 5 reps, but increase the weight you are lifting by 25%.Muscle needs to exert force to grow.
 Cardio is an excellent way to burn fat and get lean. High intensity interval training (HIIT) works great for this. HIIT workouts are when you do super high intense bouts of cardio with rest in between for 20-30 minutes.Examples of HIIT are cycling between short intense bouts of speed and rest or completing 10 100-yard sprints with 60 second rests in between.
 Drinking enough water keeps you hydrated and your muscles hydrated. This helps reduce your water retention. Drinking more water than necessary can flush excess water, therefore lowering your water retention.Keeping a healthy level of potassium in your system helps you expel water instead of retaining it (like sodium).Many bodybuilders dehydrate themselves before a competition. Drinking less can lead to your veins becoming more prominent.This method is not recommended because it is very dangerous. If you use this method, use it with extreme caution.
 Carbohydrates increase the amount of fluids your body holds. Eating a low carb diet can result in lower water retention under the skin.Diets low in carbohydrates also lead to fat loss.
 Diuretics rid your body of water, helping to make those veins prominent.You can buy diuretics, or you can use natural ones, like espresso. Diuretics can be extremely dangerous, though. If you use them, be safe and smart about them.
 Agmatine is a supplement that is a by-product of the amino acid Arginine. Agmatine prevents nitric oxide from breaking down in your body, which promotes increased blood flow to your muscles. Enhancing this blood flow can increase your vascularity.A nitric oxide supplement can also help you achieve more prominent veins.Creatine is another supplement thought to attribute to increased vascularity.