 If you’re using diet to help you focus then you should definitely make sure you are drinking plenty of water. Some research suggests that drinking water may improve your brain’s reaction time.Add some lemon to your water for an added flavor kick and some aromatherapy. The scent of lemon has been found to help some people concentrate.Start your day and end your evening with a glass of water. If it helps motivate you to drink it, then keep a bottle beside your bed.
Keep a bottle of water (or two) with you to sip on throughout the day. Try to drink a glass with each meal.
 Some studies show that green tea can improve brain health and memory.Caffeine and the amino acid L-theanine are in this healthy tea. Along with other health benefits, the amino acid in green tea is known to help calm, relax, and focus you.Check the label because different brands of green tea may have varying amounts of caffeine.Have some hot green tea in the mornings as a lower caffeine alternative to coffee.
Green tea can also be delicious served over a glass of ice with honey used as a sweetener.
 Two to three cups of coffee per day can help with focus and improve both long- and short-term memory.Be careful not to overdo it, as this can lead to anxiety.You should have no more than 400 milligrams (mg) of caffeine daily (about the amount in 4 cups of brewed coffee)., Similar to the scent of lemon, the smell of peppermint can give you a boost of energy and concentration.In addition, peppermint tea can may help reduce any anxiety that is preventing you from focusing.


The fresh flavor of peppermint tea can also give you an energy boost that can help you focus.
You can drink peppermint tea hot or cold. Add a twist of orange for a refreshing taste.
 Although they may promise a quick and tasty jolt of energy, they often have an unhealthy amount of sugar. They also usually contain so much caffeine that you may become jittery.Substitute a healthier drink than an energy drink when you are trying to use diet to help you focus.


Choose a bottle of water, cup of tea or coffee, or 4 oz. of fruit juice instead of an energy drink.
It is recommended that children and adolescents avoid drink energy drinks because of the negative effects it can have on your health.

