 When someone is moody, it doesn’t help them if their friends are also tense or upset. It is unlikely that your friend’s moodiness is the result of something you did, so don’t take it personally.If you feel yourself getting upset or tense, use some calming techniques before talking to your friend. Taking slow, deep breaths is a well-known way to reach a calm place. You can also try counting backwards or actively counting your breaths. This will distract you from a stressful situation and help you center yourself.;
, If your friend is normally even-tempered, their moodiness might be caused by something that is happening in their life. Maybe they are sick or tired. Maybe they’ve failed a test. Sometimes just knowing someone cares is enough to bring them out of their funk.Make sure your tone says you are asking because you care. You can try stating what you see, then asking if everything is alright — "You don't seem to be yourself today. Is everything OK?" or "Your reaction seemed a little over-the-top. You OK?"
Your friend might not be able to articulate what is causing them to feel sad one minute and happy the next. But just trying to put it into words will often take the emotion out of the situation and help your friend get back on an even keel.
 Your friend might just want a hug to feel better and you won’t know if you don’t ask. Or maybe they just want someone to sit and listen without judgment. Asking if you can help will also make your friend realize that their moodiness is being noticed, and sometimes that is all it takes for a person to change their mood., If you friend is feeling sad, a change of scenery can help. Try taking them out for lunch or plan a fun activity with other friends. If you friend is laughing inappropriately or feeling manic, suggest that the two of you go someplace quieter.
 Sometimes moody people just want to be left alone until they feel better. Other times they want to talk. Ask your friend and let them guide you.


If your friend asks you to leave, be sure to check on them later. You don’t want them to feel abandoned.

