 Having a hobby that you enjoy doing is a great way to spend free time. Think about your interest and things you've always wanted to do such as painting, playing an instrument, reading, singing, dancing etc, this can be your new hobby.;
, Although your siblings can be difficult at times you should still love them no matter what. Show your family you love them by giving them hugs and helping them out when needed.
 Your family is precious and you never know when you might loose them. Instead of staying glued to your device all day ask your parents if your family could go on a fun trip such as going to the movies, an amusement park, a water park, bowling, etc. Not only will you have a blast with your family you will also make some good memories.
 Thinking about what other people think about will only make your life more miserable. Be the bigger person by standing up for yourself if someone talks badly about you and ignore them.
 If you feel like what you want to do is the best decision then do it unless if it's a bad decision. Follow your heart and don't let others control your life.
 The only thing stopping you from accomplishing you dreams is yourself. Whether you want to become a doctor, a model, or make it onto a sports team try your hardest to make it possible.
 People want to see you doing your best. Try to do well in school, help others, have manners, have proper hygiene and wear decent clothes.
 There is only one version of you and if everyone was the same the world would be boring. Do you hate your freckles or your curly hair? Don't it makes you one of a kind so embrace it.
 When you're a kid there is nothing to worry about. Take advantage of this since when you get older you will have a lot more problems to worry about.
 Staying inside all day doing nothing is just plain boring. Have play dates with your friends, do something with your family, or just chill and read a book.
 Everyone likes being silly even people who are serious all the time enjoy being silly. Don't be afraid to act silly around people if they judge you then they are not worth your time. It's all about having fun and letting loose.
 Hanging with your friends at the movies can be a blast but you should have some alone time as well. Chill in your pjs and enjoy a book or movie when you want to relax and don't really feel like going anywhere.
 Adults aren't the only ones that need breaks kids can have breaks too. Plan a day to yourself doing something fun instead of working once in a while.
 When you're younger you often get more advantage than when you're older. Enjoy the foods you love and don't be afraid to try new foods as well.
 Unfortunately things change throughout the years that you may not like but you have to cope with it. Loved ones may die, you may move houses, and your older siblings could leave to college. Spend as much time with them as you can but also keep in mind things won't stay the same forever.
 Nothing's impossible if you put your mind to it. Don't limit yourself to doing easy things challenge yourself with more difficult things as well.
 Learning new things is not only exiting it will also widen your knowledge. Do you know someone who can do something really cool and always wonder how they do it? Ask them to teach you and also ask people questions if they know a lot about a certain topic.
 Talking to an older person is great since they have more experience. Feel free to ask them about how their childhood was like and what they did for fun. By doing this you will get more ideas on what you can do and learn many life lessons.

