 If you have hemophilia, having bleeding gums can be a serious health issue for you. With this in mind, take the time to care for your teeth, so that they stay healthy, and get regular dental care.Find a dentist that is experienced with treating patients with hemophilia. They will have a better understanding of the condition and will give you medication that can limit bleeding during treatments.
 Follow your doctor's directions for treatment and preventative care. This includes having clotting factor replacement therapy when necessary and having regular exams to assess your condition.How often you go in for factor replacement treatment will vary. Some patients will need to go in every day if they have a severe case of hemophilia. Others will have to go in very rarely, perhaps once a year, if their condition is very mild.You will also want to have regular vaccinations in order to avoid illnesses that could be very serious due to your hemophilia.
 Another option is to carry a card, but you should always have something on your person that indicates you have hemophilia. This way if you are involved in an accident or there is an emergency, medical personnel can treat you appropriately. The card will have more room and can inform them of any treatments you are on, medications you take, and any allergies., If you become ill or have an injury that won't stop bleeding, you will need to get medical care right away. If you have hemophilia you need to be proactive about your health and treatment of health problems. Even a bruise on a person with severe hemophilia can become a serious health issue if it goes uncared for.You will need to learn when you need medical care and when you do not. This largely depends on your level of hemophilia and the treatment that you are receiving for it.
Look for signs of bruising and pay attention to bleeding that doesn't stop. Also pay attention to signs of internal bleeding, including bleeding on the brain. These include a persistent headache, weakness or swelling in the limbs, vomiting, lethargy, and inability to move or bear weight.
 If you are planning to travel, you will need to do some additional preparation first. Find out where hemophiliac clinics are located around your destination and keep their contact information handy. Bring extra medication (talk to your doctor if you need them to prescribe extra), and carry with you written instructions on dosing of your medication and what emergency medications you require.