 If your cat has trouble getting around, keep their food and water in easy-to-reach bowls in the area where they spend most of their time. You may wish to place multiple food and water dishes around the house for easier access., If your cat is very weak or extremely malnourished, they may need to be syringe-fed. This involves hand-feeding your cat small amounts of soupy, high-calorie food through a medicine syringe.Ask your vet about the type, amount, and consistency of food that you should administer to your cat via syringe.
Lightly warm the food before giving it to your cat.
Wrap the cat gently but firmly in a towel to keep them from scratching or struggling during the feeding.
Grasp the cat’s head from behind, with your thumb and forefinger resting on the cheekbones, and gently lift the cat’s head.
Insert the syringe tip into the cat’s mouth from the side and gently nudge it between the cat’s jaws.
Direct the syringe toward the roof of the mouth at a 15° angle and slowly inject the food into the cat’s mouth.
 If your cat has trouble eating by mouth, they may need to be fed through a feeding tube. There are a variety of types of feeding tube, which may be inserted into the cat’s nose, throat (through an incision on the neck), or directly into the stomach through an incision in the side of the cat’s body. Liquid food is slowly inserted into the feeding tube through a syringe.Ask your vet for detailed instructions on the best way to tube feed your cat. The amount and type of food you give, and the number of feedings per day, will depend on your cat’s needs.
Pay careful attention to your vet’s instructions for keeping the syringe and the area around the tube clean, in order to minimize the risk of infection.
 If your cat is especially dehydrated, has impaired kidney function, or is having trouble drinking, you may need to administer fluids directly under the skin through a catheter attached to a drip bag. Subcutaneous fluids may need to be given a few times a week, or as often as once a day.Ask your vet for instructions on how to give your cat subcutaneous fluids. The amount of fluid and the frequency of administration will vary depending on your cat’s needs.

