 One of the simplest ways to add a bit of cardio into your workday is to take the stairs up to your office instead of taking the elevator or escalator. If you work somewhere that doesn’t have multiple floors, opt to park a little further away from the door to add some steps to your walk inside.Work on incorporating extra movement into your day in any way you can, even if you don’t have stairs or a big parking lot at your work. Offer to run an errand that needs to be done and take a walk, for example.
 Balance balls, or stability balls, keep you moving, even while seated. Since you’re constantly working your abs and back while you’re sitting on it, it’s like building exercise into your day without much effort at all. Spend a few hours out of your work day on the ball and a few hours in your regular chair if you need to rest.You could also get rid of your chair completely and choose to stand instead. There are special lifting desks you can purchase online or at an office supply store that will lift up your workstation so that you can stand while you work, which is great for your circulation and keeps you moving.
 Set a timer on your desk for every half hour to an hour and take a short, two to three minute walk around the office. Go grab a glass of water from the break room, walk the hallways, or just take a lap or two around the perimeter of the office.Taking breaks can also help you refocus. So, when you return to your desk after your short walk, you’ll be feeling more energized to keep working and better able to focus on your work.
 While sitting in your desk chair, or any other chair in the workplace, lift your legs straight out. Hold them there for a few seconds, then slowly lower them back down. Do a few sets of at least ten repetitions scattered throughout your workday.If your job requires standing full time, try swapping this exercise out for lunges. Step forward with one foot and bend the opposite knee until it almost touches the floor. Then, gently push yourself back up to standing and repeat on the other side.
 If you’ve got some time to kill at work while standing up, you can do calf raises to exercise without drawing attention to yourself. Stand with your feet about shoulder width apart and slowly raise up onto the balls of your feet. Slowly lower back down again, and repeat.Do these in sets. When starting off, try two sets of ten repetitions each, then gradually increase that over time. You could even challenge yourself to do as many calf raises as copies you have to make!

, Use little triggers like getting a new email, answering a phone call, or making a new sale and flex a different muscle group each time the trigger happens. For example, each time you get a new email, flex the muscles in your legs. Hold the flex for a few seconds and then relax it., Not only can stretching help you boost your energy and focus, it can also be an easy way to kill a few calories while staying seated at your desk. Try sitting in your chair and slowly lowering your fingers down toward your toes. Stretch your arms and back as you reach. Then, sit on the edge of the seat and without pushing your feet down into the floor. Lean back slowly without touching the chair back. Hold, then slowly sit upright. Repeat a few times. This exercise will help you stretch out and also work your abs.Stretch your chest, shoulders, and the front of your neck. Reach your arms out as wide as possible to your sides and lean back in your chair with your head tilted back and hold. For a more invigorating move you can do big arm reaches overhead and slowly fan your arms down and out to the sides, inhaling as you reach up, exhaling as you lower your arms, and then repeat.
 Sit up straight in your chair. Take in a deep breath. As you exhale, pull your abdominal muscles in, like you’re trying to pull them towards your spine. When you breathe in again, keep holding your muscles like that, and breathe into the back of your ribs. Keep holding your muscles (but not your breath!) that way for 30 seconds, then relax. Repeat this as often as you’d like., Hover a few inches above your chair with your knees bent. Hold for 5 seconds, then slowly stand up straight. Lower back down to hover above your chair again, and hold for another 5 seconds. Repeat this for as many reps as you’d like.This can get your blood pumping a little in addition to working the muscles in your lower body.
 While sitting on the edge of your chair, put one hand on the seat on either side of your hips. Lift yourself from the chair, then lower yourself down towards the floor. Your elbows should be at about 90 degrees once you’re fully lowered. Then, pull yourself back up to your chair. Repeat.Make sure your chair is stable before trying this exercise. If your chair has wheels, lock them, or use a different chair.
 A full water bottle can serve as a makeshift dumbbell at your desk. Gripping the bottle in one hand, lift your arm until it is straight out in front of you, and hold there for a moment. Then, continue lifting your arm up until your elbow is beside your ear, then bend your elbow to reach back behind you. Reverse the motion, and repeat.You can even try bringing a small weight with you to work. A one or two pound weight would be plenty. Try using a water bottle as a weight. A one liter bottle of water weighs one kilogram.

