 If you struggle to edit your writing on your own, you may try showing it to a friend or a colleague to get their feedback. Choose a friend who will be critical of your writing but also offer constructive feedback and useful notes. You may also show the story to a colleague at school or at work who is interested in writing and reading.You may try reading the short story out loud to a friend or colleague in addition to giving them a hard copy. You may get more detailed feedback if you read the short story out loud to them, as they can tell you right away when a section does not sound right or as strong as it could be.
Remember not to take any criticism you receive of your short story personally. You are getting your writing critiqued after all, and any feedback does not reflect on you as a person. Instead, try to view feedback as valuable and part of the revising process.
 You may also try bringing the story to a writing group in your local area or online. Submit the story to the writing group for critique. Then, sit back and listen to what the writers in the group have to say about the story. Take notes and try not to interrupt anyone when they are discussing your story. Listen and process the feedback you get from the group.You may also try taking a writing class where you can workshop your writing with other writers. You may find it useful to discuss the craft of writing and several different approaches to writing in the class, in addition to getting your short story edited by other writers.
 If you are still struggling to revise your short story, you may consider hiring a professional editor to help you tackle the issues in your story. You can hire a professional editor by searching for one online or by asking peers in your writing community for a reference to a good one.You may end up working with a professional editor if you submit the short story to a call for submissions at a literary magazine or a journal. The editor can help you adjust minor issues in the story so it is set for publication.

