 Before you begin cooking your tomato sauce, you need to preheat your oven at 400 degrees F.;
, In a saucepan, add 4 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil and the chopped onion. Cook the onion until it is translucent. Add all of the tomato sauce and stir. Cook on a low flame for 15 minutes. Remove from heat and set aside.
 The pastella is the coating for the eggplant. Beat 4 eggs in a bowl. Add flour, 1/2 cup of the Parmesan cheese, minced garlic, and mint. Mix well. Add the water and stir.


If the pastella is too thick, you can add more water. The pastella is supposed to be about the consistency of pancake batter.
If you add too much water, add more flour to thicken it back up.
 Peel each of your eggplants. Cut them lengthwise in strips. They should be about 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) thick.
 Dip the eggplant in the pastella. Coat both sides evenly. Make sure there isn't too much pastella on the pieces. You want them covered but not drenched. Heat the olive oil in a large pan. Fry each pastella coated eggplant piece in the oil until golden brown. Remove them and place them on a paper towel. Blot with more paper towels to remove the excess oil.
 Cover the bottom of a large baking pan with a generous helping of the tomato sauce you set aside earlier. Layer the eggplant on top of the sauce, covering the whole pan. Cover each eggplant slice with more tomato sauce. Sprinkle 1/2 cup of Parmesan cheese on top of the eggplant. Also add 1/4 a pound of mozzarella cubes to this layer. Last, add a layer of mortadella on top of the cheese. Repeat until you run out of eggplant.


Mortadella is an Italian deli meat that is similar to bologna. It has a sweeter flavor and is milder in flavor than bologna. Look for it in the deli section of your grocery store.
This amount of eggplant is generally enough for three layers.
 Add a generous amount of sauce on the top layer of eggplant. Sprinkle the remaining Parmesan cheese, which should be about 1 cup. Make the final layer along the top of the dish with the slices of mozzarella.
 Cook for 30 minutes, or until the cheese is fully melted and golden brown. Remove from the oven and left rest for 10 minutes before serving.