 To get net sales, also known as "gross revenue" or simply "revenue," add up all cash received and increases in accounts receivable for products and services sold during the income statement period. These revenues are recorded when the product or service is delivered to the customer, not necessarily when it is paid for.This will be the first item on your income statement and calculation of net income.


Note that some companies use the terms “revenue” and “sales” interchangeably, but others use “sales” only to identify the number of products sold (excluding income from other sources)., These are the expenses associated with producing or purchasing the goods that a company sells. Retail and manufacturing businesses will have considerable expenses in this category. To arrive at a total for this number, add up the cost of raw materials used in production, the cost of direct labor (including wages for personnel not involved in administrative or sales roles), and any expenses associated with production, like electricity.If you are a service-based business, "cost of goods sold" may be replaced with "cost of revenue" for clarity. This figure follows the same general concept, though, and includes expenses like wages, sales commissions, any costs used in delivering your services (like transportation or shipping), and any other expenses incurred by making sales.Once you have found this number, subtract it from net sales. The resulting number is called gross profit and serves as a measure of a company's manufacturing efficiency., SGA (selling, general, and administrative) expenses are subtracted in the next step. These are costs like rent, salaries, wages (of administrative or sales personnel), advertising, and marketing, as well as any other costs associated with a company’s primary operations.These expenses may also be known simply as operating expenses.


When you have calculated this number, subtract it from gross profit to get earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA). EBITDA is used to measure overall profitability between companies and industries because it ignores the effects of financial and accounting decisions on profit., These numbers generally reflect an asset from the balance sheet that is expensed over time. Depreciation costs refer to the loss in value of a tangible asset (like a machine); amortization costs refer to the loss in value of an intangible asset (like a patent). Accounting for these expenses as DA expenses on the income statement for several years allows a company to spread out the impact of an expensive investment, like a new vehicle or factory, on their net income.DA expenses are complicated accounting concepts. See how to calculate depreciation on fixed assets and how to amortize assets for more information.
Once you have calculated DA expenses, subtract them from EBITDA to get EBIT (earnings before income and taxes). EBIT, also known as operating income, is another common measure of business's profitability., These are costs related to any interest a company is paying (on a loan, for example). This can also include any money paid out to bondholders. When calculating this figure, be sure to also add back in any money earned in interest income. Interest income can include interest earned by placing money in short-term investment such as certificates of deposit, savings, and money-market accounts.When you have calculated interest expense, subtract (or add if the interest income was greater interest expenses) it from EBIT to obtain EBT (earnings before taxes). EBT allows investors to compare the profitability of similar business that operate under different tax laws., The tax expense will be the income tax paid by the business during the income statement's reporting period. This will vary based on a number of factors, including the size of the business and how its taxes are filed. Bear in mind that this does not include other taxes paid by the company, like property tax. Property taxes are instead included as a part of operating expenses., After subtracting tax expenses, you have calculated net income!

