 Shoe store salespeople will talk to you about ankle pronation, impact pattern, and plantar shape — i.e. the imprint of the bottom of your foot — but recent studies indicate that to prevent injury, you are best off simply picking a shoe that you find comfortable. It turns out that people are very good at intuitively picking shoes that will work best for their style of movement.One exception to the “pick shoes by comfort" rule is if you have flat feet. In this case, you will probably need special shoe inserts and arch supports.Save high heels for special occasions. Wearing them too frequently can lead to chronic knee pain., Particularly if you run or walk a lot, it is important to replace your shoes before the soles get too compressed. If you begin to experience sore arches, shin pain, or achy knees, then it’s time to replace your shoes. It’s better, however, to replace them before pain appears.Keep a log of how far you walk or run each day. Replace your shoes when you have covered between 400 and 600 miles.
The specific distance will depend on your weight and running style. Heavier runners and runners with longer strides will need to replace their shoes sooner.If the bottom of your shoes becomes worn down and smooth, replace them.
 Braces provide added support to the knee ligaments. Particularly if you are playing a collision sport (football, lacrosse, hockey, rugby), knee braces have been shown to reduce the risk of knee injury.Players of contact sports (basketball, soccer) and sports that requires rapid changes of direction (tennis) may also benefit, as many people engaged in activities that pose a significant risk of knee injury, such as skiing. Talk to your regular doctor, a sports medicine doctor, or an orthopedist about the right brace for you.



Prophylactic — For athletes in contact sports. These braces, designed to protect ligaments, attach above and below the knee, with one or two hinged metal bars connecting the sides of the brace.Functional — For athletes in contact sports. These braces protect knee ligaments in a fashion similar to prophylactic braces, with a metal “shell” that is hinged on both sides of the knee.Patellofemoral (sleeve) — For people suffering from knee pain or athletes looking for some knee stabilization. A brace made of elastic material – usually neoprene – that is designed to hold the patella in the proper position and thus reduce chronic knee pain. These braces offer some knee stabilization, but will do little to prevent ligament damage.