 Dialing 3-1-1 will put you in touch with a local operator that will be able to connect you to a multitude of government services.It's the number that you should call if you have a non-emergency situation and need more information about city or town services. Ask the operator if they could connect you to the organization that handles street lights, and they will connect you with the department that you need.


In places like San Francisco, there are over 2,300 different telephone numbers associated with government services. ;
, Major cities like New York City, Seattle, and Baltimore have a local Department of Transportation that handles the repair and replacement of downed or faulty streetlights. If you live in a major city, contact your local Department of Transportation by searching them online or using the Yellow Pages.


Los Angeles has an entire department dedicated to repairing faulty street lights called the Bureau of Street Lighting.In Boston, they have an agency called The Street Lighting Division that handles street light repair.The government department you contact will vary depending on which city you live in.
 If you reside in a smaller town or municipality, then it's possible that a private company handles street light outage issues. Find the energy company's contact information on the top of a bill, if the outage is local, or search online by typing the company name into a search engine.


Some communities have a community choice program which allows residents to choose energy providers.Call the provider to see if they are the ones who handle street lights.
 Most municipalities and cities have a public works department that oversees essential things like trash collection, transportation, and utilities.They will be able to point you in the right direction when it comes to a downed streetlight. Visit your local city or state's government website to find the contact information for the public works department near you.


Searching "Public Works" and your city's name in most search engines will also help you find what you need.

