 For best results, place the frozen crab legs in a shallow container and thaw them in the refrigerator overnight.









If you do not keep the crab legs in a container as they thaw, the melting ice could leave a big puddle of water in your refrigerator by morning.
Note that crab legs can be thawed with cold water if you are short on time. Run each leg and claw under cold, running water for several minutes. Do not attempt to steam the crab legs until the ice has melted off, at the very least.
 Fill the bottom of the skillet with no more than 1 inch (2.5 cm) of water. Add wedges from 1 lemon along with 1 tsp (5 ml) or so of salt. Bring to a simmer over medium-high heat.









You only need enough water to create steam. If you add too much water, you will end up boiling the crab legs instead of steaming them.
The lemon and salt are only optional.
If you do add the salt, let the contents of the skillet simmer for 2 to 3 minutes, giving the salt ample time to dissolve, before adding the crab legs and/or claws.
 Arrange the crab legs and claws in the skillet in a single layer and cover tightly with a lid. Steam for 5 to 7 minutes, or until heated through.








For a tighter seal, consider covering the skillet with a sheet of aluminum foil as well as or instead of the lid. Place the foil on carefully, however, so that you do not burn your fingertips on the sides of the hot pan.
One good indication that the crab legs are done is when they become notably fragrant.
If you want to double-check on whether or not the crab legs are done, remove the cover of the pan and pick the thickest crab leg up with a set of tongs. Lightly touch the meaty part with the tip of your pinky finger to see if it is warm.
 Enjoy the crab legs as soon as you finish steaming them. Serve them with melted or clarified butter on the side.









Be careful when removing the crab legs from the skillet. Lift the lid away from your face so that you do not accidentally burn yourself on the hot steam as it bursts out.
Steamed crab legs and claws have softened shells, so a crab cracker will likely crush the shell into the meat instead of cracking the shell open. Dig the meat out by using sharp kitchen scissors or shears to cut the crab apart at down the center.
If serving these to guests, you can remove the shell entirely or simply cut a small slit into each one to get the process started. The choice is yours.
If the crab legs too hot to handle with your bare hands, or if the shell is spiny and difficult to hold, wear a glove while working with it.

