 Remember, this is to track your progress. The more weight you see yourself losing, the more likely you are to continue losing weight.;
, Just wear a bra and underwear for the photo, as you'll be the only person seeing this photo if you live by yourself. Post it on your bedroom door, next to your mirrors, and on your refrigerator door. This will help you when you have feelings of doubt. You could also even post pictures of yourself at your smallest size, or the size you'd like to be.
 Every day at the same time, get up, eat, and do your regular day, but set a special time that you'll work out. Try to do a different work out every day, so that you don't get too bored.
 Working out with someone else is great motivation to keep you going, when you don't want to go, your friend can help motivate you to go.
 Always remember that diets don't work! In order to be successful you have to commit to your exercise plan. You can't expect to work out for a couple months, and see results, and then decide to quit. You have to be committed to what you are doing.
 You shouldn't need too much motivation if you realize that you aren't doing this for anyone but yourself, and your own self-esteem. You shouldn't lose weight because someone tells you to, but because you genuinely want to.
 Let's face it. We all have weaknesses. Being overweight means you might have a weakness for certain unhealthy foods. We all do at times, but you have to learn when to stop eating these unhealthy foods. It might also mean you just don't feel you have the time and energy to work out. Now is the time to STOP making excuses.
 Tell people what you are doing, what your intentions are, and how you intend to reach your goals, so that they can help you, and be your advocates, not your enemies. If people don't know you're trying to lose weight, of course they're going to ask you to eat out at the newest fast-food restaurant, but they'll probably be mindful if you let them know you're trying to get healthy.
 So you're at a friends house for her birthday and you eat a sliver of cake? That doesn't mean it is the end of the world. Tomorrow is a new day and a great opportunity to start fresh!

, Realize that you are a strong person for even making the first step to try to lose weight.

