 If you’re not already affiliated with one, contact a local animal shelter or humane society. Let them know that you’re interested in throwing a kitten shower to benefit their organization.While shelters and humane societies often plan their own kitten showers, they make great projects for Girl and Boy Scout troops, church or civic organizations, or a group of animal loving friends.
A shower is typically held at the shelter or humane society it benefits.;
, In the Northern Hemisphere, many shelters are in greatest need during the month of April. While a shelter or humane society would doubtlessly benefit from a charitable event any time of the year, a springtime shower will have the greatest impact., A kitten shower involves lots of groundwork and careful planning. Recruiting around twenty volunteers will make sure the work is accomplished without one or a few people getting overwhelmed.The shelter or humane society likely has a pool of regular volunteers. Recruit helpers from this pool and send out a request to the shelter's email list. Their staff can also help plan and run the event.
Find additional volunteers by asking other members of your troop or organization, coworkers, or neighbors. If you have kids, ask around their daycare or school.
 Once you’ve assembled your team, make sure everyone has a clear task or tasks. Examples of duties that you should delegate include:Set up and clean up crews
Invitation and press release design
Marketing coordinator
Foster and adoption coordinators (likely members of the shelter’s staff)
Food prep and serving
Donation collectors
Raffle and game coordinators

, Ask local restaurants to donate food as soon as possible, preferably months in advance. Many have a limited budget for charitable donations, so you’ll want to make sure they can provide you with some light bites.Ask multiple restaurants to donate one appetizer instead of relying on one to cater the entire event. Ask in person or send a friendly email.
If the shelter or humane society can provide a charitable donation receipt so the restaurant can use the donation as a tax write-off, use that as an incentive.
You should also see if a restaurant or other local business can provide a gift certificate or other prizes that you can use for raffles and games., Buy balloons, streamers, tablecloths, cups, plates, napkins, and other items from a dollar store to keep your budget low. You should be able to decorate and supply the event for less than $100 (US).You can also see if restaurants donating food can also supply serving-ware and napkins.
 You don’t have to limit donation drop-offs to the shower date and location. Ask local pet supply stores, groomers, and other pet-related businesses if they can set up a donation station on premises.Ask if they’re willing to accept donations throughout the entire month instead of just on the day of the shower.
 Not everyone will want to donate supplies, so you should make sure you’re able to field cash donations. Make sure your system is simple and secure. To enable guests to donate money via credit or debit, use a mobile credit card reader linked to an account in the shelter’s name.For example, some shelters in Florida, USA, use WeGive.org to collect donations in multiple payment methods. The site also allows shelters to list information about what various dollar amounts will buy, like toys, food, and veterinary care.