 One of the most important things to learn when practicing any singing style is how to breath from your diaphragm.


This allows you to take in more oxygen, helping you to hold notes (or screams) for much longer and avoid getting out of breath while performing.
When you breathe from your diaphragm your stomach should expand as you inhale and contract when you exhale. Learning how to breathe correctly and naturally from your diaphragm takes practice.
Therefore you should start doing daily deep breathing exercises to improve your technique.;
, You will have different levels of tension in your vocal chords depending on how high or low you sing or scream.


For example, when you sing in a low voice your voice box will move down, making your vocal chord tension loose. When you sing in a high voice your voice box moves up, making your vocal chords tight.
Good screamo singing is all about control, and in order to have control you need to be aware of how vocal chord tension works and how you can manipulate it. Once you can control vocal tension, you will easily be able to move between high and low registers, even while screaming.
A good practice technique is to hum along with the sound of your car engine as you rev it up -- this warms up your vocal chords and allows you to practice moving from high to low registers., Many inexperienced screamo singers damage their voices by trying to scream too loudly -- however, one of the best kept secrets of successful singers is that they actually scream kind of quietly (as weird and contradictory as that sounds).


Don't try to scream at the top of your lungs on your first attempt, start at a low volume and as your voice gets stronger you can gradually increase the volume.
The beauty of screamo is that you can let the microphone do most of the work while you're performing. Even a "quiet" scream can rattle your audience's teeth when amplified by a good sound system.
You can also produce deeper sounds by cupping your hands around the microphone or by moving your mouth in specific ways as you sing. The best thing you can do is just to play around and experiment with it until you find a sound that you like., One of the best ways to improve your screaming technique is to record yourself singing and then watch it back later (no matter how awkward this might feel).


This can help you to pick up on things like poor posture or pitch-problems which you would never have been aware of otherwise.
Recording yourself allows you to really hear what you sound like and become aware of where you need to improve. The first step to improving your singing is to recognize your mistakes.
 Vocal coaching and screamo singing may not sound like two things that should go together, but screamers can actually benefit hugely from some professional training.


In fact, famous frontmen Randy Blythe, Corey Taylor and Robert Flynn have all improved their screaming technique and learned how to properly care for their voices thanks to professional vocal training.
A vocal coach will work with you to train and strengthen your voice. Even a couple of sessions can be worth the money, as your coach will teach you some breathing and warm-up exercises which you can practice at home.
Alternatively, you could try to get your hands on a book called "The Zen of Screaming" by Melissa Cross, which is pretty much the definitive guide to safe yet awesome-sounding screamo.
 It's a good idea to drink slightly warm water before rehearsing or performing.


The water helps to clear and lubricate the throat, while also keeping you hydrated. Warm water is better than cold water as it warms up your vocal chords.
You could also drink tea or coffee, but remember not to add any milk or cream. Dairy products coat the throat and increase phlegm production, making singing harder., Using a throat spray moisturizes your throat and helps to prevent your vocal chords from becoming damaged.


The most popular throat spray for singers is called "Entertainer's Secret" as it is a non-medicinal spray which relieves pain and irritation without numbing the throat.
It is available for purchase online.
 It's a bad idea to use any numbing sprays or lozenges, even if they help to relive vocal pain.


Pain is your body's way of telling you that something is wrong, so if you're numb to that pain you can do serious damage to your vocal chords and potentially ruin your voice without even realizing it.
 When singing screamo, one of the most important things to remember is not to push yourself too hard.


If you start to feel any pain, burning or irritation you should stop immediately and wait a couple of days for your voice to recover.
Trying to sing through the pain (however rock star that sounds) will only hurt your voice more and potentially cause irreversible damage.

