 If you have a PIN number on your SIM card as an extra security measure, you'll need to type the PIN number in each time you turn on your phone. Otherwise, the PUK code is needed only if you enter the SIM card pin code wrong too many times.A message will appear on your phone saying your PUK is locked. At this point, you will need to enter your PUK code or you won't be able to access the phone.
If you also enter the PUK code wrong 3 times, the SIM card will be locked. If you enter the wrong PUK code 10 times or more, then you will need a new SIM card. Some phones call this a PUC code instead, but it’s the same thing. The code is 8 digits long.;
, A PUK code (personal unlocking key) is a key that is used to protect your mobile SIM card. Keep in mind that the PUK code is unique to your SIM card.


There are a few other reasons why you might want to know your PUK code; the most common is if you're moving from one network service provider to another but want to keep the same mobile number.
Working out your PUK code is normally very simple although it can vary depending on who your current provider is. Make sure you write it down somewhere so that you don't forget it once you get it, and also be aware that some service providers limit the length of time the PUK code will be active.
A PUK is a second level of security on a SIM card. The PUK code is unique to the SIM inside the phone and not the phone itself. The PUK is kept by the network operator.
 If you have recently purchased a SIM card, then look on the packaging. Sometimes the PUK card is printed on it.


Look at the box that your SIM card came in, and the PUK code should be there on the box or label.
You could also call the retailer you have purchased the phone from if you can’t find this code, and they should be able to assist

, The PUK code is unique to your SIM card, so you can only get this from your mobile network. Sometimes the network will give you this when you first get the SIM card, but not all networks do this.


If you cannot find it, give your mobile network a call, and customer support will be able to give you the PUK code or generate a new one after you have answered some security questions.The network provider is going to ask you to prove your identity. Sometimes, this entails providing your date of birth and address. You won’t be able to get the PUK code if you can’t prove that you own the phone. You might be asked for the SIM card code from its packaging too., You can try online to find your PUK code as long as you have an online account through your network provider (most offer this service).Log in to your mobile phone account on your computer and look for a PUK code section on your account page. Where this appears will vary among network providers. For AT&T Wireless, you log into the AT&T online account. Select “wireless” from the “myAT&T” tab at the top of the page. Select “phone/device.” Select: “Unblock Sim card.” A new page will open that provides your PUK card.Some prepaid phones also use PUK codes and will provide them to you online if you know the mobile number and the name and date of birth of the account holder.If you don’t already have an online account, it’s usually easy to create one if you have your mobile number and basic information to prove your identity.
 You will usually see a notification show up on the phone that will prompt you to enter your PUK code.


Follow the instructions on the phone to complete the process.
Different mobile phones will have different steps, but most will inform you they've locked the phone down and that you need to type in the PUK code.
 If you’ve had to enter your PUK code because you had the PIN code wrong, once you enter the PUK code, you will need to input a new PIN for the SIM card.


After you have done so, your cell phone should be unlocked, and you will be able to use it again.
Some phone users must enter **05* before entering the PUK code. Then, enter the 8-digit PUK card and hit enter. Nexus One users should type in the **05*, their PUK number, *, their new PIN number, *, their new PIN number again, #.