 Take your time with your partner before, during, and after sex. Rushing things will likely cause your stress levels to rise, increasing the possibility of pain. When you are having sex, take your time finding out what gives your partner pleasure and don’t be afraid to express your wishes, too.If sex is painful, there is nothing wrong with stopping and trying again at another point. It is best to avoid the “let’s get this over with” mentality.
 This may sound odd, but engaging in sex more frequently can actually get your body more used to the process, making it less painful as a result. For certain men and women, the sexual organs can suffer from varying degrees of atrophy if not stimulated. Having intercourse prevents this and increases blood flow to the genital region. Being more sexually active, in a safe way, can also lessen some of the fear and stress associated with sex.If increased intercourse is not an option, many people see a lessening of pain if they try masturbation or other sexual practices aside from penetration., Give yourself at least 20-30 minutes for foreplay, as this is the average amount of time that it takes most people to become aroused and prepared for sex. Use this time as an opportunity to make sure that your partner is mentally and physically ready. Experiment with various types of touch to discover what works best for you both.For example, try out different degrees of touch pressure. Intermix soft touches with more forceful caresses.
 As part of foreplay, you may want to apply lubricant to yourself and perhaps your partner as well. Water-based vaginal lubricant can be placed directly on the vagina, vulva, or penis. A few drops is usually sufficient to reduce friction and pain. There are also vaginal moisturizers, which provide wetness and relief for multiple days.Many people find lubrication especially helpful if you are having sex with a condom., Experiment with a variety of sexual positions to see which ones are the most pleasurable, and least painful, for both you and your partner. Side-by-side can be comfortable for some women as it provides more shallow penetration. Both men and women sometimes prefer to assume a top position as it gives more control.To reduce spine pain, medical experts often recommend the missionary position as it allows the person laying down to put a towel or some other soft item under the curvature of their spine for support., If at any point during sex you experience pain and wish to stop, then tell your partner and separate. Don’t feel pressure to continue on just for your partner’s benefit. Communicate how you are feeling and work together to try once more under better conditions., If you notice that you are experiencing redness, itching, or irritation immediately during or after sex then it is possible you’ve been exposed to an irritant. Some people have a latex allergy, which makes them react badly to certain condoms. Some women even have a semen allergy. For both men and women, the use of spermicides or certain lubricants can also cause irritation.If you discover that a certain product causes irritation to your skin, you can always avoid it or find a product alternative. For example, people with a latex allergy often use natural lambskin condoms.