 It's not at all bold and it enhances your natural features. Start with your normal makeup routine, concealer, foundation etc. When you're finished with that, apply a quick coating of bronzer to give yourself a shiny summery look. Then apply a darkish pink blush along your cheek bones and a tiny bit on your nose. Next move onto eyes. If you haven't already, apply under eye concealer to reduce under eye shadows. Eyeshadow should be something like gold, light pink, silver or light blue. Something subtle, sparkly and summery. Apply only on the eyelid, brown or black eyeliner. Just a small coating and not too thick, and do a very small wing in the corner. Don't do under eye eyeliner. Finish off with mascara and, if you want, fake lashes. Last of all light pink or pale lipstick/lipgloss.;
, A French ponytail works well, getting the hair out of your face, and bows and flowers clipping your hair out of your face is good too. For summer, curling your hair is best. Messy updos also suit lazy summer days. Bright floral bows and headbands are really good for the summer and bright coloured flowers in colours such as pink, blue, yellow and white.
 So dress cool and comfortable, but stylish too. Baggy short sleeve tops, strapless tees and tank tops are great. Stripes, spots and floral patterns are good for the summer. Denim shorts, ruffle skirts and 3 quarter length leggings are good for the summer. If you want to wear a dress, floaty, floral dresses with short sleeves and low necklines are recommended. Sparkly clothes are perfect for the summer because the sun reflects off them. Dungarees are awesome for the summer. Shoes are easy, plimsolls, wedges, sandals, and flip flops/jandals. If you're wearing shorts, gladiator sandals can look great paired with these. If you're wearing a dress or skirt, go with flip flops/jandals or wedges. Dungarees look best with plimsolls.
 Bangle bracelets and charm bracelets are perfect. Pearl necklaces are good. Clip in streaks are a good idea. Bright colours like pink, purple or blue.

