 Self-cutting behavior usually emerges during your teen years, though some kids begin doing so as early as age 11 or 12. Recognizing what causes you to cut might provide some hints as to how you might seek help.


Powerful, overwhelming emotions. Does cutting feel like the only way you can express or interrupt feelings that are too overwhelming to ignore? Do you feel pressure to be perfect, or like you can never measure up? Do you feel others are placing you under unbearable pressure? Does cutting help you "feel" pain that comes from other trauma in your life?
A need to focus pain on something specific and visible. Do you feel like you need to gain control over the source of your pain? Is cutting something that can replace invisible -- but very real -- inner pain?
A sense of relief. Do you feel feel relieved when you cut? You might be benefiting from endorphins, hormones that are released during both physical exertion and injury. Alternatively, actually "seeing" the emotional pain you feel may provide you with a sense of relief.
Feeling addicted to cutting. Do you feel like you've formed a habit of cutting? Does it take more self-injury to accomplish the same sense of release or relief?
Other mental health concerns. Are you experiencing symptoms of other mental health issues such as depression, bipolar disorder, or other personality disorders? Are you experiencing post-traumatic stress?
Peer pressure. Are others influencing you to try self-cutting? Are you cutting to win the approval of a friend, or to be accepted by a group?, If you are engaging in self-cutting for any of the reasons outlined, you need to seek treatment. Your health and well-being are important. Speak with a trusted friend or loved one, or consider going to a school counselor or health center -- anywhere you feel safe.


Develop a "quit date," and seek the help of family and/or friends in holding you to your commitment.
Substitute positive behaviors. If you find you experience a sense of relief through cutting, for example, lace on your running or walking shoes when you feel the urge to cut and get outside for some exercise. Can you replace the endorphin rush of cutting with the endorphin rush of jogging? If friends are pushing you to cut, remove yourself from the situation by joining a new club or activity.
Obtain therapeutic treatment to address the underlying factors contributing to your self-cutting behavior. Your therapist will help you understand why you're cutting and work with you to find better ways to cope with your sources of stress and emotional turmoil. They will also be able to diagnose underlying mental health conditions that could impact your desire to self-harm.
Consider a self-harm rehabilitation center if you're really struggling with this medical condition. You'll find support and friendship in this group setting and develop valuable coping tools., It's vital that you commit yourself fully to overcoming your self-cutting behavior.Your therapist can help you develop positive coping behaviors and tools to recognize the many wonderful attributes you bring to this world. You are a valuable person.

