 Although you need more materials than you would if you used a simple curling ribbon, this procedure doesn't take that long to accomplish. Fabric ribbons that you've taken the time to curl can add something a little extra to a nice package.Find a dowel stick (pencil or rod works, too) which you’ll use to curl the ribbon around. A bigger diameter creates a bigger curl, while a smaller diameter creates a smaller curl.
Get a length of fabric ribbon. The width doesn't particularly matter, it just depends on what you want in terms of width. Make it a few inches (or centimeters) longer than the final desired length because curling will make it smaller.
Mix cornstarch and water in a spray bottle.
Grab a couple clothespins or clips, or use tape.
 You'll slosh the mixture around in the spray bottle until you've made sure that the cornstarch has completely dissolved.
 You'll do this with the clothespin or the clip, or you can tape it. Make sure that the ribbon is secured, because if it comes undone during the drying period, it won't curl very well.
 When you're doing this you want to make it as tight or as loose as you want your curls to be. Again, depending on the diameter of the dowel stick (or whatever rod you're using) the curls will be bigger or smaller. Don't overlap the ribbon as you're winding it or those parts won't get the starch spray.









Tape or clip the end of the ribbon in place, so that it is secured on both sides.
 Don't drown the ribbon in the solution, but make sure that the entire ribbon is completely coated. Any parts that aren't coated completely won't be stiff enough to maintain their shape.
 They have to be completely dry before you remove them from the dowel, because otherwise they may lose their shape. This can take awhile so it's a good idea to curl your ribbons with plenty of time to spare before you need to use them.
 Your ribbon should be stiff and curling. You can somewhat manipulate the shape if you need to attach it to a package, but don't let it get wet, because that will make it lose its curls.








