 Sometimes the schedule will be very late in coming up on the school's website, so you might need to check a couple of times.;
, At least a week before the feis, start practicing all of your dances twice a day. Make sure that you have the right music for each one. It is amazing what a difference this can make.


It helps to practice at least once wearing your full costume. This way you can get used to the weight, the skirt, the wig, and everything.
Also, when you put your costume on, keep in mind that it should go over your head. You'll need someone taller than you to do this. Don't step into your dress.
If you just got new shoes or new tips, break them in or adjust to them.
 Make sure that all of your clothing is clean and bright, especially your white socks! Do not wash your solo dress or school dress. This can have very bad results.


If you think your dress is dirty, (which, if you take good care of it, it shouldn't get that way) ask your teacher if they know of a good dry-cleaner in the area that they trust with the dresses. Also, if you have a new (or new to you) dress that needs a quick alteration, the place your teacher recommends can usually take care of that, too.
 For example, better height, more turnout, timing, etc. Ask your teacher what they think you could be better at. Practice your dances using these tips, but don't forget about the dance as a whole!

, This is often the hotel at which the feis is being held, which is very convenient (if they're holding the feis at a hotel). If the feis will be held at a large arena or convention center, the hotel will usually be the one that people stay in when they come to see concerts or go to conventions. Also, make sure to ask for the "feis rate," a discount price on the room.
 Get everything out and ready. Don't leave anything till the morning. This includes making snacks. Do you have:




Sock glue

Tape or resin (so you don't slip, because you never know!)
Something to hold your number!


Dancers forget these things a lot, and if you remember it when you pack then you won't have to buy it from a traveling salesperson at the feis!

, Be sure to use conditioner for soft hair. Although you cannot see your hair under the wig, it will make your experience much nicer. Make sure to not put too much conditioner because then your wig will have a hard time "clipping in".If you shave your legs, shave. It doesn't matter if you wear tights or bubble socks, it makes a difference.
 This will put the value of your dress up, make it last longer, as well as simply making it more pleasant for those around you. Remember, the one place where dresses stain is the armpits.
 This is crucial to your success. Whole grains contain complex carbs, which are good for your muscles and blood circulation, and meat and eggs are full of protein, which you should be eating regardless of how often you dance. Don't forget milk, yogurt and other sources of calcium and vitamin D, which are essential to your bones.
 Even though most feis' run late it is better to be safe rather than sorry.
 Believe it or not, part of your score is deportment, which means that you need to look like you are enjoying yourself, respecting the judge, and your opponents. In the higher levels, many dancers don't smile at all. If you do, you will set yourself apart and stick out in the judge's mind.


Keep in mind, though, that you never want to have this big, cheesy grin on your face. You need to look like you're focusing on the dance, but also like you're enjoying it.
 While a competitive attitude will only help you, if you are obsessing over every little thing, you won't have fun. And that ruins your day.
 Bring sweatpants and a shirt that will fit over or around your wig.
 If you do place, try not to jump up and down and squeal. There are lots of girls who have not had your fortune, and may be upset by your show of happiness. It is also a bit tacky to wear your medals around the hall.
 While they do not help you move up, they are fun and create the opportunity to take home a trophy. When the results of the trophy dance are being announced, wear your dress and look presentable, in case you need to go up and receive your trophy. This is also important if you're in Prelim. (Intermediate in other countries) or Opens, because all the awards are trophy ceremonies. There will be lots of parents taking pictures, so you want to look nice. Also, don't wear your medals up to receive your trophy. See step 14.
 They will probably be there, and will always be encouraging.
 Listen to music, look at other girl's dresses, check out the vendors.

