 Essential oils have long been thought to have positive emotional benefits. For example, many believe that oils can be used to enhance joy. Other oils may help you to feel at peace, or more energized.Some oils are used specifically for relaxation. Try spearmint or coriander to help unwind.
Eucalyptus oil can refresh and stimulate your brain. This oil must be diluted before used.
Mint oils are very energizing. Try spearmint or peppermint. You can use direct inhalation.
 If you've ever had a tension headache, you have likely longed for a natural remedy. Essential oils can help reduce headaches caused by stress. Simply apply to your temples.Peppermint is especially effective at easing headaches and reducing stress. Before using, dilute a small amount of peppermint essential oil in a carrier oil, such as grapeseed.Place the oil mixture on the tips of your fingers. Rub into your temples in a circular motion. Use the amount of pressure that feels right to you.
Lavender also has relaxing properties. Dab a few distilled drops on your temples and the back of your neck.
 When you apply an oil topically, that means you are applying it directly to your skin. There are several parts of your body that can benefit from topical applications of oil. Make sure to use a carrier oil, such as coconut, with your essential oil.Placing an oil mixture over your heart can be soothing and calming. Try using clary sage or angelica oils.If you don't want to use a carrier oil, you can topically apply essential oils with lotion. Add a few drops of oil to your favorite non-scented moisturizer.
Alternatively, you can use a spray bottle. Add a few drops of oil to distilled water. Spritz the mixture onto your body.
 If you practice yoga, you know that there are many physical, mental, and spiritual benefits. You can enhance these benefits by incorporating essential oils into your practice. Consider applying some before you practice. To strengthen your mood, apply a few drops of sandalwood or cedarwood oils to pressure points, such as the bottom of your feet. Dilute with a carrier oil and massage into feet.
To feel more grounded and centered, you can use ginger or patchouli oils. Try spritzing diluted oils onto your clothing before your practice.
Cleanse your mat with essential oils. Mix lemon or wild orange with water and spritz to purify your mat after a sweaty session.

