 UV light traps are ideal for catching houseflies and other relatively large species of flies and pest insects. Flies are lured in by the light, and then trapped on a glue board or killed by an electric shock.Place your light traps approximately 4-6 feet (1.2-1.8 meters) above the floor.
Position light traps so that they are not be visible from outside your house, so that the light does not lure new flies into your home.
Make sure that you use a light trap that is designed for indoor use, as high-voltage outdoor bug zappers can create an unsanitary mess.;
, Fly tape, or fly paper, is a simple and effective tool for catching large numbers of adult flies. Purchase one or more rolls of fly tape (like TAT or Black Flag) and hang them up in areas where flies tend to congregate.Do not hang fly tape directly above areas where you will be preparing or eating food. Flies or fly carcasses may become detached and drop off the tape.
 Fruit flies are extremely attracted to fermented fruit products, like red wine and apple cider vinegar. You can create a variety of simple traps using wine or vinegar as a bait to lure in and kill adult fruit flies:Put some apple cider vinegar in a bottle or jar and cover the opening with plastic wrap. Use a rubber band to hold the plastic wrap in place. Create a small hole in the plastic wrap so that fruit flies can smell the vinegar and crawl in. The flies will be unable to escape, and will drown in the vinegar.
Put some vinegar in a bowl and mix in a few drops of dish soap. The dish soap will disrupt the surface tension of the vinegar, causing the flies to drown if they try to land on the surface of the liquid.
Set out an open red wine bottle with a tiny amount of red wine left in it. The flies will be able to enter the bottle easily, but will have a difficult time getting out again.
You can also buy ready-made traps, like Aunt Fannie’s FlyPunch! or Terro fruit fly traps.
 Electronic swatters are a more sanitary alternative to traditional fly swatters. They kill flies and other insects instantly on contact, eliminating the need to crush the fly with the swatter and create a mess.Electronic swatters are fairly safe, but they can still deliver an uncomfortable shock. Keep them away from pets and children.

