 For example, the black belt is the highest belt in karate, awarded only to people who have put in the work, time, and dedication into learning the forms they are taught. This takes years to achieve, and you'll be expected to go to the karate classes at least two times a week. You shouldn't be teaching if you yourself haven't trained long enough, so you'll have to be a black belt if you want to teach karate. You may have to be past a first degree black belt, as well.;
, They vary widely depending on the country you'll be working in, and some are more strict than others (particularly Asian countries, where they are trying, for good reason, to preserve the art in "martial arts"). Will you need some unpaid teaching experience first? Many dojos will allow you to teach without pay once you've proven yourself and have become a black belt., For example, getting enough training, getting unpaid teaching experience, finding your own place if that's what you'd like, et cetera., Before you go out and start renting your own dojo, you should first get some experience elsewhere! Try health clubs, rec-centers, churches (if you are teaching a highly spiritual martial art, churches may not be your best bet), and community centers -- these are all great examples of places that may let you start teaching. Many successful instructors have started this way, and it won't hurt your budget.


If you'd like to teach at an already-existing dojo, then get in contact with them and see if they'll give you an interview. You may have the best luck trying to teach at your current martial arts location, however.
 It's great to have credentials, but it's largely a waste of time pursuing ran" simply for the sake of how it appears in a yellow pages ad. Many students won't care much for instructors who are more concerned with the "alphabet soup" at the end of their name than giving their students the best possible instruction. Besides, although all instructors should be Black Belts -- not all black belts should be instructors., The better you can market your ability to help people with your teaching, the more people you'll be able to teach. Ask yourself this: "What #1 benefit will my karate instruction provide"? Spend more time answering that question and you'll rarely -- if ever -- have to worry about "finding" students; they'll find you. Also, be clear on who your classes are catered to, such children or adults, beginners or experienced students.

Don't be bashful: You've got to be willing to throw the modest humble-guy/gal approach out the window. You'll get more students by being unafraid of saying, "Hey, here's why our style is better than such and such, and here's why you should study with me."






Consider buying a mailing list of the type of prospect (that's business lingo for "ideal potential karate student") that you think you'll either attract, prefer, or otherwise end up teaching by way of either your personal style or characteristics. The purpose of advertising is to create a "lead" (person with interest in karate); the purpose of creating a lead is to "convert" that person into a "prospect" (someone who's very interested and is ready and looking for karate).
 (Make your "next step" something easy-to-do. Don't ask for or suggest that they spend money with you right away - that's what the conventional karate schools are all doing. Instead, offer a free consumer report like: "5 Things You Need To Know Before You Even Think of Visiting a Karate or Martial Arts School" -- or -- "Kids Karate: How to choose one based on your child's personality".
 Probably the most overlooked "skill" in becoming successful and well-paid martial arts instructor is the skill in answering the phone. You must possess the skill of getting someone to go from "Passive Phone Talker" all the way to "Active Participant". And you'll do this by getting everyone who calls you to commit to (and show up for) an introductory lesson. You can make your "Intro" free, or, you can offer a nominal, low-risk fee for "test driving" your expert instruction.
 The best way to do this is to practice it on people who you've not spent money on (i.e. role play with your friends, family, spouse, etc.). Sit or stand in front of them and tell them to pretend as if they just took a free class with you moments ago.... and then practice saying, "The best part of our program, John, is that all you need to get started today is $295 dollars -- how did you want to take care of that; by check, cash, or credit card?"

