 Taking allergy pills, sprays, drops, and shots are preventative measures that millions of people in the U.S. engage in. Fifty-five percent of Americans test positive for sensitivity to one or more allergens, so that’s no surprise. As with any medication, using allergy drugs wisely is crucial to maintaining a healthy benefit.


Do not use medications in excess. Drugs should always be used as a temporary solution. Chronic overuse of drugs can lead to dependence and can harm your health. Allergy medications are available in various forms, such as pills, drops, sprays, creams, and injections. Some are over the counter, some are available only as prescriptions.
See your doctor to find out which allergy drugs may be right for you.
Use antihistamines and decongestants carefully for temporary relief of runny nose and sneezing. Many of these can cause drowsiness and lethargy, possibly impairing motor skills, and if used excessively may cause organ damage. , Consuming local honey, especially raw, has been an anecdotal remedy for years, which many swear by. While there is no clinical evidence that honey reduces allergies, there is some possibility that it may help. Local honey can contain traces of local pollens, which can be allergens- and one way of treating allergies is repeated exposure to small doses of allergens.
Eating local honey may also be beneficial for immune systems.
Honey has been studied for possible cough-suppressing qualities.
Never feed honey to children of less than one year- they may be at risk from botulism, which can be found in honey. , Sometimes allergies and runny noses can be avoided, or at least the risk somewhat mitigated, by making wise decisions in your day to day life.


Don’t smoke. Smoking can exacerbate symptoms of allergies. Stay away from classmates who smoke- their secondhand smoke and even the odor on their clothes while in class may trigger nasal allergies.
Get plenty of exercise. Exercising won’t directly relieve your nasal congestion, but will help you feel your best, and may help your immune system retaliate against allergies, lessening the need to honk in class. 