 The best place to find wooden pallets for free is at independent nurseries and hardware stores, since they are less likely to have someone who comes and picks up their pallets. Therefore, they'll usually give them to you for free.You can also check out local construction sites. Always ask before removing a pallet., If it has spills on it, they could be hazardous. Therefore, choose one that looks relatively clean. Plus, clean ones will make a better finished product., The slates should be far enough apart that your shoes can slip through the slats but close enough together that it holds the shoes up.Be sure to wear gloves when picking up your pallet. It will have splinters.
 Some pallets are stamped with codes that describe how they were treated before use. One without codes is generally safe to use. However, if it has the codes EUR or MB or if the wood is colored, don't use it. If it has the codes DB, HT, or EPAL, it's generally acceptable to use., Most pallets are left untreated, which can mean splinters and uneven wood. Take the time to sand the wood.Use an 80 grit sandpaper. You can use a power sander to help get the job done. If desired, you can move up to finer sandpaper for a smoother finish.Some people recommend planning the surface if you prefer a new-wood look., You can use a standard brush-on stain, but if you want something quick, try spraying on a stain instead of brushing it on.When brushing on stain, apply it in long, even strokes with a wide brush. Use an ample amount, and then wipe away any excess once the stain has absorbed.When spraying on a stain, apply it in even coats. Read the directions to find out how far away you should hold the can from the project when spraying. Use light coats, and wait for each coat to at least partially dry before applying the next one., The finish will protect the wood. If you want the natural look of the wood to shine through, try a beeswax finish.Apply the finish in thin coats, waiting between coats. Once a coat is applied, run the brush over the whole length at a 45 degree angle to smooth it out.Let the pallet dry.
 You can put in your closet or your room. The beams should run parallel to the floor., Place all the fancier shoes on one level. Insert them between the slats. The top slat on each level should provide enough support to hold them up with the ends sticking out. Place the sneakers on the next level, the casual shoes on one level, and so on.