 Fire means sensuality. You can achieve this look by using thick eyeliner that gives it a cat like look. If your eyes are sensitive, then just apply thick eyeliner on your bottom and top lash lines for look that is still intense, but won't hurt your eyes. You can also wing it on the top and bottom, or do a cat eye. The best look for daytime would just be lining your top and bottom lash lines. Try black, dark red, or bright red to achieve seductive and fiery eyes.;
,, Try red, black, or white tattoos. Only do this for parties or for a special night out. You can make red fire symbols down your arm, symbols of fire on your stomach, ancient words meaning or god of fire's name on your chest, black fire symbols on your arm, or use a ton of black eye makeup.
 You can also leave it down and make it slightly wavy so it looks like lava. If you want to grow mega dread-locks, okay! Some fire princesses liked long and stick straight. It's a very seductive look. You can also do buns. Very curly/natural is never a wrong way to go. Short straight bob with bangs can be good too. If you want to go a little longer with your bangs, then that's okay too. High straight ponytails never look bad. Or wavy and voluminous hair. If you want to try pigtails, make sure they are really high and straight. Also, leave some face skimming pieces up front. Last but not least, if you have really long hair, straighten it and put it into two braids.
 Dark blues, dark browns, light browns. But if you want, you can leave your hair blonde or it's natural color. If you want to go extreme, then dye your hair purple or pink. Many people don't think that pink or purple are fire colors, but they certainly are. Even more extreme is the kind of hair that starts at the roots as one color and fades to another at the tips. To do this, you can try one color that is designed to fade to another color. When in doubt, a professional salon can help with that design, or just stick to your natural hair color.
 Good colors for shirts include brown, pink, red, white, grey, orange, black, gold, or silver. Cropped and torn shirts, plain strapless shirts, pin up style strapless tops, bustiers or corsets, vests, cropped military fabrics, torn track jackets, turtleneck long sleeved sweaters, or very thin drapery are great on top.
 Good colors for bottoms include brown, red, yellow, black, purple and white. If you want to wear a short skirt, make sure it's bouncy. For mid length skirts, make sure it's slit up to your thigh. If it's long, make sure it flares out or ruffles. Your best bet as a fire princess is skirts. Make your brighter colors on top.
, Any kind will do. Sprinkle red, yellow, or graffiti all over the floor. This will make it look like there is little balls of fire or lava on the floor. If you can, cover all the walls with black construction paper. Decorate this with fluorescent paints. When you want your fire effect, turn off the lights and use a black light to make everything glow.

