 Aside from basic necessities (area schools, jobs, hospitals, etc.), Florida is a huge state and is equally diverse. If you don't have your mind set on a specific city, then it helps to understand that there are five distinct regions of the state, one of which might be more attractive to you than the others. These regions are:


The Florida Panhandle: This is home to the state capital of Tallahassee and is known for its beautiful Gulf Coast beaches. Since Tallahassee is only 30 miles (48 km) from the Georgia border, it is known for its Southern charm and friendly people.
Northern Florida: This is home to the major cities of Gainesville and Jacksonville. It is known for its culturally Southern atmosphere and historic landmarks.
Central Florida: This is home to Disney World, SeaWorld and the Kennedy Space Center. Aside from the major tourist attractions, there are dozens of quaint small towns dotted with lakes in the region worth considering.
Southern Florida: This is the largest metropolitan area of the state and is home to the Everglades, Miami, West Palm Beach, and Key West.
Southwest Florida: This is home to Tampa, St. Petersburg, Naples, Sarasota and Ft. Myers. It is known for its museums, arts and theater, as well as its beautiful beaches.;
, If you're moving from anywhere outside the Southeast, then say goodbye to snowstorms and cold spells; be ready to experience long days of hot, humid, muggy conditions throughout the summer. Cities along the coast are blessed with a slightly cooling ocean breeze, but inland communities (especially in Central Florida) often face stifling, stagnant heat. Summer storms, brief and often heavy, occur with such regularity you can almost set your watch to them. The rest of the year is typically dry and mild in most of the state, with the occasional cold spell during the winter., Homes that have been sitting vacant for months, possibly years without electricity (such as foreclosures), are especially vulnerable to these issues.Unless you've added the repair bills to your budget, try to avoid buying houses with these problems., Apartments and condominiums will usually take care of this for you, but you are on your own in a house. Begin by buying new or having existing hurricane shutters inspected, reinforce your roof and install hurricane glass. Get used to regularly stocking and re-stocking such supplies as non-perishable food, water (change every few months), battery radios, etc. Find out if your home is in a flood zone as soon as possible, preferably before settling the house., If your skin is very sensitive to the sun, you'll need to take extra care of it using lotions, creams, or other products as the Florida sun is very strong. The humidity also makes Florida very comfortable for mosquitoes, so if you're sensitive to bug bites, find and use a suitable spray or lotion that will keep them away., This is especially important if you plan to move to South Florida, with its population of Latino residents and influence of Latin American culture increasing. You'll feel more at home being able to use Spanish as well as English––there will be plenty of opportunities to learn Spanish when you're living there., With a high volume of tourists and senior citizens on the road, it can be easy to get frustrated behind the wheel, confronted by slow drivers or motorists who appear to be lost. Stay calm, follow the signs and learn to be content with it. Florida is a big state with plenty to see, and because of its flat geographical makeup, it's a great place to explore by car., Taking care of the legal incidentals of moving is a crucial step. See the State of Florida portal for more information on residency (http://www.stateofflorida.com/Portal/DesktopDefault.aspx?tabid=38). In particular, focus on your driver's license, insurance coverage, change of address, business needs if you run a business, etc., Great beaches, fascinating wildlife, big cities, tight-knit towns, excellent food and beautiful weather are just a few of the things to be experienced in Florida.

Spend a day at the beach. Florida has one of the longest contiguous coastlines of any state, with plenty to offer from sunbathing on the warm white sands to an array of water sports.
Check out the Kennedy Space Center. About an hour from Orlando, the complex features a sprawling visitor center, rocket launch pad tours, and exotic wildlife viewing opportunities.
Have fun at the theme parks of Central Florida. A little online research will reveal there's much more to experience than just Disney World!
Take an air-boat ride through the Everglades. An unforgettable day trip, make sure to pick a day with comfortable weather (it can get very humid on the marshes).
Visit the Florida Keys. Key West is the most famous of these many beautiful islands, and you can pose for a picture at the marker that states you're a mere 90 miles (140 km) to Cuba.

