 For shared custody parenting to be effective, there must be a certain amount of consistency between parents with regard to rules and discipline. Whatever you and the other parent have agreed to, stick to it.


Children need consistency and routine in their lives. Children in shared-custody parenting situations already have less of it than many children raised in a single household, by virtue of the fact that they are moving from house to house. To the extent it is possible, create consistency between the households.For example, if you've agreed on a 10pm bedtime for your child, don't push it to 10:30 to try to be the "cool" parent. Your child may enjoy this in the moment, but it isn't good for his or her mental well-being over the long term.
 When the other parent comes up, as will inevitably occur, speak respectfully about him or her. Never speak badly about the other parent in front of the child, no matter how angry or upset you might be.Remember that your child still loves your ex, and your ex loves the child. Just because he or she may have been a bad husband or wife, it doesn't mean that your ex is also a bad parent. Don't demean or undercut the other parent in front of the child.Keep in mind that, especially in the early days of the separation, your child may be harboring anger toward both you and the other parent. Badmouthing your ex in front of your child may worsen this situation.
For example, if your child asks "Why don't you love dad anymore?" you could reply with something like "Well, your father and I just disagree about what's most important in life." Don't say, "Your dad is a jerk and he doesn't understand what's important in life."

, When your child is staying with you, he or she may at times wish to speak to the other parent. This may happen even if he or she only staying with you a short time. You should almost always allow this.


Your children should be allowed to call, text, or email the other parent at any reasonable hour. Children often experience anxiety from being separated from a beloved parent. Being allowed to contact the other parent at any time can help lessen this anxiety.If this occurs, try not take it personally. Just because your children want to talk to their other parent doesn't mean they don't love your or want to be around you also.
At holidays, if your children are staying with you, they should be encouraged to call the other parent.For example, you might say "Hey kids, I'm sure your mom would really like to hear from you, since it's Christmas day. Let's give her a call."

, When it's time for your children to go visit the other parent, always drop them off instead of waiting for your ex to come get them. Encourage your ex to do the same when the children come to visit you.


Dropping the kids off, rather than waiting for a pickup, helps avoid the sensation of the children being "taken away" by one parent or the other.This can make the transition between households easier for both the children and the parent they are leaving for a while.
This also reduces the risk of interrupting a special moment between your children and your ex.
 Make sure that, whatever your child's age, he or she gets express feelings about and have some input on the custody arrangements. This will help the child feel more secure and loved, regardless of which home he or she is at.For young children, give them some control over small matters, such as which toys they want to take when changing households. For example, you could say, "Time to go see your dad! Is there anything you want to take with you this weekend?"
For teens, you might give them the opportunity to make suggestions about which home they would prefer to be at on given days of the week. Based on their calendar of activities and social events, they may know better than you which is the more convenient home for them to live at on any given night. For example, you might say, "It seems like your social calendar is pretty full these days. Does the schedule we have make sense these days, or is there anyway your father and I could make things easier for you?"
Ultimately, you and the other parent are in control and have the final say on these matters, but giving the child an opportunity to be heard will make this situation more agreeable to him or her.
 As your children get older, life will change, both for them and for you. Be willing to revisit the custody plan and make adjustments to reflect these changes.Particularly during adolescence, children may push against the routine as they become more interested in spending time with friends and less with parents. Be flexible about such changes.Your own life and needs may change as well, for example, when and if you develop a new romantic relationship or even marry another partner. While you should try to put your child first, you should also recognize that these kinds of life changes may require changes to your agreement.