 A mnemonic device is a memory trick to help you remember larger pieces of information. These can be very helpful no matter what you're trying to memorize, as they will associate the lines you're learning with something you're already familiar with.


Having a mnemonic device like an acronym (in which the first letter of each word is used to form a word or phrase) can make it easier to spark your memory if you find yourself searching for a word. You'll probably remember at least a few words from the line, and may be able to piece the rest together if you can remember your acronym.Try memorizing lines by pairing them with music from a song. Music has been shown to be a powerful and reliable technique for any type of memorization, so associating lines from a verse/poem/script with a familiar and catchy melody might help you recall those lines later.
Use visual association by linking each word with a visual image you're familiar with. As you read the line you're trying to memorize, close your eyes and picture whatever visual cue will help you remember that line (it works best if you can find some kind of correlation between the image and the line).
You can use visual associations with "peg words" (also called hooks) by making a numerical list for each word in a given line. Rhyme each number with a visual image (for example, one - bun, two - shoe, etc.), then try to associate that image with a corresponding word in the line.Grouping/chunking involves lumping words or lines together based on common characteristics. This may be helpful if many of the lines you're trying to memorize are scene-specific.
You can use rhyming as a way to associate the lines you need to remember with a word that shares similar sounds. Try saying the word out loud until a rhyming word pops into your head, then recite the two words together until it sticks in your memory., Kinesthetic memory associations use physical sensations or actions as a cue for remembering something (in this case, a line from a verse, poem, or script). For example, you might use certain actions/motions while rehearsing your lines so that you will later associate that line with the corresponding action. Alternately, you might visualize how something will feel (for example, easing into a hot bath) and use that physical sensation's memory as a cue for a line that reminds you of that sensation.
 There are a number of applications you can download on a smartphone or tablet. Some give you advice or tips, while others can actually let you download scripts and practice with the device.Search online for apps that are available on your device.
Try to find a balance between price and helpfulness. If you can afford it, it might be worth splurging on a really useful app that will help you learn your lines faster.
 If you've ever seen the television series Sherlock, you're probably familiar with the titular character's "mind palace." However, you may not realize that that technique is actually a real memorization trick. The memory palace, also called the method of loci (for location), dates back more than 2,000 years to the ancient Greek poet Simonides.Today it is used by some memory experts to recall 100-digit numbers, the order of a deck of cards, and so on.


Visualize a complex physical place large enough to store a physical set of memories (if such a thing existed).
Many people use their childhood home, as it is easiest to recall, but any physical space (indoors or outdoors) will do.If using an indoor location, break the space down into separate rooms, then distinct locations within each room. If using an outdoor location, try something specific like a particular street with multiple addresses.
Give some slight embellishment or exaggeration to the "item" you're trying to "store" in your memory. For example, instead of a wool blanket, imagine a talking sheep who is trimming his own wool coat off.
Store different verses, stanzas, lines, or any other piece of writing you need to memorize into the various walls and corners of each room in your memory palace.