 Make sure your passport is up to date and won't expire before your trip ends. Different countries have different requirements for passports and visas, but in general, your passport should not expire less than 6 months after your expected return date.
 The country you're going to may require you to have certain vaccines up to date. Make an appointment with your doctor to get this taken care of, as well as other medical considerations.
 Check you have the appropriate cover, and look into international health insurance. Chances are that you will never fall ill while traveling abroad, but it has happened. Bones have been broken; people have gotten food poisoning; pregnant women previously cleared for travel have gone into premature labor. Consider whether the added expense is worth being "safe rather than sorry".
 Housing choices are largely a matter of budget, comfort, and convenience. You can pay for a private hotel room or share a hostel; stay with friends or family; or explore online travel communities like Couchsurfing.com, AirBnB, or WWOOF.org.


Think about staying in an apartment if you'll be in one place for more than half a week. Hotels can be expensive, and you can often get much better deals for renting out someone's house. Furthermore, this approach might give you a more authentic idea of what it's like to live in a given city.
Consider a Bed and Breakfast or a self-service vacation rental. This last type of accommodation can help save money, as they're often cheaper than hotels, and you'll save money by buying your groceries and cooking there instead of going out to eat.
 Your options are broad and varied, and you'll have to choose the best mode of transportation to suit your itinerary. If you will be traveling long distances between destinations, you might consider flying or taking trains. If you'll be traveling within a city or region, try biking, renting a car, or using public transportation. Research the place you're going and try to understand how the locals get around.


Trains can be relaxing over long distances. Consider taking night trains – in theory, you can sleep on the train and awake as the train pulls into your next destination!
If you plan to rent a car, look into insurance requirements. Consider applying for your international driver's license.
Ferries are a solid option for crossing water. They are usually cheaper than another plane ticket, with better food.
 If you plan to travel with your pets, look at the rules and regulations for traveling with them to keep them out of quarantine. This generally includes a certificate of health from your vet, making sure that rabies vaccines are up to date, having them microchipped, and even a certificate of health from your local government office, such as the Department of Agriculture in the U.S.

