 Not everyone who is disabled will qualify for disability benefits. Check that you meet the following requirements:Your disability prevents you from doing work you have done before as well as other meaningful work.
Your disability is projected to last for more than a year or result in your death.
You must have earned enough work credits to qualify for SSDI. You can check your Social Security statement.Your income must be low enough to qualify for SSI.;
, The Social Security Administration (SSA) will need to look at your medical information. If possible, gather the records yourself from every treating physician or hospital. SSA can also request the records for you, which will slow down their review process. Provide SSA with the following information:The names and contact information for every doctor, clinic, or hospital that has treated you.
The dates of your examination.
Your patient ID numbers.
The names and dates of any medical tests you have had.
The names of medications you have been prescribed.
Any information about medical exams taken as part of a workers’ compensation claim.
 SSA will analyze your work history to see if you might be able to do different work. If you can, then you can’t qualify for disability benefits. Write down the following information:The job titles you have had over the past 15 years.
The dates you worked those jobs.
A description of the job duties you performed in those jobs.
The date your medical condition began to impact your ability to do the job.
 Unlike SSDI, SSI has income guidelines. You can qualify for both programs, but you’ll need to provide financial information to show SSA. Collect the following information:The name of your current employer.
Proof of income for the past two years, such as your tax return, W-2 Form, etc.
Proof of self-employment income for the past two years.
Your bank account information, including account type and routing number.
 Visit the SSA website at https://www.ssa.gov/disabilityssi/ and complete the application. You can also apply for SSI at the same time if you are between 18 and 65, never been married, and have never applied for or received SSI before.
 It might be easier to schedule an appointment with an SSA office. You can get all of your questions answered and also apply for SSDI/SSI at the same time. Find a list of offices in Minnesota at https://secure.ssa.gov/ICON/main.jsp. Enter your zip code.
 Another option is to call 800-772-1213 or 800-325-0778 if you are deaf or hard of hearing. Call Monday through Friday, 7:00 am to 7:00 pm. Applying over the phone makes sense if a field office is too far away., SSA might need more medical information before they can process your claim. If necessary, they might ask you to have a physical exam or undergo different tests. You should speak to an attorney if you don’t want to take any medical exams., Your state’s office will send you the results. It generally takes three or four months for a decision to be made. Don’t be surprised if you are denied. About 65-70% of all claims are denied initially., If you’re denied, your first appeal is to ask for reconsideration. Your denial notice should tell you how to make your request. Generally, you’ll call the office where you started your claim and ask for the paperwork to be sent to you.Complete this paperwork as soon.


You’ll receive a decision with 30-60 days.
The vast majority of requests for reconsideration are denied.
 You also have the right to a hearing before an administrative law judge. Read your denial of reconsideration letter to see how you request your hearing. You only have 60 days from the date of the denial letter to make the request, so don’t delay.Most people who get approved for disability benefits win them at the hearing stage, so it’s important to request a hearing.
You’ll probably have to wait about a year in Minnesota for your hearing. However, if you win, you’ll receive benefits retroactive to the date you became disabled (called “backpay”).
 A lawyer will help you build the strongest case possible for the hearing. Visit the Minnesota Bar Association website to find a qualified disability attorney: http://www.mnbar.org/member-directory/find-a-lawyer.

Disability attorneys represent clients on contingency, which means they don’t get paid unless you win. Disability attorneys who win get 25% of your backpay, up to $6,000.You might have to cover some costs, such as copying or paying for records, but they shouldn’t total more than a couple hundred dollars.

