 It is important to respect and accept other people's opinions. Trying to make your mate believe what you believe and get involved based on false pretenses is apt to create problems or resentment in a relationship.;
, If you have a shy spouse, doing administrative tasks for a candidate or doing research may be better than making phone calls. Consider their strengths and wishes before suggesting political action.
 Politics can become emotional and tense very easily, so try to have calm conversations about facts and opinions, rather than blowing up when a political issue gets to you. Try to remove other distractions, concentrate on listening and never curse or get mean during a political conversation.


Couples counselors suggest that couples talk politics, rather than avoid them. Since many political issues include opinions on working, raising a family and being involved in the community, these are things couples should address long before they get married. If you and your partner have not talked about your political beliefs, it may be time to do so.
 Voting is the first step in the political process, and many adults still choose to ignore this right and duty. Visit the polls together or go over your absentee ballots together.
 Choose propositions or candidates on the ballot and research them independently. Later, sit down with your spouse and share the information you've gathered to be ready for election day.
 Make the effort to attend rallies and functions where candidates from different parties speak. You will get a better idea of what's important to the candidates by seeing them in person, and these events can encourage good feelings about the political process.
 Ask your county clerk when election training will be held. If you have time to do it, train and work at the polls on election day.


This is perhaps the best way to get involved with politics without choosing a side. If you or your spouse have few ties to party lines but you want to get involved, helping people to vote can make you feel as though you've played a crucial role in politics.
 Many local election offices hire people to sit at tables at markets or go to events and register voters. This is an excellent way to volunteer and support the political process for people who are new to political discussion.
 It is easy to complain about politicians, legislation or local problems, like crosswalks or parking regulations. Turn those complaints into action by writing to your commissioner, state senator or congressman about changing them.
 For many people, it is much easier to get behind an issue, a proposition or an amendment than it is to support a candidate. After attending, volunteer to help with the next event, petitions or getting the word out.
 Many domestic or international politicians have had fascinating lives. Read a biography about 1 of these people every few months and discuss afterward.
 You are more likely to identify with people from your own town. Meet your local candidates together, discuss their politics and sign up to volunteer together if you believe in them.
 Studies have found that children make more informed decisions and feel more connected to the political process when their parents expose them to politics at an early age. The following are some ways you can get involved in politics as a family:


Go to the polls together. Take your children into the polling booth so that they can feel the excitement of election day. Do this instead of submitting an absentee ballot.
Read political children's books with your children. Consider books about presidents, history or broad political books by Dr. Seuss. "The Butter Battle Book" and "The Lorax" are great ways to start political thought and discussion in the home.
Hold mock debates in the home. Start with fun topics such as "breakfast for dinner" or "walking versus driving" and move on to environmental, social and political issues. This is a great way for kids and parents to see more than 1 side of an issue in a safe environment.
 Your spouse can consider helping people to sign petitions, protesting or volunteering to call for a candidate once they feel confident about expressing their political opinions in public.

