 About 35% of your credit score is determined by your payment history— whether you paid your bills on time. If you have any bills that you haven't yet paid, find a way to pay them off.


Your credit score gets dinged each time you have a late payment, and then dinged again each time your payment is 30 days late and each time your payment is 90 days late.
 You should use your credit card or cards for small purchases and pay off the balance at the end of the month. This shows that you can borrow small amounts of money (what the card provides for convenience when you're at the grocery store) and be relied on to pay it back when you pay your bills at the end of the month.


Start using old credit cards again. If you have a credit card that you don't use anymore, the credit issuer may simply decide so stop reporting the account to the credit bureaus. That doesn't sound horrible, until you realize that accounts with a longer history actually improve your overall credit score.So get out your old card, put a small recurring monthly payment on it, or use it every so often to go to the movies. Pay off your debt in full each month.
 Prepaid credit cards don't get reported to credit bureaus. You may be thinking that paying for a credit card up front will give you an easy way to boost your credit score. Think again. Prepaid credit cards do not get reported to the three major credit bureaus and will not help boost your FICO credit score.However, a secured credit card may help you improve your score. This is a credit card with collateral (that becomes the credit limit) and it can be used to improve your credit score, so long as you use it responsibly.A credit card is an agreement: you are allowed to use a certain amount of money, as long as you promise to return it. A prepaid card is just like a transfer of your money into a different account. It won't show future creditors how you handle the contract of promising to pay back what borrow.
The difference here could be considered technical, as the collateral you put forth for a secured credit card will cover your credit limit. However, it will be in a separate account, and rather than being spent as you use the card, it will be a final resort for the bank if you fail to pay back what you owe.
Not all banks offer secured cards, but many do. See if your bank or credit union offers a card that will help you improve your standing.
 If you know you'll be able to pay it off, a small personal loan can increase your credit score. About 10% of your FICO credit score is what's called "account mix," or basically how many different loans and credit accounts you have. If you take out a small loan and are able to pay it back quickly and responsibly, this will help your credit score.


Only take out a loan that you know, with certainty, you'll be able to pay back. If it takes several months or years for you to manage the loan, don't bother. Interest rates could eat up any remaining cash, making it harder for you to finish paying off the loan, and increasing your debt. This is simply to increase your credit, not to add more money to your accounts.
Join a credit union and apply for a loan there instead of at a bank. A credit union is owned by the members and will often be more understanding about lending small amounts of money to working families.
See if you can get a small loan through an online peer-to-peer network to establish your credit. Since the decision of these loans will be made by your peers, there is a higher chance of being approved.
 A low credit score doesn't mean all your financial opportunities are lost. Especially when seeking a loan, make sure you consider potential areas of assistance.


If you own a home but have fallen into debt, check if the value of the property has gone up recently. You may be able to borrow against the equity of your home in order to get the small responsible loan that will increase your credit score.
Ask a family member for help. Someone you know who has better credit than you can assist you in this situation. Have them co-sign a loan with you. This will guarantee to the bank that it will be repaid, and allow you the chance to show reliability. Of course, you need to prove to your friend or family member that you are as good as your word to get them to sign!

