 That is: Be born again, believe and say that Christ is your personal Savior, pray and repent to the one, true God for salvation.


Salvation is explained here: "8 For by grace you have been saved through faith; and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God; 9 not as a result of works, so that no one may boast. 10 For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them." (Ephesians 2:8-10)
And "Patriotic Christian" as an oxymoron is explained here: I Samuel 8.;
, Proceed to put on the whole garment and armor of God:


Be prepared for every eventuality explained/listed here: "14 Stand firm therefore, having 'girded your loins with truth' , and having put on the 'breastplate of righteousness' , 15 and having 'shod your feet with the preparation of the Gospel of Peace' ; 16 in addition to all, taking up the 'shield of faith' with which you will be able to extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one. 17 And take the 'helmet of salvation' , and the 'sword of the Spirit' , which is the word of God. 18 With all prayer and petition 'pray at all times in the Spirit,' ... " (Ephesians 6:14-18), ie: your life is armored also with prayer.
Keep your life under the control of God's Holy Spirit. Yield and sacrifice your will and your ways to Him who is comforter, helper, guide and the Spirit of the ultimate judge of all things.
 ie: be patriotic. Consider staying informed about each of the political choices facing you.


Cast your vote whenever possible, for your candidates and issues that you have identified.
You might also consider running for a politiacal office.
 Build your efforts around God as your architect in what ever decisions you are called upon to make in the public sector.
 Consider whether you support war as a Christian if your military personnel must establish security, be peacemakers and maintain defense in time of war.
 This would include paying your taxes (following Christ's example in the New Testament).
 Be willing to and be fair and proactively work and fight fairly with other people. You probably will want to strive for "peace, the Gospel, life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness" while taking responsibility for your own improvement, fortune, future and nurture future leaders.

Consider whether you will stand and place your hand over your heart when they play your National Anthem.
Treat your armed forces veterans and those who served at home as officers, as well as fire and rescue (men and women) with your kind of respect.
 Do not make railing accusations against those that may seem less Christian or less patriotic, but work to help to choose, elect and motivate them to be the best they can be.
 God seeks a "peculiar" or particular individual to serve him and the people, but not one off the beaten path of the Bible.

