 For the businessmen, identifying the demographic groups that will be most interested in your product can mean the difference between success and failure. So, determining the demographics of the target group for your Email Marketing becomes quite essential. Consider them on the basis of their age groups, gender, income level, education, nationality, religion, ethnicity and further demographic characteristics.


For example; one would definitely need to differentiate in a marketing email prepared for youths to their mother or father.;
, A marketing email must answer "What's in it for me?"


Jot down the most significant benefits that you are offering through the particular product or service. At a first sight only the recipient of a marketing e-mail needs to identify the answer to a question, i.e. "What's in it for me?"
So get prepared to approach readers with the things that interest them and induce them to respond back.
 One should follow the rule of K-I-S-S, i.e. Keep It Short & Simple!


Content wise a marketing email should be short in length and discuss to the point relevant details. It is a general tendency to scan emails. If your message quite lengthy, then there is possibility that recipient doesn’t take interest in reading it and can be lost somewhere in the in-box, or may also get deleted. So, the email-size should be readable; and email-content must revolve around the product/service offerings.
 Attract readers by offering special discounts, Exclusive for them!


Offer some special deal to the email recipient through your message in e-mail to increase your campaign success rate. Consumers are always delighted by getting that extra discount that is exclusively meant for them. So, just offer an extraordinary concession or provide a service without taking any charge, and create you campaign EXCLUSIVE!
For example, "Readers of this mail can enjoy an extra 20% discount on your entire shopping by mentioning the code 'SPL'."

, Indicate exigency for an instant reaction by mentioning the offer ending date.


This will prevent recipients from dillydallying and then forgetting as it may get lost in their mail in-box.
For example, mention in terms and condition that “the special discount is valid for 10 days from the date of the receiving the email. So, hurry up!”

, Bestow recipients with trouble-free ways to respond.


Provide a contact number or a hyperlink of the website page making easier for the potential customer to contact the company in case of any inquiry.

