 If you have a friend who recently went platinum or underwent another dramatic hair color change, ask for the name of her hair stylist. You can also ask friends and family for recommendations on hair salons and stylists who they think might be able to make you a platinum blonde without too much damage.You can also check out reviews of salons online to narrow your choices down. Look for salons that have high ratings from their customers.
If you get some recommendations, check out the stylists Instagram or other social media feeds where they post photos of their work.;
, If your regular stylist has experience with platinum blonde coloring, then you might simply go for a consultation with them. However, if you do not currently have a stylist or your stylist has expressed discomfort with taking you to this color, then call around to find someone who has experience turning people into platinum blondes.


Try saying something like, “I want to go platinum blonde without too much damage to my hair, and my current hair color is ____. Do any of your stylists have experience with this type of situation?”

, After you find someone who has experience, you can make a consultation appointment. Sometimes you can just drop into the salon and see the stylist between clients, but it is best to ask first.


Try saying something like, “I would like to stop in and talk with the stylist before I make an appointment. Do I need to make a consultation appointment, or can I just stop by when the stylist is working?”
Make sure to bring picture with you to your consultation so you can show the stylist what you want your hair to look like., Before you decide to make your first hair appointment with a stylist, it is a good idea to ask questions. This will help you to get a sense of how much experience the stylist has and how comfortable you feel trusting your hair to them.How many times have you taken someone from a shade similar to mine to a platinum blonde shade?
What process did you use to get the desired color without causing too much damage?
How many appointments do you think it would take to get me to a platinum blonde shade?
Do you have any photos of your work?

, If you feel comfortable with the stylist, then you can make an appointment with them. Be aware that you may not leave the appointment as a platinum blonde, but this is a safer route than trying to go platinum blonde in a day. Try to be patient with the process.


Keep in mind that going platinum with a professional can cost upwards of $300, and you also have to maintain it with regular root touch-ups and special brass banishing shampoo and conditioners. However, getting your hair done professionally will likely yield better results and it is also safer.