 Though you may have been in the same relationship for five or twenty-five years, that's no excuse for you to lounge around in your pajamas until it's time to go out for dinner. Though you don't have to dress to the nines every day of the week, act like you're just starting a new relationship and choose your clothes carefully.


Always be fresh. If you're trying to spice up your relationship, it means that you're open to the idea of having sex whenever and wherever. You should shower often, and keep your body fresh and clean so you don't decline sex because you haven't showered in a while.
Dress up for date night. When you decide on a date night, you should make a special effort to look nice. You both can dress up much nicer than you need to just to feel good and have fun. Girls can put on sexy, stunning dresses and high heels, and their men can even put on a suit or a nice coat. You'll feel sexier if you walk around looking sexy.
Even if you're not having date night, make a point of looking nicer than average for a while. This will make both of you feel more inclined for romance.
Don't forget to compliment your honey's looks. Be sweet and romantic. Tell him how cute he looks, or how great his blue eyes look against his shirt.
 Once you look the part, you can act the part. If you're dressed up and ready for romance, then it's time to do something romantic. Going on romantic dates will spice up your relationship and make you more eager to get it on once the date is over. Here are some great date ideas for romance:


Go stargazing. Seriously. Sit together and look at the stars. Bring a bottle of wine and some chocolate along with you. Pick a night when you know there's a full moon, and kiss as you look up at the heavens.
Listen to romantic music together. Go to a smoky jazz club and caress your partner's hand as you groove to the music. Dress up and see a concert pianist.
Go wine-tasting together. Sipping some delicious wine and taking rides through wine country will put you in the romantic mood.
Go for a ride. Take a hot air balloon ride, a ride of a horse and carriage, or even drive near the beach with the top down.
Walk along the beach as the sun is setting.
Have a romantic picnic. Go to a park and split a bottle of wine, a delicious salad, and some cheese and crackers.
Have a romantic date inside your own home. You can't go on a romantic date all the time, but you can make your environment more romance-ready. Cook a simple but delicious meal, turn the lights down low, and lights some candles. Turn on some jazz and you'll be even more turned on.
Though every night can't be date night, you should schedule a date night as often as you can. At least once a week should do the trick.
 Whether you're on a hot air balloon ride or at the grocery store, you can always find ways to add more romance to your relationship. You have to learn how to think and act romantically no matter where you are.


Say romantic things in a creative way. Leave little notes around the house that let your loved one know how much he really means to you. Even a post-it note on the mirror will do the trick.
Make romantic gestures. If you're a girl, kiss your loved one at unexpected times and tell him how amazing he is or how he looks. If you're a guy, be a gentleman. Pull out chairs, open doors, and give your woman her coat if she's cold, or even if she insists she isn't cold.
Write a love poem to your honey. Don't be embarrassed! Just pour your heart out. You can even go to a park and spend an hour writing romantic notes or poems to each other and then exchange them.
Never forget to compliment your honey for his best attributes. Tell him how much you love him every morning and day, and right before you go to bed.
Be romantic even when you're apart. Whether you're both off at work or if one of you is away for a few days, don't forget to send a text message, email, or voicemail that says how much you love your significant other.
Spend more time just kissing. Spicing up your relationship isn't just about making love. It's about enjoying every little thing about your loved one, which includes his tender kisses.
Communication can be romantic. Make time to talk to share your thoughts and feelings with your loved one. Take the time to write your loved one a long letter about how you're feeling.

