 Filled with rich, moisturizing ingredients, such as honey, oils, and butters, this mask will leave your lips feeling silky-smooth. It also contains sugar, which is a gentle exfoliator. If you have dry and flaking skin on your lips, you may want to try a soothing mask instead, as the exfoliating one may be too harsh for you.To make this exfoliating mask, you will need:


1 teaspoon of avocado oil, olive oil, or sweet almond oil
1 tablespoon sugar
1 tablespoon honey
1 teaspoon coconut oil, shea butter, or Vaseline

, You can use any liquid, food-grade oil, but the best types of oils for this recipe are avocado, olive, and sweet almond.Here are the benefits of each:









Avocado oil soothes and heals the skin.Because it is so light, it sinks quicker into the skin than other oils. It is also rich in vitamin E and has great hydrating and antioxidant properties.Olive oil is great for dry, chapped lips. It is also moisturizing and nourishing.Sweet almond oil is great for softening chapped skin., It may not be great for your teeth or health, but it makes an excellent, gentle exfoliator. It will help buff away flaky skin and dead cells.
 Honey is one of the best things you can put on your skin. Not only does it have antiseptic properties and kill off bacteria, but it is also a natural moisturizer. When applied to your lips, it will help pull the moisture back in.
 Both coconut oil or shea butter are solid at room temperature. If you find them too difficult to work with, you can warm them up for a few seconds in the microwave (enough so that they soften, but not melt) or you can simply whip them with a fork. Here are the benefits of each:








, You want to end up with a thick paste. If the paste is too runny, then add some more sugar; if the paste is too thick, then add some more of your liquid oil.
 Scoop up a small amount of the scrub and apply it to damp lips. Gently massage your lips with the scrub for a few minutes; this will help exfoliate away the flaky skin and reveal the soft skin underneath.
 For best results, use this scrub once to twice a week. Because it is made from natural ingredients, you will have to store it in the refrigerator and use it within two weeks, or it will go bad.







