 Heparin is an anticoagulant. That is, it is a drug that thins the blood in order to loosen and reduce the clot. To receive heparin, go to your doctor. They will inject heparin directly with a shot, or connect an IV to your vein in order.After getting heparin, you’ll need to be monitored closely. Your doctor will take a blood test (the activated partial thromboplastin time, or a PTT test) each day to ensure you’re getting the correct amount of heparin relative to the results of your blood test.
Heparin itself is inexpensive and fast acting, but you'll need to stay in a hospital for anywhere from three to 10 days with this option depending on your situation, which can make it quite expensive. Heparin is also preferred as a first treatment because it is easy to start and stop if there are complications.
 LMWHs are similar to regular heparins in basically all aspects except two. First, unlike regular heparins, LMWHs are approved for home use. And secondly, you won’t need to be monitored as closely when using LMWHs. This means that using LMWHs can save you a lengthy hospital stay.LMWHs are a bit more expensive than regular heparins, but are more cost-effective in the long term since you will not have to spend time in the hospital or pay for related medical costs.Common LMWHs include dalteparin, enoxaparin, and tinzaparin. The dosage for these medications varies by weight and if it's for treatment or prevention of clot. These are often used before and immediately after surgery to prevent clots, such as for orthopedic surgery.
 Warfarin, like heparins, is an anticoagulant provided by your doctor. Unlike heparins, though, warfarin is a pill, not an injectable. It also acts more slowly than heparins, and won’t generally kick in for five to seven days. Just as with heparins, you’ll need your blood tested regularly (two or three times per week) so that your doctors will be able to determine if the warfarin is working and if the doses need to be corrected.Depending on your condition, you might need to take warfarin for a few days, or for the rest of your life.
Avoid drinking alcohol when taking warfarin. Alcohol can thin the blood too much and increase your odds of excess bleeding in the event of injury.
One of the biggest challenges for people taking heparin is that changes in diet, supplements, or medication can change the drug’s effectiveness and may result in a need to adjust the dosage. Therefore, the best thing to do is to maintain a consistent diet and make sure that any doctors who prescribe medications for you know that you are taking heparin.
 There are some other medications available that you can discuss with your doctor. The newest pill anticoagulants include rivaroxaban, apixaban, and dabigatran etexilate. These drugs don't have the same monitoring requirements as warfarin, or as many food/drug interactions. However, if you have a bleeding complication, not all of the available medications have a reversal agent., Clotbusters are used for more serious cases of DVT. The most common type of clotbusters are thrombolytics (also known as tissue plasminogen activators, or TPAs). While anticoagulants can prevent future clots, they don’t actually break up existing clots brought on by DVT. TPAs, on other hand, can break up existing clots. However, clotbusters can be dangerous since they might cause serious bleeding. The medications are delivered intravenously by a medical professional., Each treatment method has its own side effects. Side effects of heparin include headaches, rashes, flu-like symptoms, and indigestion. Osteoporosis might occur, especially in pregnant women. LMWHs have the same side effects, though likelihood of osteoporosis is much lower. Side effects of warfarins include rashes, headaches, hair loss, bleeding, and elevated liver enzymes.More serious – but less common – side effects from warfarins include skin necrosis (dying skin tissue), purple toe syndrome (a condition in which your toes might turn blue or purple due to abnormal blood flow), and extreme bleeding. If you have trouble staunching the flow of blood from cuts and scrapes, or experience heavy menstrual bleeding, you should inform your doctor.Immediately report these or any other unusual health developments to your doctor immediately.
Your doctor might reduce your prescription or prescribe another treatment method entirely if you react badly to a given treatment.

