 While it’s not necessary to buy the most expensive cosmetics, read reviews about the product you’re considering buying to find out whether it’s worth it.


Select a gel eyeliner that comes with the brush needed to create the look you want. A thick brush will create thick, dark lines. A thin, angled brush will give you more control and allow you to make finer lines.Look for a brush that has a bit of stiffness to it.;
, Use a gentle cleanser and your favorite moisturizer. You want to ensure your skin is free of dirt and oil so that you have a fresh canvas to work with.Don’t use an overly oily moisturizer, or the eyeliner will have trouble adhering to your skin.
 This is an optional step, but the base layer will give the gel eyeliner something more to stick to, will help it last longer, and will make it more apparent.








Dab either concealer or translucent powder on your upper lids and around your eyes. Blend it in with a sponge or your fingertips.
 Only dip the brush bristles in, and wipe them on the sides to remove excess eyeliner. Start with less rather than more, as you can always add more eyeliner if necessary, but taking it away will be much more difficult.









Using too much eyeliner at once can lead to globs and smearing.
 Tilt your head to point your chin up and out, so that you can see your entire eyelid more easily.
 Don’t point the brush perpendicular to your eye so you can’t see what you’re doing. Instead, hold the brush at an angle so you can see the tip touching your eye and can follow as you work.
 Using your other hand, place a finger on your face between your temple and the eye you’re going to apply eyeliner to. Very gently pull the skin taut toward your temple. This will help you apply the eyeliner in a straight line.
 Close the eye you are going to apply eyeliner to, but not so tightly that you’re squinting. On your top lid, start at the inside near your tear duct. Use the tip of the brush to gently and smoothly follow the lash line and trace the natural curve of your eye with the eyeliner.Try to do this in one stroke, keeping the eyeliner as close to the lash line as possible.









If you find it difficult to trace the lash line smoothly, mark points along the way first with the eyeliner, and then connect the dots with a single stroke of the brush., For a more dramatic effect, thicken the line by retracing the original line with a thicker one. Make sure the line is thinner at the beginning and end of the eyelid, and slightly and gradually thicker toward the corner.
 Extend the basic line beyond the corner of your eye slightly, angling it gently upward with the natural curve of your eye.
 Apply eyeliner only to the corner of your eyes. Start in the middle of your eyelid and draw a line toward the outer corner. Make the line thicker as you approach the corner. Do the same on the bottom lid, and connect the eyeliner lines in the corner of your eye.
 The wing, or cat eye look, will extend your eye and create a more dramatic effect.Create the wing by using the brush tip to draw a triangle that naturally extends the corner of your eye. The triangle should taper and come to a point that points toward the tip of your eyebrow, and should get thicker as it approaches your eye.









Angle the triangle slightly upward toward your temple. The wing should follow the line that connects the bottom of your brow with your nose.Make the triangle no longer than the halfway point between the corner of your eye and your eyebrow.
Fill in the triangle shape with eyeliner, and smoothly connect the triangle with the original line you drew to trace your lash line.
 Use either a cotton swab or makeup sponge wipe up any mistakes right away, before the eyeliner dries. If necessary, dip the cotton swab in baby oil or makeup remover first.
 An unsteady hand can make for a rough or uneven eyeliner line, which will make your makeup job look sloppy. If necessary, rest your elbows on a counter or table as you apply the eyeliner.
 Wash it with soap and warm water and let it air dry before your next use. This will prevent bacteria from growing, and it will keep the brush clean, which will make your makeup easier to apply.
 This is especially true for things like lipstick and eyeliner that can transfer bacteria into your body through your mouth or eyes., Applying makeup with the same brush over and over again can cause bacteria to grow, which can lead to infections. Cosmetics can also degrade and go bad over time, especially once they’re open. Depending on your eyeliner, you should probably use it within three to six months.,