 There are many grains today, and only a handful can be fed to horses, these include barley and oats. There are other grains available to feed, but precautions need to be taken during the boiling and feeding. Linseed needs special care as if it is not boiled correctly causes a build up of acid, and also the toxins (which you boil out of them) don't get removed and get into the horses body. Wheat should also not be fed at any time. Though Bran and Pollard are By-Products of this grain, Wheat expands and causes a build up of lactic acid, causing laminitis and founder. It also causes grain poisoning. Whole Barley is often the most common boiled, as Oats tend to heat horses up. However, if feeding race horses or horses that are not being ridden such as a halter stallion or broodmares, then Oats is a good feed to help put weight on these horses.;
, At first you should always begin a new feed product slowly and gradually, so it is recommended feeding only 1 cup per day and after a few days feed 2 cups per day after a week or two you can feed the correct amount of grain. However, if fed in excess can be the cause of major health conditions. So only feed about 2kg of grain per day, (dried).
 Using a cup measure, measure out the 1 cup for starters, as your horse gets use to the feed, you can increase it as suggested.
 Don't turn the stove on yet. The saucepan should be a large one, as the grain more than doubles its size. The bigger the better.
, Ensure the grain is completely covered with an inch or more water above the grain.
 It is recommended that you use the highest setting.
 You need to ensure that you bring the grain to the boil. This ensures the water is the hottest it can be. After the water has began to bubble and boil, reduce the heat to a medium simmer, (about setting 2 or 3 from the lowest).
 If you boil the grain at night, it is best to do this step early, and if not, then progress straight to the next step. During this step make sure the lid is on the pot to prevent evaporation of moisture.
 As the grain gradually cools down, it will absorb the moisture. You may need to add more water after an hour or so so as to keep it moist so it doesn't dry out and become hard. If you are boiling in the morning, then leave for a few hours, if at night, it is best to leave overnight with the heat off. By the morning, the grain will be only slightly warm and you will notice the grain may have expanded much more.
 After the grain has expanded, you will be able to squeeze the grain and the flesh will pop out. If it is hard, leave for longer.
 Turn off the heat and leave for about half an hour, or until you can touch the grain with your fingers.
 The grain should be cooled, but still warm,as this makes it more appetizing, but you can feed it cold.
 Change your routine if you find that it is easier to boil at night rather than in the morning. Often this is found because you will be able to wake up and the grain will be cooked. Some herbs can be added straight to grain during the simmering steps. Chamomile, which is best used as a Tea, can be added and the juice can be fed when cooled, this has the extra added benefits of both grain and chamomile tea.

