 Preheat your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (around 175/180 degrees Celsius). Sprinkle your poultry season and pepper over the turkey. Then, prepare the turkey for roasting.Tuck the wings underneath the turkey. Then, use cooking twine to tie the drumsticks together.
You will place your turkey in a shallow roasting pan. Make sure the breast side is up.;
, Leave the turkey uncovered. Allow it to roast for about 30 minutes. Then, remove the turkey from the oven.You want to mix the remaining season ingredients (the broth, minced parsley, lemon juice, thyme, rosemary, lemon peel, garlic cloves) together in a four cup measuring cup.
Pour these ingredients over the turkey, leaving a small amount for basting later. Then, return the turkey to the oven.
 Once you've added the remaining ingredients to the turkey, return it to the oven. It should cook for 3 to 3 and a half hours. Baste it on occasion with what remains of the broth mixture.Make sure you use an oven thermometer to make sure the turkey is cooked through all the way. When inserted into the turkey's thigh, the thermometer should read 180 degrees Fahrenheit (about 82 degrees Celsius).
If the turkey is under 180 degrees Fahrenheit (about 82 degrees Celsius), cook it for a little longer.
 After removing the turkey from the oven, let it sit for about 20 minutes. Then, you can carve the turkey.Start by cutting the legs away from the body of the turkey and separating them. Then, slice the meat away from the bone of both legs.Then, cut into the turkey's breast. Cut out serving size slices.
 Place the turkey in a shallow freezer container. Pour the juices from the roasting pan over the slices of turkey. Cover the freezer container and place the turkey in your fridge.Your turkey will keep up to three months when frozen.
 Once you're ready to serve your turkey, allow it to partially thaw in the fridge overnight. Pour one to one and a half cups of vegetable broth over the turkey and bake it in a covered dish for 50 or 60 minutes. Bake until an oven thermometer reads 160 degrees Fahrenheit (about 71 degrees Celsius). 