 The most common flu symptoms can be effectively treated with medication you can pick up at your local drugstore. Ask your doctor or pharmacist to recommend a medication that is right for you especially if you have medical issues such as high blood pressure, liver, or kidney problems, take other medications, or are pregnant.Flu aches and pains can be treated with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) like ibuprofen and aspirin, or a fever and pain reducer like Tylenol (acetaminophen). Be sure to check the package for the recommended dosage. Aspirin should not be given to children under 18.
Take antihistamines and decongestants to treat congestion.Take expectorants and cough suppressants to treat a cough. If your cough is dry and hacking, a cough suppressant that contains dextromethorphan is the best choice. However, if the cough is bringing up mucus, an expectorant containing guaifenesin is a better option to make the cough more productive.Be careful to avoid acetaminophen overdose. Many medications contain the same active ingredients, so read labels carefully.Follow the dosing directions on the packaging and do not exceed the recommended dose., Use children’s acetaminophen or ibuprofen for children. Follow the directions on the packaging for the correct dose. You can alternate between acetaminophen and ibuprofen if your child’s fever does not respond to only one, but make sure you keep track of when you give each medication.


You can also consult the guidelines at MedlinePlus, which is run by the US National Library of Medicine. They have guidelines for ibuprofen and acetaminophen.
Do not give ibuprofen to children who have been vomiting or are dehydrated.Never give a child younger than 18 aspirin. It increases the risk of developing Reye syndrome., If you decide to go to the doctor to get help treating your illness, you may be prescribed one of the following medications, depending on what strains of the flu are circulating. These medications can help reduce symptoms and shorten the illness if they're taken within 48 hours:Oseltamivir (Tamiflu) is taken orally. Tamiflu is the only flu medication approved by the FDA for use in children younger than 1.Zanamivir (Relenza) is inhaled. It can be taken by people aged 7 years or older.It should not be used in people who have asthma or certain other lung problems.
Peramivir (Rapivab) is administered via IV. It can be used by people 18 or older.Amantadine (Symmetrel) and rimantadine (Flumadine) were used to treat influenza A, but many strains of flu (including H1N1) are now resistant to them and these medications are not commonly prescribed., Influenza is a viral illness. If you need them, your doctor will prescribe antiviral medications such as Tamiflu. Do not take antibiotics for the flu.Occasionally, you may have a bacterial infection alongside the flu, in which case your doctor may prescribe an antibiotic. Take medicines as prescribed.
Taking antibiotics when you don’t need them can cause the bacteria that are not killed to become resistant to drug treatment, which makes them much harder to kill with medication. Never take antibiotics unless you have been prescribed them.