 Sorting through your things is the hard part. Now, you just have to throw out all of the trash, store all of the items you've chosen to store, and donate or sell all of the remaining items. Put all of the items you want to keep back where they belong, and make sure to have a great organizational system that will keep them neatly in place.


Organize your clothes by how often you wear them and what type of clothes they are.
Create a filing system that will help you put all of your future papers in the right place.
Invest in plastic bins to help store items in your closets.
If you have a lot of shoes and don't know what to do with them, invest in a shoe-rack.
Organize the books on your shelves based on the genre or time period, and make sure all the books are actually stored vertically instead of just sitting sideways on your shelves.
Make sure to clearly label all of the stored items so you can easily access them when the time comes.
 Get rid of any extra furniture you don't need and rearrange your furniture in a way that creates the most space by not blocking off any extra space with the furniture, leaving the windows open and free to let in lots of light, and keeping everything arranged in an aesthetically pleasing way.Rearranging your furniture will also make the space feel new, and will make you feel like you've truly embarked on a new clutter-free era of your life.
Consider putting up an extra mirror or two in place of a painting. This will make your walls look less busy and will create the illusion of more space.
 If you want to feel calm and at ease in your new space, then you should keep the counters of your desk, kitchen table, kitchen, coffee table, and any other surfaces relatively empty. Wipe them down, and only keep the items on them that you really need.


If you're cleaning the surface of your desk, you can keep a mug for pens, a few small office supplies, and one photograph, but don't leave ten pictures and five stuffed animals and knickknacks on the surface of your work space.
Your kitchen table should only have things on it that are related to eating, such as salt, pepper, and napkins. Don't use the kitchen table as a place to store your extra school supplies or papers.

