 Your friends will really love it when you make plans to do something, act really excited, and then tell them you can't make it at the last possible minute. This is a fool-proof way to annoy your friends no matter how nice they are. Here are some ways to be extra-flaky:


Cancel on them after they're already on their way to meet you. Wait for them to show up to the place where you planned to meet. Tell them you can't make it over text message--with no explanation.
Before you flake on them, say, "I know I'm really flaky, but I swear I'll come this time!"
If you were their only ride to an event they were really looking forward to, tell them you can't make it because you found something better to do.
 Nothing is more annoying than a one-sided friendship. You should practice complaining for a really long time and then ignoring your friends or running away when it's their turn to talk. Here are some ways to perfect this strategy:


Complain about really insignificant things. This tactic will be especially annoying if you complain about something extremely minor, like an A-minus on a term paper, or about someone cutting you off on the highway. The longer you can discuss this mundane topic, the better.
Repeatedly say "I have no-one to talk to! I feel like no one cares!" after moaning for hours on end.
Don't take their serious problems seriously. If something actually bad happened to your friend, brush it off and then leave. For example, if your friend's car was stolen, you can say something like, "It's not the end of the world!"

This is especially annoying if your friend has been dumped by her boyfriend of seven years. Saying something cliched and frivolous like, "There are other fish in the sea!" Comparing the situation to your relationship with your boyfriend of two days is a sure-fire way to annoy your friend.
 Nothing is more annoying than a friend who is jealous about anything his or her friend does. This can get annoying incredibly fast. Here are some things to be jealous about:


Your friend's significant other. Spend your time talking about how your friend's boyfriend just "isn't good enough" for her. When you're hanging out with the two of them, try to ignore the significant other. If you join them at the movies, sit between them with a tub of popcorn. Chew loudly.
Your friend's other friends. Constantly complain that your friend's other friends are "completely annoying." Pick the nicest, most un-annoying friend to repeatedly say this about.

