 Place a medium-sized pot of water on the stove. Sprinkle in a pinch of salt, then turn the heat up to medium-high and bring the water to a boil. When the water reaches a boil, drop in the potato., Keep the potato in the hot water for around fifteen minutes. After fifteen minutes, use a large serving spoon to remove the potato from the water. Poke the potato with a fork. If the potato is soft and easy to pierce it, the potato is done cooking. If it is still hard, put the potato back into the water and cook more until it is easy to pierce., After you take the potato out of the hot water, pat it dry, then wait for it to cool slightly, about five to ten minutes. Then cut the potato in half and use a spoon to scoop out the cooked, white inside of the potato., Place the potato pieces that you scooped out into a large, sturdy bowl. Use a potato masher to pound the potatoes and mash them down to a paste as smooth as you can.You can also use an electric mixer to mash the potato.
 When you have achieved a thick, smooth paste, add ½ teaspoon of vanilla extract. Mix in the two pounds of confectionary sugar gradually by pouring it in half a pound at a time, then stirring to mix.You can also use maple flavoring or almond extract if you prefer those flavors to vanilla.
 When you have added all the sugar, stir with a large, sturdy mixing spoon. With all the sugar added, the dough should be very thick and somewhat difficult to stir. Make sure to mix until all the sugar is integrated and the dough looks uniform., Once you have thoroughly mixed the dough, cover it and place it in the refrigerator for an hour. Refrigerating will thicken and stiffen the dough to give it a better texture., Clean off a counter or a large cutting board, then sprinkle on powdered sugar in a thin layer. You can also lay a piece of parchment paper on top of the counter or cutting board and sprinkle the sugar on the parchment paper., Take the bowl of dough out of the refrigerator and place the dough on top of the sugared cutting board or counter. Use a rolling pin to roll out the dough into a rectangle that is about ¼ of an inch thick.If you notice that the dough is too soft or sticky, sprinkle more powdered sugar.
 Scoop out ½ cup of peanut butter onto the rectangle of dough. Use a knife to spread the peanut butter evenly until it covers the dough in a thin layer.You can use regular peanut butter or natural peanut butter depending on your preference. Regular peanut butter has a sweeter flavor, or you can use natural peanut butter, which has a more robust taste.
 Chunky peanut butter will add a crunch to the potato candy.
 Once you have added the layer of peanut butter, roll the dough starting at one side of the rectangle until the dough is rolled into a cylinder shape. Make sure not to press down on the dough too hard as you roll, but also try not to roll too loosely, or else there will be a lot of empty space within the roll.The roll should be a log-like shape that is the same thickness throughout.
Roll the dough just as you would for a jelly roll or a cinnamon roll.
 Carefully wrap the potato roll with parchment paper, then place the roll in the fridge for three to four hours. This will help to firm up the log so that it is solidified and easier to eat., Take the potato candy log out of the refrigerator after a few hours. Rub a stick of butter onto a sharp knife, then cut the roll into slices that are about ½ inch thick.Buttering the knife prevents the slices of potato candy from sticking to the knife.
 Wait until the potato candy comes to room temperature, then serve! The potato candy should have a thick and smooth texture and taste sweet and peanut-buttery!, If you have any leftover candy, wrap it in plastic wrap and store it in the fridge. Potato candy can dry out very fast if it is not wrapped up.