 Information on your purchasing behaviors can prove valuable to your supermarket. For this reason, enrolling in a loyalty program almost always means that your purchasing behavior is tracked by the store, and potentially shared with other companies. Further, they track much more than what you buy. Ask a customer service representative at the store exactly what they track.Other things that may be tracked include items you’ve stopped buying, what time you tend to shop, how much you are willing to spend on certain types of items, and how much you spend on certain types of items in a given time period.
For example, they not only know how much alcohol you buy, they also know what type of beer you favor.
Based on your habits, companies are also often able to determine whether you live in an apartment or house, what the average income is in the area where you live, whether you have children, and what type of financial transactions you use.
 The base reasoning for the collection of your data, again, is profit. Companies want to know as much as possible about you and the people in your area to determine what to put in their store and what to charge for it.For instance, if you and others start or stop buying certain products, a supermarket will know whether to carry more or less of it.
Further, some supermarket companies will raise or lower the price of certain goods based on what people in your area are willing to pay.
 Maybe it doesn’t bother you at all that a corporation can build an extensive individual demographic profile about you. In fact, you may even want them too - as they’ll be able to target you with ads and coupons that are more likely to be relevant to you. However, not everyone is comfortable with this lack of privacy.Believe it or not, there is some evidence that supermarkets cater to people’s poor eating habits, weight issues, and even substance use.
At the end of the day, it’s vital that you are both aware of the terms of any program membership you are considering and comfortable with the company’s access to your otherwise quite private information.
 Many supermarket companies will share some of your personal information and purchasing behavior. They may even profit off this data by selling it to other companies. Fortunately, you have the right to find out what information is being collected, how it’s used, and how you can get access to it. Contact the supermarket’s customer service department and ask to see your personal profile.You can also ask that the information be removed from their database, though the company may charge a fee for doing so.
Consider refusing to shop at supermarkets that are unwilling to provide you with the information they are collecting about you through your loyalty program membership.

