 Choose a color from the palette for your animal. If you want to keep a realistic feel, find natural colors that you would see in a forest. Brown, black, gray, white or mellow yellow or orange. Continue switching colors until you find a combination you like.;
, Choose a pattern from the patterns available. Remember, use natural colors if you want to go for realism.
 You can decide which outline/style of eye you want. Create eye colors of any type, but the more common colors for eyes are: blue, green, yellow, black, brown, and sometimes a hazel or white.
 In order to be stylish on Animal Jam you have to have unique clothing that you like. Unfortunately, non-members have less selections on clothing items, but at least they can change the colors of the items!

, If you see something out of your budget, play games such as "Best Dressed" and "Falling Phantoms" to gain gems faster.
 Have your favorite pet with you all the time. Make sure your pet looks as unique as you do, so if anyone sees you and your fashionable pet they might want to be your buddy.
 Choose the color that mostly matches your personality.


If you are a tomboy, use colors such as white, black, red, and purple. Use designs such as lightning strikes, fire flames, and stars.
If you are a girly girl, use colors such as, pink, purple, aqua, bright yellow, and mango colored orange. Use designs such as hearts, zig zags, and swirls.
If you are in between, use colors such as, gray, dark blue, green, purple, and white. Wear a fox hat or gazelle antlers. (Baseball hats look really nice.)

, You need space for your parties and hangouts. For non-members, try to be as space conserving as possible to create the illusion of a "bigger den".


If your giant den is too big for all your items, use a smaller den in the meantime until you gain enough items to fill your den. Nobody wants to see an incomplete den!

, People may think plushies are babyish, but they can be a great addition to a den. If you have a themed den, add items that are in theme and create the den just like the theme.


AJHQ has pre-set den item themes that they put out (ex. Pizza Shop) so if you can't decide on a theme, use the latest theme available, or the theme you like the most.
 The object of the game is to have a pile of items outside your den that you want inside somewhere and have your buddy tell you where to put what. (Even if it sounds boring, many people are interested!) After you set up the den, tweak their design a little bit to fit your style.

