 Your employer has more than likely read your performance reviews. They will know if you are lying or misrepresenting yourself. If you try to give false impressions, it may reflect poorly on you. If you're seeking an internal appointment, it's very likely that the interviewer has already read your performance appraisal and may well have it before them. They might still check the appraisal with your reference providers., Don't deny the bad things. Highlight all the positive perceptions about your work. If you know anything about your interviewer, choose references that you know the interviewer will respect. If faced with challenges, use them as examples of times when you succeed in the face of adversity.


Keep the balance focused on the positive aspects of the appraisal. It's important to focus on what was good in your appraisal and to highlight how you are continuing to achieve the positive aspects. As for the negative aspects, minimize these by focusing only on one and, at the same, talking about what you've since done to overcome the limitation (for example, training, changing work practices, working from home some days, etc.). Keep it straightforward and don't go into too many details on the negatives. For example:
"My last performance appraisal was positive confirmation that my skills are well suited to the work I have been undertaking and that I am ready to move into a higher position. The appraisal showed that I am good with clients, supportive with my colleagues, and always meet my deadlines. It was suggested that I have a tendency to over-explain the procedures to clients, so I have taken great care since to ensure that I don't bury clients in the details and I believe that this demonstrates that I respond well to feedback and have learned how to ensure the best client experience, which is why I believe I am well placed for this promotion."

, Take responsibility. Don't become embarrassed or shy away from faults. This will reflect poorly on you. By taking the reigns, you show authority and a desire to strengthen your worth as an employee. Entrepreneurs value employees who seek to better themselves.