 Keep the text short, pithy and clear. Too much text will detract from the message you want to get across. Write your message; then spend plenty of time editing it and culling it until it's short but still gets across the point you wish to make.


If you have a slogan, this can be an eye-catching way to get people to stop and read the sign.;
, This could be any number of things but should relate directly to what the sign is about. For example, it might be the face of a real estate agent or politician, a key room in the house you're selling or a desirable item in your yard sale.


If you want to use a series of images, such as for a house and its interior, try to keep it all as one image in the same position, but use a left or right side cascading line up of smaller images alongside a large image. This can be a great way of showing off a few rooms in a house without losing the impact of the main image.
 If this sign is selling something or promoting someone from a business or political party, a logo should be added. The position and size of the loge will be determined, primarily, by the amount of text and the image size, so be prepared to play around with the design until everything looks balanced and pleasing.
 The font should be easy to read and capable of being seen from a distance. Usually black will be the best color for the lettering, although this will depend on the background color you're using.
 The background color will depend partly on the image and message. For example, if the image is very colorful, keep the background plain (perhaps solid white). If the image is simple and would look good against a bold color such as red, then perhaps that will be the best choice.
 Send this file to the sign printer. They will cue you if any changes are needed.
 Usually the sign will be done on plastic board, as this is durable and can withstand rain. However, you can also make your own sign using paper (printed from your computer and carefully pieced together) and plywood (or similar thin wood), then painting a waterproofing sealant over the top.


If using a professional printer, ring around to get the best rate.
 Stand on the curb and take a good look at the area where you plan to position the sign. Take a walk by and drive by as well, to see which positions are most likely to capture passers-by's attention. Choose the spot only after you have done this.
 The height of the stake should be such that any person targeted can see it best. If you plan for people in vehicles to see it with ease, this might be lower than if you intend for a lot of people walking to see it. Again, you'll need to judge this according to the context.
 Check that tree branches, other signs or poles, etc. are not blocking the sign once you've put it up. If they are, you'll need to shift it.
 It's easy to stick a sign in the ground and forget about it. However, for the sake of keeping the sign attractive and fresh, keep an eye on how it is faring. This includes checking for graffiti, breakage, the sign coming away from its stake, or weathering. If it needs to be replaced or updated, don't hesitate. This will avoid shabby presentation and ensure that your message portrays professionalism when it goes out to the public.

