 You'll want to wear clothes that are close fitting for your rain run. This will minimize the irritation caused by wet fabric rubbing against your skin. Additionally, the clothing you wear will absorb water in the rain, becoming heavy. The more clothing you wear, the heavier the clothing will become.


If it is especially cold outside, consider wearing a few layers of close fitting clothing, like spandex.Moisture wicking fabric is designed to pull moisture to the outer surface of the fabric, where it'll cause less irritation and evaporate most easily.;
, In some cases you might not have a light, breathable waterproof jacket or poncho. In this situation, you can cut a hole in a garbage bag, stick your head through the hole, and wear it as a homemade poncho. While this won't keep you perfectly dry, it will minimize wetness.


As you run, your body will heat up. This can cause your waterproof outer layer to become uncomfortably hot. For this reason, you may want to purchase a jacket that folds up into a small pouch or more portable size., The easiest way to cut down on rain falling into your eyes and blinding you is by wearing a hat with a brim or a visor. The headband of your hat or visor will also help prevent water collecting in your hair from dripping down your face and getting in your eyes., Keep your eyes peeled even more than you would running on clear days. The clouds overhead will make it more difficult to see or be seen while running your route. You may want to decrease your pace so you have more time to react.Some rain clouds are very dark and can significantly reduce your ability to clearly see. You may want to have a flashlight in hand to shine on your path and reveal potential obstacles.
 If the conditions are slick or you feel unsure of your footing, you may need to shorten your stride. A shorter stride will also help you compensate if you misjudge the distance between your foot and the ground. This often happens when stepping into puddles that are deeper than you realize.


Wind and rain may have cause puddles and piles of leaves to form. Be wary of these, as they can hide curbs and potholes.Although it is common to see this in rain runners, avoid shuffling while running in the rain., Choose a route that is well lit and maintained. This will not only make it easier for people to see you, but will minimize potential injury due to obstacles, like broken pavement or roots.


Routes that follow major roads can lead you to getting accidentally (or purposefully) soaked by passing cars.
Avoid routes that are muddy. These can become slick in the rain and cause you to slip and fall., Before you start your rain run, gear up indoors and do some basic stretches. Touch your toes and do other leg stretches to prevent muscular strain and cramping.


Warming up is also important when the weather is cold. Stretches and other warm ups will heat your body and make the cold less bitter., You might purchase a reflective vest from a running, sports, or sporting goods store and wear this to improve your visibility. If a reflective vest is outside of your price range, you can buy reflective tape at most hardware stores and general retailers. Put some of this tape onto your clothing before your rain run so you're easier to see.


When visibility is especially poor, you may want to take a flashlight or a blinking LED on your run., You can buy waterproof covers for cell phones or music players at most general retailers. For a more economical cover, place you phone in a plastic bag. Then tape the bag closed with a water resistant or waterproof tape, like duct tape.


Even if a cover or case claims to be waterproof, it is common for small amounts of moisture to seep in. For this reason, you may not want to run in the rain with any technology at all.
Remember to remove any technology from your person that will not stand up to the rain. Watches, for example, are frequently overlooked., This condition is more likely to occur when you're wet than dry. To protect against chafing, spread petroleum jelly (or a similar produce, like Vaseline or Body Glide) on the areas you normally chafe or blister. Some common chafing areas include:


Feet, inner thighs, underarms, sports bra lines (for women), and nipples (for men)., Remove your wet clothes and change into warm, dry ones after you finish your run. If it was especially cold or if you picked up some mud or dirt while running, you may want to take a warm shower.


Even if your body feels warm, when you're wet you have a greater chance of getting hypothermia, which is a dangerous lowering of your body temperature., There will be plenty of water on your rain run, but little of this will be absorbed into your system. This can cause some runners to forget to stay hydrated when running in the rain. Drink small amounts of water consistently throughout long runs, or have a glass of water after shorter runs., If you have insoles in your shoes, first remove these. After that, stuff your shoes loosely with newspaper. Newspaper will help prevent the shape of your shoe from deforming even as it pulls out moisture the shoe has absorbed. Depending on the wetness of your shoes, you may need to replace the newspaper several times.


You may be tempted to put your shoes on a heater to dry them more quickly. Avoid doing this, as it can degrade the rubber and glue your shoe is made of.
When you need to dry your wet shoes quickly, set a hair dryer to low heat and use this to dry your shoes.
If you run frequently in the rain, you may want an extra pair of running shoes. This way you can rotate between pairs and allow more drying time for wet shoes.