 Have a movie night with all your favorite movies, read a stack of books and magazines back to back, or relax with your favorite TV-show marathon.


Make a movie/TV/music night. Pick a theme and make your own marathon around that theme, like werewolves, 80s heartthrobs, Broadway musicals, or whatever entertains you.
After you’ve indulged in all your favorites, start researching new bands, movies, and TV shows to try. Check out music blogs and podcasts, see what Spotify or Pandora recommends, or seek out the under-explored corners of Netflix.
 If you’re not a gamer, give it a try. If you’re already a gamer, broaden your horizons.


Try playing a new video game or seeking a new video game store. Look for older or lesser-known titles in thrift stores or online.
Set up a video game tournament if you have the supplies--many platforms allow for cooperative virtual gaming, so if your friends aren’t around, you can play with new and different people from around the world.
Try new types of non-video games, like role playing games, L.A.R.P.ing (Live Action Role Playing), etc.
Revert back to your childhood self and bring out your favorite old board games. But what if you need multiple players? You can play for all of the players! Compete against yourself and take joy in knowing that you’ll win no matter what.
 Get out your old photo albums, scrapbooks, and yearbooks and spend some time reminiscing about old times.


You may even be inspired to look up old friends or family members with whom you’ve lost touch. If you are, go on an information hunt and see if you can track them down.
Use the memories that come back to you as inspiration--write them down into short stories, autobiographical snippets, blog posts, comics, etc.
 Time to yourself opens up all kinds of avenues for exploration, including digital exploration. And there’s a lot of digital world to explore.


Go for a virtual information walk. Start by opening a web page--any page--and then start exploring where it takes you. Look for terms or ideas mentioned or linked on the page and follow them. Do the same for each new page you come to and see how far away from your starting point you can get. Then revel in all the obscure knowledge you’re accumulating.
Go tutorial crazy by visiting various tutorial and how-to sites--and then trying them out. If you’re into experimenting with hair and makeup, find the craziest hair/makeup how-to you can and be your own experimental subject. If you like making things, look up tutorials on making or building things (birdhouses, crème brûlée, pillows, whatever) and give it your best shot. You may uncover some hidden talent.

