 Cardio has many forms: Walking, running, biking, swimming, rowing, etc. All of these are considered long distance exercise. Discuss with your doctor which ones are going to be best for you. Swimming is low impact and doesn’t stress your joints, whereas running might cause knee problems.


Do the right amount of cardio. In order to get the most out of cardio, you should do between 30 and 50 minutes per cardio session. This time frame is where you’ll be in the “fat burning” portion of your workout. Count calories. If you’re using a cardio machine at the gym, most will have calorie trackers for you to keep track of the amount of calories you’re burning while exercising.
 This is a newer form of working out which requires very little time but very difficult exercises ranging over every muscle in the body. In 30 minutes you can easily burn over 500 calories if you correctly perform your HIIT workout. These are typically in circuit style and designed for maximum caloric burn. For example doing one minute of each of the following for 6 rounds without stopping:


Box jumps
Renegade Rows
Jump Rope
Leg Lifts
Lunge jumps

, Weight lifting is more goal oriented than any other exercise. It burns more calories than cardio if done properly, but can be dangerous if performed incorrectly.


Hire a personal trainer to teach you how to lift properly. Many people that lift have goals such as gaining a higher vertical leap, or wanting to perform pull ups without help.
Use a fitness tracker. Whereas cardio machines have calorie trackers, it is hard to tell how many calories you burn during your lifting session. Therefore, a fitness tracker (mentioned earlier) can be very helpful.
 Although low impact exercises will not burn as many calories, they can still be beneficial if you’re trying to get skinny. Things as simple as stretching keep your metabolism boosted throughout the day and burns extra calories while you do it.


Look up local classes offered in your area. Many places will give you free first sessions to see if the class is something you’re interested in before buying a package.
If you don’t have time to get to a class, buy a fitness program. You can find top rated DVDs on Amazon.com.

