, You must work in a well ventilated area.
 Here's a sample on how the bunny plant holder would look like as a whole. Take this boost to get you going, save and print the attached picture above. It is scaled to match the 1.5 liter plastic bottle size.


Print it on a 8.5 inches x 11 inches board paper. Note: Do not check the scale to fit media box before printing.
If you don't have a printer, you can always do it manually by hand. Ask someone you know who have the skills.;
,


Align the nose part of the bunny in between the plastic bottle bottom stand.
Adjust the height of the bunny according to the height of the plant pot.
, Start cutting the plastic bottle using a cutter.


Cut a small part outside the marked line.
Get the scissor and insert it in the small cut then start cutting. It is advised not to use the cutter to cut the whole piece as it can easily slide off and cut yourself or even ruin your project.
 Place it in a ventilated area and spray it inside and out. Let it dry according to package direction.
 Using spray paint is better than brush painting  because it makes a smooth and even finish. You can use the glossy one for a shiny finish. Let it dry according to package direction.
 Cut the grass mat using a cutter. Set the grass mat aside.
 Cut the popsicle sticks according to the width of the sides.
 leave the popsicle exposed as well the bottom of the pan. Let it dry according to package direction.
 Let it dry according to package direction.
 These are what makes the fences on the sides. Mark each popsicle stick using a guide before cutting them.
 Leave a small gap in between each sticks. Set it aside when finished.
 This is to allow the excess water to pass through.


To make a hole, grab a nail using pliers and then carefully drill a hole on each stand.



Get the printed paper board with the bunny pattern and place it on a cutting mat.
Using a sharp cutter, cut the eyes, nose, mouth, ears part. etc..
When done, place the paper board again in the plastic bottle and start tracing lightly using a marker.
Take off the paper board when finished.
You can draw it manually if you missed any detail.
 This will work on a non glossy paint, use a pink spray paint if not. Before assembling the parts, you can also spray a quick-dry top coat on all components for dust and water protection. Put the components together and you're finished.

