 OLX has regional sites for different countries and areas, so you may have to explore before you find your version.


Scroll down to the bottom of the homepage if needed, where you can select a different country or city from the section that reads "OLX Close to you.";
, It should be at the top right corner of the home page.
 Make sure to choose the most fitting category and subcategory so that your item is more easily found.
 The first field in the form will ask you to add a suitable title for your product.


Make sure to give your ad a catchy title. This will help to attract more customers to your product (e.g., "Brand new Canvas knight for sale - excellent condition").
 The next field requires a good description of your product, as well as the product's condition and features.


Make sure to describe your product completely and succinctly. Communicate as much pertinent information as you can in a few words. You should, at a minimum, describe the product condition, the date on which you purchased the product, and any important features or faults.



Make sure all information is up-to-date and correct, since it is the only way for potential customers to contact you.
 Don't forget to add images to your listing. Images show the condition of the product, so add enough high-quality images to make an impactful, attractive ad without undue clutter. Images are the correct representation of your product.
 It is better to waste a few minutes in rechecking than to post a wrong advertisement.
 You should search with the most exact description of your wished product within a few words to get the best results.(e.g. microsoft lumia 830 instead of just lumia) .



Make sure to enter your correct state, so that the buyer and customer can meet at a place convenient to both. If the buyer is in any other state or region, it may make the purchase much more difficult.
 Read the details and view the pictures carefully; make sure that any product you're considering meets your needs and is priced fairly.


On the left hand side, there are some filters/conditions you can select to make your search easier and quicker.
 If you find an item you're interested in, contact the seller using the details provided. You can then organize a meeting so that you can check out the item in person and decide if it suits your needs. It's a good idea to meet in public and be aware that some sellers might be deceptive about their products. Check each potential purchase out thoroughly before completing the transaction.
 Once you get your product, carefully check it with all its components. Take the product when you are fully satisfied with the condition of the product.

