 Delve into a novel you’ve meant to read or an informative book or newspaper on a new subject to keep your mind agile and engaged.


Try picking up a publication you’ve never read before, or a nonfiction book on a subject you know nothing about. Next time you have a conversation with someone, you’ll be able to tell them all about what you learned.
If you have to read a book that you’re not too interested in for a class or work project, get into it by curling up somewhere comfortable with a cup of coffee or tea, take the book outside, or even read it out loud to make it more engaging.
 Open up the newspaper to the crossword, sudoku, or other puzzles and try to solve them.


If you don’t have a newspaper or book of word or number games at home, find digital versions online or on your phone to play as much as you like.If there are other people at home with you, or you can have others come over, invite them to solve a puzzle or play a word, card, or board game with you.
 Start one of many free courses available via the internet or mobile apps to learn a new language or skill.


Take a free course from a top university to learn something new from the comfort of your own couch or desk.Or try taking an online course to learn the basics of computer coding.You can also spend some time away from screens by picking up a physical dictionary or encyclopedia and learning a new word or concept.
 Keep your brain active and challenge yourself to learn something new by watching a documentary series or listening to a radio story hour.


If you have no access or limited access to a radio or TV, you can find many shows and documentaries streamed online. Almost all radio shows can be found in podcast form on the station’s website or other podcast platforms for download or streaming.
 Call on the phone, video chat online, or send a text message to a friend or family member who is available to chat.


Try writing some good old fashioned snail mail to a friend. Write your letter on fun stationery and decorate it and the envelope with stickers, markers, or other fun surprises for the recipient.
If you can invite people over to your home, do so! Plan to make a meal together, play a game, or just catch up over tea or coffee.
 Relax while also enlivening your mind by practicing meditation. Learn one of many easy techniques available for free online.Try a simple mindfulness meditation, which you can do anytime if you have just a few minutes to spare.You also don’t need any specific instruction to meditate. Simply try sitting quietly with your eyes closed to think or just notice all your senses being activated by the world around you.

