 Hangovers are a sign that your body is extremely dehydrated.Staying hydrated will alleviate the headaches, dizziness, and lightheadedness that result from a hangover. It is especially important to load up on fluids if you are vomiting.


Drink plenty of water.
Drink coconut water and/or sports drinks, both of which are rich in electrolytes. Most headaches secondary to alcohol consumption are caused by both dehydration and an imbalance of electrolytes. Specifically, sodium balanced by magnesium, calcium, and potassium are vital for a happy-feeling brain. Look at the ingredients list for magnesium and calcium salts and choose a sports drink that will not only rehydrate you, but also provide the nutrients that your alcoholic beverages have stripped from you.
Avoid coffee or caffeinated teas. Many people drink coffee in order to "wake up" from a hangover, but the caffeine will only make matters worse by further dehydrating you.
Try ginger ale. If you're feeling nauseated, the ginger helps calm your stomach.;
, Avoid Acetaminophen, due to liver-damaging reactions with alcohol metabolites. Aspirin or ibuprofen are both fine choices if you have a headache. Be sure to read the instructions and take only the recommended dose.


Note that excessive use of these medications may cause long-term damage to your liver, especially when used in conjunction with alcohol.
If you can't keep the painkiller down, don't take another dose. You'll just have to ride the pain out until your body recovers enough to accept painkillers.
 These foods alleviate nausea and help your body soak up the alcohol in your system.


Avoid foods that are acidic or spicy, since they are more difficult for your body to digest.
Avoid foods that are heavy or oily, since they increase the feeling of nausea.
 Alcohol may temporarily make you feel better, but it will ultimately dehydrate you and leave you feeling worse later on in the day. If you decide to have a drink, stick with a Bloody Mary or a cold beer, and do not overdo it. You need to give your body a chance to recover.
Only drink if you have no obligations, like work or school, for the rest of the day.

