 This simple dragon is perfect for those who are learning how to fold origami. You will learn how to make a kite-fold and an inside reverse-fold by completing this dragon., A good size is 7 centimeter (2.8 in) x 7 centimeter (2.8 in) paper but other sizes will work. If you're a beginner, consider to start with bigger paper (20cm by 20cm) because it is easier to work with.


If you only have a regular letter size piece of paper, make it square by folding the upper left corner diagonally down to meet the right side. Then take the upper right corner and fold it down to the left, connecting to the left corner where the first fold was made. There will be a bottom rectangle left over; fold this backwards and crease it well. Unfold the whole paper and cut (or tear if you creased it really well) off the rectangle. You should now have a square piece of paper., Fold the paper in half along the crease, then unfold. Fold the side corners so that they meet at the center line, then crease. This is called the kite-fold.
 Fold the right and left corners again into the center diagonal line, starting from the top corner this time. Keep these sides folded for now.
 Bring the edges created by the kite-fold into the center diagonal line in a valley-fold. Then again bring the outside corners of the top layer into the center diagonal line from the bottom corner.


There will now be what looks like pleats on each side of the diamond.
 Again make the first kite-fold again with the original side up and turn the paper over. Bring the side corners again to the center diagonal line from the top corner. Then again bring the free edge corners to the center diagonal line from the top corner and unfold.
 Fold along the opposite diagonal that does not already have a crease along it, forming a triangle, and unfold.
 Pinch the two corners at which you have just made the diagonal by pushing the edges up towards you. Then bring your hands together, folding along the kite-folds you made earlier. The first kite-fold crease should go down on each side, the second up and the third down. The corners that you are pinching should be sticking up.


It will look like a diamond with two pieces sticking up in the middle on each side.
 Push the two flaps that are sticking up down along to the top corner. It will now look like an arrowhead, or like a kite with a point sticking out the top of it.
 Rotate the origami dragon so that the corners point right and left. The flaps that you just pushed down should be facing towards the right. Then turn the origami dragon upside down, keeping it pointing in the same direction.
 Bring the bottom corner to the top corner along the centerline to fold the diamond in half lengthwise. It will now look like a wide and short triangle.
 Apply the inside reverse fold to bring the left corner up between the two edges. You will have to slightly spread apart the top and bottom layers to pull the left corner up inside the two layers.


It should now have a piece sticking up on the left side of the paper while the middle and right side of the triangle are horizontal.
 Bring the corner down in between the two layers of the neck to create the head. The head should be a bit less that half the length of the neck. It will now look like a head with a pointy beak on the end.
 Bring the left corner down to the right about halfway down the length of the head. This should be along a horizontal line so the corner point directly to the right. Then bring the corner from the right diagonally downward to the left to create the lower jaw.


There will now be a short piece hanging down, creating the look of a jaw.
 Fold the flap in the middle of the dragon down from the right top corner to the bottom edge. Do the same in reverse on the opposite side to create the wings.


It will look like a swimming animal now because it will look like it has flippers.
 Open the wings to make the dragon look like it is flying and the dragon is finished.

