 The shaft of your arrow should be made from a suitable stick or branch. You want a piece of wood that is light yet sturdy and as straight as possible. For a long bow, find a stick that is slightly thicker than a pencil, and about the length of the distance from your wrist to your shoulder.


It's better to stick with a longer stick rather than a shorter stick - you can always break part of a stick off if it's too long, but there's no way to make a short stick longer.;
, Ideally, your rock should have one sharp, pointed end and one flatter end that fits flush against one end of your stick. Good stones will have a cone-shaped or blade-shaped point and be slightly wider than the stick's thickness. If needed, sharpen your rock's point against another rock or a sharpening stone.


Alternatively, you can use sharp pieces of bone if they're available. If you're in an area known for volcanic activity (such as the Hawaiian islands), you may even want to look for naturally-occurring obsidian around old, cooled lava flows.
If you're very dedicated (or lucky), you might be able to find an actual arrowhead - that is, a specially-sharpened rock used by an ancient culture to tip an arrow. Arrowheads are occasionally recovered from places where the earth has been disturbed, such as recently-plowed fields, construction sites, and riverbeds.
 If you're willing to compromise in terms of your arrow's historical authenticity, you can simply use commercial glue (a hot glue gun works best) and normal string or twine. On the other hand, for a truly old-school arrow, you can make a simple glue from flower and water and make string from certain types of tree bark. If possible, get two large bird feathers that are the same size.


The feathers aren't absolutely necessary, but they will improve your arrow's accuracy by stabilizing it as it flies.
 This can be done by cutting a small notch into the stick deep enough to hold about a 1/4 of the length of the rock. Glue the rock in place, then coat the part of the stick near the rock with glue. Wrap a string around the notch and the base of the rock, making sure it grips the stick and the rock tightly. Tie the string securely, then coat it with glue to improve its strength.
 Carefully lay your arrow down so that none of its weight is being supported by the tip and allow it to dry. Leave it in the sun to speed the drying process, carefully turning it over after an hour or so to ensure the glue dries evenly.
 When you fire your arrow, the bowstring will fit into this notch, helping the keep the arrow steady. This notch doesn't have to be terribly deep - 1/8 to 1/4 of an inch will usually do, based on the thickness of your bowstring.
 Cut your feathers down the center. Place some glue on the shaft of your arrow and glue half of the feather down this in a way so it curves slightly. Arrange four feather halves so that they're evenly spaced around the circumference of the back end of the arrow and they all curve in the same direction. The spiral arrangement of the feathers will cause the arrow to turn in a spiral as it flies (like a well-thrown football or a rifle bullet), which tends to make it fly straighter and and more accurately.









Traditionally, a thin cotton thread would be used to tie the feathers on by ruffling them the wrong way so a gap appeared to place the string while the feather was held to the shaft. You may choose to replicate this practice if you desire. If you do, wrap the thread around the feathers so that they're tightly held against the shaft of the arrow, then glue the thread in place.
 Let the glue dry for about 2 hours - your exact drying time will vary depending on the type of glue you use and the construction of your arrow. Again, make sure that your arrow is arranged so that neither the feathers or the point of the arrow are bearing any weight as the glue dries - otherwise, they may dry crooked.
 When you're sure the glue is completely dry, gently flex the tip and the feathers to test their strength. If they're securely attached and don't budge at all, your arrow's ready to fire! Notch your arrow in your bow, pull the bowstring back, aim, and let your arrow fly! Never shoot your arrow at people or animals - even stone age arrows can seriously hurt someone - after all, they were originally used for hunting.

