 These schools have excellent internship placement programs. Earning a degree from 1 of the top fashion schools in New York will give you an advantage over the competition.


Apply to the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York City. This job has the highest success rate for fashion designer job placement.
Apply to the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, New York. You are more likely to get individual attention and start networking in the fashion industry through this fashion program.;
, There are many lesser known jobs in fashion that will offer more opportunities. Instead of going into general fashion design, consider 1 of the following career paths:


Fashion merchandising allows you to work in the marketing and sales section of fashion. Included in this type of job are buyers and marketing professionals who do research on trends and fashions. Choose a fashion merchandising degree and break in at an entry-level sales position.
Go into fashion production. You can opt to get a business degree at the bachelor level, and take some fashion merchandising or design classes. Production employees oversee the manufacturing of fashion and can rise high into the corporate levels.
Go into fashion journalism or PR. If you have an entrepreneurial spirit and an ability to write and do some marketing, then these fields are a good way to work in fashion, although not necessarily for a clothing company. Get a degree in public relations or journalism and then start your own fashion blog to break into the industry.
If you want to pursue fashion design, consider breaking away from womenswear. Accessories, menswear and sportswear specialties might improve your chances of having a NY fashion career.
 If you did not attend school in New York, you should relocate to the area. People who live in the city will have an advantage because they can interview in person for jobs.
 If your school does not have an internship placement program, look online at fashion job aggregate sites. Perfect your resume and cover letter and apply consistently until you get a position.


Visit internmatch.com, simplyhired, fashion.net, monster.com, careerbuilder.com, womensweardaily.com and similar sites. Make sure to tailor your cover letter and resume to the internship description, so you can explain what you will bring to the position.
Research the company you are applying for extensively. Also, list real examples of your success. Try to add some professional details that hint about your personality. For example, tell a story about a time you were motivated and went above the call of duty in school or at a job.
 You should have a hard copy and a digital copy of the portfolio. Be creative with your formatting or consider hiring a graphic designer to help produce your portfolio.
 Make sure you can maintain the balance between "professional" and "stylish."


Come prepared to each interview with research, your resume, your cover letter, a notebook and a pen.
 Attend fashion shows in New York City and don't be afraid to introduce yourself to people. Also, make profiles on LinkedIn and sites like the Fashion Industry Network.
 Create an online presence and fashion jobs may find you. This will also show that you are relevant, creative and able to complete projects.
 For example, take classes for computer-aided design (CAD). Diverse talents in software programs are likely to appeal to hiring managers.
 The first 1 to 5 years in the fashion industry will be hard. Stay positive, be motivated and ask questions to make sure you get the job done right.
 Most fashion companies hire from an intern pool because these people are able to prove their worth. Get to know your colleagues and superiors, and let them know you are looking for full-time work.
 Try to foster friendships with colleagues, and check in with superiors about jobs occasionally.

