 Find out how people celebrated it during the olden days and see if you can implement those thoughts into your Halloween.;
, Though demons, monsters, and intricate designs out of pumpkins are popular in the modern world, a simple carved face is traditional. Save the seeds of the pumpkin.
 If you don't use too much fat or salt, they're not only good for you but also very tasty!

, Send out invitations on pumpkins cut from construction paper. Let everyone know they're invited to an old fashioned Halloween party! Keep the decorations simple, paper cut outs on the walls of things like witches and black cats would be preferable to all out thrashing mannequins. Play games like bobbing for apples and offer your guests the treats you made in the last step. You could carve jack-o-lantern, but only if everyone there is old enough to use knives.
 Not extremely graphic stories, just simply, traditional, stories. Be sure to read the story behind the Jack-o-Lantern too!

, Popcorn balls, Candy Apples, and pumpkin baked goods are good, traditional, choices. Drink plenty of hot apple cider with whatever you make!

, Think witches and wizards, vampires and angels, not movie characters and politicians.
 Do this with old clothes you don't want anymore, cardboard boxes, garbage bags, duct tape, and whatever other spare material you have around. If you absolutely must, visit a thrift store and pick up a piece or two to help you along. But don't buy the costume, even at a thrift store! Use a pillowcase or brown paper bag for trick or treating.
 Though these days it's common to see people trick or treating well into adult hood, for a traditional Halloween it's no one over 13.
 People didn't used to drive their children to fifteen different neighbourhoods to get them enough candy to last three years. It was done on foot, only in the immediate neighbourhood.
, Many people give each kid a huge handful of candy, but not for an old fashioned Halloween. Don't feel bad about it. You aren't obligated to give them anything, they should appreciate what you do give.

