 Salmonella poisoning’s number one symptom is often nausea and vomiting. Because people often contract salmonella poisoning as a result of eating something contaminated with feces, your body’s natural response is to void the contents of your stomach.Although nausea is the most common symptom of salmonella poisoning, there are a number of other ailments that may cause the same symptom.
If you are vomiting, you will need to rehydrate, but avoid drinking water immediately after vomiting. This may promote more vomiting. Wait until you no longer feel nauseous to drink water. Just take small sips of water if you need to or suck on ice chips in the meantime.;
, The next most prominent symptom of salmonella poisoning is abdominal cramping with coinciding diarrhea. Salmonella poisoning has the most significant effect on your bowels, and the repercussions of salmonella poisoning can take longer to subside in your stomach than anywhere else.Like vomiting, diarrhea can dehydrate you. Dehydration can cause other medical issues or limit your body’s ability to recover from salmonella poisoning, so it’s important to stay hydrated.
Having blood in your stool is also a common symptom of salmonella that may present itself in conjunction with diarrhea.
 Salmonella poisoning can cause your body temperature to rise. If you have a fever while experiencing other common symptoms of salmonella, it is likely that you are suffering from salmonella poisoning.There is often a headache that coincides with salmonella poisoning, especially among those with a fever.
Fevers can be worsened by dehydration, as your body’s ability to regulate your temperature is limited when you don’t have enough fluid in your body.
 Most people with salmonella poisoning are able to recover on their own within a reasonable amount of time, but if the symptoms of salmonella become dangerous, it’s important to seek medical attention immediately.


If your fever exceeds 104 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius), seek immediate medical care.
If you become dehydrated as a result of vomiting or diarrhea, and cannot tolerate taking liquids in, then you may need to be hospitalized to receive IV fluids.

