 Even if teachers and staff implement programs to end bullying by cliques, your child might still face bullying from other cliques later in life, or if they move to a new school. Teach your child some simple anger management practices, such as:Stopping as soon as they feel angry.They might be able to do this by utilizing a “stop” motion when they begin feeling anger. For instance, demonstrate a stop motion for your child that involves placing their hand directly in front of their face with the fingers pointed up and pushing the hand straight out in front of them. Such a motion can focus the energy and attention on stopping feelings of anger.
Giving themselves space to think. This might mean leaving the space where they feel they are being threatened or bullied by the clique.
Breathing deeply. Encourage your child to close their eyes once they are in a place where they can think. Instruct them to breathe in through their nose for three seconds, then out through their mouth for five seconds, repeating as needed.
Analyzing the situation. Your child should think back on what happened during their interaction with the clique. Tell your child, “Look at the situation as you would if you were a spectator. Be sure that you did not cause the conflict.”
Talking with someone you trust. Talking things through with someone can also help you to get some perspective and feedback.
 The conflict resolution process involves your child and the clique they are in conflict with engaging in dialogue. Through this dialogue, the clique is compelled to cease tormenting your child.For instance, help your child express themselves to the clique they wish to deal with in an appropriate way. Instead of using blaming language and “you” statements (in the form of, “You are rotten”), instruct your child to use “I” statements (in the form of “I don’t like being pushed”).
Encourage your child to focus on the behavior, not the person in the clique who is acting badly.Instruct your child, in other words, to describe the behavior that they don’t appreciate and avoid name-calling or essentializing the people in the clique.
You can also try role-playing the situation with your child a few times to help them find a good way to respond. Remind them that they cannot control what other people do, but they can control how they respond.
 The conflict mediation process involves bringing together two parties, at least one of which has a grievance regarding the other, and helping them understand each other. In your child’s case, you or a third party may have to collect all the members of the clique that is tormenting your child. If you (along with parents of those in the clique and/or teachers) are engaged in the conflict resolution process, you should:Set the ground rules. Once your child and the clique that harasses them are in conversation, there should be no disrespect or name-calling.Both sides should get a chance to talk about what happened from their point of view. Disallow interruptions when someone is talking.
Help the clique and your child see that they would both be better off if they did not fight. Show them, for instance, that they have common interests like using school time as a place to learn and study, and not a place to fight.
Encourage your child and the clique to develop options for how to move forward. Help them evaluate the best option and arrive at an agreement they can all agree to.
In the interest of maintaining a neutral mediator, you might not be allowed to participate in the conflict resolution process. It is possible that only school staff and administrators will be allowed in the conflict resolution process.
 Kids are often targeted by cliques because their style of dress or their hygiene is poor. Encourage your child to engage in good hygiene – especially if they are teens or tweens and might need extra reminders. Remind them, if necessary, to wash their clothes regularly, brush their teeth, and shower.Stay attentive to your child’s wardrobe. If they haven’t gotten new clothes in a while, they might have outgrown their old clothes. Invite them on a shopping trip so they can select some new clothes if you suspect they are in need (or if they tell you directly that they want new clothes).

