 Create an adjustable loop with one strand of thick t-shirt yarn. Secure the ring with one stitch.


T-shirt yarn is ideal for this pattern since it is so thick and durable. If working with a lightweight yarn or one prone to fraying, double up by using two strands of yarn instead of one.
 Make three chain stitches off the magic ring. Work 11 more double crochets into the center of the ring and pull it closed.


The initial set of three chain stitches will count as a double crochet, leaving you with a round of 12 stitches.
Join the first set of three chain stitches with the final double crochet using a slip stitch to secure the ring.
 Make another three chain stitches to count as the first double crochet stitch. Work one double crochet into the same stitch as the chain, then work two double crochets into each stitch all the way around the perimeter.


Join the ends together with another slip stitch.
You are doubling the number of stitches from 12 to 24.
 Make three chain stitches and work another two double crochets into the next stitch. Make one double crochet into the stitch after that and two double crochets into the stitch that follows; continue this pattern around the entire perimeter.


Join the ends with a slip stitch.
You should have a total of 36 stitches when you finish this round.
 This fourth round will have patterned gaps in it, which can only be done by skipping stitches as you work double crochets around the perimeter of the round.


Chain stitch three times. This will act as one double crochet.
Chain stitch two more times, skip a stitch, then double crochet once into the stitch that follows.
Chain stitch two more times, skip a stitch, then double crochet in the stitch that follows. Continue this pattern all the way around the rug.
Slip stitch the two ends together.
 You will need to use another series of chain stitches and double crochets to form another solid round.


Chain stitch three times to form one double crochet.
Work two double crochets into the first large gap of the previous round.
Work one double crochet into the double crochet stitch of the previous round.
Make two double crochets into each gap of the previous round, followed by one double crochet into each double crochet stitch of the previous round. Repeat until you reach the end of the perimeter.
Join with a slip stitch at the ends.
 Change the color by cutting off the end of the first color, leaving a 3 inch (7.6 cm) tail. Work this tail into your crochet stitches alongside the new color. Then make double crochets and and increases until you finish the round.


Chain stitch three times.
Work one double crochet into the next stitch and two double crochets into the stitch after that.
Make one double crochet into the next stitch, another double crochet into the stitch after that, and two double crochets into the stitch after that. Repeat this pattern all the way around.
Join the ends with a slip stitch.
 These remaining rounds will all follow the same basic pattern of double stitches, skips, and increases. Change colors on rounds 9, 12, and 15.


For round seven, chain stitch three times, chain stitch two more times, and skip one stitch. Double crochet once, chain stitch twice, and skip one stitch; follow this pattern all the way around. Slip stitch the ends together.
For round eight, chain stitch three times, double crochet twice in the first gap of the previous round, and work one double crochet into the stitch that follows. Continue double crocheting twice into each gap and once into each stitch. Join with a slip stitch.
For round nine, chain stitch three times and double crochet once into the next stitch. Double crochet once into each stitch all the way around and slip stitch the ends together.
For round 10, chain stitch three times and then another two. Skip a stitch. Double crochet once, chain two, and skip one stitch; repeat all the way around. Slip stitch the ends together.
For round 11, chain stitch three times, double crochet into the gap of the previous round, and double crochet once into the stitch that follows. Work another two double crochets into the next gap. Double crochet once in the stitch, double crochet once in the next gap, double crochet once in the follow stitch, then double stitch twice in the gap that follows that; repeat all the way around. Join with a slip stitch.
For round 12, chain stitch three times and double crochet once into the next stitch. Double crochet once into each stitch all the way around. Slip stitch the ends.
For round 13, chain stitch three times, then chain twice more. Skip a stitch. Double crochet once, chain stitch twice, and skip a stitch; repeat all the way around. Slip stitch the ends.
For round 14, chain stitch three times and double crochet once into the gap of the previous round. Double crochet once into the follow stitch and twice into the next gap. Double crochet once into the next stitch, once into the next gap, once into the next stitch, and twice into the following gap; repeat all the way around. Slip stitch the ends.
For round 15, chain stitch three times and double crochet once into the next stitch. Double crochet once all the way around and slip stitch the ends together.
For round 16, chain stitch three times, chain twice more, and skip a stitch. Double crochet once, chain twice, and skip a stitch; repeat all the way around. Slip stitch the ends.
For round 17, chain three times. Double stitch once into the gap of the previous round, once into the following stitch, once into the next gap, and once into the stitch after that. Double crochet twice into the next gap. Double crochet once into the next stitch, once in the next gap, once into the stitch that follows, once into the next gap, once into the following stitch, and twice into the next gap; repeat all the way around. Slip stitch the ends together.
 You will use a series of double crochets, skips, and single crochets to create an edge around the previous round.


Chain once. Work one single crochet into the same stitch.
Skip two stitches.
Work six double crochets into the next stitch.
Skip two more stitches.
Single crochet once, skip two stitches, double crochet six times, and skip two more stitches. Repeat all the way around.
Join the ends with a slip stitch.
 Fasten the end off and weave the tail into the underside of your rug using a darning needle.


To fasten off the end, cut the yarn, leaving a tail 3 inches (7.6 cm) long. Pull this tail through the loop on you hook to form a knot.
Weave the tail into the double crochets along the back of the rug.

