 Getting your first period is a scary and exciting event. Your daughter will likely have a number of questions about what it will be like and what she should do. If you are a woman, you should be able to answer based on your personal experience, including what it was like to have your first period when you were younger. If you’re a man, you’ll need to decide if you want to answer these questions yourself, or if you’d like to enlist the help of a woman to answer the questions for your daughter.For men, keep in mind that while you may want to be supportive of your daughter, she may be uncomfortable talking to you about her period. The best approach is to ask her specifically what she’d prefer. She may have a specific female she’d like to speak with that you can help arrange.;
, There are so many great resources that both you and your daughter can use to learn more about a woman’s menstrual cycle. For example, there are many books written specifically for girls your daughter’s age about getting a period. You may want to review these resources in advance to make sure they’re providing accurate and up-to-date information, and that they don’t contain any information you do not want your daughter to read.Besides searching online for possible books, check out your local library and ask your librarian for suggestions. You can also contact your daughter’s doctor to see if they have any resources they’d recommend.
An example of a great website that could be used to help explain the menstrual cycle is KidsHealth.org.Search YouTube and other websites for well-done, educational, and accurate videos about menstruation that may be useful to show your daughter.If you’re daughter asks you a question about menstruation that you don’t know the answer to, say so. And then promise to find the answer and get back to her.
It might be useful to know when your daughter will be having health or sex education classes at school so you can follow-up with additional conversations at home. If you can, speak to her teacher and ask for the material to be used so you’re prepared for any questions she may have.
 Going through the physiological details of what happens when your daughter has her period can be a great way for her to better understand how her body is functioning. This conversation should also include discussing myths or rumours she may have heard and helping her sort out what is true and what isn’t. This explanation may be more successful if you use diagrams of the female reproductive system so your daughter can visualize what’s actually happening.Be sure to include an explanation that your daughter’s menstrual cycle lasts around 28 days. And that while she may have her period for only a week or so within those 28 days, there’s still plenty of other activities happening in her body before and after her period.
Explaining the 28 day cycle may also be a good time to explain that her period won’t be the same every single day that she has it. It may start out very light, then get heavier, then lighten up again near the end. You could use this opportunity to explain that there are difference feminine hygiene products available for different days of her period, if she needs them.
This discussion is also a great time to explain that no two girls or women are the same when it comes to their periods. She may experience something completely different from her friends or sisters, and not to use that difference to think something is wrong with her.
 Your daughter should know that she can talk to you about the topic anytime she wants to, not just during a special talk. Therefore it’s better to have lots of smaller conversations about her body over time, starting early. Plus, trying to inform your daughter about everything she needs to know in only one conversation can be overwhelming. It will be easier for her to remember the information if you talk about it multiple times.Any talks about your daughter’s body should start when she’s really young. Any time she asks a question about her body, or the human body in general, you should talk openly with her and answer honestly.
It’s also important that you ensure your daughter has the correct information, and not rumours or myths that might be discussed amongst her friends.
Look for various ways to segue into a conversation about menstruation, such as: commercials for female hygiene products, walking down the aisle with female hygiene products, a scene in a movie or TV show, etc.
 Most women will know that getting your period brings a lot of other issues such as bloating, irritability, cramps, etc. However, your daughter doesn’t need to know all the terrible details in advance. Instead, explain some of the common symptoms she may experience and explain how she can help alleviate them (e.g. heating pad, ibuprofen, etc.).Keep in mind that not all girls will experience the same symptoms, and they may not all experience those symptoms right away. Explaining every possible negative aspect of a period may only cause additional fears and worries that are unnecessary.
Always try to keep conversations about menstruation as positive as possible.
 Technically speaking, girls can get pregnant even before their first period. Before her first period, an egg will be released from her ovaries and make its way down to her uterus. Anytime between when the egg is released until her period begins, she could technically get pregnant. Not only is it important that she understand this, but also that once she has her period, becoming pregnant from sexual intercourse is a definite possibility.How you go about having such a conversation is up to you, based on your personal beliefs.
You may want to take the time to explain what protection is available (i.e. condoms, birth control, etc.) and how effective each type can typically be.
You may want to explain that having sexual intercourse can also lead to sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) which can cause short and long-term health problems.
This type of conversation might work well when your daughter is also being taught similar topics in a health or sex ed class.
 Prepare your daughter with instructions on how to use a sanitary pad. Explain or show her how it gets attached to underwear, and what to do with used pads. Also ensure your daughter realizes she should change her pad every 4 to 6 hours at the very least, but can change it anytime she wants. Before her first period, you should have your daughter try out a pad by putting it on and taking it off, just so she’s use to it when the time comes.Make sure your daughter understands that pads cannot be flushed in a toilet, but instead that they should be disposed of in the special receptacle in a bathroom stall. She’s probably already seen these receptacles, so it should be easy to explain what they look like.
 Using a tampon for her first period is probably not a good idea, simply because the situation will be overwhelming enough without needing to figure out how to use a tampon. After her first period, or even after her first few periods, talk to your daughter to determine if she’s interested in using tampons. If she is, show her diagrams of how to use tampons to help your verbal explanation make sense.You could also show your daughter some YouTube videos on tampon use, created by young girls. Seeing other young girls properly explain tampon use may make it less scary to try.
Make sure to alleviate any fears of a tampon being “lost” inside your daughter’s body by explaining that anatomically-speaking, a tampon has no where to go. Use a diagram if it helps.
Be sure to explain that a tampon should be changed every 4 hours. If she’s unable to change a tampon every 4 hours (for example, if she’s concerned about using tampons at school), suggest she use sanitary pads while away from home.
 Explain that a full menstrual cycle lasts from day 1 of one period until day 1 of the next period, which is also usually 28 days in length. This means she can mark the first day of her period on a calendar and then count forward 28 days. She can mark on the calendar the 28th day so she knows that her next period should come somewhere around that day. Ensure she realizes that not all periods follow this cycle precisely, so it could start before or after this date as well.Some women experience cycles that are only 22 days long, or as long as 45 days. These differences are normal and are nothing for you or your daughter to be worried about.
Let your daughter know that if she tracks her period via a calendar, she may be able to notice a pattern that’s specific to her. Knowing if she has a specific cycle length will help her predict when her next period will begin.
 Explain to your daughter that once she gets her period it’ll be a good idea to have a shower everyday and pay extra attention to cleaning her labia. Although, you also need to let her know that no special products or soap are required to clean her labia, all she needs is the warm water from a shower.Having a bath is actually the best method for cleaning during a period. Not only does it clean well, it can help alleviate cramps or pains.
 Your daughter should know that there’s no such thing as changing your pad or tampon too often. However, she should at least change her pad every 4 to 6 hours and her tampon every 4 hours. Explain that leaving a pad on for too long can cause problems due to the dampness being close to her skin for too long. Also explain that leaving a tampon in for too long can result in Toxic Shock Syndrome. The purpose isn’t to scare your daughter, but just to give her good, educated reasons why she needs to make sure she changes her pad or tampon regularly., Because it’s difficult to predict when your daughter will have her first period, one thing you can help your daughter with is to create a period kit. Having such a kit will help make her feel more comfortable that she’s ready whenever or wherever it may happen. Your daughter can keep this kit with her at all times, in her purse or backpack.A period kit should include a couple teen-sized sanitary pads and a clean pair of underwear. You may also want to include a plastic baggie of wipes so she can clean herself if needed.
While she may eventually want to try tampons, putting tampons in her kit is probably not a good idea since she might be uncomfortable using them right away. You can add them to her period kit later, when she’s use to them.
Tell your daughter not to worry if a pair of underwear is ruined, and that she can feel free to throw them out. If she’s concerned about her clothes being stained, help her keep a spare pair of pants in her locker or backpack to help make her more comfortable.
 Since there’s a good chance you daughter will get her first period while at school or at an extracurricular activity, speak to her about having a trusted adult she could go to if she needed help. This person may be a teacher, a school nurse or counsellor, a coach, or even an older student. Explain to your daughter that all women understand what it’s like to not only get a first period, but what it’s like to get a period suddenly and unexpectedly, and that there’s no need to be afraid to ask another woman for help.Also explain to your daughter that she should help other girls who might be having period troubles. For example, if she notices a friend who may be leaking, she should feel comfortable enough to tell that friend.
 Once your daughter starts her period, her doctor should be informed at the next visit. However, there’s no need to visit the doctor specifically because her period has started, unless she has a problem. If you daughter experiences any issues, such as those listed below, make an appointment to see her doctor and have the doctor assess the issue.Your daughter has pain when a tampon is being inserted.
Your daughter has a period that comes more often than every 21 days or less often than every 45 days.
Your daughter has a period that lasts longer than 7 days.
Your daughter has bleeding between periods.
Your daughter experiences heavy periods or cramps that cannot be alleviated by regular, over-the-counter medications.
Your daughter is 15 years of age and has not yet had her first period.
Your daughter has shown significant signs of puberty for 3 years but has not yet had her first period.

