 You simply cannot be too loving toward your child. Children aren't "spoiled" by an overabundance of affection. "Spoiling" is the result of substituting things for affection. Toddlers, in particular, need time when they can just "be," snuggling on your lap or enjoying a long hug., Your toddler is starting to develop his or her own personality. Some of these behaviors are learned, while others are genetic. You will find that he or she is becoming an individual, with a unique combination of traits shared with you and traits that may be distinctly different.


Find ways of nurturing your child's growing personality through positive reinforcement. A strong-willed toddler, for example, has the gift of perseverance. Encourage this strong will in a positive direction -- by providing a challenging toy, for example., Set aside a special time each day to play with your toddler. Play provides you with an opportunity to encourage your child's good behavior and build a positive relationship.


Prioritize creative activities. Encourage your child's growing imagination with dress-up play, kitchen fun, or arts and crafts (the more open-ended, the better), or invent your own worlds.
Provide age-appropriate toys to keep playtime safe and fun.Show enthusiasm for your child's interests. Toddlers often develop obsessions as they seek to understand the big, complicated world around them. Obsessing over fire trucks, car washes, fancy rocks, or sliding doors helps them focus in and understand one slice of their world. You may find your toddler's obsessive focus upon every piece of construction equipment you pass tedious, but feigning interest will help her learn her interests have worth., Pay attention to your child when he or she is speaking to you. While you may set ground rules about when and how your toddler should interrupt your conversations with other people, be sure you do follow through and give them your full attention in turn.


Bear in mind that "interpreter" is part of a toddler parent's job description. Your child's language skills are growing by leaps and bounds, but as you're well aware, they are still a work in progress. Exercise patience in discerning what your toddler is telling you. Keep phrases short, repeat yourself, and be aware of the context your toddler is communicating to you through gestures and tone of voice.Set aside time each day to talk with your child. You'll develop his communication skills and your relationship as you practice speaking with each other.
Praise your child. Positive reinforcement is key to encouraging good behavior and develops your toddler's sense of self-worth., Your child looks to you for guidance. Ensure you're teaching good skills by taking care of your own body and treating others well. Toddlers will parrot your actions; think twice before behaving or speaking in a way you wouldn't like to see mirrored by your 2-year-old.

