 Along with the fruit you’re going to need, you will also need something to hold your fruit arrangement. You can use a carved out watermelon or pumpkin, a flower vase, a planter, or a bowl. Choose a holder that’s appropriate to the size and shape you want your arrangement to be. Other supplies you'll need include:


A good sharp knife and cutting board
Floral foam (alternatively, use a head of cabbage or lettuce)
Bamboo skewers and toothpicks
Flower-shaped metal cookie cutters
Aluminum foil and plastic wrap
A melon baller;
, Most fruit is suitable for an edible arrangement, but there are common ingredients that get used because of their color variety, size, and texture. Of the common fruits that are used, you can make a basic arrangement with one:


Pineapple
Cantaloupe and one honeydew
Quart of strawberries
Pint each of blueberries and blackberries
Bag seedless grapes
Bunch of kale or another large, leafy green

, Leave the leaves on the strawberries for additional color. Remove stems from other fruit, such as grapes. Cut the excess stems off the kale. Set it all aside.
 Scoop out the seeds. Clean out the two halves of the cantaloupe by scooping out spheres with the melon baller. Set the melon spheres aside with the berries.


Peel the honeydew. Place the melon halves flat-side down on a flat surface. Follow the rounded contour of the melons with a knife to remove the rind.Cut each melon half into crescent-shaped wedges that are about an inch thick on the bottom. Cut the wedges in half widthwise. These will be used as flower leaves.
 Cut off the top and set it aside with the melon balls and berries. Cut off the bottom inch and discard. Without peeling it, slice the remaining pineapple into rounds that are half an inch to three-quarters of an inch thick. Use the cookie cutters to press out the center of each pineapple slice into flower shapes.


You can use different sizes and shapes, or you can make each flower-shaped pineapple piece the same.
You can also use other shapes for the pineapples, such as hearts (great for Valentine’s Day) stars, or even holiday-themed shapes.
 Fill the bowl with floral foam. Cut the foam to fit if necessary. Cover the foam in a layer of foil, tucking the foil inside the bowl to cover the sides of the foam. This will prevent pieces of foam from getting on the fruit.Then, lay some kale over top to cover the foil. Position the kale so the leaves spill out over the sides of the bowl.


A head of cabbage will also work as a base into which you can place your fruit skewers. Put it in your bowl and cut it to size if necessary. Lay kale over it and position the leaves to overhang the top of the bowl.
The overhanging kale will create a nice green base for the arrangement, and make it look a little more like a traditional flower arrangement.
 Cut your toothpicks in half. Use the toothpick halves to fasten a melon sphere, grape, blackberry, or blueberry to the center of each pineapple flower.Make sure the toothpick doesn’t stick out the top of the melon or the back of the pineapple.
 For each flower, you will need two honeydew half-crescents and one pineapple flower head. Skewer a melon wedge so it sticks out perpendicular to the skewer with the crescent facing the ceiling. Skewer the second wedge in the same fashion but on the other side, and with the crescent facing the floor.


Insert the top of the skewer through the bottom of the pineapple flower and insert it about halfway into the pineapple flower. Make sure the flower is vertical, with the flower head facing outward, not the ceiling.
Position the two melon wedges so they are about an inch below the bottom of the pineapple, like leaves on a flower stem.
Repeat until all the pineapple flowers have been put on stems and given melon leaves.
Use mini marshmallows or gumdrops to secure the flowers in place if they won’t stay positioned on the skewers.
 Fill each skewer about halfway down with assorted fruit: blueberries, blackberries, grapes, and melon balls. Top each one with a strawberry, with the pointed end facing up (skewer the stem end first).


Make sure the skewer doesn’t stick out the top of the strawberry.
If you run out of strawberries, top the remaining skewers with a melon ball, honeydew crescent, or blackberry.
 Start by arranging the pineapple flowers. Spread them out evenly around the arrangement, securing them in place by sticking them into the foam. Cut the skewers to different lengths to create depth. When you have the flowers in place, fill in the holes with the remaining fruit skewers. Again, cut the skewers to different lengths and place them evenly around the arrangement.You can also use the pineapple top as the center of the arrangement, and arrange the flowers and skewers around it.
Fill in any open areas at the bottom with kale.
 Store in the fridge until you need it. To guarantee freshness and the brightest colors, make your arrangement the day you need it.

