 Chewing gum can trick your brain into feeling satisfied, especially if you have a craving for sugar. Choose sugar-free gum and pop a piece whenever you get the urge to indulge in a dessert or that afternoon cupcake.Chewing gum is also a good way to keep your mouth occupied when you might otherwise want a cigarette or an alcoholic drink. If you feel like you always need to have something in your mouth, gum may be a relatively harmless way to redirect your habit.
Avoid using peppermints or breath mints as a way to curb your cravings. They often contain more sugar than gum, and this exposure to sugar can make your cravings worse. Sugar will also harm your teeth.
Use caution if you have a history of jaw soreness or related medical issues. Gum chewing can worsen disorders that cause your jaw to pop or click.;
, Since the aftertaste of toothpaste doesn’t pair well with the flavor of food, brushing your teeth when you get a craving is a way to temporarily put a stop to your craving. The flavor in your toothpaste can also trick your body into believing a craving has been satisfied.Carry a toothbrush and toothpaste to use when big cravings hit.


Brushing your teeth too often can wear out the enamel. Don't rely on this method too many times in one day.
 It is common to feel hunger cravings when what your body really needs is water. If you tend to be a little dehydrated, start drinking water when you feel cravings coming on. The liquid will make you feel more full. As an added benefit, cold water will stimulate your metabolism as your body warms the liquid to body temperature.


Flavor the water with a squirt or two of lemon to add some flavor and make this trick even more effective. Giving it an actual taste will make you feel as though you've consumed something slightly more filling than water. Try green tea or another unsweetened beverage if you find yourself wanting some variety.
 One study found that people who inhaled a peppermint scent every two hours ate 2,700 fewer calories over the course of a week. Keep a food-scented candle such as vanilla, green apple, or banana nearby and sniff it regularly. If you are a stress eater, close your left nostril and inhale through your right to reach the portion of your brain that processes emotions. You will likely reduce both your anxiety and your appetite.Food scented lotions, lip balms and other, similar products may also be useful.
Try keeping a small bottle of cinnamon or peppermint essential oil on hand for when intense cravings hit.
 Food cravings, in particular, aren't always a bad thing. Sometimes you crave something because your body needs it. Even if it's not something you strictly need, more often than not, a little bit won't hurt. It may seem counterintuitive, but many people have fewer cravings when they indulge slightly. A small concession to your craving might prevent you from overindulgence later.


Consider combining the food you're craving with something healthier. For example, if you're craving chocolate, melt some chocolate chips and dip strawberries in the melted chocolate. Eating fresh fruit with your chocolate is a better choice than having a big slice of chocolate cake.
Complete restriction can lead to heavy cravings and subsequent binge eating.
Indulging is not a good idea if you're dealing with cravings related to nicotine or alcohol addiction. In this case, indulging even a little will intensify your cravings.
 This technique can help you get through an intense craving of any kind, whether what you crave is sugar, alcohol or nicotine. Instead of trying to push the craving from your mind, let it wash over you like a wave, and imagine yourself “surfing” it.


Notice where in your body you are experiencing the craving and what the sensations are like. Repeat back this information to yourself.
Focus on one area and describe, in detail, the sensations you are feeling. Notice any changes that occur as you continue to experience the sensations.
Repeat this process with each distinct area in which you experience the craving.
Over time, you'll learn to better recognize the way you experience cravings. Doing so will enable you to cope with them until the waves of sensation pass.