 The inability to lighten up can sometimes begin with expectations of yourself or others. Letting go of the “wants,” “needs,” “musts,” and “have to’s,” can not only help you begin to lighten up, but may also limit the negativity around you that your seriousness.Learn to let go of the concept of perfection. Nothing is perfect. Imperfection adds character and letting go of any expectations of perfection will help you to relax and focus on the positive in any person or situation.;
, Stress can be one of the most significant factors in the inability to lighten up. Avoiding stressful situations may minimize tension, cultivate positivity, and help you lighten up more generally.Step back from any stressful situation if you can. If you cannot, try taking a deep breath and not reacting immediately to avoid having your feelings and tension rise unnecessarily.Allow time during your day to relax and decompress. For example, a ten minute walk may help you relieve and avoid unnecessary stress., Tension can contribute to feelings of seriousness and rigidity. Releasing tension through activities such as exercise or massage can help you to relax and lighten up.


Regular exercise is an important part of staying healthy and it can also help relieve tension-causing stress.Exercise produces endorphins that will improve your mood and help you sleep, both of which can contribute to feelings of tension.A massage can help relax you and remove the physical symptoms of tension that your seriousness may cause.Even something as simple as taking a warm bath can help release your tension, especially after a stressful day or when you’re feeling negative., Negative thoughts turn into negative actions and attitudes. Limiting the negativity in your life can help you to lighten up and create more positivity in your environment.Whenever something bad happens, forget it as much as possible and then actively imagine things you want to happen.
If a person has negative commentary, consider it briefly and then let it go. Dwelling on negativity will only reinforce tension and seriousness., Holding grudges and dwelling on your imperfections will only emphasize a negative attitude and seriousness. Forgiving yourself and others can minimize tension, allow you to focus on the positive in yourself and others, and teach you to lighten up.The act of forgiveness can remove negativity and create positivity attitudes. But it will also decrease stress and increase peace and calm in your life., The people with whom we surround ourselves have a significant impact on us. Limiting or removing the negative and serious people in your life and replacing them with positive and amusing people will start helping you to lighten up.If you can’t remove a person from your life entirely, or you don’t want to hurt him, you can limit your exposure to him. You can also counteract his negative attitudes and viewpoints by pointing out the positive in what he says or does. This way, you don’t get drawn down his negative path., Rules exist to help direct and guide us as well as provide sensible parameters. But when the rules become the means by which you relate to yourself or others, it makes you rigid and stubborn. Learning where you can bend the rules will help you lighten up and may help improve your relationships with others.You want to make sure you’re bending and not breaking the rules. For example, you might consider driving the wrong way down a parking lot instead of parking in a handicapped space when you are not disabled.
At work, you could take a slightly longer lunch break one day and stay later or take a shorter lunch another day.
 You’ll occasionally have setbacks and may fall back into patterns of rigid behavior, which is normal and acceptable. Learn not to dwell on this and move forward. By refocusing on yourself and the positive, you can set yourself back on the path of lightening up., Even the most difficult situations likely have some positive and humorous moments. They may not be immediately clear, but being able to recognize them and laugh will help you to lighten up in the long term.Negative thoughts and attitudes are draining and can reinforce seriousness. Seeking out the positive in any person or situation will help shift lighten up.Some studies have found that a positive attitude can contribute significantly to success and happiness.For example, if you fall and scrape your knee, don’t focus on the cut or a tear in your clothing, but learn to laugh at your clumsiness or something else humorous that happened in the situation.
 Part of being able to find the humor in any situation is having the ability to laugh at yourself. Not only can this help you lighten up and relax, but may also help keep everyone around you relaxed.Being able to see the humor in your imperfections can help you accept yourself and show others that you don’t take yourself too seriously., Having positive, supportive, and humorous people around you who can help cultivate a positive attitude and teach you to lighten up. Surrounding yourself with positive people can also help counteract negativity.These people don’t necessarily have to agree with everything you do, but they should tell you the truth without judging you in any way.Positive friends and colleagues not only always have your best interest at heart, but can also help you to learn to trust yourself and in turn not take yourself too seriously., Medical research supports the old truism “laughter is the best medicine.”Exposing yourself to humor through jokes or media such as movies can help relieve stress and not be so rigid and serious.Any type of laughing is good so long as it’s not at someone else’s expense. Consider watching funny movies or TV shows, reading humorous books, or simply seeing a comic to elicit laughs. All of these will give you a chance to relax and lighten up., Meditation is a powerful methods to improve focus and relax. Allot a few minutes of every day to meditate to reap its benefits of improved concentration and relaxation, and in turn see how it can help you to lighten up.Humans have practiced different forms of meditation for thousands of years. It has had different purposes, from finding inner illumination to relaxing and learning to concentrate.
Meditation forces you to truly unplug from the world and focus internally. Having this unplugged time can teach you to concentrate and relax.
Start with 5-10 minutes of meditation daily and gradually increase your time as you become more proficient at meditating., Proper posture is a vital part of meditation. It allows your breath and blood to flow, which helps your brain learn to focus on one point. Closing your eyes will help keep distractions at bay.Find a quiet and comfortable place where you’ll be uninterrupted. By eliminating any distractions, it is easier to focus on your breath and let go of any thoughts or sensations that arise.Breathe easily and evenly. Don’t control your breath; rather, let it come and go. An excellent technique to help your concentration is to focus solely on your breath by saying “let” on the inhale and “go” on the exhale.If you lose your inner concentration during your meditation session, take a deep breath and refocus your energy inwards. It’s completely normal for this to happen, especially as you develop your meditation practice.
 Gentle yoga can help stretch out your tense muscles and more generally relax you. Even taking the time to do downward facing dog for ten breaths can help relax and refocus you, and in turn help you to lighten up.


Try doing gentle forms of yoga, which will stretch muscles and relax you. Restorative and yin yoga are specifically practiced to help stretch out and repair muscles and relax the body.If you don’t have the time to commit to a full yoga session, do downward facing dog for 10 deeps inhalations and exhalations. Adho mukha savasana, which is the Sanskrit name for downward facing dog, is an important foundational pose in yoga that will not only calm and relax you, but will also stretch and strengthen your Practicing regularly may help you lighten up.Talk to your doctor before you begin any yoga practice to make sure you’re healthy enough to practice.