 Babies and toddlers typically enjoy and find humor in being surprised. When you are playing with your child, take your hands and place them over your eyes and then remove your hands and say ‘boo!’ You can even encourage your child to play too by having them place their hands over their own eyes instead.This works particularly well when you are physically very close to your child or they are seated in your lap.
Try not to hide your face for too long, or else you might stress out the child. Just keep your face hidden for a few seconds.;
, One other surefire way to make your child laugh is to blow raspberries on their belly. To do this, while they are lying down lift their shirt and put your lips on their tummy forming a ring and blow. It will tickle their belly and make a funny sound, both of which will make them laugh.You can even let them do it back to you.
 Children are accustomed to a certain pattern or schedule existing in their life. When you disrupt this, it can often be funny to your toddler. Put their pants on your head or try to balance their rubber ducky on your nose. Once you do so, pretend like you can’t find the item. They will laugh and may even copy your actions. , Put one of their toys in the kitchen cabinet and when they are looking say “how did that get there!” Or you can try serving them their favorite toy on a plate instead of food during dinner to see their reaction.When they are playing with toys and have looked away for a moment, try putting one of their larger toys under your shirt so that it’s obvious it’s there. Tell them you ate and it and watch them laugh as they try to take it back from you.
 Another thing that children find funny is when you try to wear their clothes, as you are significantly larger than them. Children at this age understand measurement enough to understand that their clothes won’t fit you and will often find it hilarious if you try to put on their shoes or sweater.While you pretend to put it on, make noises like you are struggling or pretend to wipe sweat from your brow.

