 Apply your desired base color to your nails and let it dry completely.


You should wait for an hour or so before moving on. The coat needs to be very, very dry; otherwise, you will end up pulling up nail polish when you use the tape you need to use for this technique.
Avoid doing anything that could smudge or smear your nail polish as you let this base color dry. The bottom coat should be as smooth and flawless as possible.
 Use your knuckle to smooth it on so that there are no air bubbles.


Adding wax paper in between the tape and the nail will make it easier to handle and remove when the time comes.
Each section of tape and wax paper should be about the width of your nail.
Leave a little wax paper on the side so that the strips are easy to grab onto.
 Use your pinking shears to cut out very thin zig-zag strips of the taped wax paper.


The peaks and valleys should line up from top to bottom so that the chevron stripes will look more uniform.
 Press the strips onto your painted nails, making them flush with the nail to prevent the second coat of polish from sneaking in underneath.


It helps if your nails are still somewhat tacky but otherwise dry. If you cannot get the strips to stick, however, you try making zig-zag strips of painters tape without the wax paper.
Make sure that the distance in between the stripes is consistent. It should also be about equal the the width of the stripes.
 Carefully brush on the second nail polish, brushing over both your exposed nail and the taped-on strips. Peel the strips off carefully to avoid smudges and smears.


You should not wait for the nail polish to dry before doing this since you may cause the design to crack apart if you remove the tape once it is trapped beneath dry, hardened polish.
 Allow the pattern to dry for a few minutes, until it is tacky but no longer wet. Carefully brush on a clear top coat to lock in the color and let this top coat dry completely.


Wait at least an hour before doing any task that may require the use of your nails.

