 Have the captain from each team meet with the referee and choose which side they will be: heads or tails. Then have the referee flip a coin. Allow the winner to choose which end zone they would like to protect in the first half or which team will start the game with possession of the ball.In the second half, have each team switch sides and protect the other end zone.This way, no one team will benefit from unfair advantages, such as a steady wind blowing from one end of the field to the other for the whole game.
Alternately, at the beginning of the third quarter you could also allow the loser of the coin toss a chance to choose which end zone they would like to protect in the second half.If you have no strong kickers, you can also the kickoff and start instead by granting the winner first down, starting from their five-yard line., Direct each team toward the end zones determined by the coin toss. The team kicking off should place the ball at their 20 yard line.Either set it directly on the ground or on a kicking tee, or have a player hold it in place for the kicker. Once the referee blows the whistle to start the game, kick the ball toward the other team. Whoever catches the ball on the other team may:Run the ball toward the opposite zone.
Execute a forward pass to another teammate.
 If you have no strong kickers, forget the kick-off. Simply start the game at the 5 yard line of whichever team possesses the ball according to the coin toss.Line at least four players along the line of scrimmage, with the “center” (the player snapping the ball to the quarterback) in the center of the field. Place the quarterback behind the center. At the whistle, proceed to play as you would after your first down.A snap is the backward pass from center to quarterback. It must be passed from between the center’s legs.
'A down is the interval of time when the ball is in play, starting from the center “snapping” the ball and ending with a touchdown or the ball going “dead” (meaning when an offensive player’s flag is removed by a defender or they go out of bounds). A player is also declared “down” when the ball is declared "dead."
The lines of scrimmage are two parallel lines extending from sideline to sideline, with each line crossing one end of the football, which in this case is placed on the 5 yard line with either end pointing toward an end zone.
The neutral zone is the area between each line of scrimmage at the start of each down. Neither team may cross into the neutral zone until the ball is “snapped.”

