 There are six model families in the Harley-Davidson lineup, and within those six families a huge proliferation of sub-models. Opting for one or another is partly a matter of budget, riding style, and aesthetic preferences.


Sportster: designed for speed and fun; the entry-level Harley, good for beginners.
Dyna: a cruiser for longer rides; comfortably seats two; larger engine than Sportster; combines traditional and custom appearance; prices can vary, but lower-end Dynas are an affordable way to get a Harley Big Twin engine.Touring: smooth riding for long distances or day trips; powerful engine; can seat two comfortably; features may include stereo, windshield, etc.
V-Rod: liquid-cooled motor designed in cooperation with Porsche; power cruiser with a unique, hydroformed frame.
Softail: the hidden rear suspension harkens back to the traditional "choppers" of the 1960s; powerful Big Twin engine.The Street: introduced in 2014 in India; lightweight model is geared towards riders looking for a powerful yet affordable bike.;
, Model specifications can change from year to year. The more knowledge you have about what you are looking for, the better the chances that you'll be happy with what you purchase. There is a wealth of information on Harleys, both in print and online.


Read about Harleys online. Read up on the history of Harleys, plus industry reviews, user reviews, forums, and more.
Browse books and magazines on Harley-Davidsons. There is plenty of print material on Harleys, including books and periodicals that specifically deal with the buying process. Check out your library, local bookstore, or online booksellers.
 While the list of all specifications and features is extensive, learning the most important can help you narrow down which model is right for you. It can also help you better navigate the buying process.


Motor/engine size: expressed in cubic inches (ci) or cubic centimeters (cc): this measures the cylinder displacement as pistons move from highest to lowest point.
Big Twin engine: a Harley term for non-unit engines; that is, they do not share casing with the gearbox components; more powerful.
Twin Cam engine (also known as Fathead): Harley engine that has more than one camshaft in the engine for increased performance.Fuel mileage: how much fuel the bike uses per mile.
Saddlebags: bags towards the rear of the bike; helpful if you need to carry things on your bike.
Anti-lock brakes (ABS): important safety feature that is not yet standard on all bikes; helps tires maintain contact with the road during breaking and prevents uncontrolled skidding.
Windscreen or fairing: helps protect rider from the wind and rain; can make long rides more comfortable.
Crash bars: hoop-shaped bars that help keep the bike off the rider in the event of a crash., You can research this online or in a phone directory.



Alternatively, start your search online by looking to see if your local dealership has its inventory posted for viewing. This can be a less stressful shopping method because you don't have the pressure of an actual salesperson. You can contact the dealership for additional information by phone or email if you find something that you like.
 Freight and setup fees are legitimate, but you should not be charged handling fees, administrative fees, or documentation fees.
 Every dealer receives this score quarterly, and it can give you a good sense of how the dealer treats its customers after sale., You can arrange this either through the dealership or a local lending institution.


Make sure that you have your credit scores reviewed before attempting financing.
Don't be afraid to obtain multiple quotes from banks, and then use them as leverage to get a lower rate at the Harley dealership.
If possible, use a down payment to offset the financing that you will have to do.
 Many of the Harleys built in the past 25 years are still on the road.That leaves you a wide range of choices when it comes to pre-owned Harleys, and also speaks to the durability of the bike itself. Purchasing a used Harley-Davidson can be cost effective if you buy from a fair seller.
 You can look online, or through sections of your local or regional newspaper.


You can also pick up a regional auto trader magazine to see if they have any Harleys for sale. These publications can generally be purchased at gas stations or convenience stores in racks by the door.
 Look at pricing guides that focus on motorcycles, such as NADA.


Another thing to take into account is the cost and availability of spare parts, so you'll need to research these as well. You can research this online, or consult a professional mechanic.
 It should start easily, and the ride should be comfortable. Evaluate the overall performance, including acceleration, braking, motor sound, and handling. Make sure the lights, blinkers, gas tank lids, brakes, kickstands and mirrors are in working order.
 Check for things that might negatively affect the value.


The wiring and engine should be intact, clean and rust-free.
The drive belt, drive shaft and chain should be clean, without cracks or rust.
Check the condition of the tires: is there traction, or are they worn?
Is the exterior free of rust, dents and scratches? These could be signs of poor maintenance or collision.Bring along a friend with mechanical experience to help you make a clear assessment of the vehicle before purchasing. Alternatively, ask the seller if they would consent to having a mechanical check before you purchase.
 Mileage is a major factor in determining market value, so make sure the mileage quoted is accurate and the bike priced accordingly.
 Ideally, there should be written records of maintenance, major repairs, etc. Try to get a sense of how well the owner has taken care of the motorcycle.
 The Vehicle Identification Number allows you to access the full history of the bike, including ownership, accidents, and major repairs.


Several companies, such as Carfax, offer this service. Although a detailed report does cost some money, the information you can glean makes it well worth the cost.
You can do this online, or check with your Department of Motor Vehicles for an approved service., If you are fully confident that the motorcycle is in good condition and fits your needs, purchase your Harley.


Don't be afraid to walk away if you aren't comfortable with this particular bike. You'll find the right one sooner or later!

