 Fluid retention in the legs is very common among the elderly and inactive because when you sit still for long periods of time, you accumulate fluid in your legs.If you work at a desk or sit for extended lengths of time, take a break every 1-2 hours to get up and move around for several minutes.


Minimize the amount of time you sit or stand in one place. If you are suffering from fluid retention, walking or exercising in smaller amounts two or more times per day may help you lose fluid faster than a single workout.
Exercise your legs when you’re on a flight. Get up and walk up and down the aisles, or do calf raises at your seat. Your body is likely to retain fluid on the journey; however, you can reduce water weight by moving as frequently as possible.
 Exercise can help you to lose water weight quickly, as long as you work up a good sweat.Jog, use the elliptical, ride a bike, dance – work out to get your heart rate up for at least half an hour daily, if possible.


Consult your doctor before starting a new rigorous workout plan.
Always stay hydrated when exercising! You want to lose extra water from sweating, but not cause yourself harm from dehydration. Take a water break at least every 20 minutes.
Be aware that when you first start a new workout program, you might actually gain weight temporarily from storing water in your muscles. That’s why exercising regularly is helpful.Absolutely do not starve yourself – this can make water retention worse!

, You don’t necessarily need to hit the gym to be active. Make it a point to get out and about every day. Grocery shop at your local outdoor market instead of a supermarket, and take your time walking around. Carry your own bags in a store rather than using a shopping cart. Make it a point to be physical while accomplishing your daily tasks.


Make boring household cleaning an enjoyable workout by putting on some music and picking up the pace. Dance your way through daily chores for a fun and productive workout.
 Make yourself work harder to get around. Take the stairs instead of the elevator. Walk or ride a bike whenever possible, rather than driving. Park as far away from your destination as you can, and walk the rest of the way. Small efforts at being active and in motion can help you drop the water weight you might develop when sitting for long periods of time.

