 If you're writing poetry, you might start simply sketching ideas, images, and lines that pop in your head, worrying about organization later. If you're writing a novel, you could write a 1-2 page super summary, working through the cause-and-effect now so that you can write in the details later.


There is no "right" way to start writing. Some people plan, storyboard, and plot, and others plow right into it and deal with the rest in revision. Experiment for what works for you., The most common moment that people tune out of a story is when the character starts doing things that no rational person would do. This is usually because the writer is trying to force the characters to hit a plot point, instead of letting the character's decisions drive the next plot point. The best characters are:



Well-rounded. Good characters are multi-dimensional, with both strengths and weaknesses. They are not just the "strong hero," "damsel in distress," or a million other simplified character types. They are people and have nuance and complexity

Desiring something, and fearing something else: Plots are driven by character's wants -- what do they need or desire to be happy or safe? Some characters are driven by fear, or the desire not to be something. But all characters are pushed by some desire, a desire that drives their plot.Aware self-agents Good characters make decisions, for better or for worse, that they think will help them. Always ask yourself -- if I were in the same situation as the character, would I see that as a good decision? Sometimes, only one decision catapults the whole story, as the character deals with the fallout. Other times characters make decisions every minute. Just make sure they fit the character., Despite the free-flowing, creative aspects of writing, all the best authors and poets know that discipline is required to truly get your vision out. You'll never finish your story or idea if you're constantly turning to Facebook, or researching an obscure point or allusion, or quitting at the first scent of writer's block. The best way to become a creative writer is to be disciplined, which can be accomplished in a variety of ways:


Setting writing timers -- 1 hour of straight writing, 10-15 minutes of relaxing, then repeat.
Deciding on a daily writing time and place, building the habit.
Getting a writing buddy -- someone you trade 10 pages with each week at the same time.
 This is a great way to make your writing more tight, concise, and manageable, especially for big projects. No matter what you're working on, from poetry to epic novels, limit your attention while writing to the current scene you're in. How can you make this moment powerful on its own? If each chapter or stanza is compelling, they will start to flow together when placed side-by-side.


Consider each scene, chapter, or segment a short story. How can you make it compelling if it was published all on its own?
Scenes should have tension and rising action -- starting with a problem, making things more difficult or introducing new challenges, and resolving everything in some way at the end. It seems overly simplistic, but these three stages are the basis of 95% of all good plots., It is that easy, and if you don't know what to write about, write anyway. It can help to ditch the computer and grab a pencil. Take the pressure off yourself to write something amazing and just write. Remember, even the very best writers always revise, and what you write down while "blocked" will get better over time. But if you sit there silently, or go do other things when you should be writing, you'll never get over your block.


This isn't to say some relaxing time isn't worth it when you're stuck, just get back to writing after you're done walking, reading, meditating, or enjoying a cup of writer's block coffee.
Never tell yourself that, "I can't write right now." All you have to do is sit down -- the words will flow if you give them the time and energy to do so.

