 Without a Foursquare account, you cannot feature your business on Foursquare using its business tools. However, you can easily sign up for a Foursquare account using your email address and a password.


Go to the Foursquare “Sign up” page at foursquare.com/signup to register a user account with Foursquare.
Enter your email address, password, first and last name, and birthday in the required fields, select your gender and upload a profile picture.
Hit the “Sign up” button to register your account.;
, After signing up for a Foursquare account, you must know and learn about the available business tools and features on Foursquare so you can apply those in marketing your business successfully.


Browse the “Foursquare for Business” Help page to familiarize yourself with the official terms and tricks of marketing your business on Foursquare.
To ask a question and get a quick reply related to your business, visit the “Foursquare Support" Twitter page. Click on the “Tweet to Foursquare Support” button on left side of the Twitter landing page to type your question in tweet box. Remember, you must log into your Twitter account to use this support.
 To create a Foursquare business page, you must have a Twitter account with your business name, and connect it to Foursquare.


Visit this page to create a business page. You will be asked to log in if you’re not yet logged in to your Foursquare account. Click on the “Create a page” button that has the Twitter logo in the middle.
Sign into your Twitter business account using your registered email address and password. After signing into your Twitter account, click on the “Authorize app” button to connect your Twitter business account to your Foursquare business page. Afterwards, you will be redirected to your Foursquare business page, which will bear the same name as your Twitter business account’s name.
Enter your business’s mission and vision in the “Description” field on your business page. Note that you are limited to only 160 characters. You can also edit your page profile picture or page name here.
When you’re done, click the “Save” button at the bottom of the page.
 Before adding your business location on Foursquare, you should search for an existing suitable location on Foursquare to add as your business location. If it is not listed yet, you can create the location anytime you like.


To search for an existing location, visit the Foursquare homepage. Type the name of your business location in the “I’m looking for” search box at the top of the page. Press the Enter key on the keyboard to start searching. Scroll down through the results and choose the most relevant location as your business location.
If you cannot find a location, you can create one by clicking on the “Add a new place to Foursquare” link at the bottom left of the page, or click . Type the title, address, city, postal code, and country of your business location in the required fields. Then, type your business Twitter account ID and business phone number in the required fields. Click on the “Category” box, and choose a category and sub-category of your business location from the list in drop-down menu. Hit the “Save” button below to add your business location on Foursquare.
 If you want to start marketing on Foursquare, you must claim and verify the ownership of your business location. This will unlock all the business features to help you promote your business.


Go to the “Venue search” page at foursquare.com/venue/claim and type your business name and location in the fields to search for it.
Click on the venue name to browse the location page, and click on “Claim it now” at the right side of the landing page, under the venue map.
Check the “I’m the owner” box under “Terms of Use” to agree with the terms of the venue platform on Foursquare. Hit the “Get started” button below to move to the next step.
Verify your venue claim through the “Validate ownership” process. Type your phone number in the required box then add your debit or credit card by typing the card number and security code of the card in the required boxes. Remember, to claim a venue located in the U.S., you can verify ownership through postal mail (free), but for a location outside the U.S., you must provide a credit card with the permission of charging US$20 as a one-time fee.
Next, enter your business phone number in the required field on the “Final verification” step, and click on the “Submit” button below. Foursquare will call you at this number after a few minutes to verify it. After completing this final verification step, the Foursquare team will send you an email with the verification code and other instructions to finish the process.
Check your email box and note the 4-digit verification code sent by Foursquare. Then, click on the “Click here to complete the verification” link at the bottom of the email. A new tab will be opened on your browser. Enter the 4-digit verification code in the required field to verify ownership of your business location.
 By leaving a tip on your business page and other neighboring and relevant location pages, you can highlight your business and contribute to the location contents at the same time. You can publish updates of your business using the “Leave a Tip” feature under the “Manager Home” tool on your business page.


Go to your business page. Click and type a location in the “Search for a place” box to choose a specific location. Then, select a location from the results.
Type your tip in the tip box. You can publish tips regarding your business promotions, coupons, deals, or other useful suggestions about your business. You can also attach an image with your tips by clicking on “Add a photo” box on right side and uploading it from your computer. Enter any tip-related link in “Add a link” field if you want to drive your customers to know more details about your business.
Click the “Publish” button below to update your tip on the selected page. If you publish tips on other neighboring and relevant location pages, you can attract new customers to your business.
 This is the strongest marketing tool of Foursquare, which will help attract both existing and new customers to your business.


Click on the “Manager Tools” tab then click on “Campaign.” The Campaign dashboard will open. Click “Start a campaign” at the top right side of the page to begin setting up your campaign.
Now you need to add a special feature to your campaign. Specials are a way of rewarding visitors or customers for their check-ins. Select a special by clicking on “Add a special” at the middle of the campaign box. After that, a campaign-setting box will appear, and you need to follow the steps one by one. Choose the special you want by clicking on the radio button before the selected special, and then type the special description in the “Offer description” field.
Click on the “Create special” button at the right bottom corner of the campaign-setting box to create your business campaign. After creating your campaign, it will be saved under the Campaign tab. Set the ending date of your activated campaign according to your campaign plan. Your campaign will end on the fixed date automatically.
If you have more than one venue under your business account, you should check the venue for the campaign before activating it. Click on the “Venues” tab at the top left corner to view the selected venue.
Click on “Start campaign now” to activate your campaign instantly. If you want to activate the campaign at a later time, click on “Save this campaign for later” next to the “Start campaign” button.
Share your activated campaign on your Foursquare business venue and via other popular social media platforms, such as Facebook, Twitter, Google+, and LinkedIn, to let customers know about it. Click on the “Share campaign” button to generate the link of the activated campaign. Now, copy the link and post it on different venues on Foursquare as tips or on other social media platforms.
 To promote people to check into your business venue, you can offer different badges as their awards. These badges will highlight their profile.


To create a custom badge, you must apply via Foursquare Partner Badge Inquiry form and get the approval of the Foursquare admin. It is a paid business feature. To apply, you must agree to run the custom badge at least for three months at $25,000 per month.
Go to the Foursquare Partner Badge Inquiry form.
Choose the “Type of badge” from the drop-down menu on the form. Then fill up all the required fields on the form. When you are done, click the “Submit” button at the bottom of the form to send your application to the Foursquare admin; they will review your application.
The Foursquare team will contact you via the email address you provided within 2 weeks to inform you about the approval or disapproval of the requested custom badge.
If your badge is approved, you must pay the fee of the badge (instructions will be included in the email). Generally, it takes 6 to 8 weeks for the badge to go live on your business page.
 Foursquare lets you connect your online business venue to an offline physical business store through different window clings, stickers, or signs at your physical store. It encourages people to check into your business on Foursquare.


Go to Window Cling Request form.
Fill in each required field in the form accordingly, and select a cling type from the available list. Click on “Submit” to send your request for a Foursquare window cling, and Foursquare will send your requested cling to the address specified in the form.
To request clings for multiple locations, use the support ticket of Foursquare.

