 Mary Sues are the author's favorite character, and they get preferential treatment (e.g. most beautiful, gets to break rules, overpowered). This is irritating to readers because the author's love of the character is being pushed down their throat. Make sure your character is balanced, and is approximately as talented as her peers are.Mary Sues can also be male.
Mary Sues tend to have many things handed to them (e.g. incredible inborn magical talent, super duper rich) but may have tragic backstories to show how far they've come.
Attention is often called to the Mary Sue, sometimes at the expense of the plot. When she falls, the whole world rushes to her aid.
 An Anti-Sue is a reaction to the Mary Sue phenomenon, when the writer responds by writing a weak character. The story goes to great lengths to make sure the reader know that the character is ugly/plain, clumsy, uninteresting, traumatized, et cetera. The writer has forgotten that it's okay to make a strong and powerful woman.


The character is constantly falling down, tripping, hurting themselves and bumping into everything and everyone just to show oh-how-awkward the character is.
Often, these characters keep repeatedly thinking how common and boring they are compared to other people, noticeably their romantic interest, and how said romantic interest "could have literally anyone else but chose me! This is so weird, I mean, he is so gorgeous and perfect and godlike, and I'm but a simple, plain girl with nothing special!" Think Bella Swan from Twilight. You'll want to avoid these because they're so flawed, it's painful.
Anti Sues tend to be female, because usually Mary Sue accusations are leveled at female characters.
 Spend a bit of time researching these traits, and reading what people with these traits have to say about how they are represented in fiction. For example, if you're writing a black autistic girl, read what black women and autistic women have to say. This will help you craft an appealing, non-insulting character. Here are general stereotypes to avoid:


The sassy black woman, the Indian doctor/call center worker, the spicy Latina, the genius Asian girl, the Native American who is extremely connected to nature, and other racial stereotypes
The fat, lazy couch potato
The welfare queen
The man-hating lesbian, the confused bisexual woman, the asexual woman who "just needs to get laid," the transgender woman whose existence is a joke to be made fun of, the LGBT+ person who gets killed off
The violent mentally ill person
The disabled woman who ends up cured or dead, or is just a burden on her family

, Sometimes writers will succumb to the Trinity Effect, where a woman will have an introduction showing how awesome she is, only to be eclipsed and ultimately need rescue from a man.The reader is informed that she is capable, but she relies on the male hero in the end.Ask yourself if she makes meaningful contributions throughout the plot, and if the bumbling hero learns much faster than she does. Would you, the writer, want to be her?


This may happen by relegating her to the less exciting B-fight during the climax,or having her face the major villain first but get defeated and need the man to save her. She may even be stuffed into a refrigerator.
 Another horrible trope, a "Damsel in Distress" is essentially a female character who is only there to be rescued by the hero and does nothing to help anyone, nor adds anything to the story. This type of character literally stands there, waiting to be rescued (and often screaming or acting helpless) and does nothing else. You should be able to see why you should avoid this.


This does not mean to never place women in distress. It is okay for one of them to need help, especially if women occupy strong and active roles throughout your book.
One way to invert this could be to place a strong women in distress, only for her to save herself, and perhaps her would-be rescue party as well. Or let a woman save another woman.
Or let a man be in distress for a change, so the woman can save him. Men are allowed to need help from women too.
 This one is particularly problematic. It is most commonly seen in superhero media, but that doesn't mean it can't infect other types of media too. The hero meets a cute, capable, likable woman whose character is developed so the reader can like her too. Then the hero finds her dead.No one likes characters who are used as plot devices/props for destroying the hero's psyche or motivating him to action.


They may be murdered, raped, suddenly disabled, beaten up, and forced to suffer through overall horrifying things just so the hero can be sad.This may happen to the hero's romantic interest, a family member, or even someone he doesn't know well. They don't even have to be developed (Debbie from Savage Dragon) or be introduced before something bad happens to them (Mal from Inception) to be used as a way to emotionally scar the hero.
 Consider how often the story passes the Bechdel Test. This test evaluates if you (1) have two named female characters, who (2) talk to each other at some point (3) about something other than men.This is a quick way to evaluate whether your story treats female characters as plot devices/props.


In a perfectly mixed-gender story, about 25% of the conversations would be between women, 50% would be between a woman and a man, and 25% would be between men.
In a story for predominantly male audiences, there may be only a few conversations that pass the Bechdel Test. (Be aware that women do read "men's books!")

, It's almost a rule nowadays that the female character must have a male character to serve as her romantic interest. This annoys single women, aromantic/lesbian women, and just readers in general. Try letting some of your ladies be single at the end (fulfillment does not require a man), or having them date another woman. Show readers that women don't need men to be happy.


Avoid going to great leaps just to pair up your leading lady; this usually doesn't go over very well. She's allowed to be happy and single.
If your cast is more male, and you want them to be paired up, try making some of them gay or bisexual. And remember, men don't need women to be happy either.
 Sometimes (both in fiction and real life) women feel that women are scarce, so they try to make other women look bad in order to be the best. This is obviously not constructive. Show women who build each other up and support each other when they stumble. They will be excellent role models, and your reader will walk away with a smile.

