 If you notice your symptoms are getting worse, despite home treatment, you should see your doctor. This is especially important if you are pregnant or if you are experiencing a yeast infection for the first time. You should also see your doctor if you are not sure if you have a yeast infection or you develop other symptoms that may indicate another medical issue.If you have a non-complicated yeast infection, you may experience itching and irritation in your vagina and/or the tissues at the vaginal opening, known as your vulva. You may also have a burning sensation when you urinate or have sex. You may notice a thick, white, odor-less discharge in your vagina.
If you have a complicated yeast infection, you may experience more severe symptoms, such as swelling and itching of the vagina that causes tears, cracks or sores in your vagina. You may also notice that you get four or more yeast infections a year.
 Once you see your doctor, you may have to answer a series of questions about your medical history and how long you have been experiencing the symptoms of a yeast infection. Your doctor will then do a pelvic exam to look for signs of infection. During the exam, they may place a speculum into your vagina to examine your vagina and cervix.Your doctor may also take a sample of your vaginal fluid and get it tested to determine the type of fungus that is causing your yeast infection.
Your doctor may ask you about your vaginal health habits, such as whether you douche your vagina and if you have ever been treated for a vaginal health issue before. You should ask your doctor about ways you can prevent a yeast infection in the future.
 Your doctor will recommend certain treatments for your infection based on your symptoms. If you have a non-complicated yeast infection, your doctor may prescribe anti-fungal medication in the form of a cream, an ointment, a tablet, or a suppository. You may need to use the medication for one to seven days to help clear up the yeast infection.Your doctor may also recommend a single-dose oral medication or an over-the-counter treatment for your yeast infection. Single oral dose medication can help clear up the yeast infection within a few days. OTC creams and suppositories can often be used during pregnancy and will clear up the infection within three to seven days.
If you have a complicated yeast infection, with severe symptoms, your doctor may recommend long-course vaginal therapy, where you use medication in the form of a cream, an ointment, a tablet or a suppository for seven to 14 days.

