 Contractors have devised a quick, easy system of determining how much concrete yardage is needed for a given pour. This method doesn't require you to use any volume equations - however, there are two stipulations for its use. First, it only works for rectangular prisms (basic "box-shaped" pours). This method is easiest for relatively shallow pours, but it's possible for all rectangular prisms. Second, it requires that your pour area's length, and width measurements be in feet and that its depth measurement be in inches. To convert any of your measurements to feet, use the conversion factors below:


1 yard = 3 feet
12 inches = 1 foot
1 meter = 3.28 feet
30.48 centimeters = 1 foot

, Square footage (written "sq. ft" or ft2) is a measure of 2-dimensional area typically used to describe floor space. To determine your concrete job's square footage, simply multiply the length and width of the area you're pouring into without taking into account its depth.


For example, let's say we're pouring into a rectangular prism that is 10 ft wide, 5 feet long, and 6 inches (0.5 feet) deep. Its square footage would be 10 × 5 = 50 sq. feet. We don't need to worry about its depth yet.
Remember, this method only works for rectangular prisms. In other words, your pour area must have straight vertical edges.
 Now that you've found your square footage, all you need to do to find your project's concrete yardage is to divide the square footage by a certain number - the thicker your project, the smaller the number; the thinner your project, the larger the number. Below are coefficients for a few common thicknesses. If your project's thickness isn't listed below, don't worry - you'll learn how to easily figure out your coefficient in the next step.


If your project is 4 inches thick, divide your square footage by 81 to determine your yardage.
If your project is 6 inches thick, " " " " " 54.
If your project is 8 inches thick, " " " " " 40.
If your project is 12 inches (1 foot) thick, " " " " " 27.
 If the thickness of your concrete pour doesn't match any of the examples above, you can quickly calculate it by dividing 324 by the thickness of your concrete project (in inches). Then, divide your square footage by your answer to find your project's yardage.


For example, let's say our 50 sq. ft concrete pour is 7 inches deep. We would find our concrete yardage as follows:

324/7 = 46.28
50/46.28 = 1.08 cubic yards.




