 A sprain will involve ligament and tissue damage, so your child should feel pain. Heat in the injured area occurs because your child’s body will try to prevent infection by increasing the temperature of the injured area. Bacteria is less likely to thrive in higher temperatures.


If your child indicates to you they are experiencing sharp, aching or excruciating pain, take them to the nearest hospital or clinic. This might be a sign that the tissues or structures around the ligament are also damaged.Surgery may be required to fix this level of injury.;
, The sprain causes damage to the ligament and other adjacent structures, which leads to internal bleeding and a rush of blood to the injured area, resulting in swelling.


If your child has a sprain, there will be bruising or redness in the injured area for the next 12 to 24 hours and into the first week of having the injury. Bruising is a sign of internal bleeding.
 Due to swelling and pain, your child may have a limited range of motion in the injured area.


If your child cannot move the sprained joint at all, this may be a sign of severe nerve and tissue damage, and will require immediate medical attention. Bring your child to the nearest hospital or clinic., This can indicate the injured area is not getting enough blood and oxygen, and will require immediate medical attention., Make sure your child is not displaying any symptoms of a serious sprain that needs to be treated by a doctor at the hospital, such as intense pain.


If your child can tolerate the pain and the injured area is warm, reddish or pinkish in appearance, this means the injured site still has good blood flow and can be treated at home.If the sprained area does not improve within the first 48-72 hours, you need to take your child to the nearest hospital or doctor. Diagnostics and physical exams may reveal other, more serious joint problems.
 Massaging the area will promote increased blood flow to the site and worsen your child’s pain. It can also result in increased swelling in the area.
 To treat a sprained ankle, start wrapping at the base of your child’s toe. This will help fluids from their toes to move back to their heart and reduce the amount of swelling in the area.


Get a good base wrap at the toe so that the elastic bandage will not unravel.
After you covered the front and back parts of their foot, continue the wrap at top of their ankle and do a figure 8 wrap. Their heel and toes should be exposed.
Secure the wrap with a metal clasp.
Check your child’s toes for circulation. Re-wrap the area if their toes look blue or if they complain the wrap feels too tight.
 Compression will help to reduce swelling in the area. However, you need to make sure you wrap the elastic bandage so it is not too tight, as this will impede proper blood circulation.


To treat a sprained wrist, wrap an Ace bandage around your child’s forearm.
Take the tip of the Ace bandage and start wrapping from the base of their fingers all the way up to their forearm, stopping near the elbow.
Overlap the elastic bandage about one-half of the width of the first applied wrap.
Check the circulation of the wrapped area. If your child’s fingers look blue or they complain about numbness or tightness, restart the process until the wrap feels snug rather than too tight.
 Look for rigid materials like cardboard to make a splint and elastic material like a sock to wrap around the injured area.


To splint an ankle sprain, get three pieces of cardboard of equal size. Put one piece under your child’s foot, and one piece on either sides of your child’s ankle. Wrap the splint with the sock to secure it.
To splint a knee sprain, place a piece of cardboard on the back of your child’s knee. Make sure it is long enough so that your child’s leg cannot flex. Wrap the sock around the splint.
To splint a wrist sprain, place a piece of cardboard under their wrist. Make sure it is long enough so that their wrist does not flex. Using the sock, wrap starting from the palmar crease (single line across the palm) going up to your child’s forearm.To splint a shoulder sprain, get a big handkerchief and fold it triangularly to create a sling under the forearm of the injured shoulder. Tie both ends at the back of your child’s neck so that the movement of their shoulder is limited.
 Though a heat compress might feel relaxing for your child, it will just increase the swelling of the site and will only lead to more pain after the heat compress is removed.
 Avoid applying a cold compress to the sprained area right away, as this delay allows your child’s body to supply blood, oxygen, and nutrients to the injured area to facilitate healing.


If ice is applied to the injury during the first 24 hours, healing will be delayed as ice will constrict their blood vessels and limit blood flow to the area.A cold compress minimizes swelling by reducing blood flow to the injured area and numbing their nerve endings, which will lessen your child’s pain., Ask your child if they cannot feel anything on the sprained area with the cold compress applied. If this happens, remove the cold compress and reapply it every 2 to 4 hours daily until the swelling subsides.To apply a cold compress, wrap ice or an ice pack in a clean cloth and place it on the sprained area.Do not apply ice directly onto the sprained area as this can cause cold burns or skin damage from the extremely cold temperature.Avoid applying the cold compress close to bedtime or when your child is asleep. If you do so, remember to remove the compress after 20 minutes.
 This will help blood to return to their heart and improve blood circulation in the injured area. Increased blood flow is important because oxygen and nutrients will help your child’s sprain to heal properly.Your child can also place pillows under the sprained area to raise it while they are sleeping, reading, or watching TV.
 Depending on where the sprain occurs, resting does not mean your child will not be able to do other things. They can still perform other activities, but only if they do not put unnecessary pressure on the injury or cause a lot of movement using the injured area.


Your child should rest the sprained joint and not use it at all for the first 1 to 2 days. After this point, your child can use the sprained area, but not beyond when they feel pain in the sprained joint.
A sprain may last for 2-4 weeks, depending on the extent of injury. Thankfully, children’s ligaments generally heal faster compared to that of adults. This is due to the rapid growth and development of children at this stage.
 These will be especially useful if they have a sprained ankle or toe. If they put weight on the crutches for support, rather than on the sprained area, this will help the area to heal properly.
 This is necessary to prevent stiffness in the area.


While rest is important for faster recovery, gentle movement of the injured site can be done as early as the first day. Instruct your child to stop movement of the sprained area only if they experience any intolerable pain.
 One of the common over-the-counter pain relievers available at your local drugstore is Paracetamol or Acetaminophen. It works by inhibiting the production of prostaglandins, which are substances that stimulate the pain receptors to send pain signals to the brain.


The recommended dose of Paracetamol is based on your child’s weight. The dose should be 10 to 15 mg every kg of the child. So if your child’s weight is 30 kilograms, you need to multiply 30 by 10 or 15 mg. This means you will give your child 300 to 450 mg of Paracetamol. Give this dose every 4 to 6 hours.
This calculation can be used for children ages 2 to 12 years old.Keep in mind that pain relievers only treat the pain associated with sprain, not sprain itself. If the sprain isn’t serious, it will resolve on its own, with time and proper rest.

