 To be the most beneficial, the water you use should be free of chlorine and other additives. Boiling will rid the water of most undesirable elements, but you can also run your water through a filter or leave it sitting out at room temperature for 24 hours.


Note that you do not need to do this if using distilled water. You only need to purify your water if it comes from your tap or well.;
, Use a large blender so the blender is only about 2/3 full. If you fill the blender to the top, the ingredients may not blend thoroughly enough.
 Stop when the water is green-tinted, with noticeable chunks of cabbage still floating around. This should only take one or two minutes.
 Do not allow the mixture to blend at high speed for much longer than that. There should still be a few small pieces of cabbage floating around in the juice. You do not want to create a paste or a puree.
 Make sure there is at least 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) between the surface of the cabbage mixture and the rim of the jar. The liquid will likely expand as it sits, so it needs room.
 If the jar you use has a lid, that will also work well. For an even tighter seal, stretch plastic wrap over the mouth of the jar and screw the cap onto the jar over the wrap.
 Avoid allowing the temperature to drop much below 68 degrees Fahrenheit (20 degrees Celsius) or to rise above 78 degrees Fahrenheit (25.6 degrees Celsius). The ideal temperature is about 72 degrees Fahrenheit (22. 2 degrees Celsius).
 The juice is fermenting, growing cultures that will help your digestive health.
 Use a strainer with relatively small gaps, if possible, to separate as much of the mixture's liquid from the mixture's solid parts as possible. Make sure the strainer you use is also smaller than the mouth of the jar to avoid any overlap or spillage.
 Strain the liquid slowly to avoid accidentally spilling the juice or causing the strainer to get clogged with pulp.
 Store your cabbage juice inside the refrigerator until ready to use and serve it chilled.
 This 1/2 cup (125 milliliters) should be added to your new batch before the fermentation process.
 By adding cultured juice from a previous batch, you sped up the time it took for your new batch to ferment.

