 Before you start setting up the game, you may want to take a moment to make sure that you have all of the pieces. Some missing pieces can be substituted, such as the dice or game pieces, but other items, like the game board and money, are essential. Make sure that you have all of the following game components before you get started:game board
Monopoly money
banker’s tray
Community Chest cards
Chance cards
Title Deed cards
32 houses
12 hotels
game pieces
three dice;
, Choose a flat playing surface to play your game, such as a table or the floor. Then, unfold the game board and place it on your chosen surface. Make sure that you place the board so that all of the players can easily access the game board., The Community Chest cards and the Chance cards each have a designated spot on the board. Shuffle each stack separately and then place the stacks on their spots on the board. Make sure that the card stacks are facing down., The game goes faster if the money is well-organized in the banker’s tray before you get started. If the money looks a bit messy, take a few minutes to sort it by bill type ($500s, $100s, $50s, $20s, $10s, $5s, and $1s)., If you haven’t already decided who is going to play with you, gather your players now. Monopoly is a great game to play with large and small groups alike because you can have between 2-8 players. It is ideal for players ages 8 and up, but you can always team up younger kids with older kids or adults to make sure that everyone is included., There are eight pieces to choose from in Monopoly: top hat, thimble, shoe, battleship, racecar, Scottie dog, wheelbarrow, and cat.If two players want the same piece and cannot come to an agreement, you can put all of the pieces in a cloth bag and have each player choose a piece at random. Have each player place his or her token on “GO” before you begin the game.
 The banker should be willing to do more than the other players during the game, since he/she will be responsible for handing out money to other players for passing Go and handling property purchases. Make sure that you chose someone who is trustworthy as well because the person who is the banker can cheat more easily than other players.Before starting the game, place all of the properties, houses, hotels, and money near the banker.
 Before you start playing, the banker will need to give each player his or her starting money. Each player gets $1,500 to start the game. The $1,500 should be provided in the following denominations:2 $500s
2 $100s
2 $50s
6 $20s
5 $10s
5 $5s
5 $1s

, After you have everything all set up, you will be ready to start playing Monopoly. Just make sure that you read through the rules if you have never played before and make sure that your fellow players know the rules as well.

