 Look it up in your local phone book, or go to your city's website.


You might also research if there's a specific committee that deals with your concern. Think about writing a separate letter to that council as well.;
, You'll need clean stationery and writing implements or a computer and printer. If using a computer, open a text-editing program.
 Include your return address. Write this in the top left corner of the envelope:


Your name
Your street address
Your city and zip code

, Write this in the center of the envelope:


Mayor J. Doe
City of (your city)
Street address
City and zip code.
 For the rest of the letter, you'll want to keep a conversational and respectful tone. Don't worry about being too formal., Spend three to five sentences telling him/her who you are in relation to the issue you'll be bringing up.For example: As a citizen/employee/member... of (city/company/organization...)


Keep the intro brief. Don't provide irrelevant details about yourself. Instead, connect yourself to your concern.
 You'll need to give specific details. Don't be afraid to use bullet points to provide facts. For example: It has come to my attention that...


Only address one issue in your letter. If you have multiple concerns to bring up, write a separate letter for each issue., Again, keep this brief, but be sure to connect yourself to the issue. For example: I am appalled by the decision to.
 Avoid simply complaining about a problem.Show the mayor that you've done your research. You could give examples of similar situations in other cities and effective solutions.
 Be honest with the mayor and don't feel as though you have to flatter him or her. Instead, be upfront about the changes you'd like to see.For example: As the Mayor of our great city, I ask that you consider other solutions.


Make sure your letter is under a page, by this point. You'll want to keep it brief to ensure that it's completely read. Ideally, your letter should be between 3 and 5 paragraphs long., Be sure to thank the mayor in advance for addressing the concern. Since your letter should be brief, offer to provide more information if needed.For example: Thank you for attention to this important issue.
 Keep the closing address respectful and be sure to sign your name. Include your mailing address directly underneath your name so that the mayor is sure you live within his/her jurisdiction.For example: "Sincerely, (your name)"

, Look for simple spelling mistakes and grammatical errors. It can help to have someone else proofread the letter too.
 Fix any mistakes from proofreading and then proofread again. You may catch something else as you read it another time.
 To make your letter look as professional as possible, only use black ink and print in a legible font and size, such as Times New Roman 12 point.
 Stick the stamp on the top right corner of the envelope. Be sure to use enough postage, or your letter will be returned to you.
 After mailing your letter, you should receive some response from the mayor or his/her office. If you don't hear anything back after a few weeks of mailing the letter, call the office to make sure it was received.