 Making dietary changes is an important part of managing diabetes, and it may require significant changes.When you or your partner gets diagnosed with diabetes, you both should make changes to your diet. Work together with your partner to make these changes and develop a healthy eating plan. Share ideas for meals and snacks, and support each other as you both focus on your health.Make meals together at home. Instead of going out, have a date night where you cook together. You can even go shopping for food together and spend that time together.
If you do go out to eat, work together to make good, healthy choices.;
, Exercise is an important part of diabetes management. You and your partner should make exercise a priority in your life. Talk to your partner about developing an exercise program. You can go walking together, join a gym, or strength train.Help each other make time to exercise. For example, your partner may be able to help with dinner, running errands, or picking up children so you both can exercise.
Keep in mind that people with diabetes may experience a drop in blood sugar after exercising. Make sure that you pay attention to how your body responds to different exercises., It doesn't matter if you or your partner has diabetes; you should both respect each other's health. If you have diabetes, your partner should not try to tempt you with foods you can’t eat or encourage you to make bad choices. If your partner has diabetes, you should make sure that you are encouraging them to make healthy choices. Tempting your partner with diabetes not only puts their health at risk, but it puts a strain on the relationship.For example, if you have diabetes, ask your partner not to eat donuts, ice cream, or cakes in front of you. They don’t have to stop eating them, but at least at first, they should limit what they eat in front of you.
Say to them, “I know you enjoy eating sweets. It is difficult for me to give them up for now, so I would appreciate it if you didn’t eat them in front of me right now.”

, Though you or your partner may have sexual problems because of the diabetes, you should still show physical affection to each other. You can touch your partner, hold their hand, kiss them, and be close to them. Just because you and your partner may not be able to have sex due to diabetes doesn’t mean you have to lose the intimacy in your relationship.


Avoid being embarrassed or upset about sexual problems to the point that you ignore your partner, stop talking to them, or being around them. This causes more problems. You or your partner may feel embarrassed about diabetes-related sexual problems, but you should be open and talk to your partner about it.
Diabetes can lead to sexual problems in both men and women. Men can have erectile dysfunction problems and women can experience vaginal dryness. Both can have trouble achieving orgasm or experience low libidos. Discuss the possibility of future sexual problems or any problems related to diabetes you or your partner are currently experiencing.If you are facing diabetes-related sexual problems, you may be able to try new things to improve your sex life. Doing new things may increase your excitement and interest, along with increase your sex drive. Add foreplay, use sex toys to increase stimulation, or try new positions, kinks, or role play.