 Nothing looks worse than arriving to a job interview late. Show up at the appropriate time, ready to go. If your interview is in an unfamiliar area, drive to the location the day before to make sure you aren't late because you got lost. Aim for no more than 10 or 15 minutes before your assigned interview time.


While it’s important to show up on time, showing up too early can be frustrating for potential employers. If they told you to be there at a specific time, that means they want you there at that time, not 30 minutes before. If you want to make a good impression, follow instructions specifically.
Stay busy as you wait, writing notes or reviewing the job description and company information. Keep documents and materials in your left hand so you are prepared to get up and shake hands as soon as the interviewer comes out to greet you.
 At an interview, you'll likely feel nervous and want to perform your best. It's a scary situation, no doubt about it. But Try to remember that you don't need to put on an act to get a job. You just need to be yourself. Focus on remaining calm and listening closely to the conversation as it unfolds. Be yourself.Interviewers expect you to be nervous. Don't worry about saying so. It might help to get it out of the way and get to know your interviewer on a more personal level, which can help you to stand out. Don't be afraid of small talk.
 One of the worst things you could do in an interview is have to ask an interviewer to repeat their question because you weren't paying attention. Don't disqualify yourself by letting your mind wander. Most interviews won't take more than 15 minutes, and certainly never longer than an hour or so. Focus on the conversation at hand and respond actively.
 Lean forward and listen closely during an interview, using open and interested body language. Look at the interviewer when you're talking and when they are speaking.

A great interviewing trick is to look at the bridge of the interviewers' nose, between the eyes. They will have no idea you aren't making eye contact and it will help you relax a little. Try it with a friend, you will be amazed.
 Another common mistake in an interview is talking too much and too quickly. You don’t need to fill awkward silences with chatter. Especially if you’re a nervous talker, don’t feel the need to fill the space with talking. Sit back and listen. Don’t give away too much.


When you're asked a question, you don't need to have an immediate answer. In fact, it can be a turn off for an interviewer to feel as if you've given no thought whatsoever to a complicated question. Slow down and think about it. Pause, say, "That's a great question, let me think about a good answer."

, Your go-to answer in a job interview should be "Yes." Are you willing to work nights and weekends? Yes. Are you comfortable taking on multiple clients? Yes. Do you have experience working in a high-paced environment? Yes. Most jobs provide enough on-the-job training for skills that are essential to conducting the day-to-day operations that you'll be able to pick up anything you're unfamiliar with after you get the job. Don't disqualify yourself ahead of time. Be agreeable and sort out the details after you get the job.


Don't lie about some things. Being willing to do what's necessary for the position doesn't mean that you should stretch your experiences or tell fibs that'll get you outed the first day on the job. If you've never cooked a meal in your life, you shouldn't tell the kitchen manager you're a great cook.
 In general, the purpose of the interview is just to get to know you as a person. They've got your resume, your experiences, and your essentials on paper. What they don't know is you.


An interview isn't an interrogation or an argument. It's a conversation. Participate in it. When the interviewer is talking, pay close attention and listen to what they are saying, listen, and respond honestly. Some interviewees are thrown when interviewers don't instantly launch into a series of questionnaire-style questions.
 Carry a pen and paper in your portfolio or briefcase to jot quick notes if necessary. You may also bring extra copies of your application documents and questions list to refer to if needed.


Note-taking makes you appear engaged and well-organized. It also helps you remember important details and names, which can be useful later in the interview, or when you are making follow-up contact. Be careful to only take brief notes when necessary to take any at all, since extensive note-taking can be distracting.
 It's usually a good idea to get in touch shortly after the interview to keep your name somewhere in the conversation. Unless you've been explicitly told not to, make contact to follow up on your interview. Calls are usually discouraged, but emails or other correspondence would be a good idea. Since many companies have a lot of references to check, make sure your references are ready to receive the call and get back to the employer.


Summarize important details of the interview, using your notes to refresh your memory. Make sure to thank the interviewer for the opportunity, and mention that you look forward to hearing from the company soon.

