 If you plan to place the hot tub in a location that was previously lawn, you have two ways to do this.

The first is to take an 8 foot (2.4 meters) by 8 foot (2.4 meters) section of lawn out and dig down past the sod to undisturbed soil. Then fill the excavation with gravel and level.






The second is to build a deck strong enough to support the weight of a hot tub filled with water and people enjoying themselves. You can use the plan below to construct a hot tub deck in one afternoon.




;
, Pound stakes in the corners and then measure the diagonals. They should be the same, about 11' 3.5"
, Pound a stake at the center location.
 Now you have a cross. Measure 32 inches (81.3 cm) from the center of the cross and pound a stake at these four locations.
 Repeat this for each corner. Now you should have 9 stakes inside your 8' square. These 9 locations are where your pier footings will be placed.
 The hole should be about a foot deep. The bottom of the hole should be on undisturbed soil. You can use the grass to fill in bad spots elsewhere on the lawn.
 You can purchase play sand at most home centers.
 Try to make it as level as possible. Make a 15" by 15" template to lay on the sand and check for level in each direction.
, Note that the spirit level shown in the picture is lying on its side for clarity.
 You can lay a 4" by 4" post down the middle of the straps to check alignment.
 Add enough soil so the ground slopes away from the footing to prevent puddles.
 You are now ready to set the posts. Before you set the posts create (3) 4"x6" beams by nailing two 2"x6" 8' boards together. Nail the beams with 10 to 12 16d nails on each side.
 The deck will be the post height plus 12 1/2". Determine the first post height. The second post will be the length that is level with the first post. Repeat with the remaining posts checking level from the same center post. Don't nail the footing straps at this time.
 This is more easily done on a sawhorse. Do one at a time so you don't mix them up. Mark the beam 16" from the end and place it over the outside posts.
 Measure the diagonal from outside corner to outside corner. Adjust until they are exactly the same. Add the center beam aligned with the two outside beams. Tack one nail in each footing strap and one in the beam holder.
, Check the diagonal to be sure it is square. When you are sure it is square, wrap a string around it and fill in with the remaining joists as shown in the plan above.
, You should meet in the middle at 50 inches (see plan). Nail deck boards at each end so that it covers the rim joist. Do both ends. Have your family members nail two 16d galvanized nails through deck board into joists at the 6.25" marks.
