 Go through your wardrobe and bathroom cabinet. Keep only the things that fit, are not torn, stained or damaged in any way. For makeup, don't keep anything that is really old, unused or looks bad or cheap. For clothes don't keep anything that you don't like or haven't worn. Go through shoes, accessories, everything. Depending on your current level of fabulousness, this may or may not leave you with many clothes or much makeup.;
, And wear it! Discard the ratty faithfuls and buy some that maximize your assets and become the new, good quality faithfuls instead. It doesn't matter who doesn't see them; you know they're on and you'll feel better for it, as well as being shaped better.
 The definition can vary depending on your personal style, but generally this consists of tees, socks, gym wear, etc in neutral, muted colours. Go on a shopping trip to a reliable store. This should not be expensive. Get everything that you need.
 These are the time-tested essentials that you can't go wrong with (as opposed to faddy fashions). When shopping, think classy. Classics aren't impulse buys, make a list before you get out of the house. Google search "Tim Gunn's 10 Essential Elements" to get an example, though this may not be to everybody's taste. This section of your wardrobe should be of high quality, both the style and the piece should last season after season.
 Look through fashion magazines (or even just their websites) to see what the current trends are. Skinny jeans or flares? Hats or headbands? What appeals to you in the current trends? Only choose the ones that you like and that suit you. Don't go overboard on this one - this bit's for cheap, seasonal clothes. Get a few items every season.
 Make sure you have a daily cleanse-tone-moisturise facial care regime. In the summer months, put on a light sunscreen every day. Shower daily. Shave or wax regularly. Keep nails clean and tidy. Use odour-free deodorant. Pick a signature scent that you always wear, put it on right after you get out of the shower, it can smell funny on fabrics.
 Use mascara to play up eyes. To add colour, use blush for paler complexions and lipstick (in natural colour) for darker ones.
 Wash and condition hair five times a week. Blow-dry every time you wash, make sure you use some heat-protection product. Get your hair cut regularly to dispel split-ends.
 If you find exercise boring, do sports that are more enjoyable. If you're really into exercise, do an anaerobic-aerobic-yoga routine.

