 If you want to toast the almonds (check that they're not already toasted), do so before proceeding.;
, The chocolate will melt faster if it is broken up into smaller pieces.
Stir the chocolate constantly until it melts and becomes smooth. Avoid overheating it.






Temper the chocolate. Place the bowl of melted chocolate into a bowl with ice water, and stir slowly but constantly. Once it begins to thicken, crystallization or "tempering" occurs, and you can remove it from the cold water. The trick is to warm it again without overheating and losing the tempering. Place the bowl over the pot of warm water if need be, to loosen up the chocolate a bit. For more details, read How to temper chocolate.
 Pour a third of the melted and tempered chocolate over the almonds in the bowl. With a rubber spatula, completely coat the almonds. Keep stirring until the chocolate starts to set on the almonds.


If the chocolate isn't setting after 6 minutes, then place in the fridge for 2-3 minutes to speed things up.
Separate any clusters that have formed. Each coated almond should be individual.
 Stir through once again until the chocolate sets. Add the last chocolate and repeat until all chocolate has been stirred in and has set over the almonds. Again, separate any clusters that form.


You can stop here and simply have chocolate coated almonds without a dusting of cocoa powder. Or, you can proceed to the next step and give them a "powdered" finish.
 Do this either with a flour sifter or with a pulse in the food processor. Place this powder into a large, strong plastic bag.


Line a baking sheet or tray with waxed paper.
 Seal the top. Shake until the powder coats the chocolate almonds.


Over a bowl, place a colander or sieve. Pour out the chocolate almonds from the plastic bag. Separate the nuts and arrange them on the waxed paper. Tip the chocolate powder from the bowl back into the plastic bag and coat the remaining chocolate almonds in the same way.
 If you're not serving these immediately, transfer the chocolate coated almonds to an airtight container using wax paper to separate the layers. Stored in this way, at room temperature, the chocolate almonds will keep for about 2 weeks.

