 Most romantic evenings will involve some type of food. Make sure to think of something that you know your partner likes. Be sure to keep it simple because you don’t want to spend your whole evening trying to cook! Find a dish that you know how to make, that your partner loves, and that will require minimal preparation.You could have a mediterranean-style dinner with bread, cheese, olives, ham, grapes, and salad. It is elegant and requires very little preparation.Don’t plan any meal that will be too heavy or you won’t feel very romantic afterwards. The same goes for spicy foods.
 You could choose a nice bottle of wine for dinner, like a Tempranillo from La Rioja, or even a fun cocktail, like a Tom Collins. A bottle of Champagne can be very romantic. For something non-alcoholic, you could go with sparkling water, sparkling grape juice, or fresh squeezed juice. Having a fancy beverage will help the night feel special., Choose something that your partner will enjoy. You could have a fondue-style dessert and dip strawberries in melted chocolate. This requires very little preparation, is delicious, and is something special that you wouldn’t do every day. It’s these special touches that will make your romantic evening memorable.
 Take into account your partner’s preferences, but choose something that is light and have it playing quietly in the background. You could play some smooth jazz, like Billie Holiday, to set the tone.You could make a playlist or stream music, just make sure there won’t be any commercials, which will damper the ambiance.
 Lighting is a big part of a romantic evening. It also shows that you made special effort. You could dim the lights and have a candlelit dinner and then sit by the fireplace for desert or drinks.Just make sure to use caution when dealing with open flames. There is nothing less romantic than setting your house on fire!

, Besides eating and conversing, have something else planned. Maybe you could watch a movie together, like The Princess Bride, or you could plan a romantic massage. Having a couple of other activities will help you to enjoy each other’s company for the whole evening., Make the environment special and different from your normal sleeping arrangements. You could put rose petals on the bed, light candles, and set out a vase of flowers. This will help set the ambiance.