 A musical would be impossible to stage without these! Read through it when you get it, to make sure it is all correct and what you want. They are pretty easy to find, either search the internet or pop into your local music store or book shop and ask for it, preferably also stating the composer(s) and, if possible, the ISBN number.;
, Ideally your Music Manager should have some experience with music and also be able to read music fluently.
 Make sure all members of your team have copies, and the rest are for the actors & actresses, band and other people working on the musical with you.
 One of the best ways to do this is to set up a panel, like X Factor and Britain's Got Talent, consisting of the Production Manager, someone who specializes in acting and someone involved with music. Audition for one part at a time! Call one hopeful in, get them to read some lines in that character and get them to sing one of their songs. See all hopefuls, and then decide who gets the part. Sometimes callbacks are necessary so if you can't decide between two hopefuls, call them back and maybe bring in an outside person for their opinion and perspective.
), and people to make your props.
 Go to a company or teacher (if in school) and explain what you're doing. Then ask them if they would be interested in investing. If they say yes, ask (nicely!) how much they would be prepared to give or lend you. Offer them something in return, E.G 25% of the profits or Free tickets.
 Set clear goals and outline these to your cast and crew. Be very strict on deadlines.
 Don't just try to rehearse all of the musical in one go. Pick out sections, or songs and rehearse them. Eventually, put it all together, and then have a few dress rehearsals before your performance date. If cast don't turn up to rehearsals regularly, then either cut their lines, take them out of their part or kick them out completely. You cannot have people who are not committed or else it won't work. Same applies to your crew members.
 Maybe offer special deals if ticket sales are slow, like one child free with two paying adults. Also offer Student and Concession fees

, Hope it all goes well!

