 Creating a jumpsuit is a pretty easy project, but you will need some special items. Before you begin, you will need:a pair of loose fitting sweatpants
a loose fitting tank top
some stretchy jersey or comparable fabric in the print or color of your choice
a pair of sharp scissors
pins
a sewing machine;
, If you do not want to make pants, then you can also use a pair of old pajama bottoms for the pant bottoms of your jumpsuit. Then, all you will have to do is create a matching top and add the top to the pants.Choose a fabric color and type that matches your pajama bottoms. For example, if the pajama bottoms are navy blue and made of a jersey material, then select a similar navy blue jersey material for the top. Or, if the pajama bottoms feature a print, choose a solid in the dominant color of the print, such as red if the print is mostly red.
 Fold your fabric in half so that the print is facing in. Then, lay the fabric on a hard, clean surface, such as a large table or on the floor (as long as it is clean). Smooth out the fabric so that there are no ripples.Then, place your sweatpants on top of the fabric. There is no pattern for this project, but you can use your sweatpants to help you make the jumpsuit in the right size.
Fold the sweatpants in half so that the legs are lined up with each other. Then, lay the pants on top of your folded fabric. The waistband of the pants should be near the folded edge and the inseam of the pants should be facing out towards the outer edge of the fabric.
 The sweatpants will help you to create a loose fitting pair of pants for the bottom half of your jumpsuit. Cut the fabric in a straight line on the outer edge of your sweatpants. You will want your pants to narrow towards the bottom, so move the sweatpants aside.








After you have finished cutting the basic pattern, pick up your sweatpants and set them aside.
 The curved edge is where the waistband will be, so you will need this area to be slightly snug. Trim along this curved edge on both sides. You will need to trim off about ½ of an inch or 1½ centimeters.
 You will need to pin the curved edges in place first. These edges will make up the hip and waist area of your pants. Make sure that the fabric edges are even and place a pin every few inches.








When you are pinning the fabric, insert the ball-head pins into the fabric from the outer edge and moving in towards the center, not parallel with the edge., Begin sewing the fabric pieces together along the curved edges that you just pinned together. Do not sew any of the other edges yet. Remove the pins from the fabric right before you sew over them.Make sure that your stitches are about ½ of an inch (or 1 ½ cm) away from the edges of the fabric. This will help to create a strong seam.
After you have finished sewing, trim off any excess thread from the areas you just sewed.
 After you have sewed the curved edges together, pick up your fabric and fan it out. Then realign the fabric so that the two seam you just sewed are facing each other. Then, lay your fabric out on a flat, clean surface again.








The finished product should look like a pair of pants minus the inseam stitches. You will need to sew this inseam next to complete the pants.
 Place one pin at the crotch and then continue placing pins along the inside of each of the pant legs. Position the pins so that they are about three inches apart. Make sure that the pins are about ½ of an inch (or 1 ½ cm) from the edges of the fabric.








After you have finished pinning the inseams, sew along the edges and remove the pins as you go.
 To determine where to place your waistband, you will need to turn the pants inside out and try them on. You should have a large flap at the top of the pants. Pull this fabric up and then fold it over all around the waistband so that the top fold is sitting at your natural waist (or wherever you like your pants to begin).








Try to make the fold as even as possible all the way around.
When you find a comfortable height for the waistband, you can take off the pants. However, remove the pants carefully to keep the waistband folded how you like it. You can also place a few pins to secure the waistband.
 Use your scissors to trim along the bottom edges of where the folded material ends. This will seem low, but you will be adding this material back onto the pants, so don’t worry. Then, take the waistband material that you just trimmed off and reverse it. Flip the material so the print side of the material is facing out instead of turned in.








The waistband should be doubled and the print side should be facing out on both side.
Make sure that all of the edges are even.
 Hold the waistband material next to the waistline of the pants so that the top fold is facing downwards in the direction of the pant legs. Then, pull the waist of the pants through the waistband and line up the edges of the waistline with the rough edges of the waistband.Pin the edges together. Make sure that the pins go through all of the material layers.
 Once the waistband is pinned in place, sew along the edges. Sew the stitch about ½ of an inch (or 1 ½ cm) away from the edge to create a strong seam. Pull the material taut as you sew to ensure that the waistband will not have any bumps or ripples.Pull out the pins as you go and set them aside.
 Get a large piece of the same material you used for the pants or two smaller pieces and lay them so that the print sides are facing each other. Then, place your tank top on the two layers of material.There is no pattern for the top, but the tank top will help you to cut the material in the right size and shape.
 Using your scissors, cut along the outer edges of the tank top. Follow the lines of the tank top and try to make the lines as straight an even as possible. Follow the curves of the arm holes and neck line as well.








When you are done, you will have two tank top pieces.
Keep in mind that you can make the neckline as deep or as high as you want it to be. You can also use any style for the neckline that you want. For example, you could do a scoop neck, a V-neck, or a square neck.
 Start by pinning along the edges of the arm holes and neckline for the hem. You will need to hem the neck line and arm holes twice. Fold over about ½ of an inch (or 1 ½ cm) of material once, then pin it into place and sew along these lines.Then, remove the pins and fold over the material to create another ½ of an inch (or 1 ½ cm) hem.
Pin and sew this hem as well.
 Next, with the two tank top pieces facing each other, line up the edges. Pin along the sides of the tank top and the shoulders. Then, sew these areas together about ½ of an inch (or 1 ½ cm) from the edge.








Remove the pins as you go.
 With your pants still right side out and the tank top inside out, slide the pant waistband through the neck of the tank top. Then, continue to slide the pants through the tank top until the top of the waistband is lined up with the bottom of the tank top. Then, pin these edges together and then sew them together.








If you are using old pajama bottoms for your jumpsuit instead of pants that you made, then you can follow the same process for attaching the tank top to the pajama bottoms. Just make sure that the bottom of your tank top matches up with the top of the elastic waistband on your pajama pants.As you sew along the edges of the tank top bottom and waistband top, pull the materials taut, This will help to ensure an even seam. It is also necessary because the tank top will be slightly larger than the waistband.
 Jumpsuits are often baggy around the waist, which can be unflattering. Defining your waist with a belt is a great option.Try a wide band stretchy belt or a thin fitted belt.
 A jumpsuit can be a little overwhelming, especially if your jumpsuit is in a bold print, so you may want to find ways to break up the pattern a bit. A vest, blazer, or jacket can help to break up the pattern or color and add a little more sophistication to your look.Try a long vest for an evening out.
Put on a blazer to make your jumpsuit workplace appropriate.
You can even try a leather or denim jacket for a fun weekend look.
A cross-body bag can also help to break up the pattern if you don’t want to wear any other clothes over your jumpsuit.
 Putting on a pair of high heels can make almost any outfit look dressy. Try wearing a pair of high heels with your jumpsuit to transform it into a more formal, dressy look.To get the opposite effect and dress down your jumpsuit, go for some simple ballet flats or a pair of strappy sandals.
 If you want to draw the eye up and away from certain features, then adding a necklace or a pair of bold earrings can also help.For example, if your jumpsuit has a deep V-neck that you want to de-emphasize, then try putting on a necklace that falls a few inches above your cleavage. Or, put on some bold, dangly earrings.

