 Mark your calendar every month noting the time that she will be PMSing, but keep it in a place where she will not see it. Knowing that she's pre-menstrual may help you to be more patient with her. There are several apps available on the iPhone and Android phones to help you track her cycle. Keep in mind, however, that many women have irregular cycles., Even if you know she's about to be on her period or see the same symptoms every month, keep that observation to yourself. Many women, especially when in a bad mood, will take offense to your assumption that the reason she's upset is because it's "that time of the month". She might feel like you're discrediting or dismissing her opinion by attributing it to her period.Instead of saying something like “Wow, you must be PMSing” say “It seems like you’re not in the best mood right now, do you want me to get you something to eat or run you a bath?”

, If you already know she might be a bit moody, don't bring up any news or surprises that could potentially be upsetting to her if the news can wait. Wait for a time when she can give it her full attention in a better frame of mind.


For instance, if an ex reached out to you, you might choose to wait a few days to let her know.
Some things you will need to tell her immediately though, like if you lost your job or if you were dishonest with her about something.
 Questions like "Does this make me look fat," can be tricky at the best of times in a relationship, but can be particularly sensitive if she's premenstrual. Try to avoid engaging in these types of discussions when you know this is the case or to instead reaffirm her in any way that you can. This positivity can help improve her mood overall.


For instance, if she asks if she looks fat you can say “No, I think you look great today.”
If she tries to pick a fight with you over something that is small, like you missing a spot when washing dishes you can say “Sorry, honey. Let me get that. Let’s watch a movie in a few.”

, When your girlfriend is not feeling well, avoid engaging in power struggles over what you will watch and do. During these few days, don’t put up a fight over what movies, TV shows, foods, or activities you do. Just spend time with her doing what she wants.


If, however, there is a special event or circumstance, then she will need to understand. For instance, if your favorite team is playing in the finals, then you should still watch the game. Promise her that you can watch what she wants before or after.

