 There are a number of very good song parodies that use familiar rhythms to teach the days of the week. School Sparks is just one blog example that will show you some of these songs including one of the most popular "Days of the Week” which is sung to the tune of the old Addams Family Theme.


Singing songs works well for memorization because the familiar pattern is easy for the brain to absorb. In addition, each song can be sung virtually anywhere giving the child even more time to practice and to learn the concept that is being taught.
According to experts, singing not only releases endorphins (feel good hormones) but also strengthens memory skills and brain development by making the brain work at several tasks at the same time.
In short, singing makes you happy and makes you smarter – so it is a perfect way to teach your child about the days of the week. You can even practice your new songs and skills in the car on the way to school or to run errands.
 Another great way to help your child learn the days of the week is to show her a calendar and have her say the days’ names with you. Then, with a blank calendar page have your child help you create a new calendar.


Have your child tell you what happens on each day of the week. For example, if she goes to preschool only three days of the week she could say “On Monday I go to school” and so on. Let your child use pictures cut from magazines or appropriate stickers to “tag” each day of the week so that it is easier for her to remember.
Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays could get a school bus or a school building picture or sticker and then Tuesdays and Thursdays could get something that she associates with those days. Saturdays could have a picture of the supermarket or family event and then Sundays could have pictures of your house of worship if you so choose.
 Another fun craft idea is to make Wally the Weekday Worm. At the beginning, your child will make eight circles.


The first circle is Wally’s head so your child can give him eyes, a mouth and a nose and whatever other facial features they would like to add.
Each of the other circles will be labeled with the day of the week’s name and again, the child can add whatever symbols best represents that day- school days, family fun days, etc.
 Try to find picture books that deal with the topic of the days of the week and read them to your child. If your child is able, have her read the book to you, or even try to explain the pictures and events.
 Jumping rope or playing hopscotch while singing can be a good way to teach kids days of the week. While your child is jumping or skipping, they can sing:


“M for Monday, turn around, T for Tuesday, touch the ground, W for Wednesday, jump so high, T for Thursday, touch the sky, F for Friday, say hooray! S for Saturday, time to play, S for Sunday, clap your hands, It’s time to start all over again!”
In the same way, you can let your child play hopscotch. Draw 7 squares, one for each day a week. As your child jumps from square to square they can sing the song.

