 Your horse is the most important piece of your barrel racing team--other than you, of course. You and your horse should be equal partners and work together to learn to succeed at barrel racing. Some horses are more capable of becoming barrel horses, so you'll want to choose your partner carefully.The horse's health is the most important consideration. A potential barrel horse should have legs that are straight and a back that is strong.
If the horse has raced previously, make sure that his legs are free from external scars or bumps.
It's a good idea to have a vet examine any horse you are considering buying.
If the horse has previously worked with a trainer, try to contact him to learn about the horse's capabilities.
Consider the horse's stamina. A barrel horse should be able to keep up a fast pace for 6-8 miles at least 3 days a week.;
, It is possible to train for barrel racing on your own. However, as with any sport, you will likely be more successful if you hire a coach. An experienced trainer can work with you and your horse to improve your skills and learn to work comfortably together as a team.Look for a trainer who has experience barrel racing. Before you commit to working with one another, ask him about his prior record with racing.
Make sure you are compatible. Do you want a trainer who is very stern and regimented? Or would you work better with someone whose style is more flexible? These questions can be answered during your first meeting with potential trainers.
Look for a trainer with a keen eye. He should be able to spot mistakes from across the arena.
 Barrel racing can be very time consuming. It is fun, but also tiring. You might also have to regularly travel for competitions. If possible, recruit friends and family to be part of your "team". You'll have more fun if you have a cheering section at all of your events.


You might also need someone to help you care for your horse. Horses need daily attention, so that they can be properly fed, exercised, and groomed. Before committing to barrel racing, ask your family if they are willing to help out.
Make sure that you have a good vet to help you care for your horse. Look for a vet that is patient, caring, and has experience caring for barrel horses.

