 Washing once in the morning and once at night is a good routine for those with acne-prone skin. Washing in the morning refreshes your face and cleanses away bacteria that may have grown in the night, while washing at night is important for removing sweat, dirt and makeup from your skin. Washing your face more than twice a day could dry out and irritate your skin.









Many people with acne think that washing more often will result in better skin, but that’s not the case. Facial skin is fragile, and washing too much can cause it to tear and weaken.If you feel your skin needs to be refreshed between washes, it’s better to splash it with plain lukewarm water instead of using soap or chemicals.
 Regular commercial facial cleansers often contain ingredients that make acne worse. Chemicals, alcohols, and oils can irritate your skin or cause your pores to get clogged, which is the opposite of what you want if you’re dealing with acne. Choose a cleanser that is specifically designed to be used on acne-prone skin.








Not all acne-prone skin is oily; many people with dry skin have acne. Make sure you choose a facial cleanser that works with your skin type and won’t dry it out too much.
If your acne is severe, you may want to use a medicated cleanser with ingredients that will kill the bacteria that can clog pores and cause acne. Talk with your doctor about getting a prescription, or look for an over-the-counter cleanser with salicylic acid, sodium sulfacetamide, or benzoyl peroxide., Many people with acne make the mistake of scrubbing hard in an effort to unclog pores. This method creates tiny tears in the skin that can become inflamed and create worse acne problems. When you have acne, it’s important to handle your skin gently. Exfoliate very lightly, and never roughly scrub your skin.








Instead of using a facial scrub, try using a soft washcloth to rub your skin in a circular motion.
Never use a scrub brush on your acne-prone skin.
 Hot water can cause facial skin to become red and inflamed, so err on the side of using cooler water when you’re washing your face. You may also want to avoid facial steams during acne flare-ups, since the heat can make the problem worse.
 With acne, it’s important not to abrade your skin by using a rough towel to dry it off. Purchase a soft facial towel and use it to pat your skin dry after washing. Be sure to wash your towels frequently so you aren’t applying bacteria to your face when you dry it off.
 If you tend to have acne, your pores probably clog easily. Many have found it helpful to use an oil-free moisturizer to protect acne-prone skin. If you do choose to use a moisturizer with oil, you may want to test it on a small patch of skin and wait a few days to see what happens before applying it to you entire face.









Aloe is soothing to irritated skin and makes a great light, oil-free moisturizer.
If your skin is particularly oily, feel free to forego moisturizer completely, or just apply it to the spots where your skin gets dry.

