 Push-ups are the bread and butter of home workouts. Make sure your form is good to get the most out of it. Your spine should be straight and in line with your butt, which isn't sagging. Your palms are generally a little wider than your shoulders, but you can go wider for a better chest workout and narrower for a better arm workout. In addition, you should mix in incline and decline push-ups for better overall muscle growth.


Incline push-ups work different muscle heads. To do them, simply plant your arms on a low coffee table or chair so that you're angled up.
Decline push-ups require your place your feet 1–2 feet (0.30–0.61 m) above your hands, then performing normal push-ups. Remember to keep your head up and spine straight.
Each set should be eight to twelve reps. You might try doing up to three sets.;
, Not for the faint of heart, handstands are nonetheless great multi-muscle workout. To get into position, crouch with your back to the wall. Plant your hands on the ground and "walk" your feet slowly up the wall. From there, use your toes for balance, and slowly lower your head to the ground, pushing back up to complete one rep. Try to get three sets of ten in.









If you're too nervous for this, you can cheat with a high table. Place your feet on the table with your thighs and torso hanging over the edge, enough that you can place your hands on the ground. Then do a push-up with your head hanging straight down. This is often called a pike push-up.
 For good dips, you'll need a sturdy bench, table, or chair roughly 1–2 feet (0.3–0.6 m) above the ground. Place your hands behind you on this bench so that your butt is in the air and your knees bent 90 degrees. With your feet firmly on the ground, lower your butt to the ground until your arms are bent at roughly 90 degrees. Push back up. Repeat for three sets of up to 15-20 reps.
 Planks are a great way to work your entire core, and they are easily adapted for an extra challenge. To do one, get in push-up position. However, instead of placing your palms on the ground, rest on your forearms. Tighten your butt muscles and straighten your spine -- you should be able to rest a broom between your neck and butt. Hold this position for one minute, rest, and repeat two more times.


Side planks are when you open your body, resting on one forearm and the outside of the same foot. Again, keep your spine straight by focusing on keeping your butt up.
Plank to Push-up: Start in a plank position with your arms shoulder width apart and your feet hip width apart. Move down onto your forearms so that you are now in a forearm plank, then lift yourself back up to a full plank position. Do 12 reps in each set., Crunches are still some of the best possible ab workouts out there, so get working. Lay on your back with your feet planted and your knees bent. Supporting your neck with your hands, raise your shoulders 6-8" off the ground, hold for one second, then slowly lower yourself back down. Immediately bounce back up, keeping your eyes on the sky and making your movements slow and deliberate. Aim for three sets of eight to twelve reps.Straight Leg sit-up: Lay on your back with your legs extended fully, the reach your arms up towards the ceiling and perform a sit-up, keeping your legs straight. Bring your arms down, trying to touch your toes, and then slowly lower back down. Do 10 reps., While the rest of the exercises require little to no equipment, most upper body workouts require some sort of resistance in order to be effective. Once you have a weight you can comfortably hold, try out:


Bicep Curls
Tricep workouts

Shoulder raises.Bent Over Rows

