 Once you are comfortable with a lot of Standard difficulty songs, start doing some 6-foot Heavy songs. As you master the new moves that are required, you'll be able to move your way up to 8 footers, to 9, and then 10.
 Although its necessity is debated and frowned upon by some players, it could be useful. For Beginner, Light, and Standard, the bar really isn't required.
 If you keep doing that, you will eventually be able to finish a new song, and increase your repertoire.
 The song Rhythm and Police (4th mix) is an excellent one to learn slowly and work up - it contains most of the complicated step patterns that require no more than crossovers. The song Afronova (3rd Mix) is good for teaching more complicated stances, such as having to turn 90 degrees to the left to be able to hit "Left Up Right Left Down Right Left Up Right Left Down Right..."

, This technique is sometimes called playing flat footed. For instance, have the ball of your right foot on up, and the heel of your right foot on right. Now, assume you have the step pattern Up-Left-Right. Hit up with the ball of your right foot, left with whatever part of your left foot is easiest, and right with the heel of your foot. Since you move your feet a shorter distance, you expend less energy and move more quickly.
 This may sound counter-intuitive, but it may be much easier to play when you're not thinking about playing! Your body will go for the notes more naturally if you don't think too much! It may sound crazy, but it could work for you.
 If you have DDR for a home console, slowing down a song by a few percent can really help you learn especially tricky sequences in songs.
 For those that get technical, if you find yourself stuck on a certain foot level, like 7 feet (2.1 m), then try the following. Set the song list to difficulty(arcade machine), which will categorize the songs according to the number of feet. Find the level your on, and start abusing that list. By the time your able to pass every song on B or higher for that level(mainly for 7 feet and below), you should be able to start playing on a higher difficulty. Note that after you start playing 8 feet (2.4 m) or higher, you should be able to pass all the songs with an A before you move to the next level.
 Generally speaking, it's one thing to have the skill to play songs that are above your level and pass (even if barely), but if your legs give out before the song is even over, then focus on stamina. It won't matter how many advanced techniques you know unless you get a good balance between both in the higher levels.

