 If you're going to write about something regularly and keep your blog fresh with new information, then you need to write about something that stokes your passion or that reflects your daily experience. Try some of these ideas to get your creative juices flowing:



Gaming. Nowadays, many people play games. You can write about games you play and post updates and/or cheats/hints.

Politics. Sure, everyone has an opinion about politics, but you may have a unique point of view that needs to be heard.
'"Fashion/Style/Beauty."' Blog about fashion and what new trends are in for fashion. For style, blog about different ways you can wear that new scarf you just bought. For the topic on makeup, talk about what new trends are in, and/or different ways to style your eyeliner.

Food. Who doesn't love good food? Share your recipes, start writing reviews of the local cuisine scene or write about how the food that you ate in China was nothing like the food that Chinese restaurants serve in the United States of America.

Reviews. Reviews of movies, games, products, and anything! It doesn't matter how old it is or what it is, just give your general opinion on whatever your reviewing, and at the end, give it a rating. If you keep it fresh by adding clips or photos and pulling from sources that nobody else is using, you could have a hit blog on your hands.

Cars. Are you a car enthusiast? Post pictures of your favorite new models or reports from car shows.

Love. Everybody needs some love! Maybe you can give advice about how to get a date! If you're a little more inappropriate maybe be a little sexual to get more men or women followers.

Your business. Your blog doesn't have to be a hobby. A blog can be a fantastic tool for connecting with your customers and for providing them with helpful information.;
, While you want to know your broad subject area, you need to focus your blog topics more narrowly, so that it has a clear purpose. Here are some ideas for ways that your blog can connect with your intended audience:



Teach something. If you're passionate about a particular subject, and you have a lot of experience in that area, then you can offer your knowledge to both people who are new to the subject and others who are as experienced as you are.

Provide the latest news and trends. Write about the latest developments related to your topic. You want to be someone who's viewed as the ultimate insider so that you can continue to increase your blog's readership.

Make people laugh. Are you the funniest person you know? No matter what your subject area, you can present your experiences and thoughts in a humorous way that will really resonate with people.

Inspire others. Have you overcome an obstacle, such as a serious illness or a difficult life experience? Do you want to turn your challenges into something that will inspire others to overcome their problems? If that's the case, then make your blog inspirational.

Know what not to blog about too. Your workplace, your coworkers, your family members, etc. may take a dim view of anything on your blog if it blows open secrets, shares confidential information, makes fun of people you work or live with, or causes other people trouble. Know the limits––check with your workplace what is and is not permissible by way of personal blogging and ask your friends and family before including them in your posts.
 Take a look at other blogs on your topic to see what other people are already doing. Ask yourself what you have to offer that is different from what other people are already doing. Identifying your niche will give your blog an angle that distinguishes it from your competitors.
 Try brainstorming a list of names and writing them on a piece of paper, or talk to friends and family to get ideas. You can also try freewriting to see what comes out of your mind as you free associate about your topic.
 Go to a keyword suggestion scraper site like http://ubersuggest.io/


Enter items that are relevant to your topic into the appropriate search field. You can search by word or phrase, by website or by subject.
The tool will generate words or phrases associated with your topic. Pick the words that have a high number of monthly searches but have low to medium levels of competition. Try to include them in your blog name.
Check these keywords from time to time when you're writing a blog post. If you fit the keywords into your posts in a natural way, then search engines may be more likely to pick up on your blog and show it to people who are conducting searches about your subject.
 Blogger and WordPress are 2 of the most popular blog creation sites on the Web.



Blogger: Google owns Blogger and has set it up for ease of use. Your blog will be extremely easy to set up and maintain, and you'll have Google's traffic management tools at your disposal. You can purchase a custom domain name for US$10 per year or you can get a free BlogSpot domain name such as yourblog.blogspot.com. If you already own another domain name, you can use it for no cost.

Tumblr.com. This is a very handy, world-wide micro-blogging site. It provides a very friendly user interface and even helps place ads on your blog page to get you money. For more information read this article on how to create a Tumblr account.

WordPress: With WordPress, getting started will take more time. However, you'll find that WordPress has a wide variety of more sophisticated tools for enhancing and promoting your blog. You can purchase a custom domain name on WordPress for $18 per year or map an existing domain name to WordPress for $13 per year. If you want a free domain, you can use something like yourblog.wordpress.com.It is also important to note that there is a difference between WordPress.com and WordPress.org. Using Makeblog.org is a great way to start your blog. They are both free to use. Meanwhile, with Wordpress.com, it is hosted by the Wordpress organization, so your domain will be on a subdomain of Wordpress.com. Meanwhile with Wordpress.org, you are self hosting it, so your domain will be on your selected name. The former restricts bloggers from making an income and while the latter does require set up on your own host, it then allows full access to your blog's backend, full suite of features and improved SEO performance. Webs.com: Webs is a website builder that has been around since 2001. Everything about this website builder is customizable with their drop-n-drag feature. What's even better about this builder, is that you do not need any technical skills. Everything you need to know about what you want included in your blog is in front of you with easy to see/read options. Personal sites start free with no trial period. Of course, if you want some enhanced features, you will need to upgrade for an affordable fee.
 If you have a Google account, then log in. If you don't have a Google account, click on the red "Sign Up" button in the top right corner and register for a Google account.
,


You can choose a template from the options on the screen, or you can choose a template later if you want to see more options.
Click the orange "Create Blog!" button.
, When you're done, click "Publish."

, Click on the "Get Started" link.
 In the last field, type the proposed web address for your blog.


The web hosting will do a quick lookup to see if the name appears on their system already. If your desired name is taken, WordPress.org will display a series of available alternatives. You can choose 1 of those options or try a different domain name until you find something that works.
Scroll to the bottom of the page and click "Create Blog."

, When it arrives, click the link and then sign into WordPress with your username and password.
 Your Theme determines the layout and appearance of your blog. You can either search for themes after clicking on the "Find a Theme" button or you can browse Themes based on criteria like what's trending or what's most popular.
 If you want to, you can upload a photo of yourself by clicking the "Choose File" button in the gray "Blog Picture/Icon" box.
 Do you want any Internet visitor to be able to read your blog, or do you just want your friends and family to be able to read it? Pick the appropriate setting by clicking on the "Reading" link beneath the "Settings" tab.
 Click the "New Post" tab and enter your title and the body of your blog. You can also add photos, videos or links by using the appropriate buttons. When you're done, click "Publish Post."

, You can promote your blog on your personal social media accounts or on your business accounts.


Most blog hosting sites will automatically publish a link to your newest blog post on Facebook or Twitter. Look for sharing settings or buttons when you publish your post. For instance, WordPress lets you control sharing by going to your Dashboard and clicking "Sharing" under the "Settings" tab. Blogger has social media buttons on the bottom of your post for sharing.
Add buttons to your posts. Your readers can click these ready-made buttons to share your blog on their Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr or other accounts.
 Add an "About Me" page on WordPress or click "Layout" and then "Edit" under "About Me" on Blogger. Promote your expertise related to your topic as well as including any personal information or background information that you want to share.
 You can add a Blogger site to Blogger's listings. You can also list your blog with directories like Technorati or Blogdex.
 If another blogger "Likes" your site, then go to his or her site and either "Like" a post or follow the blog. Also, comment regularly on other people's blogs. People will get to know you from your comments and will come to appreciate your expertise.
 You can also add the address to your business cards.
 If your blog is full of grammatical errors or looks unattractive, you aren't going to draw regular visitors. You also need to make sure that you publish regularly so that your content is up-to-date and fresh for your readers.

