 There are many different types of nerds and knowing her type is one of the most important things you can do. (A fuller explanation is found at the base of this article.) She can be a one or more of the following:


If she's wearing a black shirt with neon accessories, and listening to techno or playing the Tetris theme on her instrument, maybe she's a techie.
If she has on a shirt that says "Roll for initiative" on it and refers to herself as "Adora" the Eladrin Paladin devoted to the Raven Queen, then she's a roleplayer.
If she dresses in pleated skirts and is fluent in Japanese and likes to rave about Soul Eater, Death Note, or Naruto, then she is an anime fangirl, otherwise known as an 'otaku' or 'weeaboo'.
If she spends all day and night working on or planning out her science project then she is a science nerd.
If she is overexcited about resurrecting her old video game platform and spends her free periods playing video games, then she is a gamer.
If she is a math whiz and is the top "Mathlete" then she's a math nerd.
If she is always seen reading or carrying a book or two, she's obviously a bookworm.
 Now that you know what she's interested in, look up some of the things she likes:


If she's a techie, look up Benny Benassi's "Satisfaction", and "Able to Love".
If she's a role-player, get a free trial! in WoW or some other MMORPG (Massively Multiplayer Online Role-playing Game) such as Star Wars The Old Republic or Runescape, and see how you like it.
If she's a fan girl, figure out which anime she raves about most and watch an episode or two online.
If she's a science nerd, learn a little bit about the Schroedinger's Cat Paradox.
If she's a gamer, try playing a few video games.
If she's a math nerd, brush up on your math skills.
If she's a bookworm, make reading a hobby. If she sees a book in your hands, she would look your way to see what you're reading and even ask how the book is. Also, you may want to try to figure out what her taste in books are.
 Wave at her in the hallway or nod to her when she sits down in your physics class (or your after school biology tutorial). Just make her know your face so if she sees you, it might click in her head "Ooh it's that guy!"

, You can do it. All it takes is one two-letter word: "Hi". Maybe you want to say something else, for instance, "I couldn't help noticing your..." (but please don't say anything perverted!).
 If you aren't familiar with the game Dungeons and Dragons, rolling for initiative is when everybody rolls their d20 (20 sided dice) and the person with the highest roll goes first. Wait for her to say something. If she just smiles shyly at you, take the initiative and say "What's up?"

, Maybe she's an optimist (in which case, try not to be a Debbie Downer), perhaps she's cynical towards the human race (try not to anger her too much, and instead get on her good side), or it's possible she's a thoughtful person with an open mind, but it's also possible she's arrogant and snobbish. If you learn what kind of person she is, getting on her "good side" is a lot easier.
 Recently, Facebook has become popular even amongst the nerd community. On Facebook you can use the chat application on your web browser for casual conversation and you can look at her info (just don’t be a Facebook stalker) to find out a little bit more on what she likes. You could also follow her on Twitter.
 If she doesn’t have a cell phone, ask for her email address or her Play Station or Xbox Live names. Find some way to contact her, even if it’s through the post.
 It’s always nice to see one more follower on a personal blog. It shows her that you're interested in what she has to say. Comment on her posts, and rate them (if she has the option). If you have a Facebook or Twitter account, post her posts on your wall, and give her some "link love". She will especially love these kind actions if she's a computer geek, or is your friend on Facebook.
 Whether you act flirty with a few geeky pickup lines ("I'm a fermata, hold me!") or you tell an elaborate joke about the last episode of Doctor Who, being funny is definitely one of the best ways to find your way into a girl's heart.
 Do anything to get involved in her life.
 As mentioned above, there are many types of nerd girls. Some of them might be a mixture of these types or they might be their own type all together, but the following types represent the most common:

The techie, otherwise known as the computer geek: is in love with everything technology. Often, they listen to techno music, but not every techie does. They nearly always know how to code, and have their own website and/or blog. They usually have a knack for little gadgets and enjoy getting the latest model of their favorite phone platform. Techies are usually gamers as well. The best way to relate to a techie is to learn a little bit of html (it's not too hard), listen to techno, and to join a forum or chat-room that you particularly enjoy.
The sci-fi nerd: loves Star trek, Star Wars, Doctor Who, Battlestar Galactica, Stargate, and everything science fiction. They might nerd-rage over which science fiction series is better, what the best season is, and whether the first 3 Star Wars films made (IV-VI) are better than the last 3 (I-III).
The comic book junkie: spends all of her time in the local comic book store, reading the latest issues of their favorite series. They either have gone, or are planning to go to Comic-Con dressed as their favorite characters, and have a knack for keeping the pages of their comics flat and straight, as if freshly printed for years. Take these girls out to the comic book store (yes, the good one) and allow her to rant about the inaccuracies of the latest Marvel film.
The film geek: loves movies, especially from the 30's to the 60's. They love to make movies, write scripts, star in home-movies, and have probably even entered theirs into a film contest. These girls would gladly go to the movie theatre with you, but don't be surprised if she pays more attention to the movie than to you.
The theatre geek: is usually obsessed with being on Broadway and being an individual. They are often theatrical and loud, even off the stage, and love making a grand entrance. Usually, they can sing, and will often break into song while doing the dishes. Take these girls to see a theatre production such as The Rocky Horror Show.
The science nerd: seems to spend all of her time working on her science projects and learning quantum mechanics or marine biology. They love to learn new things. Take these girls to an aquarium or a museum.
The mathlete: is quick-witted and skilled with numbers. She loves to stimulate her mind with long equations and impossible-to-do problems. It's hard to find an ideal date for a girl like this, but dinner and a movie would definitely be a good idea, perhaps finishing off the date with a stimulating game of chess. Or you could take her to a math conference and hear some thought-provoking lectures on algebraic K-theory or partial differential equations.
The bookworm: is smart and clever. She has a passion for knowledge, and her mind is filled with a lot of trivia information from all that reading. If you want to "accidentally" run into her, your best bet is going to the library or the bookstore. And of course, if you manage to get her to go on a date with you, always include going to a bookstore somewhere in the arrangement. So, you could go have dinner and then go to the bookstore to browse books together. Or before a movie starts, give ample time to go to the bookstore together.
The role-player: spends all day playing World of Warcraft and might play Dungeons & Dragons or another RPG with a group of people once a month or so. They live in a fantasy world, and sometimes take it to the extreme, doing things such as live action roleplays, otherwise known as LARPing. Take this girl to the renaissance fair.
The fan girl or otaku: loves all things anime, and often cosplay (roleplay with costumes) as their favorite characters. Usually obsessed and ready to glomp every Mello or Naruto they find at a convention, these girls are super happy and friendly (for the most part). Take these girls to an anime convention and buy them lots of Japanese sweets.;
