 Vitamin C is an antioxidant all-star. It is thought to boost your white blood cells, antibodies, and interferon, all to prevent viruses from taking hold.However, more research is required to verify these claims.You don’t have to buy an expensive juicer. Just eat your citrus fruits and sometimes try to zest the peel for extra vitamin C.
Try to get 200 milligrams of vitamin C a day, easily acquired by meeting your daily requirement of at least 6 fruits and vegetables. You can also find vitamin C in broccoli, spinach, bell peppers, strawberries and raspberries, and more.Spread your vitamin C intake over the day or excess consumed in one go might be excreted into your urine.;
, Beta carotene is an antioxidant precursor to vitamin A found in fruits and vegetables that boosts your natural killer and fighter cells, strengthening immunity and possibly preventing and killing off cancer cells (via increase in the body’s natural tumour necrosis factor).Beta carotene and other carotenoids are found in richly colored orange and yellow fruits and vegetables such as cantaloupe, sweet potato, pumpkin, and carrots. Surprisingly though, it’s also in spinach. Eat at least five servings a day of fruits and vegetables to get a suggested minimum of 6 milligrams of beta carotene.Be moderate about your vitamin intake. Pure vitamin A can be toxic in high doses, but when derived from foods containing beta carotene, the body will only convert as much to vitamin A as it needs., The chemical allicin and sulphur-containing compounds in garlic seem to be the key components to support your health. Garlic boosts white cells, antibodies, and killer cells. The more raw or cooked garlic you eat, the better – research shows that there was a 30% reduction in risk of colon cancer for people who ate raw or cooked vs. garlic supplements.There is no recommended amount of garlic to eat and you cannot get garlic toxicity. Your breath may suffer, however!
Garlic is also an antioxidant and gets rid of those free radicals that promote aging.
 Zinc is a mineral that has immunity boosting properties because it increases the production and strength of your white blood cells and killer cells.Zinc can be found in foods such as zinc-fortified cereals, beans, beef, dairy, dark meat-turkey, oysters, and crab meat.
Too much zinc, over 75 milligrams a day, can actually weaken your immune system. Getting 15-25 milligrams a day is enough.
 Selenium is a mineral found in many foods that increases your killer cells and boosts your immune system. Selenium is an even more potent antioxidant when combined with vitamin E.Fish and seafood, plants, whole grains, brown rice, garlic, and many more foods contain selenium. About 55 micrograms a day is all the selenium you need. Taking too much selenium can actually increase your risk of diabetes and selenium supplements are therefore not advised., Fatty fish such as salmon and tuna, algae and krill, some plants, and some nut oils are great sources of the omega-3 fatty acids that promote white blood cell activity, heart health, brain functioning, gastrointestinal health, and more.Omega-3 fatty acids are comprised of EPA, DHA, and ALA – three types of acids. EPA and DHA come from fish, krill, and algae, whereas ALA comes from some plants, such as flaxseed, soybeans and pumpkin seeds, and some nuts, such as walnuts. EPA and DHA sources are more readily used in the body, whereas ALA needs to be converted in the body to EPA and DHA and this conversion does not happen easily.Adults are generally recommended to have two servings of fish a week to get their necessary omega-3s. Your doctor may advise you to take more if you have high blood pressure or cholesterol but a general rule is no more than three grams per day. If you get your omega-3 via oils or in supplements, take additional vitamin E to supplement it., Eating natural food has so many advantages, and boosting your immunity is one of them. Avoid nutrient-poor foods such as processed, refined, and fried food full of excess sugar, fat, and salt.Eating natural, non-processed (or minimally processed) foods also increases your bioflavonoids which help the immune system by blocking environmental toxins from parking on your cells. Getting your nine servings of fruits and vegetables a day ensures you get a healthy dose of bioflavonoids., Give your baby the best start with immunity passed on directly from you. Called "passive maternal natural immunity," your baby receives a dose of your antibodies, immune factors, and white blood cells every time you breastfeed.Breastfeeding also supports the growth of healthy gut bacteria, also essential in a strong immune system.
The immunity you pass on to your baby supports the building blocks of lifelong immunity.