 One way that people give into their anxiety is getting trapped in their heads and thinking about worst-case scenarios or situations that are not real. Be present on your date by staying in the moment. Staying in the moment can help keep you focused on the person in front of you, which can help you stay calm.Tell yourself, "I'm going to enjoy this moment and not listen to my thoughts." Thoughts are not reality, and they keep you away from the moment. Pushing your thoughts aside can help you enjoy your date.
Focus on what is going on around you. Don't think, "My date doesn't like me." Instead, pay attention to your date and interact with them. They probably like you quite a bit since they agreed to go on the date in the first place.
 Don’t forget that your date likes you, too. They agreed to go on a date with you, so that means you both already have some kind of mutual attraction. Consider why you like this person. Are they physically attractive? Or do you think they have a nice personality?


It doesn't matter why you like them. Remember that going out with the person you like is an exciting and happy moment.
 If you look at your date as someone you don't know well, you may get nervous and won't be able to just be yourself. Talk to your date as you would a friend. Playfully tease them as you might your friends, tell silly stories, and don't be afraid to show off your wonderful personality.Treating them as someone you want to be around, and who wants to be around you, can help you feel more at ease. Not focusing on the romantic pressure can also help you act more natural.
 Almost everyone who goes on a first date is nervous. That means you’re not the only one nervous on this date. Sometimes, reminding yourself that the other person is just as nervous can help calm you down and help you enjoy yourself., Some people think that they need to fill up every silence because silences make them nervous. They may also think that silences mean awkwardness and that the date isn’t going well. Two people who don’t know each other that well are going to naturally experience a few silences, so don’t get freaked out by them. Instead, give your date an opportunity to talk.If your date isn’t doing much talking, ask them a question. The question can build off something you know they’re interested in or something you were talking about earlier.
 You may start getting stressed out because you think that your date doesn’t like you. Because you’re nervous, you may come up with worst case scenarios in your head. Making up scenarios just causes more stress, and many times, it’s not even true. Try to stay calm by not jumping to conclusions.You can’t read your date’s mind. Remember, they agreed to go on the date with you and a few awkward moments doesn’t mean the date is going badly. Just enjoy the date and keep the made up scenarios to a minimum.
 Taking deep breaths can have a calming effect on your body. Before and during your date, you can try some deep breathing exercises to calm down so you can enjoy yourself.Take a deep breath through your nose and hold for a count of five or six. Then breathe out through your mouth for a count of around seven. Try to repeat 10 times.

