 If you want to drill a water well, then you will probably need to contact your state’s Department of Water Resources or an equivalent agency.To find the right agency, type “your state” and “water well drilling permit” into a search engine.


If you want to drill to gain access to oil or gas, then you will probably need to contact your state’s Oil and Gas Commission, Department of Environmental Conservation, or equivalent office.To find the appropriate office, type “your state” and “oil and gas permit” into your favorite search engine.
In some states, such as California, you need to contact a district office. You can find the correct contact by searching your state’s Department of Conservation website.;
, You can make the process of getting a permit easier by contacting your state’s administrator in charge of drilling.See if you can find a phone number or email address. This person could help you with the application process.
 You might have the option of applying for a drilling permit online. If so, the state probably wants you to complete a form to register your company for an online ID. In Texas, for example, you need to complete the Security Administrator Designation for Electronic Filing form. The form will ask for the following information:company information, such as name, mailing address, phone number, and email address
the name of your security administrator, including contact information
an initial one-time use password (between 6-30 characters, which may include numbers, letters, and special characters, e.g., #, @, etc.)
your signature

, If you are trying to obtain a drilling permit for oil and gas, then make sure that you have an oil and gas lease first.You will need lease information, such as the physical boundaries of the leasehold, in order to fill out your application.
 In Texas, for example, you can apply for a drilling permit by logging onto their system. Use the username and password issued by the relevant state agency., On the Texas website, click on the “Drilling Permits” link and then specify that you are applying for a new permit. Each state will ask different information as part of its permitting process. At the Texas website, you will be asked for the following information:purpose of the filing
wellbore profile
lease name
well number
total vertical depth
county where you will drill
GPS coordinate information

, Some states will allow you to apply for a drilling permit by completing a paper application. In New York, for example, you can download a permit application and instructions from the website of the Department of Environmental Conservation.Contact the appropriate department and ask if a paper application is available. Also check the website.
 You should enter the requested information neatly, preferably using a typewriter. If you can download the application as a PDF, then you can often enter the information directly and then save the document. Each state’s application will differ, but you generally will be asked for the following:type of well (new or existing)
your planned operation (drill the well, deepen a current well, etc.)
owner’s name and business address
the location of the well, including county and town
proposed spacing data
proposed well data
data on proposed casing and cementing
your signature

, You might need to submit additional documents along with your application. Check the application instructions. For example, you may need to provide:copies of a plat (survey map) certified by a land surveyor or professional engineer which shows the proposed well location and the boundaries of the lease or unit
spacing unit map
proposed drilling program
an environmental assessment form
other documents

, If you have difficulty completing your permit application, then you should contact the agency for assistance. Visit their website to find an email or direct telephone number that you can call.
 Your application will probably not be processed without paying the required fees ahead of time. If you applied for the drilling permit online, then you should be able to pay online using a credit or debit card., If you are completing a paper application, then you should make a copy of the completed application for your records. Then assemble all documents—the application, supporting documents, check or money order, etc.


The address should be listed on the application.If not, then contact your state agency and ask where to submit your completed application.
 Agency staff should review your submission and contact you if anything is missing. Once you have supplied all necessary information, you will be notified of your approval. The agency may contact you by email or by mail.Don’t start drilling without the permit. You could be fined if you do.

