 Writing down specific and realistic goals is a great way to stay motivated and keep on track. It's also a great visual to see your progress!


Come up with smaller goals that will help you reach your larger long-term goal. This may make the process seem less overwhelming than contemplating a large weight-loss goal.
Purchase a scale or other items you need to help monitor and track your goals.
Make a chart or record where you can record your progress - how much weight you've lost or how many days you've stayed true to your eating plan.
 Journals are a great way to de-stress, vent and track your progress. You can take notes about your food choices, how much weight you've lost and any struggles you've been facing.This is also a good place to journal about living with PCOS, the frustrations it brings and how it affects your weight or mood.


Don't feel pressured to journal everyday. But it's a good idea to jot down your weight every time you get on the scale so you can see your progress.
Buy a journal that's pretty and attractive. This can help make it more fun and enjoyable to open up your journal and write.
Don't feel the need to write pages and pages. If you only have a few words to say, thats OK!

, After you meet one of your goals, reward yourself! Small fun rewards can help motivate you and encourage to keep on going toward your end goal.Do not reward yourself with food. Treats or dinners out can force you off your healthy eating path and may even cause some weight gain.Choose rewards that you'd truly enjoy or are something you really want. Maybe you buy that new pair of shoes or a new shirt.
Try rewarding yourself with activities that keep you active. For example scheduling a kayaking lesson or playing a round of golf at your favorite course.
Other good rewards are activities that are calming and de-stressing. You might try scheduling a massage or getting a manicure and pedicure.
 Being accountable for your goals can help make sure you stay on track - especially when you know someone else is paying attention.


Tell a friend, family member or your doctor about your weight loss and diet goals. Ask to do a weekly check-in to help monitor your progress.
Stay accountable with yourself too. Getting on the scale regularly, keeping up-to-date with your food journal or watching your insulin levels are great ways to stay accountable as you reach your goals.

