 Consider reading the Kojiki. Learn about famous kami such as Izanagi and Susanoo and jinja (shrines) such as Ise and Yasukuni. Also read articles or books written by both western and eastern scholars. You might also want to read up on State Shinto.;
, This is not vital, but it would be immensely helpful in learning about shinto as many texts are only available  in japanese or have the more accurate versions in japanese

,, If you are not in Hawaii or Japan, you might have some difficulty doing this. There are temples in America and one foundation in the Netherlands as well

, Often Japanese people go back to their hometown for New Year's, so a Shrine with some connection to your birth or family would be good.
 Your local shrine will have festivals specifically sacred to their kami, so find out what they are. Common Shinto holy days are Hinamatsuri (Girl's Day), Hanami (Cherry Blossom Viewing), and of course Shogatsu (New Year's). If you have no Shinto shrine, consider organizing a celebration to celebrate these days. On New Year's, make kagami mochi, play karuta, and hang a New Year's wreath.
 A kamidana is a small home shrine. If you cannot find one, consider setting up a simple sacred place in your home. Remember to worship in front of the kamidana everyday.
 You might also want amulets or other charms to protect you from demons and bring you luck through the year. Omuji are fortunes which include a small charm to keep in your wallet. A hamaya (demonbreaking arrow) will keep bad fortune at bay. You might get a Maneki Neko (Lucky Cat) to encourage wealth and other good fortune to come your way. Or you might want one or more omamori (small brocade amulet) for Kōtsū Anzen (car safety) or Gakugyō Jōju (School Success).
 Consider trying to help with yard work or cleaning. Becoming involved in the going ons at the shrine will help you deepen your understanding of Shinto. Make friends with the miko (priestess) and kannushi (priests).
 Gagaku is traditional Japanese court music. Consider playing the ryūteki (flute), shō (oboe), or hichiriki (mouth organ). See if your school offers any classes in it.
 Shinto dancers often dress in a white kimono, red hakama, with a sheer white coat. Often, a sakaki branch adorned with shide (strips of folded white paper) is used in dances.
 Shinto is inseparable from Japanese culture. Learning about one will enhance the other.

