 If you cannot turn on your iPad, you may need to enable recovery mode. If have not backed up your iPad onto a computer, recovery mode will revert your iPad back to its factory settings. Be careful, this will erase all of the music, apps, and files on your iPad. , Use your personal computer with iTunes or borrow a computer that has iTunes. Backing up your current data onto your computer will enable you to restore your content to your iPad after you restore your iPad.


Plug your iPad into a computer, and open iTunes on your computer.
Transfer your Apple store or iTunes purchases. In iTunes, click on File. If you do not see the File tab, press the Alt key on your keyboard. In the drop-down menu, select Devices and then click on Transfer Purchases.
 Open the files of your iPad in My Computer, and download any other data you want to transfer, onto the computer. This could include pictures, downloads, files, etc.. Open a folder under My Computer and name it. Move your files into this folder.
 Once you have finished transferring the files to your computer, back the iPad up, officially. Click File, then click Devices, and finally, click Backup. Follow the prompts as they lead you through the backup process.


If your computer doesn’t display File, press the Alt key on your laptop. It will open File.
 After the process ends, go to iTunes Preferences under settings. Go to Devices. The log for your backup should appear there along with the date and time of your backup.
 Do this before you enable recovery mode. To do this, first update the latest version of iTunes onto your computer.
 If you do not have the latest version, you will need to go through a few quick steps below. If you are unsure whether you have the latest version, update, going through these steps will not hurt your iPad.


On Mac open your iTunes. Go to the menu bar at the top of the screen, and select iTunes. Click on Check for Updates. Follow the prompts as your computer updates iTunes.
On Windows open your iTunes. If the menu bar does not appear in iTunes, hold the Control and B keys to open the menu bar. Click on “Help” and then “Check for Updates”. Follow all of the prompts, to update your iTunes.
 Connect your iPad to your the computer with the iTunes updated. If your iPad is already connected, keep it connected.


Select your iPad device on the iTunes that is on your computer. Your device will appear on the left of the iTunes window.
Click on Check for Update in the window that pops up. This option will appear in the summary window for your iPad.
Click on Download and Update to update your iPad.
If you have too much content on your iPad to download the latest update, delete content from your iPad. Then go through the steps again, and download the iOS software update.
 Connect your iPad to your computer. Open iTunes and select your device. Your iPad will be located in the left hand pane of the window. You may need to scroll down to select your iPad.


If you have iOS 6 or later, turn off Find My Phone before you restore. Go to “Settings” on your iPad and click on iCloud. Turn off Find My Phone.
Click Restore in the summary window. Click on Restore, again, to confirm your decision.
 Once your iPad is restored to the factory settings and has updated the latest iOS software, you will go through the same steps to set up your iPad that you completed when it was new. Follow the prompts, and you will be able to set up your iPad as new or with a previous backup.


If you have trouble going through the process of restoring your iPad, contact Apple support. They will help you troubleshoot through the problem. 