 This might sound easy, but Drill Sergeants will deliver many commands to you in a short time period. Naval Sea Cadets, JROTC or Civil Air Patrol can help if you are in high school. Also, when you first meet your Drill Sergeants, there will be a lot of activity around you. Some recruits will be doing push-ups and others will be running in place. Make sure you are only listening to your Drill Sergeant and not other recruits. Some recruits pretend like they know what the Drill Sergeant wants and will command other recruits to follow them. Do not listen to them, only listen to your Drill Sergeant.;
, If your Drill Sergeant asks your rank, don’t whisper your rank. Instead, take a quick deep breath and let your answer "explode". Drill Sergeants like motivation and confidence; it exemplifies a person’s strength.
 Drill Sergeants are going to give you tasks that are designed for you to fail. When you fail, you feel broken, and when you feel broken, they are able to build you up again. Essentially they are breaking down your civilian attitude and building you into a soldier. That doesn’t come easy, at least in the U.S military. Even if you're facing the ground about to accomplish what seems to be your 500th push-up, continue on and sound motivated.
 If you are about to leave for basic training, all of this advice might scare you- do not let that happen. Boot camp/basic training is a jarring experience, but not a long one. Completing your basic training will fill you with a well-deserved sense of accomplishment.
 They are charged with turning you from an individual citizen into a member of your country's fighting forces. Drill Sergeants themselves go through a rigorous training program just to become Drill Sergeants. They already have been broken down many more times than you will ever be in basic training, so they know what it feels like.
 If a Drill Sergeant does his job right, you will leave basic training without ever knowing if he liked you or not. Do not get on a Drill Sergeant's bad side. He will turn your own recruits against you. Without your fellow recruits to help you through basic training, your next couple months are going to be lonely.
 This should be blatantly obvious. You don't want the punishment you would have coming to you, no matter how fun it looks.
