 When parrots become extremely stressed out, they will break or pull out their feathers. This stress coping method can leave your parrot open to infection and can cause dangerous amounts of blood loss. If you notice any feather plucking, visit your veterinarian to learn the causes and to discover how you can put an end to it.


Some cases of feather plucking can turn into self mutilation if left unchecked.
Causes for feather plucking can vary greatly from case to case. You'll need to work with your veterinarian to learn more about your bird's unique situation.;
, Birds who are stressed out may suffer from lowered levels of energy and activity. If you notice your bird sleeping more than it used to or moving less overall, it may indicate a high level of stress. Try removing any stressful situations to help your bird relax and regain its energy levels.Your bird also may show signs of being afraid or cowering.
Stress can cause your parrot to become withdrawn, avoiding contact with you or other birds.
 There are a few movements and motions that your parrot may exhibit while stressed out. These behaviors can indicate that your parrot is trying to release some nervous energy or signal that something is wrong. Try looking for some of these behaviors to learn if your parrot may be stressed:Standing on one leg and biting the nails of the other foot can be a sign of stress.
If your parrot is moving its head in a figure-eight pattern, it may be stressed out.
Any kind of rocking or pacing can indicate high levels of stress.
 If your parrot is feeling stressed, it may stop eating as much as it normally does. It's a good idea to keep an eye on how much your parrot regularly eats to allow you to detect any changes. If your parrot is eating less, it may be a sign that you will need to discover what's disturbing it and remove it.Lowered levels of appetite can also indicate other health issues. Talk with your veterinarian if you notice your bird eating less.
Removing sources of stress should restore your bird's normal appetite.
 If your parrot is acting in an aggressive manner, it may be due to stress. When a parrot is stressed, it may lash out, biting or hissing at you when you try to interact with it. Try to keep an eye out for these signs of aggression to learn if your parrot may be under stress:Holding its feathers close to its body and having wide eyes can be signs of aggression in your bird.
Lunging and biting are both clear signs of aggression.
Hissing is a sign of aggression and defensiveness.

