 Making a smooth case is difficult with hot glue, so most people choose to do patterns, such as swirls or mandalas. You can free-hand the pattern, or you can trace it. If you want to trace it, do the following:Trace your phone onto a sheet of paper.
Draw your pattern using a black marker. Make sure the design touches the sides.
Cut out the template along the outline.
Tape the template to the back of your phone.;
, Cut a sheet of parchment paper that's about twice the size of your phone. Place your phone on top, with the screen facing up. Wrap the paper over the side edges of your phone, then secure them with a piece of tape. Wrap the top and bottom edges, and secure them with tape as well.Wrap your phone as tightly as you can.
Make sure that you are taping everything on the front of the phone.
 These will be your guidelines so that you don't accidentally cover them with hot glue.Make sure that the color you use shows up against your phone.
 This also includes the speaker and mic holes as well. If you cover them up, you don't be able to use your phone properly., Make sure that you make them nice and thick. Also, make sure that you avoid the buttons and sockets., Again, hot glue is not the best medium to create a perfectly smooth case, so your best bet is to make a texture of pattern. Whichever you choose, make sure that all the lines connect to the sides of the phone as well as to each other., You can simply draw a thin line around the front of the phone, right next to the side edge. You can also make a series of tiny dots instead. This will give your case a lip and help it stay on your phone., Once the glue has hardened, peel it off of your phone. Remove the parchment paper from the phone next. At this point, it would be a good idea to test the case on the phone. If there is any glue covering a button, socket, etc., then you can cut it away with a craft blade., Once you are happy with the case, take it off of the phone. Paint the outside with nail polish, then let the polish dry.If you want the case to be a solid color, you can use spray paint instead.