 This is crucial. Titans is an "expansion pack" to the game Age of Mythology. Without Age of Mythology installed, Titans can't be played.


If you don't have the Age of Mythology disc, you have a few options. The easiest is probably to buy and download the "Extended Edition" (which includes the base game and the expansion pack) online via Steam. See the section below for help with this. You can also try ordering the disc on online retailers like Amazon, etc. However, since the game is over a decade old, availability may be limited.;
, An autorun window should automatically pop up. Click on the "Next" button.


If you do not have Autorun turned on or you are using a newer computer, this may not load automatically. In this case, you can try manually running the setup.exe found on the CD. You'll need to browse the CD files with Windows Explorer or your computer's equivalent program.
 This is where the game will be installed on your computer's hard drive. Ideally, this should be in the same directory where the original game was installed.


The default option is almost always the easiest, best choice. Only pick a different folder if you know what you're doing.
 Like many games from its era, Titans can require a CD key to validate your copy. This is displayed on the jewel case and/or the original packaging. It is a 25-digit code made of letters and numbers and separated by hyphens, like this: XXXXX - XXXXX - XXXXX - XXXXX - XXXXX.


If you don't have the CD key for your copy of the game, all is not lost. It isn't hard to find so-called "public" CD keys with a simple search in your preferred search engine. This isn't strictly legal, so we won't link to any here, but the game is so old that there is very little interest for the sellers to police this unauthorized usage.
Only one copy of each game registered to the same CD key can play online at once.
 Follow the rest of the prompts. Agree to the license agreement. The game will begin to install. It should finish within a few minutes.


If you are asked whether you would like to give the installation program permission to modify your computer, select "Yes."

, Once the installation process is complete, you should be able to run the game from your list of programs or the desktop shortcut. You may need to keep the CD in the drive to do this.


Getting older games to run on modern computers can sometimes be quite difficult. If Titans does not run, see "Getting AoM:tT to Work on New Computers" below.

