 Identifying where you observe redness can help you determine the most likely cause. Some forms of arthritis more commonly affect multiple joints, while others often start in one joint.

For example, while it can affect any joint, gout usually develops first in the big toe. Redness, swelling, and sudden, severe pain are symptoms of this form of arthritis, which is caused by the buildup of uric acid crystals.Symmetrical redness, with or without pain, swelling, or stiffness, is most often seen in RA. Symmetrical means that symptoms affect both sides of the body, like experiencing redness and pain in both wrists., Osteoarthritis (OA) is usually due to wear or tear over time, injury, or both. It most commonly affects the lower back, hips, knees, and feet, and usually involves joint stiffness.If you experience redness and stiffness in a joint you’ve recently injured or have used a lot over time, you might be experiencing OA. Symptoms are usually intermittent, or on and off, and occur gradually or after using the joint.
Other forms of arthritis are not directly related to joint use or injury and can occur spontaneously at any age., Symptoms of different joint conditions develop at various rates. Sudden redness and pain that’s so severe the joint cannot be moved are more often associated with gout or infection-related septic arthritis.Redness, warmth, or stiffness in the morning that lasts at least 30 minutes but goes away with activity may indicate RA.Redness and stiffness that occur after using the joint or in the morning for less than 30 minutes and gets worse with activity are usually associated with OA., Redness and pain in one joint accompanied by fever are symptoms of infection-related septic arthritis. Though less common, chills can often accompany fever. You should visit a doctor promptly if you develop these symptoms, as delay could result in permanent joint damage or allow the infection to spread to other parts of your body.Treatment will depend on the results of blood and joint fluid cultures. Septic arthritis is typically due to bacterial infections, such as staphylococcus, which are treated with antibiotics.  

