 There are so many to choose from! Basketball, softball, football, volleyball, soccer, lacrosse, rowing, field hockey, and tennis are the 'ball' sports. Then you have others like swimming, figure skating, dance, cheerleading, and badminton. Choose at least 3 sports that fit your interests. Keep in mind sports like skating, dance, or cheerleading, people tend to see as 'easy' so be prepared to defend yourself from people who think that.;
, Go to your local gym, ice rink, or dance studio and test your skills.
 Get good at the sport with the help of a coach.
 This step is vital! Do not skip it!

, Can you make Varsity? Can you win that medal or that trophy? We shall see.
 While some people might wish to confine what a sporty girl looks like, defining what it means to you matters most. Most importantly, aim to look healthy, fresh, and active. This could be interpreted in as many ways as you like.


Beware any advice that proscribes the colors, the styles, and the exact brands you must wear to be sporty. This is confining and is simply someone's opinion. Equally, all the advice offered here is just that––advice, and you are in charge of picking and rejecting whatever you prefer from it.
 For example, a sweatsuit with a label on it, a shapely tennis dress, cute tennis shoes, and a matching headband.
 This might include dangling items, fiddly things such as sequins that take forever to wash, and high heels. Of course, special occasions are an exemption, and you can wear the more finicky things for those.


Baggy clothing doesn't come across as very sporty.
Pink is fine. Colors are totally your choice.
 Sporty girls don't like to be restricted when moving, so choose fabrics and style cuts that allow for full movement, stretching, and running.
 Stuck for ideas? Here are some ideas other readers have suggested:


Pick a team jersey. Pair sporty pants with it.
Fitted shorts like Soffe, paired with a tee-shirt/Old Team jersey.
Try baggier basketball shorts with a fitted graphic tee/fitted tank top.
If it's colder out, try jeans/yoga pants/sweat pants with a graphic tee, or printed shirt. Hoodies make a good addition.
Get autographed t-shirts and caps by team players.
 Shoes should support your feet well, sporty or not. If you like to run, choose runners. If you like a variety of activities, choose cross-trainers. If you like the beach, choose sand shoes, flip flops, or sandals. Other suggestions from readers include:


Cleats for sports.
Regular sneakers in a variety of colors; remember, black goes with everything, white stains very easily.
Brand shoes, if that's your thing.
Athletic sneakers.
 Sporty girls visit the pool to swim, not play or lie around tanning. Get a one piece that is meant for proper swimming.
 For example, wear a messy, bumpy ponytail secured with rainbow elastics. For a good impression, let your hair down once every six months and straighten it. You'll get tons of compliments on your hair.


A simple ponytail with a headband is an easy and fresh look for the sporty girl.
 Sometimes fun nails are okay, but no French manicures or other nail art that will hamper your activities. But crazy stuff like lime green and navy blue on your toes, then purple and orange on your fingers are cute and playful, provided you don't mind constant retouches.
 You can practice sporty things together. However, don't neglect your other side either; a few musical, intellectual, and dramatic friends are a good choice for the friendship mix too.
 Good friends will accommodate your new sporty lifestyle, maybe even embrace it themselves.
 This helps your body to sweat more efficiently, to stay energized and to ensure that you don't overheat.
 Eat plenty of good, unprocessed foods suitable to your body type. See a dietitian or nutritionist if you don't know how to eat optimally; or talk to a teacher who specializes in health studies or your parents for more ideas.
 If you get injured, in any way, make sure to take at least a day's rest, or you could hurt yourself more.

