 Turn the oven on to 350 degrees F (176 C). Get out a medium saucepan and place 1 cup (226 g) of butter in it. Chop 6 ounces (170 g) of unsweetened chocolate into chunks and add it to the saucepan. Melt the butter with the chocolate over low heat. Turn off the heat as soon as the chocolate is melted and transfer the mixture to a large mixing bowl.Stir the butter and chocolate occasionally to help the chocolate melt.;
, Place a large sheet of aluminum foil into a 15x10-inch (38x26-cm) baking pan. Spray the foil with cooking spray and set it aside. Stir 2 cups (400 g) of sugar into the melted butter and chocolate mixture.The foil should reach up and over the sides of the pan. This will make it easier to lift out the baked brownies.
 Get out 4 eggs and crack one into the brownie batter. Use a wooden spoon to beat the egg into the batter until it's incorporated. Add the remaining 3 eggs one at a time. Once the eggs are combined, stir in 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract.If you want to use a hand mixer, you can beat the eggs in one at a time on low speed.
 Measure 1 1/3 cups (166 g) of all-purpose flour and 1/2 teaspoon of baking soda into a small mixing bowl. Use a whisk to combine the flour and baking soda. Gradually stir this dry mixture into the wet brownie batter until the dry mixture is just combined. Stir in 1 cup (175 g) of miniature semisweet chocolate pieces.You can use purchased chocolate chips or chunk up your favorite semisweet baking chocolate.
 Scoop the brownie batter into the prepared baking pan and use a spatula to spread the brownie batter evenly. Try to ensure that chocolate chips are equally distributed across the pan. Bake the brownies for 18 to 20 minutes.The edges should start to pull away from the sides of the pan once the brownies have finished cooking.
 Lift the brownies out of the pan using the aluminum foil. Let them cool completely on a wire rack. To make the vanilla frosting, beat 1/3 cup (65 g) of shortening and 1 teaspoon of vanilla on medium speed using a hand mixer. Slowly beat in 3/4 cup (93 g) of powdered sugar on low speed and then add the remaining 3/4 cup (93 g) of powdered sugar. Stir in 2 teaspoons of milk.You may need to add more milk to thin the frosting in order to pipe it. Just add the milk 1 teaspoon at a time.
 Use a 3 to 4-inch (7.5 cm to 10 cm) football cutter to cut out football shapes from the brownies. You should be able to get 9 or 10 footballs from the tray of brownies. If you don't have a cookie cutter, you could use a knife to cut the brownies into rectangles. Trim each edge of the rectangle to make a football shape.You can discard the brownie scraps or mix them into ice cream.
 Get out a piping bag fitted with a small round tip and fill it with the vanilla frosting. Gently squeeze the frosting onto each brownie. To define each football, pipe a small vertical stripe near each end of the football and create the cross-hatched lines in the center of the ball. Let the frosted brownies set up before you serve them.If you don't have a piping bag, you can fill a food storage bag with frosting. Cut one end of the bag so you can carefully squeeze the frosting out of the hole.
 Once the frosting has hardened a little, you can serve them. Consider covering your serving plate with green candies or green flaked coconut. Set the frosted football brownies on the green candies or coconuts and serve the brownies.If you need to store the brownies, layer them between wax paper sheets in an airtight container. You can store the brownies for up to three days.

