 Image-word association works by relating an unknown term or concept to an image you are already familiar with. Associating the unfamiliar material with something you already know can help you to remember that material much more easily, especially if you are a very visual person. As a simple example, if you are trying to remember the term "dogma", try picturing a Golden Retriever every time you hear it! , An acronym is a word in which each individual letter stands for another word or term, making a list of words easier to remember. You can make your own acronyms by taking the first letter of a list of words or phrase and arranging them in such a way that they form another word that's easy to memorize. The best example of an acronym that is used in everyday speech is ASAP, which stands for "as soon as possible"., A mnemonic device works in a similar way to an acronym, except it is used to remember a list of words in a particular order and is usually in the form of a phrase rather than a single word. The phrase can be anything, as long as the first letter of each word in the phrase correlates with the first letter of each word or term you are trying to remember, and that they are listed in the exact same order.For example, some children use the phrase "Never Eat Soggy Worms" to remember the order in which directional terms appear on a compass. In this case, North = Never, East = Eat, South = Soggy, West = Worms., This method works similarly to explaining the subject you are studying to someone else, except it can be done on your own. After you have finished learning a particular subject and have written down all the relevant terms and definitions, try covering up your notes and rewriting everything by heart. When you are finished, look at your notes again and compare what your have written. If what you produced by heart is accurate, then you will know that you have a good grasp on the material.You probably used this method to learn how to spell your first words, by reading it, covering it up, then trying to write it out by yourself. Though it may simple, it is actually a very effective method of learning, even at college level., Instead of learning off boring, monotonous lists and facts, try turning your study material into an exciting and engaging story which you will easily be able to recall. Work descriptive facts, dates and locations, and certain key words into your story and write it down or recite it to yourself or others to commit it to memory., Analogies work by comparing and contrasting terms and ideas in such a way as to make them easy to remember. Using analogies is all about recognizing patterns and how those patterns can apply to a variety of things. There are different types of analogy - such as those which relate parts to a whole. For instance, a battery is to flashlight what an engine is to a car. Alternatively, you can have analogies which examine cause and effect. For instance, itching is to scratching what smoking is to cancer., Repetition is one of the most popular study methods. It involves going over information again and again - either through reading, writing or repeating aloud - until the information is fully absorbed. Repetition can be an effective study method, though it is usually necessary to test yourself to ensure that the information has actually been learned. You can read something a hundred times, but you still may not be able to reproduce what you read in an exam situation., While each of these methods has it merits, you will need to experiment a little to find a method which works for you. Also keep in mind that some methods work better for certain subjects than others - how you study math problems and formulas will be very different from how you study an English play.For example, repetition, acronyms and mnemonic devices work best for science subjects like biology, which involve learning lots of unusual and unfamiliar terms, whereas storytelling can be very helpful when studying for a history exam, as you can turn the facts surrounding a certain figure or event into a compelling and memorable tale.Try to choose a study method based on your particular strengths. If you're a quick learner, reciting information and learning lists might come easily to you, whereas if you're a more visual person, associating written material with charts and pictures may help you to retain information more easily.Remember that there is no one, correct way to study - do whatever works best for you.

