 Both demi- and grand-pliés refer to bending at the knees, and both can be done in all five ballet positions. The major difference between the two comes in the depth of the bend and how that has an effect on the placement of one’s heels.
 Once again, this example will use first position since it’s the most common training position for beginners.
 As with a demi-plié, a grand-plié requires you to bend at the knees; however, with a grand-plié you will not stop with your knees just slightly over your toes.
 Since you are bending further down at the knees in a grand-plié, your heels will naturally come off the ground.Even though the weight shifts to the forward parts of your feet entirely, your upper body should be perfectly straight, meaning your center of gravity should still feel as though you are standing with legs straight.The exceptions to this rule are when performing a grand-plié from second position. The wider stance of second position allows the dancer to descend fully while still maintaining floor contact with the heels of the feet., Once your heels come off the ground, you should have an easier time descending even lower in the grand-plié. Continue lowering as far as you can until your thighs are nearly horizontal and your knees are almost fully bent.As with a demi-plié, the upper body should be straight throughout the entire movement with the shoulders down, back straight, head up, tailbone dropped, and stomach tight., As with a demi-plié, you will return to your initial starting position—in this case first position. When rising, you once again want to use the feet and legs rather than simply the knees to straighten.


Push down with your raised heels to reconnect them with the floor as soon as possible in the rising motion., As with all ballet movements, every movement should be performed fluidly and gracefully without jerking. This can take practice.
 Once you feel comfortable performing grand-pliés from first position, you should begin practicing them from the other starting positions as well.

