 Your hair should be smooth and free of tangles when you begin to make the rope braid. Use a brush or comb to thoroughly brush any knots or tangles out of your hair. You can use a moisturizing cream to smooth your hair out if it is not complying.You can also dampen your hair with water to make it easier to put back in a ponytail and braid.;
, Grab any accessories that you think you will need while braiding your hair. You will need at least two hair ties to create the braid—one for the ponytail and one for the bottom of the braid. It will also be helpful to have a few bobby pins around to secure loose hair or bumps.You may also want to keep a spray bottle of water around if your hair is difficult to tame.
 You will start creating this style by putting your hair back into a ponytail. Brush it straight back at the crown of your head, gather your hair, and use a hair tie to secure the ponytail. You can also choose to do a middle part or lower ponytail if you prefer.
 Each section will need to be twisted individually before you twist them together. Take each section and twist your hair until you nearly reach the bottom of your ponytail. You will probably not be able to twist the ends of your hair. Twist both sections a half-turn clockwise or counterclockwise—the choice is up to you. 







, Wrap the right section around the left section one time. In other words, put the right section over the left section. Make sure you pass it in front of the left section--not behind it.
 Wrap the new right piece around the new left piece. You can do this by passing it in front of the new left piece again. Make sure you pull the sections apart each time you wrap to tighten the braid., Continue twisting the sections around each other. Do this until you begin to reach the bottom of your hair. It is better to leave some room at the bottom of your braid because the hair won’t braid as well towards the end.
 When have completed the braiding, use a hair tie to secure the end of the braid. A small, clear elastic band is ideal, but you can use any elastic that works best for you. Make sure that the braid is still in place before securing it.
 Look in the mirror to make sure you are satisfied with the braid. It shouldn’t be too loose or lumpy. Move around a bit to make sure that the braid will hold up throughout the day or evening.
 The braid may not hold well on its own. This is especially possible if you have very fine, straight hair. Use hairspray over the braid and wherever flyaway hairs may pop up. If your hair is secure, you can use a shine spray as a finishing touch.Avoiding using too much hairspray. Your hair will become stiff and brittle if you spray too much.
 Liven the look up by adding accessories to your hair. Put some things, like a cute headband, hair clips, colored hair ties, or pins into your hair. Personalize the braid so that it reflects your style., Once you’ve mastered the basic rope braid, experiment with it. There are several different styles you can create with a rope braid. You can make pigtail rope braid, French rope braid, or you can try to do one without putting your hair into a pony tail first.You can also twist the rope braid into a bun.

