 The United States is a huge country with so much to see, but you cannot see it all in one trip. So you have to choose where to go and when the best time of year will be to go there, For example, the northern route includes Washington State, New Hampshire, Ohio, Nebraska and Wyoming, and offers opportunities to visit Acadia National Park, Yellowstone National Park, Niagara Falls and Olympic National Park. The Southern route includes Florida, Alabama, New Orleans, and Texas, with visits to Carlsbad Caverns and Saguaro National Park as options.;
, This may be determined by the timeframe you have to travel in. Buy a map or go online and do research on which direction you want to go in, although this will be determined by factors such as what you plan on seeing and where you plan on staying.
 Allowing time to stretch and rejuvenate will make the overall trip more pleasant.
 Every state has something to offer, so make it a goal to take advantage of this opportunity.
 Make sure you print out copies of your reservations so that you are not fighting with a hotel or campground manager who lost your reservation.
 Purchasing books or printing out information on these different locations will make the visits more fulfilling. This may sound too restrictive for such a trip, but you cannot afford to be spontaneous on a journey across the states. Preparing in this fashion will ensure you see everything you want to see and will save you the time you want to spend enjoying yourself. And if you are traveling with children, you definitely want to be prepared.
 There is no reason to get lost in this day and age. Just make sure the software is up to date. You can set the GPS up for all your destinations and request that it searches for places to eat along the way.
 Let the mechanic know that you are planning a road trip across the US so that he is thorough. Additionally, consider bringing tools, spare tire and fan belt, and anything else you may need on your journey. What you bring will most likely be determined by the climates along the way. So make sure you know the weather in the states you will be visiting.
 You may need to store larger bags of snacks into smaller zip lock bags for the little ones so you can monitor how much they eat. Plan to stop at grocery stores along the way so you don't have to buy for the whole trip in one shopping spree. Keep the sugar snacks and drinks to a bare minimum. Last thing you want is your kids trying to climb the walls in a vehicle.
 You will need to bring a lot, but plan to do a lot of laundry. Obviously the type of clothing will depend on the weather, so make sure you know what you will be facing weather-wise. Decide how you would like to deal with dirty laundry. You can wash by hand as you go, stay in hotels with laundry facilities, or find Laundromats along the way.

