 Muddy spots or logs in the sun are great places to see frogs. Reedy banks with shallow water also play host to quite a few frogs.


If you hear splashes when you approach a body of water, it is likely to be frogs. Try to move as quietly as possible without disturbing any reeds, branches or the like around you.
Frogs learn to be afraid of humans. If an area of frogs get a lot of people trying to catch them, they will be very shy and elusive. It may be worth finding an area that may have frogs not used to chasing them. They will still jump away--they aren't stupid--but will be easier to catch.;
,


Choose a small mesh net which can handle your quarry. The holes in the net should be small enough that even the tiniest frog would not be able to fit his head through them. Nets with large holes (such as those used in fishing) can allow frogs to stick their heads or legs through, which in turn can injure the frog. Butterfly nets are typically too flimsy to be of much use.
The mouth of the net should be round and large enough to entirely cover a frog. The mouth can be flexible, as flexibility will allow you to pursue a frog around a rock or under a log.
The rod should fit your body size, or can be a little longer than you think is normal. Extra long rods, such as those used for most butterfly nets, are generally a little long for catching frogs. Shorter rods are easier to wield.
If you're catching a frog at night, try spotlighting. Shine a bright light at a frog or toad in the middle of the night. The frog will act like a deer caught in headlights, making it easier for you to catch it.
 The way you position yourself depends on the type of terrain your frog is located in. If it is on flat ground, you will want to position yourself so that you can bring your net down directly on top of the frog, making sure that it is firmly on the ground with no holes under the mouth of the net. This is the best way to catch a frog—if you are a beginner you should attempt to find frogs that are on flat ground.


If your frog is in the water, you will want to position yourself so that you can scoop the net up and under the frog.
If you are using your hands, you will want to position yourself so that you are behind the frog. Frogs have a relatively good range of vision but cannot really turn their heads to look behind. Because you will need a bit of extra time to sneak up on them when just using your hands, being behind them is the best position for you.
 The way you do this also depends on where your frog is sitting. If your frog is on the ground, you will have placed your net over the frog. If your frog was in the water, you will have swooped the net under the frog and up.


On the ground: Now that you have placed your net over the frog, you will want to reach your hand down and place your hands gently around the frog’s back and legs. Your hand should be placed so that you hold onto the frog’s hips, with the frog’s legs pointing straight out behind it. You can then lift the frog up so that is cradled in the netting and your hand.
In the water: Now that your frog is down at the bottom of the net, it will most likely want to jump out. Either transfer the frog directly to a bucket, or gently hold the frog by its hips, so that its legs are pointing straight out behind it.
If you are using your hands: Slowly and quietly lower your hand until you are close enough to gently grab the hips and back legs of the frogs. Do not squeeze too hard, even if you are excited, because this can really hurt your frog.
 Get the frog out of the net by gently transferring it to your other hand or placing it in a bucket. If you transfer it to your other hand, hold the frog in the same way, by holding its hips so that its legs are straight out. Allow it to rest its forearms and fingers on your other hand. Holding it this way will ensure that it does not jump out of your grasp and hurt itself in the process.


If you transfer the frog to a bucket, make sure that the bucket has high enough walls that the frog will not be able to jump out. You should also make sure to put a little water in the bucket, as well as some mud and a few reeds. Doing this will make this whole ordeal a little easier for the frog, who is most likely rather scared and confused. If you keep him in the bucket for a while, you may consider placing a breathable covering (a top with holes or a mesh screen) across the top, just in case your frog gets bold and tries to escape. Be sure the lid is very secure; a determined frog can often jump higher than you would think!
If you decide you want to keep your frog, you should already have a tank set up waiting for him back at your house. Learn how to properly care for your frog here.


