 The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) enforces Federal environmental regulations. The EPA derives its authority to regulate asbestos through the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, and the Asbestos Hazard Emergency Response Act. In order to comply with EPA regulations, asbestos must be handled carefully and in specific ways. The negligent handing of asbestos is a violation of regulations. Therefore, if you witness anyone handing asbestos negligently, you can report it to the EPA.The EPA has a dedicated website where you can file complaints. You can find it at https://www.epa.gov/enforcement/report-environmental-violations.
 Do your best to record all of the identifying details about the suspected violator, including the name of the individual or company, the violator’s address, and the date of the incident or when you witnessed the incident.If any of this information is unavailable, you can still submit the complaint. Furthermore, any other information you could give, such as license plate numbers or makes and models of cars, you should share it with the regulators.
 Often, the witness to a violation is involved with the organization that is doing the violating. It is understandable if you fear retaliation from your employer or are nervous about legally incriminating yourself.It is within your rights to give a tip anonymously, but remember; the regulators may need or want to ask you about other details in order to resolve their case. Anonymity can come at the expense of justice.
 The complaint will ask for several specific pieces of information about the instance of neglect you witnessed. You should try to find out:If the violation is still occurring, and if there is any institutional involvement (governmental, corporate, etc.).
If it is accidental or intentional, and how you might categorize the violation. For instance, if it was an illegal dump, a spill, or perhaps even concealment.
 The last item on the complaint will be an area for you to give a narrative account of exactly what it was you saw. This should be the most detailed portion of the entire complaint, allowing you to put the entire incident in context. For instance:If you saw a person creating the harm, this is the area where you give a physical description of that person, give an account of what they said and their attitudes.
You should give a detailed physical description of the site, including how to get there, the overall appearance of the area, and its proximity to other people.

