 If you’re determined to have bigger lips and nothing else is giving you the results you want, it may be time to look into lip augmentation.


Before choosing lip augmentation, read about the different methods, read online reviews and personal experiences, and consult a few different doctors.
Because lip augmentation is a relatively short and non-invasive procedure it may be tempting to make the decision lightly. As with any cosmetic procedure, however, it’s a decision that needs to be well thought out, as it can have lasting effects on your health and appearance.
 Lip augmentation usually involves the injection of a dermal filler into your lips and around your mouth.


The most commonly used dermal fillers today contain substances similar to hyaluronic acid, which occurs naturally in your body.Collagen was once the most common dermal filler, but it is no longer the No. 1 choice as there are now safer and longer-lasting options.Fat grafting involves transferring fat from one part of the body to the lips through liposuction.It requires a longer healing time than other methods, as it is the most invasive.,
The doctor will then mark the areas that he/she will inject before injecting them with fine needles.
After the injections, ice may be applied to ease discomfort and swelling.
You’ll need to avoid putting any products on your lips immediately after the procedure. Ask your doctor for advice on what’s okay to put on your lips, and when.
The exception to quick lip augmentation procedures is fat injection, which requires some liposuction to remove fat from one part of your body before injecting it into your lips.,


Common side effects include bleeding, redness and tenderness at the injection sites, and swelling and bruising.
More serious side effects include severe and prolonged swelling and bruising lasting longer than a week; lip asymmetry; lumps and irregularities in the lips; infections; and ulcers and scarring that can cause the lips to become stiff.
The specific ingredients contained in your dermal filler will depend on the product used. Some contain lidocaine, which can cause an allergic reaction.
 If you think you might be allergic to a filler ingredient, discuss this with your doctor before the procedure.

