 Many different choices are available in stores, such as Mitsuwa Marketplace, Japantown stores, and Asian beauty stores. However, if you live in an area that does not have these stores, you can find bubble dye online (ex: Amazon). Take advantage of people's reviews, and make sure that the brand receives positive reactions before deciding on it. Examples of excellent brands include:


Liese by KAO
Palty
Etude House
Beautylabo
Lucido-L
Beauteen;
, Once you have decided on a brand, select the right dye according to the shade you want. Be sure that you use your current hair color as a reference in order to ensure that you are left with the desired shade. You can use the Color Guide on the back of the product package or on its website.


If you are uncertain about what color you want, ask your hairstylist and friends for advice. You could also read reviews online, as well as look up images of hair models wearing different colors from the product.
 The following should be included in the box:


1 Bottle of solution
1 Bottle of color solution
1 Foam pump
1 Treatment pack
1 Pair of gloves
A step-by-step instruction sheet

, Be sure to wear a t-shirt or an unwanted top, as you may accidentally get dye on your clothes. Wear a top that has short sleeves to prevent them from falling over your hands. Be sure that it is loose enough to allow motion.
 In order to successfully dye your hair, locate an area that provides mirrors, such as a bathroom. Also, be sure you are dyeing your hair in a place that allows easy cleaning. If you want to avoid cleaning up messes, you could lay out garbage bags on surfaces and on the floor.
 While you are waiting for the dye to set in your hair, you will need to occupy yourself with an activity. Find a simple one that allows you to remain still without splashing dye on yourself or on the floor. A good example is reading a book or watching the television.
 If you are a first-time user for the product, test it on your skin. Wait for ten minutes to half an hour for a negative reaction, such as a rash. This will ensure that you do not have an allergic reaction to the product when using it in your hair.
 Before beginning, put on the gloves included in the package. Then, pour the color solution into the bottle of solution container. Screw on the foam pump to the solution container before tilting the bottle upside down about ten times.


Understand that it is important to avoid shaking the bottle.
 Once you have tilted the bottle, squeeze the dye into your hands. You should receive soft, foamy bubbles. Evenly spread it in your hair while making sure to cover all parts, including the roots. Once you are finished applying the dye, it should look like shampoo in your hair.
 Place a plastic bag over your head to prevent the dye from leaking all over. Wrap a cloth around your shoulders in case dye slides down from your hair. Wait for thirty minutes.
 Once thirty minutes have passed, wash out the hair dye before shampooing your hair. Remember to use the hair treatment (it comes with the package) as a replacement for your conditioner. Allow your hair to dry naturally.

