 A strong mind is an uncluttered mind. Practice letting go of unnecessary worries and distractions, so you can focus on more important things. When you notice yourself feeling scattered, take a deep breath and bring your focus back to where you want it.Meditation is an excellent way to learn to control your mind. If you’ve never meditated before, it may be difficult at first, as your mind is not used to stillness. It will get much easier with practice, so do not get discouraged. It only takes five or ten minutes a day to start achieving results.
If you want to regain focus in the moment, you can try writing down what keeps popping up in your head. Think about it like a brain dump. When you get these thoughts out of your head, you'll be able to focus better. Dedicate some time later to attend to these thoughts or ideas.;
, Ask yourself when you’ve felt happiest or most fulfilled and why. Then, identify the reasons those experiences were so rewarding for you. Try to replicate these experiences more often.Also, ask people you’re close to about yourself. Ask them what traits describe you when you're at your happiest, and what they think causes this side of you to come out. This can be a powerful tool in self-discovery.


For instance, if you loved a past tutoring job, take more opportunities to help others and share your knowledge.
 Think about what drives you to achieve or persevere in your day-to-day life. If you often find yourself just trying to get through the day, ask yourself what you would do with your time if you didn’t have to worry about basic concerns like money.Your motivations may be closely linked to your values. For instance, if you value friendship, you might be motivated to spend time with the friends you already have and meet new people.
 Having a general idea of where you want your life to take you will help you stay strong-minded in the face of distractions and obstacles. Set goals that help give you direction in life. Try making a loose plan for the next five years.Just sit down and write out a few accomplishments you would like to reach over the next few years. These may include graduating college, getting a job, or learning to speak Italian.
Encourage goal setting by surrounding yourself with goal-oriented people and also creating relationships with mentors with whom you can discuss your dreams periodically.
 Now, that you have a general understanding of where you want to go, break those long-term goals down. This keeps you from getting overwhelmed and helps you stay on track.


Try to set SMART goals that are specific, measurable, attainable, realistic and time-bound. For instance, your might break down "getting a job" into smaller segments. You might need to update your resume, complete an internship, or get additional education to reach this larger goal.
Be mindful about the time frames you give yourself. Make sure they are reasonable and account for rest, recreation, and the unexpected in life.

