 People don't like to be around people that are really negative, like to complain, or talk about violent stuff. It makes them worry that you're not quite right in the head! Instead of being a little Eeyore, be the person who sees good everywhere in the world. See the bright side of negative situations. Be the person who sees the lesson that can be taken away. Be the person that has hope, no matter the circumstance. When you have an overwhelmingly positive spirit, especially in the wake of terrible circumstances in your own life, people will be drawn to you because you will inspire them when they're having a tough time applying this advice to their own life!

, Remember, you're not just entitled to someone's friendship or love. We all have to work together and give equally in all our relationships. Both friendships and romances are partnerships. If someone you care about seems to be pulling away or things between you are getting really hard, think about if you're really carrying your weight. Do you do the things that you're expecting of them? Do you provide them with as much benefit as they provide you? If not, it might be time to work on your approach.


Make sure you appreciate them and do nice things for them every now and again.
Don't see this as a direct transaction. For example, just because you give your girlfriend a gift doesn't mean she's obligated to have sex with you. Instead, do things because you believe people really deserve them, not because you want to get something in return.
Be an active listener. Sometimes, what someone really needs in their life is someone that will really listen to them. If you feel you don't have much to offer, at least be a good listener and a shoulder to cry on when their life is hard.
 Helping people is a great way to connect and make friends. You can help the people around you with the basic stuff in their lives, like tutoring or work, or you can help people who are really in need and give yourself a larger sense of fulfillment and purpose.


Consider serious volunteer work. You can try Habitat for Humanity, which build homes for people in need, or try Big Brothers Big Sisters, which lets you mentor an at-risk youth. Put your wisdom and love to good use!

, Doing things together is another great way to bond with people and make friends. You can work together on a project for school or work (or even work together on something nice for the neighborhood). You can also try a new activity together. Joining clubs is a great way to meet people and make friends who share your interests. These activities will give you more to talk about and lots of chances to interact and get to know each other.
 It's not the most positive thing or even the best choice, but complaining together can be a really quick way to bond with people. Don't start complaining out of nowhere though! Watch and listen to them and pay attention to their reactions to situations. This will help you find something that they don't like. You can then comment on and complain about what you already know bothers them, instead of risking offending them. Don't take complaining too far though: instead, use it to start a conversation and move on to other topics!

