 Before you buy the appropriate color dye, decide what the color scheme and the pattern is going to look like. Also figure out if your design is possible. This is important so you do not make a mistake and dye the stick the wrong color first. Draw a basic outline and picture first in order to be sure to remember each step and to get an idea of how the colors will look when finished.;
, At this point you want to use the tape and letters or numbers to cover the plastic. Remember that what you are about to tape is going to remain white when the stick is complete. Also, remember to heat up the tape a bit to make it adhere properly to the plastic. Unless you want to dye the pocket as well, I recommend removing the string first!

, At this point you need to measure out how much water is required to completely submerge the stick. Then place the water in a container over the stove and bring it to a boil. When the water starts to boil, turn of the stove and let it cool a little bit. When it stops bubbling add the dye to the water, you may want to use an old kitchen tool to stir it a bit if it is in the powder form. While the dye is still very hot, place the stick in the dye. It should only be a matter of minutes until the stick has come to its full color, the hotter the dye, the faster it takes to the stick. Also keep in mind one of the rules of dying: If you are dying the stick more than one color, make sure that this is the lightest of the colors.
 This will wash off all the remaining dye that could drip off the stick and potentially ruin the carpet in your house or your clothes! It also cures the stick, meaning that the dye will not bleed off of it and onto your hands. After rinsing the stick, place it back in the dye for another 5-10 minutes. This lets the color stay longer, insuring that the color won't fade. Rinse the head again in cold water, and once you dry it, put it in the freezer for about 25 minutes. This is so that if you chip your stick, it won't look like the original color, but instead the color of the dye. If you have taped the stick in order to create designs, by leaving the stick under the cold water it also makes it a lot easier to take off the tape!

, If you are only dying your stick one color than you are ready to remove the tape if you had used any to keep some of the stick white, or if you just dyed it one solid color, then you are ready to string it up and go play.
 Now add more tape to keep parts of the stick the color that you just dyed. Then repeat steps 1-4 again only this time use a darker color dye. Feel free to get as crazy as you can imagine to create a crazy designed stick all your own.

