 The best way to deworm your kitten is to take them to the vet. Your vet will be able to diagnose the specific type of worm and give your kitten the proper treatment.Even if you deworm your kittens at home to begin with, you need to take them to the vet by six months old to get a fecal culture. This will check the kittens to see if there are any specific worms that have not been eliminated.;
, If you take your kitten to the vet, the vet will give you a prescription for a dewormer. The vet may also administer the dewormer for you. By taking your kitten to the vet, you know you are getting a dewormer that is approved for a kitten at the age yours is at. The form of the dewormer may depend on your cat's age.


Prescription dewormers may come in chewable tables or topical solutions. Your kitten will eat the chewable tablet. A topical solution is a liquid that must be administered directly to the skin.
 If you want to deworm your kitten at home before taking them to the vet, you can buy a commercial dewormer. Look for products containing pyrantel pamoate, which will kill round and hookworms.Over-the-counter worm preventatives and treatments may come in liquid, tablets, or topical solution. You must look at the age restrictions on the dewormer to make sure the kitten is old enough. Some dewormers are for cats six weeks and up, while others may be nine weeks and up.
A liquid solution is given orally, as are the tablets. Topical solutions are liquid solutions that are placed directly on the skin.
No dewormer will get rid of all types of worms. While a commercial dewormer will get rid of most common types of worms, your kitten may still have worms that aren’t treated by the medicine. Take your cat to the vet as soon as you can to get a fecal exam, so they can be treated for the specific worms they carry.
 Most kittens are born with worms. Pregnant cats often pass worms that were dormant in their system to their kittens through the womb or after birth through milk. Because of this, start the deworming process at around two to four weeks of age., Kittens needs to be dewormed often to get rid of all worms they may have. Kittens are also more susceptible to infestations, so deworming often helps combat that. Starting around two weeks of age, you should deworm your cat every two weeks for a total of four treatments.This means you will give your kittens dewormers at two weeks, four weeks, six weeks, and eight weeks.
Some vets suggest starting dewormers at three weeks and others four weeks. As long as you start the deworming process within two to four weeks, your kittens should be fine. If you are unsure when you should start the dewormer, contact your vet.
 After the last of the biweekly treatments, around eight weeks, you should give the kittens dewormers once a month until they are six months old. This means they will get a dewormer at 12, 16, 20, and 24 weeks., After you have given the kittens their weekly and then monthly doses, the treatment will be more spread out. Give them a final kitten dewormer at 12 months of age.When the kitten turns one year old, you start deworming them as an adult.

