 You can use the stand mixer for this. Alternatively, use a whisk to mix the ingredients by hand in a separate bowl. Your goal here isn't to churn the mixture into ice cream — just to combine it until it's uniform. Transfer it to the fridge when you're done to chill.

Make sure any clumps formed by the milk powder are completely broken up before proceeding.
 You don't have to do this, but it can make for slightly smoother ice cream. The mild heat breaks down the proteins in the milk powder, ensuring you don't get any clumps or uneven textures in your final product.

If you want to do this, transfer the mixture to a small pot and warm them over medium-low heat to about 176 F (80 C). The liquid should be quite warm to the touch but not boiling. Once it reaches this temperature, remove it from the stove, transfer to another container, and let it chill in the fridge thoroughly before proceeding.
 Transfer the dry ice to a clean burlap sack or another sturdy bag that you don't mind beating up. Alternatively, wrap it tightly in a clean bath towel. Use a mallet or a heavy pan to break the dry ice into tiny pieces. Transfer it into a Tupperware container or a plastic bowl. Don't use ceramic or glass containers — dry ice's extreme cold can make these break.

Handle dry ice with care. Use gloves, an oven mitt, or a towel to carry it. If it touches the skin for more than a few seconds, it can cause "burns" similar to what you may get from high heat. Never put dry ice in your mouth., Add the chilled liquid from earlier to the bowl of your stand mixer. Start mixing it on the lowest possible speed with a paddle attachment. As the mixture churns, use a spoon to add the dry ice once scoop at a time. It will immediately begin to foam and sputter. Go slowly — wait until one spoonful stops foaming to add the next one., As you slowly add the dry ice, the mixture will begin to thicken. Increase the mixing speed slightly and continue to add dry ice as before. Keep a close eye on the ice cream at this point. When it starts to look like soft serve, try a small amount. If you like the texture, you're ready to eat. If it needs to be thicker, keep adding dry ice and mixing. That's all there is to it!

If you're not enjoying it right away, this soft serve stores well in the freezer. Use an airtight container to prevent freezer burn.

