 Include different items on the escort card table that reflect your theme, like pots of flowers, glitter on the tablecloth, or ornate picture frames. Create different layers on the table and cluster your cards and items together for an interesting display. Use candles or other lighting to brighten up your table.Fill in open spots on the table with flowers, ivy, or other botanicals.
Put the escort cards in the picture frames and let guests take those home as favors.;
, Open the drawers in an old, distressed dresser to hold your display of escort cards. You can also use an old drawer or a large, antique mirror as a tray to hold the cards on a table. Decorate the drawer or mirror with botanicals around the cards.Try displaying the cards in antique trays that are decorated with antique jewelry or items like antique clocks, compasses, and looking glasses.
 Use an easel or cork board to hang pretty, tasselled escort cards. You can also pin colorful buttons with each guest’s name on a black or colorful board. Instead of a traditional board, create a display of antique keys or door knobs attached to a vintage door. Attach escort cards to each key or door knob.Attach escort cards to distressed, antique shutters for a rustic look.
Pin luggage tags or escort cards that look like boarding passes, postcards, or antique luggage labels to a map for a travel theme or destination wedding.
 Use origami cranes as escort cards and hang these from the ceiling or a frame. Or hang ornaments or gift cards that have each guest’s name and table number from a small tree or topiary. Let guests keep the ornaments as favors.Write a table number on large helium-filled balloons in your wedding theme colors and attach escort cards for the guests at each table to the strings of the balloons.
String up a line of escort cards between antique window frames or two wooden ladders. Attach the cards to the lines with clothespins or ribbons.
 Use calligraphy or other pretty fonts as long as guests can clearly make out their names and table numbers. Also choose a card design that clearly displays the name. Legible writing on a card large enough to be read will prevent confusion or guests clustering around the escort card table searching for their cards.