 Bodybuilders are built on clean quality wholesome food. This will require you to cook and pack your meals. You will need tupperware, pots, pans, cooking utensils, and bags.;
, Find out what classes you need to take and register for them as soon as the registration is open. Create the best schedule that fits your work schedule and workout regimen. Set up a workout plan, of what muscles to train each day of the week.


Set up reminders for all the important dates, for tests, quizzes, and assignments in your phone, or a planner book.
 College is a time where all your focus needs to be on you. You are spending tons of time and money for it. Friends and going out are not important as your school. Your college education comes first, then your body. What comes after is up to you.
 College schedules and social obligations can be unpredictable, but for best results, you need to get your rest. Go to bed as soon as you can. Wake up everyday in the early morning. Pack your gym bag and school bag so that you can get an early start on the day.
 An excellent workout partner will keep you motivated on the days you feel to tired or unmotivated to train.
 If friends or whoever asks you to hangout only agree if your schedule is free and school and training is taken care of.
 Eat a big healthy balanced breakfast in the morning, and prepare your meals for the day. As a college student you will always be on the go, but food is crucial, and you need to avoid resorting to fast food and junk food. Pack meals in tupperware, pack healthy, snacks and a one gallon water bottle, and carry everything wherever you go.


For aspiring bodybuilders, the fact is, if you don't eat enough , you will not grow any muscle. You need to get your calories in. It is a must to prepare your meals for the entire day, or the length of how long you will be away from home. Chicken, rice, fruits, vegetables, boiled eggs, potatoes are some examples of what you can cook quickly and pack easily. There are several Fitness YouTubers that broadcast what they cook, eat, and pack on a daily basis you one can learn from.
A bodybuilding meal should consist of a lean source of protein like chicken or fish, complex carbs such as rice, potatoes, or whole grain pasta, and veggies.
 Study, finish your assignment on time, prepare for exams, and make sure school is taken care of. Avoid going to public places where you will meet other friends. This will only waste more time, and cut time out of work, studying and training.
 Find a time gap or window where you have enough time to workout, shower if possible, and eat. When you are at the gym weight training, put your phone on airplane mode, blast music and zone out. Avoid getting caught in conversations at the gym; this is a waste of your precious lifting time. Train hard, with high intensity, making sure you destroy every muscle to the fullest after each set. Check out Youtube for different workout ideas, several bodybuilders make videos showing how they train.
 Always carry a gallon of water and drink it throughout the day.


The human body is made of 70% water, you must always drink and stay hydrated in order to build muscle.
 If you have a job during college, try to find some sort of a desk job, where you can do homework and study. If not, try to compress your school schedule in as few days as possible. Do not work those days; instead study and try to finish all your school work during this time and train. Then the rest of the week only worry about working and training.



Say you are full time, try to take all these classes in 2-3 days, and then work the rest of the week. Speak with your manager or boss to work out your new job schedule.
 It will all pay off in the long run. Bodybuilding is the only sport that requires 24 hours of non-stop dedication. It's all about how you look.
 Bodybuilding supplements are expensive and a waste of money. Real food beats supplements every time. If you want to take a supplement, take a multivitamin and fish oil. This will ensure you are getting all of your micronutrients for the day. Micronutrients are vital for all bodily functions.

