 Grease and flour a round 9-inch cake pan.


If you have one, try using a cake pan with a removable bottom. This can make it easier to remove the cake from the pan later.;
,, Using a small saucepan, melt the white chocolate and combine it with the hot water. Mix the combination until it becomes smooth.
, Add the butter and sugar to a large bowl and cream them together using a hand mixer.
 Mix well after adding each egg.
 Combine well.
, Use a rubber spatula to scrape the leftover cake batter out of the bowl and into the pan.
,, Grease and flour a round 9-inch cake pan.


If you have one, try using a cake pan with a removable bottom. This can make it easier to remove the cake from the pan later.
 In a large bowl, sift together the flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, salt, and cocoa powder with a whisk.
 Crack in the eggs and pour in the milk, vegetable oil, and vanilla extract. Use a hand mixer to blend the ingredients together for about two minutes, or until fully mixed.
 The batter will be thin at this point, which is normal.
 Use a rubber spatula to scrape the leftover cake batter out of the bowl and into the pan.
 The time may vary. However, you can tell when the cake is done if you poke a toothpick into the center, and it comes out clean.
, Grease and flour a round 9-inch cake pan.


If you have one, try using a cake pan with a removable bottom. This can make it easier to remove the cake from the pan later.
 In a large bowl, sift together the flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, salt, and dark cocoa powder with a whisk.
 Crack in the eggs and pour in the milk, vegetable oil, and vanilla extract. Use a hand mixer to blend the ingredients together for about two minutes, or until fully mixed.
 The batter will be thin at this point; that's normal.
 Use a rubber spatula to scrape the leftover cake batter out of the bowl and into the pan.
 The time may vary. However, you can tell when the cake is done if you poke a toothpick into the center, and it comes out clean.
, Run a knife around the edges of the cake pan to make the cakes easier to remove, then place wire racks over the top of the cake pans and flip the cake pans over. Pull the pan off the cake carefully and allow the cake to fully cool.


If you used cake pans with removable bottoms, pop the bottoms of the cake pans out and move the cakes to the wire racks to allow them to cool fully.
Use the time that the cakes are cooling to make the frostings, as you can't frost the cake when it's still warm - the frosting will melt if you try.
 The white chocolate frosting will add a delicious, light flavor to the layer cake.


Start to melt the white chocolate in a saucepan over medium heat. Stir it continuously to ensure that it doesn't burn.
Add the flour and milk to the melting white chocolate. Mix it until the mixture has thickened considerably.
Set the mixture aside to fully cool.
Cream the butter, sugar, and vanilla in a separate bowl until the mixture is fluffy.
Gradually mix in the white chocolate mixture, and continue to beat the mixture with a hand blender until the consistency resembles whipped cream.
 Be aware that you'll need to make more of the milk chocolate frosting than the other frostings, in order to cover the entire cake.


Melt the butter in a small saucepan.
Add in the cocoa powder and mix.
Alternate between adding the powdered sugar and milk, stirring thoroughly while adding.
Pour in the vanilla extract and mix.
 This frosting will give the cake an extra touch of the deep flavor of dark chocolate.


Melt the butter in a small saucepan.
Add in the dark cocoa powder and mix.
Alternate between adding the powdered sugar and the milk. Mix the combination thoroughly while adding.
Add in the vanilla extract and mix.
, Use either the white chocolate frosting, or the dark chocolate frosting.
, Use the flavor of frosting that you didn't use for the milk chocolate layer - for example, if you frosted the milk chocolate layer with dark chocolate frosting, frost the white chocolate layer with white chocolate frosting.
, You can use a clean palette knife to smooth out the frosting, or in a pinch, a rubber spatula.


If you have enough frosting, try decorating the cake with the frosting, such as by piping it.
 You can try many things to garnish the cake - you can top it with fresh berries, chocolate curls or shavings, chocolate sauce, or whatever you want that would go well with your triple-chocolate cake.
 Cut the cake into slices and place them on plates. Serve the cake alongside ice cream or a dollop of whipped cream. Enjoy!

