 Most attorneys have websites through which you can learn about their background and experience. In some cases, online consultations are offered directly through the attorney's website.Some attorneys' websites feature a pop-up window that will ask if you have any questions and encourage you to chat online. However, keep in mind that when you use these windows to ask questions, you probably are not speaking directly to the attorney who owns the website.
Other attorneys mention the possibility of online consultation in their bios or firm descriptions.
Even if direct consultation services aren't mentioned, most attorneys include their email addresses on their websites. If you find an attorney who you think might be able to answer your questions, you can copy his or her email address, send an email, and go from there.
 Particularly if you need a local attorney to offer specific advice rather than a quick general consultation, you should select the attorney using much of the same criteria you'd use to evaluate an attorney you wanted to hire to represent you completely.Attorneys typically provide significant information about their background and experience on their websites, or on directory listings.
You also may want to search for reviews from clients so you can better understand each attorney's reputation and what it's like to work with him or her.
 If you've found an attorney you like but online consultations aren't mentioned on the attorney's website, you typically can send an email and ask whether online consultations are possible.Maintain a professional tone in your email, and take care not to make it too long or rambling. Provide a brief description of your legal issue or situation, and explain that you would like to consult with the attorney online.
Attorneys often will want to encourage you to come to their offices, so if there is some reason that you prefer online communication or cannot travel to an attorney's office without difficulty, include that information.
Let the attorney know how you would prefer to conduct an online consultation. If you don't mind sending an email and waiting for a response, that's one option. However, if you want real-time discussion using text or video chat, mention it specifically.
You also want to make it clear what scope of representation or assistance you want. Not every attorney is willing to simply answer questions without representing someone in court – and some lawyers are reluctant to assist in drafting a legal document unless you hire them to prepare the document in its entirety.
 If the attorney is open to an online consultation, work with him or her to set an appointment for a real-time conversation using either text or video chat. This gives the attorney an opportunity to accurately assess your issue and give you advice that is complete and accurate.Keep in mind that attorneys are busy people and their time is valuable. If an attorney is willing to do an online consultation in real-time, ask him or her how long you can have – and don't go over that time limit.
If the attorney gives you a list of documents or information he or she needs, be sure to provide them as soon as possible in advance of your scheduled consultation.
 To answer your question, the attorney likely will need to understand a little about the issue and the reason you need help. It might make things easier if you create a brief synopsis or timeline describing the issue at hand.Even if the attorney hasn't asked you for specific information, think of what you would need to know to answer the question.
Write down as many facts and details as you can about your situation. Keep in mind that something you don't think is important might have crucial relevance to the law that governs your particular situation.
If your questions are related to specific documents you or someone else has prepared, such as a contract or a will, have the document ready to share with the attorney if he or she asks for it.

