 This will be a guide as well as help you complete your drawing more easily later on. Stoke over the folded paper with your arm to make the fold less visible. Your drawing of an alienbot will be less successful if you don't do this, some think.;
, Start against the line on the left side of the fold. Start drawing in a circle like form and draw your line closer to the middle line as you continue. This will form half of the alien face.
 Start about 2 millimeters away from the bottom of the head and draw your line upwards in parallel with the bottom line of the head. Draw this line about 1cm long and then form a bend to the bottom. Draw a line more or less straight down for about 5cm and then bend the line back to the middle line or fold. This should be like half a shallow bowl.
 In the left side of the head, draw a oval like shape with sharp corners. After doing so, draw another line in the middle of the eye dividing the oval in half.
 For the arms, you can choose any type of arm. For this one, a "squashed oval" arm works the best. This arm consists of two half ovals that are stretched. Like with the eyes, draw another oval at the side of the body, but stretch the oval to make it less wide. Separate the two ovals with another line.
 Now you have one half of the alien, the folded paper comes into play. Fold your paper over and use something like an ATM or credit card and rub as hard as you can over the back of the lines of your current drawing. Be careful, rubbing too hard can damage the paper or even tear it, ruining your drawing. Make sure that all your lines traced over onto the other side of the fold. If it didn't, make your left hand side drawing darker and repeat the rubbing process.
 Once all your lines have been rubbed off on the right hand side, use your pencil to complete them. Make them more or less the same shade as the left hand side. This method can be used for any drawing where you need to duplicate something, like wings, eyes, arms, legs, etc.


An example. Here is an example of what your completed alien can look like. Use your imagination and don't bother to make it symmetrical if you don't want to.

