 The eastern end is at Dehu Road in Pune. So to get to the Mumbai-Pune Expressway from Mumbai, You have to take S G Brave Marg and then you must take the flyover and then cross the Vashi Bridge (or Thane Creek Bridge) and you must stay on the Sion - Panvel Expressway for a short while, then it changes to Mumbai - Pune Expressway. From Pune, Go on Dehu Road and look for a t-intersection to get there.;
, There are 5 exits (interchanges) on the freeway, The interchanges are Kon Shedung, Chowk, Khalapur, Kusgaon, and Talegaon. This is like a turnpike. But each exit is in Indian language (almost like Arabic) and it's in English for Foreigners.
 It takes 2 hours on the freeway, It will take 58 miles of the freeway but 93 kilometers of it. But however, it's somehow different. To each end you must travel on it for 2 hours. That's what the time of the freeway is.
 There are 6 lanes on this freeway, The lanes are each divided into 3, There are 3 lanes for your side and 3 lanes for the other side. So if it was 3 X 2=6, That's what the problem is.
 There are only 2 toll plazas on this expressway, It's tolled, The only one to the Pune section is the Khalapur, If you are on the Mumbai section, Then you're gonna pay for the Talegaon toll plaza. Remember, it's different money, India uses Indian rupee and US uses dollars.
 There are 6 tunnels on this freeway. The tunnels are Bhatan, Madap, Adoshi, Khandala, Kamshet-1, and Kamshet-2.
 And also, you can go through the mountains via tunnels. And it may end in the western after you pass the Bhatan Tunnel.
 There are only 1 service plaza on this freeway, If you miss it it's too bad. After you pass the Khalapur toll plaza, You have to pay attention, from the Toll Plaza to the Service Area takes about 1.5 kilometers, So pay attention! When you see the sign, Take it, Don't think that there is another service plaza. This is the only service plaza that it does have here on the expressway (freeway).
 Keep in mind that you may appreciate it.
 After you pass the Adoshi Tunnel, you will see the only stone trestle on the freeway. There is not much on the freeway, It's only before or after you pass the Adoshi Tunnel depending if you are on the Mumbai section or the Pune section.

