 Don't show him that you appreciate him in any meaningful way. In fact, don't acknowledge any nice thing he does for you. Men want to be acknowledged by their girlfriends, and when they stop getting that acknowledgement, they start looking for other options.;
, When he tries to communicate with you from afar, make it hard for him to get through. If communication is the lifeblood of a relationship, cutting it off will deal a swift death to your relationship.


Have excuses ready like "Oh sorry, I couldn't find my phone," or "Sorry about that, was hanging out with Jake; he's so funny!" The more vague you are about your whereabouts, the better. He'll simmer with jealousy and doubt.
If he wants to know why you're never around anymore, or don't have time to talk to him, tell him something like: "My life is really starting to take shape right now; I'm trying to juggle more responsibilities and still find time to have fun."
Don't apologize for not being present. This will send him the message that you're going to try to make more time for him in the future, which you're obviously not trying to do.
 Be engaged in exciting and vivid conversations with everyone else in the room, but when it comes to him, make him figure out the conversation. This not-so-subtle sign will definitely have him wondering whether he's the right fit for you.


If you get a phone call, walk out of the room and let him sit there. If he and another person start talking to you at the same time, look at and talk to the other person before turning to and talking to him.
 These people can include your coworkers and boss, your friends and acquaintances, and family. As your boyfriend, or at least as someone close to you, he wants to be able to make you happy, and see the results of that happiness. If you send him the message that other people make you happy but that he doesn't really do the trick, you'll lose him in no time flat.
 In a working relationship, people make time for one another because they like each other and get satisfaction from being together. Your relationship is different, or you want it to appear different.


Work late and don't let him know you'll be home late. If he questions your dedication to your relationship, tell him that you take your dedication to your job just as seriously.
Always have lots of errands to run. Guys hate the idea that other people would rather do errands than hang out with them.
 If you don't mind being thought of as smelly (but still hot), don't shower when you're with him. Don't shave or wax. You won't win any new points in his book — but that's kinda the point, isn't it?

, This works best if you have been affectionate with him in the past. A man craves physical affection — it's what makes them feel emotionally close to a woman. If you starve a man of his physical affection, he'll question why he's in a relationship in the first place.


If you really want to throw him off guard, give him the wrong type of affection. Give quick hugs, pats on the back or the shoulder, and ruffle his hair. He'll hate this because it's so close to real physical affection, yet so far away. He'll start to feel like you're only friends because that's the type of affection you're showing him.
 If he wears his favorite shirt out on a Friday night, tell him that you don't think it looks so good on him anymore. Tell him that you've never liked the smell of his cologne. Tell him to get a manlier car. Asking him to change his lifestyle or his likes is a great way to lose a guy molto presto.
 "Yeah, sure," "You always do it the right way, baby," and "If the world only had more than one of you" can all be turned into sarcastic zingers that will eventually make him feel less adequate. If you're consistently sarcastic with him and never forthright or real with him, he'll probably start feeling that things have changed, and that the change is for the worse.

