 Use a vegetable peeler the remove the skin from the squash.


An easier way to remove the skin involves the use of a knife.

Cut the rounded ends off the squash so that the top and bottom become flat.
Hold the squash upright on your cutting board with one flat surface on the board and the other facing you.
Hold the squash steady with one hand. Use the other hand to slice just beneath the skin on one portion of the squash. Slice all the way down the length of the squash until this strip is completely removed.
Continue slicing off other strips of skin in this manner until you make it all the way around the squash.

;
, Use a serrated kitchen knife to cut the squash into evenly-sized pieces. You can cut the pieces into any size, but 1 inch (2.5 cm) cubes are a safe bet if you do not have a specific size or use in mind.
 Spread the pieces of squash onto a baking sheet in a single layer. Place this baking sheet in the freezer and allow the squash to freeze solid for several hours.It is important the the pieces do not overlap or touch during this step. Tray freezing is done so that the pieces can each freeze individually and apart from one another. By freezing the pieces this way, the squash is less likely to stick together in long-term frozen storage. If the squash chunks touch during tray freezing, however, they will still end up freezing together.
 Take the individually frozen pieces of squash and place them into a freezer-safe plastic container or plastic bag. Leave 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of empty headspace before sealing the container.


The headspace is important because it provides room for possible expansion. The squash can expand as it freezes, and if you pack the container or bag to the very top, it might break if the squash applies enough pressure against it as it expands.
 Place the containers of squash in the freezer and store them there until you are ready to use the vegetable in a dish.


Frozen squash can last for 10 to 12 months.
You can add these chunks of squash directly to your dishes when ready to use or you can thaw them out first. Determine which option is best depending on the specific recipe you are working with.

