 You may have spent too long at the gym or pushed yourself too hard during your run. As a result, your muscles may feel sore due to lactic acid buildup in the muscles.The soreness will resolve on its own if you rest the affected muscles and allow them to heal. Just lay off the exercise until you feel better.


To prevent this type of muscle ache, exercise regularly so your body isn't shocked by exertion. Gradually work your way up to serious activity instead of rushing into it. Always stretch properly before and after workouts.
Increase your electrolyte consumption during the recovery period. Muscle soreness can be caused by a deficiency of electrolytes like potassium or calcium.
Drink sports drinks like Gatorade or Powerade to replenish the electrolytes you lost through exercise.
 This type of muscle ache is often the result of trauma from a sports or exercise injury. Symptoms usually include pain and/or swelling of the injured area. You may have trouble moving the limb freely until the injury heals. These injuries are treated with the RICE method: Rest, Ice, Compress, and Elevate.


Rest the affected muscle as much as possible.
Apply ice to the area to reduce swelling. The ice also numbs the nerve endings in the area, temporarily relieving pain. Apply ice packs for 15-20 minutes at a time.
Compression both reduces swelling and helps stabilize the limb. This can be especially helpful if you injured your leg and are having trouble walking. Simply wrap the injured area snugly in an elastic bandage or trainer's tape.
Elevating the affected area over your heart makes it harder to pump blood to it. This reduces swelling by relying on the force of gravity.
 Sitting in one place for long periods of time can cause lower back pain, poor circulation to extremities, and increased abdominal girth. Starting a computer screen for hours a day can also result in headaches and eyestrain.


To treat this type of muscle ache, take over the counter pain medications like Tylenol or aspirin.
Break up your workday by stepping away from the desk from time to time and relieving the strain on your back and neck.
Rest your eyes by taking a break every twenty minutes. Look at an object twenty feet away for twenty seconds.
Regular exercise and increased water intake can also help.
 The medication you're taking to treat a completely unrelated condition may cause body aches. This pain may begin after you start taking the drug or after dosage has been increased. Furthermore, some recreational drugs can cause a condition called Rhabdomyolysis. This is a serious condition that has been associated with statin use as well as crush injuries of the muscles. This condition requires immediate attention in the ER by a trained physician. See your doctor immediately if your muscle pain is combined with dark urine and you take one of the following medications or drugs:Antipsychotics
Statins
Amphetamines
Cocaine
Antidepressants such as SSRI
Anticholinergic

,"Electrolyte" is the name given to certain minerals in your body that carry an electric charge.Examples include potassium, calcium, and magnesium. These minerals affect hydration and muscle function, among other important body functions. A deficiency can result in tension and soreness in the muscles.


You lose a lot of electrolytes when you sweat, but there are many products on the market that can replenish your balance, including dietary supplements.
Sports drinks like Gatorade and Powerade are examples. Water, unfortunately, is not a natural source of electrolytes.
If the pain does not diminish with home care, speak to your doctor about further possible treatment.
 There are many types of muscle disorders that present as a chronic, general pain. If you have this type of pain and cannot pinpoint a cause, talk to your healthcare provider. Provide him with a detailed medical history, family history, list of medications, and symptoms. He will determine what tests to run to pinpoint the root of your generalized pain. Examples of muscle disorders might include:


Dermatomyositis or polymyositis:these inflammatory muscle diseases affect women more than men. Symptoms include muscle loss or weakness with aches and difficulty swallowing. Treatment includes steroids and immunomodulators. Doctors will do blood work to determine if you have one of these conditions. There are specific autoantibodies involved in some of these disease. For example, with polymyositis doctors will look for antinuclear antibodies, Anti-Ro, and Anti-La Antibodies as a marker for diagnosis.
Fibromyalgia:this condition may result from genetics, trauma, or anxiety or depression. It presents as a dull, constant pain felt throughout the body, often localized in the upper back and shoulder area. Other symptoms include headache, jaw pain, fatigue, and memory impairment or slow cognition. For the diagnosis of fibromyalgia you have to have 11 point tenderness, which is tenderness over certain characteristic soft tissue locations. Treatment includes stress management techniques, such as yoga and meditation, and may include pain medication. Sometime patients are also referred to a psychiatrist for treatment of depression and then subsequently started on an SSRI., You may be tempted to wait for muscle pain to resolve while resting at home. However, some symptoms need immediate medical attention. Seek emergency attention if you experience the following:Severe pain or pain that increases or does not resolve with medications
Extreme muscle weakness or numbness
High fever or chills
Trouble breathing or dizziness
Chest pain or vision changes
Muscle pain with dark urine
Decreased circulation or cold, pale or bluish extremity
Any other symptoms you are unsure of
Blood in the urine

