 Being around someone you don't like can be physically and mentally draining. It can be especially tough if you are putting in a lot of effort to make the situation bearable. Make some effort to take care of yourself physically and mentally.Eat a healthy diet. If you give your body the right nutrients, you'll be stronger, mentally and physically. Look for a balance of lean proteins, complex carbohydrates, and lots of colorful veggies.
Get some exercise. Exercise is proven to boost your mood and reduce stress. Before or after dealing with the nasty person, go for a hike or take a dance class.
Slow down. It's important to know your limits. Try reducing the number of things you need to accomplish each day.
 In some cases, you have to be around someone you don't like. That's life. But if you can, take steps to reduce the amount of time that you have to be around that person.If the person is a relative, give yourself permission to take a break. There's no law that says you have to attend every single family function.
Maybe it is a coworker that is bothering you. Try consciously spending less time around that person. Ask your boss if you can shift your schedule to come in earlier and leave earlier.
If the problem is severe, talk to Human Resources. You shouldn't have to work next to someone who is legitimately interfering with your work.
 There are several things you can do to help yourself feel less tension. Consider adding relaxation techniques to your day. You could start with breathing exercises.When you feel yourself becoming upset, focus on your breath. Breathe in slowly, counting to 5 or 6. Then release your breath, counting as you exhale.
Try yoga. Yoga is a great way to clear your mind. Look for a class near your home or work.
Learn to meditate. Meditation is shown to reduce stress. Download some guided meditations on your phone. They can be as short as 1-2 minutes.
 Sometimes it can be really hard to be the bigger person, but it is worth the effort. Your instincts might be to lose your temper or say something nasty to the person you don't like. Resist the urge.If you lash out, you will likely feel guilty and regret your actions. That will not help you find a constructive way to deal with the situation.
By taking the high road, you will be able to gain peace of mind. You will feel better knowing that you were not unkind or unprofessional.

