 Go to https://www.bitcasa.com/download on your browser.;
, From the download page, scroll down to the bottom until you see the Plug-in Bitcasa section. Click the green “Install” button to find and install the plug-in from the Chrome Web Store.
 Click on the blue “Free” button on the top-left part of the Bitcasa Everywhere page to begin installation.
 A pop-up dialog box will appear confirming the addition of the new extension. Click the “Add” button to proceed.
 A confirmation message will appear pointing you to the shortcut location of the extension on your web browser. It’s located on the upper-right side, with its green app logo.
, By default, Bitcasa adds a small Bitcasa icon on all downloadable links on the web pages you open. You can toggle this on or off by ticking on the check box for “Insert icon for downloadable links.”

, By default, Bitcasa uses your cookies to download files that require authentication. You can toggle this on or off by ticking on the check box for “Use cookies for downloads that require them.”


Note that if you turn this off, you may have issues with downloading files that require authentication.
 Right-click on the Bitcasa extension from your web browser’s toolbar, and select “Manage.” Google Chrome’s Extensions page will load. From here, you can find the Bitcasa Everywhere extension and enable or disable it.


If you disable the Bitcasa Everywhere extension, it will be removed from your toolbar, and you will not be able to use its functions.
 When you want to download something from the Internet, it usually comes from a location or URL embedded within a link. This is your download link. The file you’re downloading is stored there., Once you find the download link, right-click on it to bring out the context menu. Select “Download to Bitcasa,” and your file will immediately be downloaded straight to your Bitcasa account, without even touching your desktop.


Your downloaded file can now be directly accessible from your Bitcasa account.
 Another option for downloading straight to Bitcasa is the use of the actual URL or download link. If you know it or have gotten hold of it, you can just paste it on the extension.

Click on the Bitcasa extension from your web browser’s toolbar, paste the URL on the URL field, and click on the green “Add” button. The file embedded in your URL will start downloading straight to your Bitcasa account.
 While the download is in progress, you can view it by clicking the Bitcasa extension from your web browser’s toolbar. A box will pull down, and it will display all the active downloads or transfers happening at the moment, with their corresponding percentage progresses.
 If you want to check if the files you’ve downloaded straight to Bitcasa are indeed there, you can quickly go to your Bitcasa account from the extension. Just click on the Bitcasa extension from your web browser’s toolbar and click the “Go to My Bitcasa” link found at the bottom of the window.


A page will load, bringing you to your Bitcasa account online. All the files you’ve downloaded straight through the use of the Bitcasa Everywhere extension will be stored under the Downloads folder.
 Right-click on the Bitcasa extension from your web browser’s toolbar, and select “Manage.” Google Chrome’s Extensions page will load. From here, you can find the Bitcasa Everywhere extension and disable it.


Remove the tick from the check box for “Enabled,” and the extension will immediately be removed from your toolbar.






You can enable Bitcasa again by ticking on the same check box.
 If you want to permanently remove the extension, the easiest and quickest way is from the extension context menu from the web browser. Right-click on the Bitcasa extension from your web browser’s toolbar, and select “Remove from Chrome.” Confirm the removal by clicking the “Remove” button.


The Bitcasa Everywhere extension will be removed from your toolbar and also from the Extensions page in Google Chrome.
If you want to reinstall Bitcasa Everywhere, you will have to repeat the steps from part 1.

