 On the internet, it can be tempting to resort to name calling and personal attacks. However, that doesn't get you anywhere; it just brings you down to their level. Stick to responding to what they say, not attacking them or calling them names.For instance, if someone says, "You have an ugly nose," it doesn't help to reply, "You're one to talk; your face would stop traffic." Instead, you could say, "Thanks, I like my nose. Thankfully, my opinion of myself isn't dependent on your opinion of me."

, If you're body shamed online, you may find yourself wanting to dive into the comment section. However, if you read and re-read those comments, you're only going to hurt yourself. Instead, try to skip reading comments you know will be terrible from past experience, and if you do come across a negative comment, stop reading as soon as you realize it's body shaming., Some people may not try to take you down in public forums. Rather, they'll use private messages to get under your skin. This method is particularly sneaky, as they keep themselves from looking bad, plus you don't have any support. Once again, it's best not to stoop to their level.


Tell the person to stop messaging you. You could say, "That's a great opinion, but I'm happy with who I am. Please stop messaging me."
If they don't stop, try blocking the person. You can block people on most social media platforms. You can also add the person to a blocked email list on your email account, so they can't send you emails.
Another option is to report abuse. Most websites will kick off users who abuse other members of the site.
 This saying has become a common one on the internet for good reason. It just means don't give mean people what they want: attention. Some people are just trying to stir up trouble, so they say the meanest thing they can think of in hopes of getting a response. The best way to deal with people like that is to simply walk away., On the internet, it's easy for something to go viral. If that's happened to you in a body shaming context, one way you can deal with it is to own your body. Some people turn the shaming on its head by posting a picture showing their confidence.


For instance, if someone is making fun of your hair, you can post a pic showing what you love about it, including a caption, such as "Others may not love it, but I think my hair rocks!"
Be prepared for more negative feedback, though, as most mean people won't just stop being mean.
 That is, some places on the internet just won't be receptive to any response to body shaming. In those places, you'll be swarmed with trolls and bullies who won't actually listen to what you're saying. Pick places where you know your words may actually be received, such as on a friend's post that is unintentionally body shaming.Of course, you often can't choose where you need to stand up for yourself, but sometimes fighting back can do more harm (psychologically) than good. Sometimes, it's better to walk away and not look back.

