 If you run a business, it's essential that you make stringent rules for accepting checks. Do not rely on just a physical examination of the check to protect yourself from fraud. The following are common guidelines for check policies:Checks must be from a local or in-state bank
Checks should not be written and accepted for more than the purchase amount
Checks should not be accepted that are starter checks, unnumbered checks, or non-personalized checks
The customer's complete name and address must appear on the check
The date must be accurate
The check should be signed in your presence and verified with the signature on a photo identification (driver's license, military ID, or state ID)
You may want to write down the person's driver's license number

, If you get a check in the mail that claims that you won a sweepstakes you never entered or that you won the lottery, you should be wary of the check. Often these scams say that this check only represents part of your winnings and is the first of many. They also ask you to send money for taxes on your winnings. This is an obvious sign of a scam. You should never send money to anyone you do not know.


A legitimate company or sweepstakes will never ask you to send money to them. Taxes on such winnings should always be paid directly to the government.
Also never send money through wire transfer under these circumstances. This is the same as sending someone cash. Once the scammer picks it up from the wire service, there is no way to get your money back once you realize it is a scam.
 Many check scams use legitimate businesses as a cover for their corrupt ventures. If you recognize a real company attached to a check you receive and the check looks real, contact the company. Don't use any of the information that was sent with the check. These details could have been created by the person scamming you. Look for information about the company from an independent source to verify if the check you received is real.


Research the company on the web or look up its number in a phone directory. Most businesses will let you know if they sent you a check or if they are participating in a sweepstakes.
 A fake check isn't always spotted by a bank. You may be able to cash a check, even if it is fake. A bank may not know a check is fake until the bank tries to clear the check. This process can take weeks. If you cash the check or deposit the check and then spend the funds, you will be responsible for paying the money back to the bank. It does not matter that the check is a scam or that you were unaware of it being fake.


Do your due diligence to ensure the check is legitimate. Then wait until the check is cleared by the bank before spending the money.
The bank holds you responsible for determining the legitimacy of a check before you try to cash it.
If you fail to comply with the bank's request to return the money, your accounts can be frozen. The bank can also take legal action and sue you for the money.
You can also be charged with fraud, even if you were unaware of the circumstances.
 Some check scams seem like job offers. If you are contacted to be a mystery shopper or an account manager at home, this is likely a scam. Most legitimate companies that hire mystery shoppers will never send you checks or money orders ahead of time.The scammers will likely tell you that all you need to do is deposit the checks or money orders they send you. You take your pay as cash from the checks when you deposit them. Never deposit checks for someone you don't know or try to make money fast by working at home for an unknown business.


Mystery shopping is a legitimate business, but it is not a get-rich-quick opportunity. You are only paid after you complete the necessary tasks and send in a survey form. If you are ever asked to buy something, the company will always reimburse you.
If you think it might be a legitimate mystery shopping opportunity, check with the Mystery Shopping Providers Association.This kind of scam can also apply to many other scenarios where you do a small amount of work from home. A legitimate company would never ask you to deposit checks on their behalf or pay you in such a way., Many scams will write you and ask you to invest in a foreign company or property. They will then send you an check that is an advance on your profits. This is a scam. Never cash a check that is supposed to be an advance on a foreign investment.


You should also avoid investing in anything that you do not perform extensive research on beforehand., If you receive a notification that you received a grant that you did not apply for, this is a scam. Grants are always awarded for a specific purpose. They are not a form of free money. A scam organization may send you a check advance of the amount and ask you to send in some form of payment to get the rest of the grant. The check sent to you is fake and you will lose any money you send to the organization. Real grants are never given unsolicited. You must always apply for grants to receive them.


Grants are also typically given in conjunction with an organization or institution where you will be performing some kind of research, paper, or study.