 A false first step is any sign of progress that doesn’t have a genuine impact on achieving your New Year's resolution. These distractions can be material or tangible. Often the pleasure of purchasing something which may help you pursue your resolution can be a distraction from being genuinely productive. Focus on meeting your resolution, and don’t be distracted by false progress.For example, if you’re planning to improve your fitness in the New Year, you can begin losing weight by jogging through your neighborhood or focusing on simple exercises like sit-ups and pushups.
Don’t consider buying a Fit Bit, a heart rate monitor, or an expensive gym membership until after a few weeks of jogging.
 Individuals often fail to follow through on their resolutions because they don’t anticipate the many steps that must be completed to reach a complex goal. Avoid this mistake by choosing a resolution that you can begin making progress on within the coming week, or by breaking your resolution down into a series of smaller steps.For example, if you resolved to learn to speak fluently in a foreign language by the end of the new calendar year, you will find progress hard to track and soon become discouraged.
Modify your resolution so that you can begin making progress: resolve “I will learn one new word a day for a month,” “I will spend every Saturday afternoon studying French,” “I will join a French-language study group,” or some combination of these achievable resolutions.
 Many of us make New Year’s resolutions out of a sense of frustration or guilt at the end of the old year. While this can be a powerful reactionary and motivating force in the short term, in the long term guilt will fade away. Negative emotions are not good motivators, and resolutions based on guilt typically leave you feeling worse about yourself.For example, if you are ashamed or annoyed with yourself for having gained a few pounds during the winter months, you may be inclined to guiltily resolve to lose 15 pounds in the New Year.
However, if you’re only motivated by that guilt, you’ll soon become discouraged with a lack of progress and give up on the resolution.

