 Your sense of humor is particular to the way your mind works, and has a lot to do with how you were socialized. The next time you find something funny, think it over. What is funny about it? Was it surprising? Familiar? Exaggerated? Write down all the elements if you can. What elements could be altered or removed for the humor to be lost?


For example, you might laugh at a video of someone falling while trying to impress someone. You would probably still laugh if they fell and weren't trying to impress someone, but you would laugh less. If they fell and were badly hurt, you probably wouldn't laugh at all.
Determine whether or not you share a sense of humor with anyone you know. Does only your sister know how to make you laugh? Ask her what makes her laugh.
Your sense of humor is likely to skew toward your other abilities. Are you a mathematical thinker? You might find wordplay funny. Are you a big-picture thinker? You might have a strong sense of irony. Think about your strengths and how they connect to the things that amuse you.
 The next time you don't get a joke, don't despair. Think it through. Did you not understand that it was meant to be a joke? Did you think it was a serious statement, or did you think it was a mistake? Most jokes depend on social context to be understood.Study your friends and colleagues when they find something funny. What do they react to?


If you understand that something is a joke, but you are offended, ask yourself what bad feelings the joke brought up. It is often harder to take humor that is about our weaknesses and wounds.
Check to see if you are missing social context. Ask a friend to explain their joke if you don't understand it. You might find the joke funny once you understand why your friend does.
 Watch different comedies and videos of stand-up comedians to learn the kinds of humor that appeal to you. If videos do not ever make you laugh, try listening to recording of a comedian, and reading humorous novels and comics. You might find you respond more to written words than to voices, or to illustrations than to facial expressions.


Most comedy isn't funny to most people, so don't give up if it takes you a while to find something you like. If you don't like Adam Sandler, try Maria Bamford.
If you are having trouble finding a comedian or comedy you enjoy, look for work that is produced by people with a background similar to your own.

