 Run your fingers from your temple to the crown of your head to gather the top half of your hair. Wrap a rubber band around this portion of hair to create a ponytail to work with.
 Start at the base of your ponytail and twist the hair in one direction. Take this rolled section around the rubber band in a circle. Continue layering circles around the outside of the last roll until you have reached the end of your ponytail and created a nice bun.


Tuck the end of the ponytail under the the bun to hide the loose ends.
 Hold the bun with one hand. With the other hand, push a chopstick into the side of he bun at the center. Angle the chopstick down toward the scalp, then back up into the bun to gather more hair and back down toward the scalp as you push the chopstick horizontally through the bun. Continue weaving the chopstick through the bun until it comes out the other side and holds the bun securely in place.
 One chopstick is enough to hold the bun securely in place, but you can use a second chopstick for the look. Insert the other chopstick at a 45 degree angle to the horizontal one, pushing it from the top corner of the bun and out the other side.


Now that the top half is done, you can leave your hair like that if you like, or move on to braiding the loose section.
 Run your fingers through the center of your loose hair to separate it into halves. Secure one half with a rubber band to get it out of the way, then split the other half into two even sections. Secure these with rubber bands and remove the one on the other half. Separate this half into two even sections. Secure one with a rubber band.


The loose quarter will be the first you work with.
 Separate a quarter of your hair into 3 even sections. Braid right over center, then left over center until your are left with about 4 inches (10.2 cm) at the end. Tie the braid in place with a rubber band and continue this process with the other 3 quarters.


Drape the braids in front of your shoulders, two on each side.

