 A girl once stood and defined purgatory as "a state of terrible torment which those who enter are compelled to undergo for a time to fit them for heaven." Her definition of the word was wrong, but her description of the experience of many in the state of marriage was right. Matrimony can be a purgatory rather than the paradise God intended it to be.;
, Marriage is a paradox. It can be the best or the worst state. We commit ourselves in marriage for better or for worse because both our equally possible. Conflict is just as real a potential as cooperation. There are those who tell us that even conflict can have its values, and there is truth in this perspective. What of the couple who reached the height of their argument, and the wife exploded, "I wish I'd taken mother's advice and never married you." The husband said, "Do you mean to say your mother tried to stop your marrying me?" She nodded. "Well now," sighed the husband, How I've wronged that woman." Whatever value was gained, it is doubtful that the quarrel can be counted a positive factor in marriage bliss, even if there are poets who claim it is so.
 There was a story of a wise man who quarreled with his wife during their 50th year of wedded life. He tucked this note under his wife's pillow. "My darling bride, let's put off quarreling until after the honeymoon is over. Your devoted husband." Here was a husband who took the high road to marital bliss by avoiding quarrels instead of the low road of squeezing some value out of conflicts.


Carlton could write, "And if ever we meet in heaven, I shouldn't think it queer, that we loved each other the better, for the way we quarreled here. When we meet in heaven I should think it odd, if we loves each other better, for disobeying God.
What Paul wrote in Eph. 4:31-32, "Get rid of all bitterness, rage and anger, brawling and slander, along with every form of malice. Be kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving each other, just as in Christ God forgave you."
Understand her. Peter has a high view of the perceptive powers of the male. The Gospel according to Peter is that wives can be understood, and not only by experts who study them and write books about them, but even by their husbands.
 Any wife whose husband treats her with the respect involved in what Peter says in this one verse will lavish upon him more devoted love than all the harem of Solomon.


Listen to her. God will not listen to the prayers of a man who will not listen to the pleas of his wife.
 This means that a husband is to care about what his wife needs as a person to make her life fulfilled. She is a person who has special needs and desires, and it is a husbands obligation to know what they are. To ignore another's needs is to lack respect for them as persons. Wives need to be treated as people worth understanding.
 Compliment and encourage her, and give her undivided attention. Sometimes, you can forget that she is a person who needs to feel loved and appreciated. She needs to talk and be heard. A wife needs a husband who makes her feel important. She needs to feel she has value, and only a husband can adequately meet these needs.


If a husband lives in respect for his wife as a person he will avoid many of those problems that develop because of indifference. In a moment of bitterness a husband said to his wife, "You should have married a better man." She replied, "I did." If a husband will respect his wife the way he did before they married he will be a successful husband. The way to get ahead is to go back to how you were when you first met. The second thing he must do is-

, A husband cannot produce life by himself, nor does he receive more grace from God than does his wife. The inequality she has of being the weaker sex physically is not a disadvantage for her, for Peter says that her weakness is to call forth greater honor from the husband. Just as you treat your china better than you do your everyday dishes, so a wife is to be treated with greater care because of her delicacy.
 Unanswered prayer is not always because God does not want it to be, but because it would be unfair to grant it to one who has little or no respect for the needs and desires of his wife. If, for example, you refuse to forgive your wife for some folly whereby she has offended you, you have no ground of hope in Scripture to believe that God will forgive you as long as you withhold it from your mate.


God will not put His stamp of approval on the husband who lives like the man in the moon. If a man is all bright and smiles before the world, but dark and cold toward his wife in the home, he injures his relationship to God, and is the stumbling block in the road to having his own prayers answered. Few husbands ever think of it, but Peter says a good relationship to your wife is essential to a good relationship with God. The bottom line of all that Peter is saying is that a man who respects his wife in the same way that he respected her when they first met will be a successful husband.
 Peter's advice will not only be a successful husband, but he will be an exceedingly happy husband.

