 A single braided rope offers the strength of braided rope, but is more lightweight as it involves only one strand. A synthetic or natural rope could work, but it has to have a high level of flexibility so that you can work with it. A stiffer cord will not really work with this method. It can be any length depending on what you want to use it for.


Single-braided ropes are often used for rigging and pulling and climbing.Do not use a rope you have made yourself for climbing unless you have had it checked out by an expert who can vouch for its suitability and safety.
 If you are doing a single rope braid, you will be braiding a section of the rope. When you know how long you want the braided section to be, make a loop in the rope that is about that size.


You can do this just by sliding the two ends of the rope towards the centre.
For this example, have the right side of the rope above the left side., Once you have your loop, bring the end of the rope from the right-hand end up and through the left-hand side of the loop in an over and under movement. Your main loop should now have a smaller loop on the left-hand side and the right-hand end of the rope should be below the loop., Bend the top of the loop down so that it crosses over the bottom end of the original loop. Make this crossover near the first braid of your rope and not toward the open end of the loop. This will create the beginnings of a braid-like pattern and create the hole that you will then pass the right-hand end of the rope through.


As you cross the rope over itself, the original top portion of the loop should cross back over the original bottom portion of the loop, just a short distance away from the new intersection you created.
As a result, a new, smaller loop or hole should form just past the original link of your braid., Insert the right-hand end of the rope through the hole you just created in the previous step. This action forms another link in the braid.


The right-hand end of the rope will go through the hole by going over the bottom portion of the loop and under the top portion of the loop.
The right-hand end should now be angled upward, above the rest of the rope., You will need to continue making new, small loops from the larger loop by twisting the rope, and then weaving the right-hand end of the rope through the holes that are created. The braid is complete once you no longer have enough of the large loop to work with and use for the creation of new sub-loops.
 When you twisted the loop for the last time, thread the right-hand end of the rope through the final small loop. Carefully pull on both ends of the rope to tighten the braid.