 In MLA style, the author’s last name and the page number (s) from which the quotation or paraphrase is taken must appear in the text. A complete reference should also appear in a Works Cited page. The author’s name can appear in the sentence in the text or in parentheses following the quotation. The page number should always appear in parentheses.For example: Hamilton stated that the union was “crucial to the Constitution” (99).
It could also appear as: In Federalist No. 51, he also stated the union was crucial. (Hamilton 99)

, MLA style discourages the use of endnotes and footnotes as long explanatory notes can be distracting to readers. But if you need to use endnotes or footnotes, in MLA style, there are two types:Bibliographic notes. These are other publications your readers can consult for extra information on a particular topic.
For example: 1 See DeWeese (2000), especially Chapter 1 and 2, for an insightful analysis of Hamilton’s article.
Explanatory notes, or content notes. These are brief notes of additional information that might be too long for the main text.
For example: 1 In a 2000 interview, he stresses this point even more strongly: “Reform is essential to the union”. (DeWeese 124)
All footnotes should appear as numbers in superscript at the end of sentences, after the punctuation mark. If the footnote appears in a sentence in parentheses, the footnote should appear within the parentheses.
 For MLA style, you will need to cite The Federalist Papers as a source in a Works Cited page at the end of your paper. If you used a specific article in your paper or document, you will need to specify this in your citation.The citation should appear as: Last name, First name. Title of Essay. Title of Collection. Ed. Editor's Name(s). City of Publication: Publisher, Year. Page range of entry. Medium of Publication.
For example: Hamilton, Alexander. Federalist No. 68. The Federalist. Ed. George W. Carey and James McClellan. Indianapolis, IN: Liberty Fund, 2001. 351–52. Print.
If you are just using The Federalist Papers as a whole, you can cite it as one source. So the citation would look like: Last name, First name. Title of Book. City of Publication: Publisher, Year of Publication. Medium of Publication.
For example: Carey, George, and James McClellan, eds.The Federalist. Indianapolis, IN: Liberty Fund, 2001. Print.

