 For the average preoccupied member of today's workforce, proper rest and relaxation often takes a backseat to the many duties and stresses of everyday life. If your routine keeps you from getting a good night's sleep, you're in good company: today, lack of proper sleep is recognized as a problem affecting many millions of people in the developed world.When it comes to curing fatigue, there's no substitute for consistently getting a good night's sleep, so if you don't know the cause of your fatigue, start here.


Though everyone's sleep needs are different, most reputable sources agree that the majority of adults need about 7-9 hours of sleep each night.Children usually need several more hours of sleep than adults.;
, The health benefits of a regular exercise routine are many: not only can exercise make you better-looking, better-feeling, and healthier, but also improve your overall energy levels and make it easier to sleep at night. Research has shown that even minor increases in the amount of exercise a person participates in can have a major effect on the level of fatigue she feels.The benefits of exercise are especially great for people with no established exercise routine, so if you're not physically active, try working out regularly to fight your feelings of fatigue.


As with sleep, the amount of exercise that different people need can vary based on their age, sex, size, and fitness level.Most reputable sources will recommend about two to two and a half hours of moderate aerobic exercise in addition to strength-training exercise on two days of the week for adults.However, if you're starting from a base level of no exercise, it may be necessary to gradually work up to this goal.
 The way a person eats can have a serious effect on the amount of energy he has throughout the day. In general, eating a moderate diet rich in healthy carbohydrates and lean proteins will give a person lasting energy throughout the day. On the other hand, eating improperly (for instance, by indulging in rich, fatty foods, overloading on a single giant meal each day, or neglecting important nutrients) can leave you feeling bloated or sapped of energy. Remember, you are what you eat, so eat a healthy, balanced diet to feel healthy, balanced, and free from fatigue.


For more information on starting a healthy high-energy diet, see the corresponding section below.
 In general, people who have healthy weights for their frame and body size have more energy throughout the day than people who do not. In developed countries, obesity is a widespread health disorder that can seriously decrease an otherwise healthy person's level of energy throughout the day.However, the fatiguing effects of being underweight can be equally serious.Though everyone's "ideal' weight will be different, most adults should aim for a body mass index (BMI) of roughly 18.5-25.Try using an online BMI calculator to find your BMI score.


Note that BMI scores aren't a perfect way to judge whether you have a healthy weight. For instance, if you're an athlete with a lot of muscle or were born with dwarfism, your BMI may be outside of the recommended range but you may not be at risk for any health problems.
If you're overweight, aim to lose weight at a healthy pace by gradually reducing the number of calories you eat each day and increasing your level of exercise. Don't attempt rapid weight loss with a crash diet. Depending on your size, eating less than 1,200 calories a day can be very stressful, energetically inefficient, and even unsafe. On top of this, it will leave you with almost no energy throughout your day, making your fatigue even worse!For more information, see How to Lose Weight.
 A looming deadline at work, an argument at home, a check that unexpectedly bounces — these sources of short-term stress can lead to a variety of long-term problems, including fatigue, if they're allowed to build up. Serious stress can be quite taxing for the body, leading to physical and emotional exhaustion that can deplete your daily energy and leave you feeling completely overwhelmed.In addition, stress is a frequent contributor to many other problems, including headache, anxiety, eating disorders, and more.Unfortunately, stress is something that almost everyone has to deal with. On the other hand, because stress is such a common complaint, there are a wide variety of resources available for those attempting to deal with stress. For instance, many online guides (of varying quality) for managing stress can be found with a simple search engine query like "dealing with stress." For the best stress-fighting advice, however, talk to your doctor.
Common stress-reduction techniques include meditation, breathing exercises, designated "down-time", physical exercise, and controlled "venting".
 Attention or awareness is energy and when you give attention to something, you are giving it energy. So if you focus your attention of tired cells with in your body you give them energy.

Try this especially when you are tired or fatigued. Focus your attention in body where you feel fatigue. It could be face, legs, shoulders, eyes etc. Hold your attention there and you should witness that cells in your body regain energy and vibrate with joy. Subsequently feel the whole body as one, from the inside. You don't have to believe it. Just try it out.
 For these days when you just can't seem to get going, common stimulants like coffee, tea, energy drinks, and sudafed can give you the quick "jolt" of energy you need in the short term. However, these quick fixes are bad ideas for increasing your energy in the long term, as they can eventually lead to low-energy periods (or "crashes") when their stimulating effect wears off. Worse, if you develop a habit to these substances, their effectiveness will decrease. In extreme cases, you may eventually need to take them just to achieve a "normal" level of energy. For these reasons, you'll want to avoid relying to heavily on these energy boosters. Instead, try to adopt the healthy lifestyle changes described above.


Never turn to illegal drugs to give you the energy you need to get through your day. Besides the widely-publicized health risks of many of the most popular illegal stimulants (like cocaine, amphetamines, etc.), a stimulant addiction can be a serious drain on your wallet. For instance, country singer Waylon Jennings purportedly spent over $1,000 per day on cocaine during the height of his addiction.