 The inside of your brow, the starting point, needs to be in just the right place to help give shape to your face and brighten your eyes. Avoid the appearance of a unibrow by starting your eyebrows too close together, or making them sparse by starting too far away.









Hold a brow pencil or tweezers vertically, aligned with the inside corner of your eye. The intersection of this line and your brow is where you should start your brow.
This line should be near the bridge of your nose, and should not go over.
When you have found the perfect starting point, make a mark with your brow pencil.;
, Although some people have longer, fuller brows while others have short, sparse brows, there is an ideal eyebrow length that applies for everyone.









Take your brow pencil or tweezers to make another measurement. Start one end of your pencil at the corner of your nose, lining it up with the outside corner of your eye.
The place the pencil extends past the edge of your eye is the ideal length for you eyebrow. Mark this with your eyebrow pencil.
 Line up your pencil with the corner of your nostril and the center of where your pupil would be if you were looking straight ahead. The extension of the pencil into your brow is where your arch should be.









This should be the equivalent of about ¾ of the way into your eyebrow from the starting point.
Your arch should not be in the center or near the end of your eyebrow. This shape will give the illusion of surprise or boredom.
Your arch should always have a natural curve, never a sharp angle.
 Use your eyebrow pencil to fill in all of the brow from you're starting to ending point. Follow the natural thickness of your brows, but feel free to thin them if they are very bushy or too thick to your liking.









Filling in your brows before removing hair will help you to not remove too much, and to be more conscientious of the shape.
You want your brows to be at least as wide as three brow-pencil strokes. Too thin, and they won’t have the ability to frame your face.
 Using angled tweezers, pull the hairs from outside of your shaped brow. Avoid pulling too many from above, as doing so can drastically alter the shape and angle, making them too low. Instead, pluck on the bottom and outside edges of your eyebrow.









Pull hairs from the base to avoid simply breaking off the tops of hairs.
Tweeze hairs in the center of your eyebrows above your nose, to help remove the possibility of a unibrow.
Don’t forget to pull out the soft, peach fuzz hair that often covers the upper part of the eyelid. This can give the appearance of untamed brows if it is not removed.
 Using a small pair of eyebrow or hair scissors, trim the tops of any hairs that stick out above the natural top of your brow.









Typically, the hairs closes to the center of your face grow upwards and may need to be trimmed to match the average height of your brow.
If your eyebrows are very unruly and long, use a brow comb or spooly brush to brush the hairs up, and then trim the longest ones.
Avoid trimming off too much hair, as doing so can give jagged lines to the hairs in your brows. Only trim if you have hairs that are too long. 