 When choosing decorations for your staircase, you can bring everything together by choosing a specific theme. This can help give you an idea for what kind of art, photos, and other decorations to add to the wall around your staircase.


For example, maybe you used chalkboard paint on your staircase. This gives you staircase an eccentric, kid-friendly feel. You could put up your children's art work on the wall around the staircase. You could also add bright and colorful paintings to the wall, giving it a fun and zany feel.
Deciding on how to decorate can be overwhelming. Choosing a theme based off other aspects of your home can help. If your staircase is just before your living room, which has a blue color scheme, you could continue the blue color scheme with your staircase. Choose paintings, photo frames, and other decorations that are in the right shade of blue.
 Many people line the wall along their staircase with family photos. This can give visitors something to look at as they walk up your staircase, and provide a warm and homey feel to your house. Consider printing and framing some family photos for your staircase.


You can print out photos from a phone, digital camera, or flash disk at stores like FedEx and Walgreens. You can choose the size you want.
When purchasing frames, consider a color scheme. If your staircase is decorated with blue fabric, for example, try adding blue frames to your chosen photos. Color coordinating your staircase design can really help tie things together.If you want something a little more lighthearted, consider making a collage without frames. Simply asymmetrically tape up a hodgepodge of family photos running up your wall., If you're not big into family photos, consider lining the wall leading up to your staircase with paintings and artwork. Visit a local art center or art museum, where you can pick up paintings, prints, and other bits of art for your staircase. If you're into crafts yourself, consider making something like a shadow box or a painting of your own to add to the wall along your staircase.
 If your staircase has a railing, do not neglect this in the decorating process. Look at fun ways to incorporate the staircase railing.


Consider painting the railing. This can be particularly striking if you have banisters running along the railing. You can paint each banister a specific shade, or create a gradient of one shade running up the stairs.You can also add stencils to a wooden rail. If you've stenciled your stair risers, it can be fun to add similar stencils to the railing.
 If you stop by a craft store, you can look for decorative items. Paper flowers, plastic fruit, or plastic twigs can be placed on shelves on top of the staircase or in a stair landing. These can be particularly helpful if you're going for a certain them. If you're trying to match floral wallpaper, for example, having paper flowers tied around the bannisters of your railing could be a nice touch.
 Shadowboxes are enclosed glass cases that can store items like decorative plates, old books, figurines, and other knick-knacks. You can try stopping by your craft store, picking up a few shadowboxes, and filling them with items that match your decorating scheme.


You can make your own shadow box by purchasing a box frame and gluing a collage of items in the back. Keepsakes can be placed in a shadowbox to fit with a family staircase theme. For example, you could layer family photos, tickets from events, and brochures from family vacations in a shadow box.