 Autistic individuals often have food sensitivities. They can be extremely picky. You need to make sure that your child gets nutrition, but you also don’t want to fight with your child at every mealtime. Keep your expectations reasonable.


Eating enough food is more important than eating nutritious food.
Eating a fairly balanced diet is more important than eating a wide variety of foods.
See if your child can handle eating gummy vitamins if their diet is very limited.
 If your child gets sick after eating a certain food, there may be a reason beyond sensitivity. Many autistic children suffer from gastrointestinal problems and allergies to common foods like milk and gluten. Talk to your doctor to determine which foods should not be served at all.
 Whenever possible, try to determine why your child dislikes a particular item. Is it the texture? The flavor? The color? Ask the child what makes the food so disgusting. You may be able to serve the same ingredients in a different way and make everyone happy.


Note that autistic children may struggle, particularly, with mixed-up foods like stews and casseroles. Autistic children often like to touch and taste individual ingredients before deciding whether or not to eat them, and these dishes make it difficult for them to do so.
Offer seasonings on the side, so that each person can season the meal to taste. For example, if your wife likes spicy spaghetti and your daughter cries when given spice, place the spice shakers on the table instead of mixing spice into the sauce.
 Many children become more interested in expanding their horizons when they aren't facing constant parental pressure to do so.
 Autistic children may need to touch, smell, lick, or play with their food before eating it. Don’t squash these tendencies out of a misguided concern about table manners. These quirks may ultimately lead your child to eat a greater variety of foods.
 Preparing meals can be fun, and your child may be more likely to eat the foods he helps to make.


For example, consider making homemade pizza with your child. You can have fun kneading and tossing the dough, make faces with the vegetables, and taste throughout the process. Eliminate certain tastes or textures as you go – if your child hates the texture of chunky tomato pieces, puree them.
 Let your child know that it’s acceptable not to like certain foods. Instead of putting broccoli directly on his/her plate, offer a choice – broccoli, spinach, or asparagus? When your child comes to the grocery store, let them pick out some favorite vegetables. Giving your child some control may make mealtime feel less like a battle.

