 Using quality headphones will ensure that your audio sounds clear, and is easy to understand. This will prevent you from having to go back over the audio again and again, trying to make out words that seem inaudible.Good quality headphones can go for as little as $20 at your local Radio Shack or Walmart Store.
Good headphones will offer comfort, sound isolation, and frequency range. Finding headphones with a solid frequency range will serve you well for audio transcription.;
, Good transcription software allows you to pause, rewind, and speed up/slow down your audio at your own discretion. This can be done using “hot keys,” or simple keyboard shortcuts, that improve your speed. Download a free transcription program, or find one for purchase.Some examples of free software include InqScribe, Express Scribe, and MacSpeech Scribe.
 Correction tools, such as Autocorrect on Microsoft Word or QuickCorrect in Word Perfect, can help reduce the number of keystrokes you make while typing. This can greatly increase your transcription speed and accuracy.


These tools are often turned on by default, but you may need to check your settings to ensure that these functions are enabled.
 Some word processors (such as Microsoft Word) offer “auto-complete” functions. These tools finish words that you begin to write, and understand certain abbreviations. Try turning this function on in your settings to improve your transcription speed.For example, auto-complete will type “thank you very much” for “tyvm.”

, Many transcription programs (such as Express Scribe) are designed to work with an optional foot pedal. These USB foot pedals allow you to start and stop audio playback with your foot. This has been proven to be even faster than using hotkeys. Consider investing in a transcription foot pedal to improve your speed.These foot pedals start around $20 and can be purchased at Radio Shack or online.
 Create some files with stock formatting that you can plug specific info into. (These are called “templates”). It is helpful, for instance, to set up templates when transcribing medical or legal files on a regular basis. Using a template will save you the time it requires to keep recreating documents with a similar format.