 Start by figuring out how you will get to Chile. If you live in North America, you may decide to fly into a major city in the country, such as Santiago, and then take public transit to get around or fly within Chile. If you live in South America, it may be possible to take a bus or a train into Chile, depending on your budget and your timeframe for the trip.There is no special visa required for you to travel into Chile and no fee to cross the border into Chile. However, you will need your passport to enter the country.;
, Next, determine where you are going to stay while you are travelling through Chile. The cheapest option is staying at youth hostels, where dorms are around 6,5000 Chilean Peso (CLP) or 10 dollars USD a night. Many hostels offer free breakfast and free WiFi. You can also stay at budget hotels, which often start at 25,000 to 35,000 CLP or 40 to 50 dollars USD a night.You can also try finding accommodations through rental sites like Airbnb, which is often available in larger cities in Chile, like Santiago.
If you enjoy camping, you can camp with your own tent on campgrounds throughout the country for around 7,000 CLP or 10 dollars USD per night.
 Determine how much money you plan to spend on the trip, from your accommodations to your transportation to food to excursions and sightseeing. Chile is pretty budget friendly and you can likely do a lot with a decent amount of money set aside for the trip. You may create a daily spending amount to ensure you stay in budget. A daily budget of $40-$65 a day all in will likely get you far in Chile, especially if you’re good with travelling on the cheap.Consider what kind of traveller you are as you make the budget. If you are a traveller who likes being thrifty, you may be able to get by on a lower daily budget. If you are a traveller who prefers a fancy accommodation or who is willing to splurge on food, you may end up with a higher daily budget.
Make sure you set aside a small amount of money in your budget as an emergency fund. Having a few hundred dollars as a reserve will ensure you are not strapped for cash while you are travelling.
 Do a search online for the top destinations and sights in Chile so you do not miss anything on your trip. Plan to spend time in Santiago, the capital city, and visit San Marco’s Cathedral in the northern city of Arica. Check out Easter Island, the most isolated inhabited island on earth as well as Torres del Paine National Park, where you can see the Andes and the Patagonian steppe. There are many great sights in Chile so you may narrow down your options by interest and budget.If you are a Pablo Neruda fan, visit his homes, which have become historic sites scattered throughout Chile. If you enjoy wine, you may do a wine tour and sample some of the best wine at Chilean vineyards.
 To ensure you see everything you want to see during your trip, and to budget your time well, make a daily travel plan. Note where you will stay on each day of your trip and list a few planned activities for the day. You may also identify a few options to eat in the area so you are not stranded without a meal during your trip.You should also think about how you travel from one area or sight to another. Do research beforehand to determine if there is public transit or other transportation you can take to a specific area.
If you plan to do any guided tours during your trip to Chile, book them in advance so you have a reserved spot. You can often get the best prices by booking tours in advance.
 Chile can be cool in the mornings and evenings and warmer in the afternoon, especially in spring, fall, and winter. If you are travelling during these times, make sure you pack warm layers like a long sleeve sweater or a light, breathable jacket. Bring undershirts made of wicking material to ensure you do not get too cold when you sweat during the day in the heat.You should also pack long pants and shorts so you can alternate based on the weather. Santiago, the capital city of Chile, is known for being conservative so you may pack a scarf or a shawl to cover up if needed.
 Bring a day pack so you can leave your luggage in your hostel or hotel. This could be a small backpack or a purse. Make sure you can wear the backpack on your front comfortably and that the purse can be held close to your body. This will deter pickpockets, which may be present in certain areas in Chile.Look for a day pack that has a hidden pocket in the back for your travel documents, such as your passport or your citizenship card.
 Avoid pulling out a wallet to pay for goods and services in Chile, as this can encourage pickpockets. Invest in a money belt or a small pouch you can wear around your neck to carry your money. Try to keep only immediate cash in the money belt so you do not have to pull out a large amount of money every time you pay for something.Make sure you leave any other valuables locked up in your hostel or hotel. Carrying them with you puts you at a higher risk of theft.
 As you travel around Chile, you will likely walk a lot in major cities and in natural settings. Be prepared by packing good walking shoes that have traction and arch support. You may pack one pair of athletic shoes for walking in urban areas and one pair of hiking shoes for going in natural settings, especially if you are planning to do hikes or strenuous walks.Make sure you do not overpack or overstuff your luggage, especially if you are planning to backpack through Chile. Shoes often weigh the most in a backpack so try to limit yourself to one to two pairs of shoes, if possible.
 Though some locals do speak English, Spanish is the main language in Chile. To make getting around easier, learn some key Spanish phrases before your trip, such as “Hello,” “How much?,” “Can you help me?,” and “Where is the bathroom?” Practice these phrases so you are ready to use them during your trip.You may try to connect with a local in Chile who speaks Spanish so they can help you get around easier, such as a host at your rental. You can also try to make local friends, as they will speak Spanish and can help translate for you.
 As a solo traveller, you may try connecting with other travellers so you can experience certain sights together. You may make friends with travellers at your hostel or your budget hotel. Perhaps you connect with people in Chile online and meet up in person to explore an area together.Connecting with other travellers can help you feel more safe, especially when you are walking in areas that seem dicey or at night in major cities. Your travel experience may also be that much more fun if you experience it with new friends.
 Though Chile is considered a safe country to travel to alone overall, there are certain areas in Santiago and other major cities that may not be safe. Avoid walking alone at night in these areas. Walk with a friend or join a group of people so you are not walking alone.Another option is to take public transit or a taxi home instead of walking. Taxis are common in major cities in Chile and are not too expensive for a short trip.
 To ensure your location is known to others, stay in contact with family and friends back home. Do weekly or daily email updates and use social media to stay in touch. Make sure a friend or family member knows your plan for the day, especially if you are going out alone. This will ensure that if anything happens, someone will know where you are.


You may bring a cellphone that you can use in Chile with you on your trip so you can stay in contact with loved ones back home. You may also pack your laptop so you can take advantage of the free wifi at your hostel or hotel and keep in touch with loved ones through Skype or FaceTime.

