 Only having one or two markers will make it difficult to get a smooth look. The more markers you use the better the end result will be.


Copic sells packs of three markers that are good blending combinations so you can create a gradient look.
They also have a pack of 5 that consists of skin tone colored markers.;
, The lightest color in your group of markers is what color the skin will end up looking like, so choose that marker wisely. Once you have your markers together, test them out before using them on your drawing. This will prevent you from accidentally using a marker that doesn't match the rest like you thought it would.

Take note of the best ways to blend the colors together, which is dragging the colors across each other (see photo for reference)






If you are using thin paper make sure to put something under it so you prevent stains on the surface you're using.
 Don't go too in detail with the curves of the face. This should be done after the features are added so the face shape complements the features of the face better. Add in the cross-T that will help you with the placement of features. The horizontal line should be placed about 1/2 to 3/4 of the way up the face depending on how big you'd like the forehead to be. The vertical line will sit in the middle of the face where the center of the nose will be.
 When doing this be very light with your pencil and don't add detail to the skin. Things such as the bridge of the nose and crease of the eye will be added with the markers. This is due to how the markers react to pencil marks (the pencil will cause discoloration you won't be able to get rid of)

The eyes will be placed on the horizontal line of the cross-T with roughly half the eye above the line and half below. When deciding the distance between the eyes a general guideline is to put a "third eye" between them. This means that the space between the eyes should be about the width of one of the eyes itself.






The nose should be done on the vertical line of the cross-T. The length of the nose depends on your desired look, but generally should reach halfway between the horizontal T-line and the chin.






The lips should be placed low enough to allow room between the nose, but high enough that the chin isn't too small. Look at the space between the top of the lip and the chin. The lips should take up about half of that space, meaning you should be able to fit a "second set" of lips between the bottom lip and chin.






Now that you have the major features you can adjust the face shape. While doing this, make the cheekbones and jawline more defined.






Add the eyebrows with your desired shape. They can be as far from the eyes as you want, as this can create different expressions. A good way to know where the arch of the brow should be is by drawing a straight line from the edge of the nostril to the outer edge of the iris.






Erase your cross-T and any unnecessary pencil marks when done.



Using the darkest of your selected markers, outline the nose and face. Don't make the outline too thick or it will be difficult to create realistic shading.






Picking a light source will help you get realistic shading. If the light is coming straight on, shading will be even on both sides of the face. If it comes from the right, the darkest areas of the face will be on the left. Coming from the left the dark areas will be on the right. Using the same dark marker begin to lightly shade the darkest parts of the face, being sure to drag the marker towards the center of the face for better blending (see photo for reference). The darkest areas will be the bridge of the nose by the eye, the nostril area, the cheek hollows, under the lips, under/ above the eye and on the outer side of the eye. Also start to add details such as lines under the eyes and the cupids bow between the lip and nose.
 Use your markers in order of dark to light. The lightest areas of the face will be the middle of the nose bridge, cheekbones, chin, and the forehead. Leave these areas for last so they are the lightest.

Make sure your strokes of the marker are going in the right direction and that you stay as consistent as possible with these directions. The more you go over the area with the marker the darker it will get, but the less you'll see the strokes.
 Using a black marker, add the pupil, and also outline the eye so it stands out. Do this by making the line thick towards the outside of the eye and having it taper off. You can also use a thin marker to add eyelashes. Consider using the 0.3 Copic multiliner.


To add color to the eye, fill in the white space with the color you want the eye to be. Then take a dark shade of that color and outline the iris. The easiest way to create shading of the iris if your light source is from the right is the put the darker colors on the left, and vise versa. Then taking a skinny marker, create zigzags in a circle around the pupil to add the detail of the iris.
















Shade the whites of the eye by coloring them in a very light grey, making the greys darker as you move out from the iris. Try not to reach a black-ish color by the time you reach the edge of the eye whites.
 Then create skinny hair-like lines where the color is light. If you want you can go back and create more hair texture in the rest of the eyebrow using a skinny marker.
 This will allow you to build up.


Then take a dark color and outline the lips. Begin to shade, creating lines that lips naturally have.






Using your desired color, fill in the lips. Like the face you should taper the color off to the center of the lips. The middle of each lip should be the lightest part.
 If using a dark hair color you can start the hairline a bit lower than the top of the forehead. Go with the grain of the hair so it looks like strands. Keep in mind where light would hit the hair and also where it would be darkest. Where the hair would be light, just do a few strands with the dark marker.



Overlapping your strokes will give a greater illusion of hair texture. Add layers of color like you did with the skin, leaving the light areas for your lightest marker. Add more hairs where you feel necessary.
 Depending on if you want to add shoulders you can put in details such as the collarbone.
 You can use the Copic opaque white bottle to do so.


