 The reality is that losing weight requires effort, determination and focus and a magic pill hasn't yet been invented that can take care of these things and allow you to lose weight while reclining in front of the TV. If it sounds too good to be true, then it probably is and is likely to lead you on a merry dance.


Simply put: You will lose weight pretty much at the rate you gained it. There are no quick fixes. One to two pounds weight loss a week is realistic when on a sensible diet.;
, Be wary of any diet that is promoted with enormous weight range losses in photos and fine print that says things like "results not typical" or "must be combined with a calorie-controlled diet and exercise". After all, it is the "calorie-controlled diet and exercise" that lose the weight for you, so why add something else on top that costs money without proven benefits?

, It's total baloney from the outset. Exercise is essential.


The only exception to this is where your doctor considers that exercise would endanger your health for any reason, such as morbid obesity. However, your doctor should be monitoring your weight loss and will tell you when exercise can be introduced, so the aim should always be to add it in somewhere along the weight loss program.
 For example, if the diet says no pineapples before noon or only eat beef at 6pm, or make Tuesday grapes-only day, then it's likely to be on shaky scientific ground.
 Sugar is not a food group, so it doesn't count. However, suggesting that you cut out fats or carbohydrates completely is unscientific. There are healthy fats and complex carbohydrates have an important role in the human diet.
 While it is sound to say that people used to eat more fruit and vegetables than today, it is not sound to suggest that the Ooloobooloo tribe of the Far South Quadrant were healthy because they filled up on snake kidneys and milk all day long. When assessing diets based on the past, ask yourself:


How relevant is the diet to your life now?
How realistic is the food being suggested in such a diet?
What does my doctor think of this diet?

, There is little point going on a diet that doesn't include locally available foods. It is important to understand that while food in one region of the world may be very healthy for people living there, there is usually always an equivalent food in your region. For example, millet is popular in African diets, while wheat is popular in western diets, and both bring protein and other nutrients to the consumer but one is easy to obtain than the other, depending on where you're living.


The diet is on really shaky ground when it expects you to fork out large amounts of money to purchase its supplements or special diet products. If it suggests you eat food specially flown in delicacies from the Orobobo jungle in the deepest darkest regions of a place not yet marked on the map, it's definitely about getting your money, not improving your health.
 What do the diet experts in scientific organizations or reputable dietary organizations have to say about the diet in question? If there are questions about it, avoid it.
 Guru quackery is as alive in diet scams as in any other scams., Diets involve exercising regularly and eating smaller portions of healthy food repeatedly. This may feel tough to begin with but it is something you can maintain and learn to cope with, especially when you see the results in weight loss and increased energy levels. However, a fad diet that causes you to feel lethargic, constrained by bizarre rituals or fed up with measuring weird supplements daily won't have sticking power in the long run. And unfortunately, it can cause you to be diet-shy because it was so finicky and useless.

