 Nobody will think you're any less weird if you stink! Take a shower either the morning of the first day of school, or the night before. You can try using shower gels if you want to smell nice.;
, If you want to look good for the first day of school, you'll want to wash your hair. Use a good shampoo, making sure to rinse it out thoroughly, and let your hair air-dry.
 People won't want to talk to you if your breath smells. Make sure you brush your teeth thoroughly the night before and the morning of the first day of school. It's best to brush your teeth after you eat, so that you don't undo all your hard work! After you brush your teeth, floss and use mouthwash.
 Many people don't take care for their hair nearly as much over the summer, and chances are, you've got some pretty overgrown hair. Either get a parent to cut your hair, or go to a salon or barber. Explain what style you want, and let them have at it!


Try something new, like layers.
 Anyone who doesn't have extremely short hair needs to comb their hair to keep it from getting tangled. Using a fine-tooth comb or a brush with rubber-tipped bristles, go through your hair, being careful not to yank at any knots you might find.
 Some girls have pretty short hair and don't need to do much more than just run a comb through it. Those with longer hair, though, may want to make it look good for the first day. Consider these options for a cute, not-nerdy look.



Straighten your hair. If you already have straight hair, consider curling it.
Wear a ponytail or pigtails. If you want something more unusual, try scene pigtails.

Braid your hair.
Put your hair into a bun.
Try accessories - barrettes, headbands, and ribbons can add a neat flair to a girl's hair. And if the ribbons are in your school's colors, hey - you're showing school spirit!
If your school doesn't have policies on how to wear your hair, consider dyeing it a cool color or adding in a clip or extension of an artificial color. Common choices are pink, green, and blue.
 After a certain age, just showering won't keep you from smelling. Apply a deodorant in your underarms, and possibly an antiperspirant to keep you from sweating during the day. If aluminum (the main ingredient in most deodorants and antiperspirants) irritates your skin, try searching for other brands that don't use aluminum.
 If you're at "that age", your skin is probably breaking out and doesn't look so good. Use an acne wash on problem areas, and exfoliate your skin. This won't solve your acne problem entirely, but it'll definitely help.


Don't exfoliate your skin every day. This will lead to itchy and dry patches and won't look good.
 Some schools don't allow makeup, but this doesn't stop students from wearing it anyway. You may want to avoid makeup if you have acne problems to prevent it from getting worse. If you do decide to wear makeup, keep these tips in mind.


Stick to things like concealer and maybe mascara.
Don't use foundation. You're going to school - you don't need to hide your barely-there wrinkles. Nobody will care.
Try using a tinted moisturizer.
Keep it light. You don't need eyeliner or loud eyeshadow.
Consider switching certain aspects of makeup out. For example, if you want to use lip gloss, but your school doesn't allow makeup and is very strict about it, consider wearing chapstick instead. It gives your lips a shine to them, is better for your lips, and if a school authority questions you, you can just pull the chapstick tube out and prove that it doesn't violate the rules!

Avoid artificial or loud colors. Wearing a dark brown or black mascara is easy to get away with, but if somebody catches you with bright blue eyeshadow or a dark red lip stain, you're done for.
 This part often goes overlooked, but trim your nails! Overgrown nails are more likely to break and get dirt stuck underneath them. Clip your nails back and then file them so they aren't sharp.


Use a nail buffer and whitener to remove stains and patches from your nails and to give them a cleaner look.
Consider decorating your nails. You can use simple polish, or you can try nail art. And if nail polish isn't allowed, try clear polishes or French manicures. These are less likely to be seen from a distance, and give your nails a shiny and tidy look.
 Some girls have to wear glasses because of bad eyesight. If you're one of them, decide what to do about them. Typically, past middle school, most people don't really care if you're wearing glasses, but if you've been known as a nerd, glasses may not help your case. You have two options: sticking with your glasses or wearing contacts.


If you choose to keep wearing glasses, decide whether you want a "quiet" pair or a "loud" pair. "Quiet" pairs of glasses would be things like frameless glasses, or having thin frames with simple colors. "Loud" frames would be thick and big, and possibly have crazy patterns on them. Choose what you want to wear - just remember that the louder the glasses, the more of a statement you'll make. Whether that's good or bad is up to you.
If you decide to switch to contacts, make sure you take good care of them and wear them properly. Keep in mind, though: if the contacts make your vision blurry or make your eyes itch, it's best to switch back to your glasses. Having good vision is better than not wearing glasses.
 Some girls come to school practically drowning in their uniforms. Don't be one of them! Make sure your uniform fits you properly and isn't too big or too small.


If you had to get a uniform larger than your usual size, use belts, tie your shirt back, and do whatever's in your power to make the uniform look better on you.
 A favorite tactic of girls everywhere is to alter a uniform in some manner, sometimes by sewing. Don't do it. If you stitch up your skirt just a tad too high or cut the belt loops off your pants, you'll be regretting it at the surprise uniform check.


If you must mess with your uniform, try tricks that can be undone in a matter of a few seconds. For example, if you want to shorten your skirt, roll it up at the waist a time or two (but not so much that you have a thick waistband). This way, if rumors go around that there's a uniform check, you can quickly pull your skirt back into place.
 Unless you have an extremely strict uniform, try some basic tricks to change up your uniform. Some of these can get past a uniform check without a school official batting an eye, while others might get a bit of a closer look; decide what you feel looks best on you, and if it's worth possibly getting in trouble! Try out some of these tips below.


Roll up your skirt at the waist. (Don't roll it up too high, though - a thick waistband and a skirt that's up to your thighs is a dead giveaway.)
Cuff your shirt sleeves at the elbow.
Tie your tie in different ways.
Get a slightly oversized shirt and tie it at the back.
Swap out school-sold uniform pieces for pieces found at other stores.
Wear "custom" socks.
Pin something to your shirt or jacket.
Unbutton your shirt a bit to show a colorful shirt underneath it.
If you're stuck with a kilt, hang some charms from the kilt pin, or replace the pin with a button or brooch.
Hook a cute keychain into the belt loops of your skirt or pants.
 In the colder months, some schools will allow you to wear some sort of sweater or cardigan over your uniform. If your school is one of these, see what kind of things the school requires, and try shopping for a better version of what they sell. This can make your uniform look much nicer.
 If you're lucky and don't go to a school that requires a uniform, chances are that you have a dress code. Don't push the dress code. Many school dress codes are already quite lenient as it is, and it's kind of pointless to violate it anyway.
 You may think your uniform would look cute with a pair of heels, but most schools don't allow heels, and even if they do, running up and down the stairs with a pair of heels can prove itself to be dangerous. Wear a pair of flats or sneakers, or the school-issued shoes.


If your school has strict policies on the shoes (for example, you're restricted to one kind of shoelace), make sure your shoes meet those policies, or it's something you can easily fix.
 Some schools are strict and don't allow jewelry. If yours does, you're in luck. Pick out some cute earrings, maybe a cool necklace and bracelet or two.


If you're allowed to get some cute shoes with little trinkets on them, don't be afraid to do so. If you can't get a custom pair, consider attaching a small trinket to your uniform shoes.
If your school is religious, try wearing a religious necklace (for example, a cross or a Star of David). You may be able to get away with this.
Consider taking an earring with a stud on it and pinning it to your uniform's ribbon or tie.
Try getting an attractive wristwatch. They're handy and look fantastic. Plus, they're practical for school and shouldn't get you into trouble.
 Be careful, though - you may get in trouble with some teachers or authorities if you are indoors.


Most schools with uniforms will allow scarves in the winter. Check with your school on the policy regarding scarves. Some schools are stricter than you'd think.
 It helps if you look your best, but if your supplies look their best, even better!


Try covering your books. Scrawl your favorite lyrics across them or draw cool little pictures on the front covers. Alternatively, buy some wrapping paper in a design you like and cover the book in that. You can cover your book with dove plastic wrapping, it's easy to flip and quite unique.
Label your stuff in pretty typing labels or cute stickers with cartoon pictures that you can make by yourself using sticker paper.
Don't forget your school bag or backpack. Decorate your school bag. Put stickers on the zippers, label your name in your best markers, and put a couple of cool key rings there. Maybe you can even get your friends to write personal messages on it. Stick badges, safety pins, band patches and stickers on your bag to make it original, or tie a ribbon around the handle.
 Regardless of whether your school has a uniform or just a dress code, you'll almost definitely have a gym uniform. You might feel self-conscious in it, but remember: so does everyone else. Gym uniforms are universally considered to look bad, so don't worry too much about looking good in those ones - just focus on the class. After all, it's only for so long!


Wash the uniform as often as you can, especially if you only have one set. You don't want your uniform to smell.
 Almost every preteen or teenager doesn't go to bed at their assigned bedtime. You'll want to get between eight and nine hours of sleep nightly. This will help you significantly in terms of growth, appearance, and focus.


It's okay if you have one night where you can't sleep - everyone has to deal with insomnia once in awhile. But avoid pulling constant all-nighters to finish homework or read wikiHow articles!

, Studies have proven that those who don't eat breakfast in the morning don't work as well in school or in their jobs. Make sure you eat a healthy breakfast every morning. Even if it's just a smoothie or a bowl of non-sugary cereal, it'll do a lot to help your focus.
 Let's face it, nobody's ever not been late to class. What's important, though, is trying to keep it from happening again - too many tardies, in some schools, can count as a truancy and land you in serious trouble! Make sure to leave on time every morning, and if you're in middle school or high school, don't waste your passing periods - get to class as soon as possible.


Plan your passing periods efficiently to avoid being late. For example, don't go to your locker at every passing period - only go to it when you're close to your locker in the first place. If you have no classes close to your locker (unlikely, but this does happen), try going to your locker at lunch, where you should have plenty of time.
Sometimes, you can't help being late. These things do happen, and you may find yourself stuck in a traffic jam some mornings, especially if you live a considerable distance from the school. If this does occur, make sure you get a slip from the front office after explaining what happened, and don't make a big deal out of it to your teacher.
 Whether you're in class or with a potential friend or two, try to keep your focus on what's happening directly in front of you, and not what's off on the field to the left. Being "random" is not considered cute or quirky; it's just considered weird, and in some cases, annoying. Try to keep quiet if you want to say something completely unrelated to the topic.


Obviously, this doesn't always apply. If you're having a conversation with your friend, and you spot that they're about to step in a ditch or get hit by a soccer ball, a "Look out!" or "Duck!" is much appreciated. If what you're going to shout out is something to let others know of an imminent danger, then by all means, say it.
 Past elementary school, you need to develop your study habits and your work ethic. Work on studying every day at a certain time, getting all your work done, and possibly develop a system for how your study skills work. This will definitely help you later on in life.


Get your work done on time. A fault of almost every student is procrastinating, zoning out, and generally not doing good work in school. Pay attention in class and get your work completed and turned in on time - or even early.

Try to avoid turning in your work late. Unless you have a legitimate excuse for not turning in your work the day it was due (e.g. being at the doctor's), get the work in when it's due, not a day or two later. Many teachers will take points off of late work just because it's late, and some won't even take late work at all.


Unless you've been given explicit permission for this, don't write in your textbooks. (Be careful about workbooks - some schools don't even allow you to write in these, either!) While it may help you learn, the next person to receive the textbook may not appreciate the textbook graffiti - plus, if you get caught, you may get in trouble for it and have to pay a hefty fine.

Put a brake on distractions. Only allow yourself short breaks if you've accomplished something productive with your schoolwork - and no, you can't "lose track of time" when taking a break on the computer or phone!

, Middle school and high school is when drug and alcohol use becomes more prominent than ever. Avoid these at all costs. Alcohol and drug use damages your brain, and being drunk or high makes you prone to doing some pretty stupid things. You don't want to wait at the police station for your parents to come get you because your drunk self thought it would be a good idea to smash the window of a car, or end up in the hospital because of a drug overdose (which can be fatal).
 Yes, it's cliché and everybody tells you that, but it's one of the most important things. While some behaviors, such as talking at inappropriate times, are socially unacceptable and should probably be avoided if you want to avoid people forming bad opinions of you, you should never feel pressured to like or dislike something, act one way or another, or anything that stems from what your peers think, rather than what you think. Remember how adults always tell you not to give in to peer pressure? Remember that!



Be confident in yourself. People will respect you more if you're confident.
Show people what's cool about you. Are you a master writer? Ask to read something in your English class.
Don't allow your desire for social acceptance to get in the way of knowing who you really are. It's fine to do away with habits that offend others, or to improve upon your personal hygiene, but don't try to be anyone other than yourself. It may take some time for you to find your crowd, or to find people with interests that are similar to yours; but you will find them.
 It's important to think about what causes your reputation so that you can try and do something about it. You can't fix rumors, but you can rebel against them. For example, have you been accused of being fake? Make sure to stay in your comfort zone when it comes to dressing and acting, and be honest.


Not all labels are bad. If you've got a reputation as smart, shy, or some other "general" label that doesn't put people off from talking to you, don't worry yourself with trying to shake it. Think of it this way: those labels are like having a certain hair color. Hair colors don't push others away, right?

, One of the most important things for changing your reputation is to be friendly! Think about it - you know that one girl who's really mean, but somehow the entire school worships her? How many real, genuine friends do you think she actually has? If you're friendly, you'll draw more real and true friends to you than if you try to be popular and mean.



Smile! If somebody looks over at you and gazes for a bit, wave and smile. If you're not in class, maybe start a conversation with them.
Be nice to everyone. Whether they're popular or one of the school outcasts, be kind and accepting. It doesn't matter if they're LGBT, of a different race, are considered "nerds" or "freaks", or anything that may be different from you - be nice.

Don't swear around people you don't know very well. Swearing is considered rude by most, and cursing too much can drive people away from you. If you must swear, keep it minimal and do it around your friends only.
Aim for "quiet and shy" rather than "distant". If you don't want to talk much, but somebody starts a conversation with you, be friendly and happy, and willing to carry on a conversation. If you cut the conversation off after you answer somebody's question, you'll seem hostile.
Avoid shouting and keep your voice at a reasonable level. Similar to swearing, being too loud can drive others away. If you have trouble regulating the volume of your voice, try using an app to track your voice volume and practice speaking at even tones.
Always try to stay calm. Unless something is going on that really warrants you to panic (e.g. you accidentally set something important on fire in the chemistry lab), don't panic and try to keep a cool head at all times.
 Be kind, friendly, caring, and a good friend and person. Honesty is a must, as well as being genuine. Find people to talk to that you share common interests with.


Take care not to appear overeager when it comes to making friends or being accepted by a group of people. This will be an immediate turn-off. No one will accept you if it's obvious that you are desperate to be accepted.
Focus on befriending individual people, rather than cliques. There are many friendly folks out there who have plenty of self-esteem, and who don't feel that they need to associate themselves with any particular clique. These people tend to make better friends, exercise more integrity, and treat others with greater respect. In them, you will find truer friends and longer-lasting relationships.
Don't get too caught up in talking about your own interests to a potential friend. Find out what other people are interested in, and talk to them about their interests. Be aware of what's going on in the world, in terms of news and popular culture. You might discover new interests. You might even learn something!
If you are ever confronted or questioned about past deeds, disregard it with a laugh and explain. Say "It was just a stage I was going through" or "It was just a stupid part of my life I'd rather forget."

, Unfortunately, just about everyone will get bullied in school at some point. Avoid these people as often as you can! When you can't avoid them, stare straight ahead and pretend they're not there, and don't respond to any mean comments they might make.


If you're labeled badly and everybody makes fun of you for it, don't let them bring you down to their level. Don't say anything bad back to them, because that makes you just as bad as them; they're calling you names to get a reaction out of you, so don't give them one. However, if this bullying starts escalating to threats, physical violence, or people telling you to hurt yourself, reach out to an adult and tell them what's going on. That sort of behavior is never acceptable.
 Depending on what grade you're in, most cases of dating may be short and sweet, or last for several months - or even years. If you ever feel too uncomfortable with a relationship you're in, don't be afraid to break up with your partner. And remember - most people who date in high school don't get married, anyway!

, Trust people once they have earned your trust, but not before then. Sometimes people are unkind to others in an attempt to feel better about themselves. Be sure to hold your head high, cut your losses when you must, and keep a thick skin. Don't retaliate by treating others poorly in return. Know that life's too short to waste any time on those who won't treat you right. Respect yourself. This will earn you the respect of others.
 Rebel once in a while! Make it clear to the world that you are the primary governor of your own self, even if this just means talking back to that old crabby teacher once in a while. A tiny bit of disregard for the opinion of others from time to time can make you seem more cool and more confident. Just don't overdo it on this one.
 Most high schools and some middle schools have clubs or sports teams. Consider joining one of them. It'll help you broaden your horizons, become a well-rounded person, and who knows - you could discover your passion!


Consider joining a club of something that you're already good at. For example, if you have a knack for programming, see if your school has a club for programmers. If not, try finding something like a robotics team - they need programmers, after all!

, This is where your study habits really come into play. You don't have to try to get all A's, but aim to get grades as high as you can. Remember, everyone is different: if you're trying your hardest and all you can get is a high C, that's okay.
 Chances are, you might be a bit shy or socially out of practice. Break out of your shell! Start talking to people, and aim to make friends by doing so.


Learn people's names and address them by their names. They'll appreciate it.
Talk to people. Say something like, "Are you nervous too?" They'll probably appreciate that because it's a good way to break the ice. You never know, this could end up being your best friend.
Don't be too quiet. Try to crack a couple of jokes in class - it will attract more attention and already on your first day everyone will think of you as "the funny kid". Just make sure they aren't mean or inappropriate!
If you walk or ride the bus home, strike up conversation with the people on your route home.
 Most preteens and teenagers spend their free time playing games on their electronics. Consider using your time in a more productive way. There are other things you can do besides just using your phone. Help others, and don't expect anything in return. It's very rewarding.


Make a study group. Alternatively, make study guides for classes that you have with friends or acquaintances that struggle with it.
Tutor those in younger grade levels. If you're in ninth grade and you have an A in Algebra 2, try tutoring seventh or eighth graders in pre-algebra. If you're in sixth grade and have a knack for history classes, tutor elementary schoolers through the school. Some schools have programs that allow you to leave the school and tutor at another school during the day. Talk to your school counselor and see if you have one of these.
Volunteer. Try volunteering at non-profit organizations to help out. Just keep in mind that typically, if you're under a certain age, you'll need to have an adult with you in order to volunteer. Some volunteer places may not even take you if you're under the age of sixteen.
Take on something like babysitting. If kids aren't your thing, try petsitting.
 Who said you only had to stick to doing things in school to be more well-rounded? If you do more new things outside of school, you'll become just as well-rounded, if not more so! Try out the following suggestions for something new to do.


Check out a sport. If you play one sport already, try another one. It's even better if you can integrate those two together. Good at gymnastics? Try cheerleading!
Go to different events. If you don't go to the school events, try out going to a dance or to a sporting event. Alternatively, you could try going to things like the school choir concerts or dance performances.
Take up a new hobby.
If you're old enough, look for jobs.
 Many people find their time in mandatory schooling to be absolutely miserable. Since this is such a stereotype, some people dread school without even having the experience of their school. Don't assume that you'll hate school! Instead, smile, be optimistic, and see the good in everything at school. It'll make everything better and much more enjoyable - and your school year will be a blast!

