 An aggressive cat is likely to try to escape your arms by scratching so the above methods are not ideal for him. A safer way to carry this cat is to scruff him. Scruffing mimics how the mother cat moved her kittens around by holding them by the loose skin over their shoulders called the scruff. When held by the scruff, many cats are subdued and don't fight back. Some veterinary experts confirm that scruffing is an acceptable way to maintain control of a cat for a very short amount of time because, if done properly, it will not harm the cat. Note that scruffing is a controversial technique, so consider asking your vet to show you how to do this properly.In addition, by using the scruffing technique, we can also make sure that the cat has his teeth and claws facing away from you he is less likely to hurt you.
Note that an adult cat is too heavy to be carried by the scruff alone and that you should take some of her weight by sitting her rear end on your other hand. This will ensure that the cat doesn't feel pain when he is scruffed and that there is no strain on his spine and muscles.
 This would be your dominant hand, or the one that you use for basic activities like carrying groceries or writing. Place this hand over the cat's shoulders and grasp a handful of the loose skin in your fist.Hold the skin firmly, but not with excessive force. Apply only as much grip as you need to lift the cat up and not more or less than that.
 Hold the cat away from your body. This has the effect of pointing his legs away from you. If he tries to scratch, he is left just clawing the air.
 Use the other hand to form a scoop "seat" and slide it under the lowest part of his body. Some cats curl up when scruffed, so this could mean his bottom or his lower back (if he curls up).Never lift the cat by the scruff alone. Always make sure to support his lower legs and never suspend his body weight as this can be very dangerous and cause pain for the cat, particularly if he is older.
 Do not carry a cat while scruffing him; most experts suggest that this can harm the cat and put strain on his spine and muscles. While it's okay to scruff a cat to momentarily lift him or to administer medication to an unwilling cat, scruffing is always a last resort and should not be done for more than a few seconds. Thus, scruffing should not be used to casually carry a cat around., Do not scruff a cat and then let him go. Instead, place his front feet on the ground and let him gently hop out of your arms.

