 True market value tells you what people are currently paying for your used BMW. It is based on what dealers are actually selling the car for and is averaged from a number of dealers throughout the country.Go to a reputable website that verifies used car pricing. You should be able to find a number of pricing tools online easily.
Websites displaying true market value will also display the invoice price of the car. This is what the dealership actually paid for it, which will be lower than the value or price of the car.
You can also find the sticker price or the manufacturer's suggested retail price (MSRP). This will often be more expensive, since cars rarely go for their sticker price.
 You'll find listings for trade-in, private party, dealer retail, and certified used vehicles. These listings will all be different prices, so use the appropriate listing for your purchasing situation.Trade-in value is what dealers are usually paying consumers when customers trade in their vehicle. If your used BMW is a recently trade-in, then this is likely about what a dealership paid for it.
Private party is how much the car is selling if you're buying it from someone rather than a dealership. This may be more or less than the trade-in value, depending on the year or condition of the vehicle.
Dealer retail is roughly what this car is selling for at dealerships. When buying at a dealership, this is about what you should expect the car to be listed at.
Certified used vehicle is the value if it has a certified used warranty. It has greater guarantees, so can be more expensive.
 Before going to the dealership, write down how much you're willing to spend. Stick to your number as best as you can. If the car is still too expensive, there's nothing wrong with walking away.


Come into the situation with a clear price in mind. Know what you can (and are willing) to pay for your used BMW.
Start off by offering a one step below the true market value for the car. BMWs are popular, so probably only one step is advisable.
Used the best negotiating tactics. Don't make any rash decisions while you're there.
 If a deal for a used BMW is too good to be true, it may very well be.While we all love bargains, do remember that there is no such thing as "cheap BMW in excellent condition."


Buying the cheapest used BMW may not give you the best value for your money. Your goal should be to find a reasonably priced used BMW in good shape.
BMWs that are too good of a deal may have some issues. Have a reliable vehicle history report and a mechanic look over the car thoroughly if the price seems too good to be true.
If they are asking for less than the car is worth, you definitely need to be suspicious. It's possible the car has major liens against it or it could even be stolen.

