 If you put your hair in a braid, ponytail, or up in any way, wear a ribbon. Do not put your hair into a messy ponytail. Bangs are okay part your hair to the side and wear a headband if it is down. You can dye it strawberry blonde or red if you want and get colored contacts for blue eyes.;
, Take a shower at least once a day. Brush your teeth and wash your face twice a day. Shave into your wardrobe. Lots and lots of plaid. You can usually get plaid clothing such as skirts and jackets from department stores (Kohl's or Candies in the U.S.). A little sleuthing is likely to get you a pair of adorable plaid shorts. For a well put together outfit, use a complimentary color combination. Match one or two colors from the plaid design with a top, jacket, headband, etc.
 Be modest and wear preppy clothes from stores like J. Crew, Lacoste, Ralph Lauren, Banana Republic, etc. If you want more high end clothing try Burberry, who is known for their plaid. Be original too. An interesting option are pleated or pencil skirts. They add to the timeless sincerity of the outfit.
 Nancy Drew’s style is in stores right now, so you can usually find quite a collection of cute, wind-banded headbands in stores. Keep your color combinations in mind when buying them.
 They are practical and sincere, just like Nancy Drew. If you can't find penny loafers or ballet flats, try Sperry boat shoes.
 They add polish and also keep you warm. Neutral, flesh, ivory or white are best for the look.
 It will look lovely. Nancy wears one with her initials on it. If you don't have one like that opt for a pretty butterfly brooch.
 Get timeless, classic clothes that will always look stylish. DO get brands such as J.Press, Ralph Lauren, Brooks Brothers, Jack Rogers, J. Crew, Vineyard Vines, Lacoste, Nantucket Brand, Amanda's, Burberry, Lilly Pulitzer, Bloomingdales, & Saks 5th avenue.
 Nancy Drew often ties sweaters around her shoulders.
 Nancy knots them on the side of her neck. You can get scarves at thrift stores, or just about any store that sells garments.
 Don't wear something like, a leather jacket (makes too much noise), flip flops (makes running difficult), and jeans (brushes and makes noise when walking or running). These kinds of clothes give yourself away very easily. Try to wear matching clothes so you look sophisticated. sporty clothes are good for running and don't make much noise.
 There is always something interesting happening. Never let anything out of your sight. Nancy Drew saw everything very quickly, and you have to do the same in order to be like her.( remember everything is some kind of evidence, not all in the same case though!)

, Never swear around people who might take offence to it (such as older people, teachers, or children) or say racist/sexist/homophobic comments.This makes you ugly on the inside and rude.
 Just because you got some clothes from an upper class store doesn't mean they are preppy. Buy clothes that are classic, and clean-cut. Don't be afraid to splurge on these a little, as preps tend to hold onto clothes for a long time. Remember to make sure your clothes are always clean, and always match. Good fabrics are very important. Get rid of any polyester. Buy mostly 100%cotton, wool and cashmere. Wear preppy colors. Bright and happy, like green, pink, light blue, nautical red, white and navy blue and preppy patterns such as plaid, stripes, gingham, polka dots, argyle, floral, paisley, nova checks, and tartan.
 The prep equivalent to jeans
Bermuda shorts (khaki, madras plaid, seersucker, linen or preppy prints and patterns)
Skirts (khaki, madras plaid, seersucker, linen, preppy prints and patterns such as Lilly Pulitzer)
Tea dresses and summer dresses (in madras plaid, preppy colors, seersucker, or linen). A-line dresses, halters, and flowy dresses are acceptable.
Tennis- and golf-inspired shirts, skirts, and dresses

,
Small handbags in simple colors and patterns or large, monogrammed tote bags (L.L. Bean, and Lands' End have good choices). Vera Bradley handbags and wallets are also very preppy but make sure to get the right pattern (in preppy colors)
Hair accessories such as headbands (silk/satin scarf headbands or hard headbands with ribbon bows) and grosgrain ribbons in preppy colors, prints, and patterns.
Ribbon belts in a variety of preppy prints, patterns, and colors or, especially for guys, black or brown leather belts.
Preppy girls wear ballet flats, top-siders (boat shoes), ribbon/canvas flip-flops, Rainbow sandals, and simple leather high heels and wedges in shoes.
Wearing a pair of top-siders without socks is classic preppy.
 You can't let your partner be let down. You have to be nice to be a prep. Don't be too nice though because people will think that you are a weirdo. And Nancy Drew isn't a weirdo. She will speak up and be kind to everyone.
 Such as Old Blazers, Long trench coats (Woman's), only slightly heeled shoes (Preferably with a strap and/or bow) and pleated skirts! Oh, and always remember a magnifying glass!

