 Mix a mild detergent with a bucket of water so that it begins to bubble slightly. For a tough homemade cleaning solution, try mixing 1 cup ammonia, ½ cup vinegar, and ¼ baking soda in a gallon of water., Before you expose large parts of the wall to the solution, test it on a less noticeable part of the wall. Rub it in and then dry it off. If there is no mark on the wall or discoloration, then you can use the solution on more conspicuous parts of the wall. If the solution has damaged the wall, consider other options for fixing the wall. You can, for example, repaint it or hire professional cleaners.

Glossy enamel paints tend to hold up best to abrasive cleaners. Flat, satin, and eggshell latex paints are sensitive to washing., Dunk a gentle sponge in the water. Squeeze it to remove excess moisture. A soft towel can also be used, if necessary., Rub the spot gently, moving the sponge in a circular motion. Clean the area with a heavy stain. Refrain from using your solution on unstained parts of the wall.This should be enough to clean most stains from beverages, like coffee or wine.
If you believe that your whole wall needs a heavy cleaning, then you could use the solution throughout the room. Generally though, a light cleaning without heavy solutions should suffice for anything but a heavy stain. The risk of damage to your paint job outweighs the benefits of using a cleaning solution on the entire wall.
 If your solution was not strong enough to clean the spot, try using a more abrasive solution. Consider a baking soda paste or commercial cleaner. Once again, test this solution on a less noticeable part of the wall before using it.

For a baking soda paste, mix ½ cup of baking soda with a few tablespoons of water. Mix thoroughly and then apply it to the sponge.
A degreaser can be particularly useful when cleaning grease splatters.
 Use a soft cloth or a dry sponge to dry the wall and clean the solution from the wall. Rub in a gentle circular motion until the wall appears to be clean.