 Apply the twist button before you do any sewing. Interface/interline your fabric now. Mark the desired position of the twist button onto the bag front fabric piece. Take the twist button and press the prongs into the fabric so as to make two indents in the fabric, if you like you can go over these indents with pen so you can see them more clearly.
 Take a stitch ripper and carefully make two tiny slits into the prong markings. Push through through all of the layers. Push the prongs of the twist button into the right side of the fabric, slip the metal washer over the prongs (at the wrong side) and then press the prongs down away from each other with your thumb.

Be sure to double check that the button is straight (and not wonky) before you push the prongs down! Push prongs down away from each other. Be nice and firm with it to ensure the button will be well secured into the fabric., Make up your bag flap. Finish making your bag and place your flap over the twist button and mark the position where the flap falls onto the twist button.,, When you've unscrewed the plate, you'll see that one half of the plate has a raised lip. Get an ink pen and draw on the raised lip (including the lip around the outer-side of the screw holes) like in the picture. This will enable you to press the lip onto the bag front to get an ink imprint which will serve as the cutting guide., Draw around the ink imprint with pen if necessary., Using the cutting guide just made in the previous step, use small sharp scissors to cut a hole that is slightly smaller than your ink imprint. It is very important that the hole is slightly too small or the twist plate will not be secure. Cut a bit and test, cut a bit more and test and so on. Don't worry, go slow and all will be well.
 Sandwich the fabric bag flap in between the front and back parts of the twist plate (at the hole you have just made) and screw the back of the twist plate to the front plate.
 Pull any stray fabric away from the hole if necessary.