 While there aren't many ingredients in the Iranian lamb stew, it does rely on a lot of spice for flavor and heat. Get out a small bowl and measure out the seasonings you'll need for the stew. Set the spices aside while you heat the stew. You'll need to mix together:1 tablespoon of turmeric
2 teaspoons of black pepper
1 teaspoon of salt
1 teaspoon of crushed red pepper flakes

, Pour 3 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil into a large pot or Dutch oven. Heat the oil over medium heat and once it shimmers, stir in 2 medium onions that have been minced. Saute the onions for about 10 minutes or until they turn translucent and soften.You may need to adjust the heat as you saute the onions. If they start to turn too brown, turn the heat down.
 Take 3 pounds (1.36 kg) of lamb and cut it into large chunks. Add the lamb to the sauteed onions in the pot and cook it over medium-high heat for several minutes. Turn the meat after a few minutes so it browns on all sides. Drain off or scoop away any fat that's at the bottom of the pan.You can use bone-in lamb, boneless meat, or any large pieces of lamb that you have. You can also combine these types of lamb.
 Add the spice mixture to the browned lamb and stir it well so the spices coat the lamb. Pour in 4 cups (950 ml) of water and bring the water to a boil. Turn the heat down to medium-low so that the liquid bubbles gently. Simmer the stew for 2 hours.You may notice fat bubbling to the surface as the stew cooks. You can use a large shallow spoon to scoop away the fat that comes to the top. Try to do this every 30 minutes.
 Measure out 3 tablespoons of tomato paste and stir it into the stew. Keep simmering the stew with the lid off for another 20 minutes. Stir the stew frequently so that it doesn't stick to the pan. The Iranian lamb stew should thicken and the meat will soften once it's finished cooking. Taste the stew and add more salt or seasonings according to your taste.Garnish the Iranian lamb stew with 1/4 cup (5 g) of chopped fresh parsley or cilantro. You can serve the stew with flat bread or basmati rice.

