 These bangs are styled like the name would imply – the flow over the forehead to one side of your face. The best types of side-swept bangs for round faces are thick and full, rather than thin and wispy. These will add a bit of shape and dimension to a round face.To figure out if you have a round face, measure across your upper cheeks (from the outer corner of each eye) and your face length (from your hair to your chin).
If these two measurements are pretty equal and you don’t have a sharp jawline, your face is round.;
, Heart-shaped faces are wider at the top and become narrower and pointed at the bottom, just like a heart. Bangs that are a bit wispier will soften this face shape.Bangs that are a bit longer on the sides will also help to soften up the more sharper chin., Square faces are a bit more angular than others, so the key is getting bangs that will soften everything up. Bangs that softly split down the middle work really well for square faces because their slanted “A” shape breaks up the sharper lines of the face.As for length, ask for bangs that hit your eyebrows and no longer., Oval faces are pretty easy to work with, because it’s the face shape most people actually desire. That being said, blunt, straight-across bangs can particularly flatter oval faces. Because your face is longer, the blunt bangs don’t overwhelm your entire face., The shape of your face is the biggest thing to consider when you’re toying with the idea of bangs, but the size of your forehead should also come into consideration. If you have a small forehead, side-swept bangs can make it look a bit bigger and more proportionate.If you have a larger forehead, parted, wispy bangs can disguise a bit of the length while softening the shape., It’s particularly helpful if you can find pictures of people with similar face shapes and hair types! Save a few photos on your phone or bring them with you so you can make sure the hairstylist knows what you are looking for.
 If you’re unsure if your face is well suited for bangs, the best thing you can do is talk to a professional. Hairstylists want you to be happy with their service, so they will offer you good advice about what to do. They have experience cutting and styling all types of hair, so they will be able to answer your questions and help you figure out what type of bangs will work best.
 For bangs to look their best, they will likely need to be styled. After all, they are front and center when you’re speaking to people, so you want them to look polished. If you’re a fan of rolling out of bed every morning and barely touching your hair, they might not be the best option for you. Additionally, you’ll need to make time to get regular trims., There are many hair apps available that allow you to upload your own image and then edit different hairstyles, hair colors and/or bangs on to it. These apps can give you a very good idea of what bangs will look like on you. You can experiment with different types of bangs until you find something that best complements your specific features., You can buy these either at a beauty supply store or online and they come in a wide variety of shades and styles. Pick up the clip-in bangs style you're considering, then part your hair down the middle, slide the piece in and secure it with the three clips.This is probably the closest you'll be able to get to the real thing without actually getting a cut, so wear the piece around a few days and see how you feel about it.
 If you have a particular style of bangs in mind, use bobby pins to arrange your hair into that fringe, then pin the fringe in place. For example, if you want side-swept bangs, pin your hair back so that it looks like you have them, then check out how it looks on you.

