 Your parents may not mind if you build a fort in your bedroom, but they may not be happy if you build a fort in their living room. Ask your parents if you can use and move the chairs, blankets, and pillows to build a fort.
 Try to use a room that already has the basics for your fort in it, such as chairs and a sofa. This way, you won't have to move furniture around that much.
 This includes the seat and the back cushions. You may find lots of treasures under these cushions. See if there are any worth saving (such as money and toys) and store them in a box. Discard gross items, such as trash and crumbs. No fort is complete without a treasure box.
 Take a cushion and place it on the seat of the sofa. Lean it against the armrest, so that the side you sit on is touching the armrest. The edge of the cushion should be touching the backrest of the sofa.


If you are using regular pillows instead, put two pillows on each armrest. You want the pillows to reach the top of the sofa, so you may need more pillows. Keep stacking pillows until they are even with the top of the sofa.
If you have extra cushions, you can stand them on the edge of the couch, between the two armrests.
 Make sure that the narrow ends of the blanket are covering the cushions, and the long edge is covering the top of the backrest. Tug on the ends so that the blanket is stretched across the top of your fort.


Something light, such as a bed sheet will work the best, because it will be less likely to make your fort cave in.
Blankets and comforters are thick and will make your fort nice and dark inside because they block out light.They are also heavy, however, and may cause your fort to cave in.
 You can crawl into your fort now, or you can make it even bigger by using more furniture and pillows. Push two chairs in front of the sofa and turn them so that they face each other. Lean more pillows against the legs of the chairs, and drape a bed sheet over the top of the chairs. For more ideas, read the part about building a fort around chairs.

