 Think about your message:


Consider who will receive your message and be affected by your communication.
Examine the exact purpose of your message by asking yourself: “What do I want to accomplish with this message?”;
, If people understand the context that surrounds a problem, idea, or message, your communication will be more meaningful and captivating. Never presume that everyone understands the problem, significance, or context of a situation. Deconstruct ideas to provide context.
 Comprehension and speaking are two different aspects. If a person speaks well, that does not mean he or she understands well. Ask people to rephrase your messages and ideas in their own words to be sure they have understood.
 Be aware of any language difficulties that people may have. Adapt your communication to the person’s level. Use clear and precise specifications and language to express details and say exactly what you mean.
 Noise can be:


Long sentences (more than 20 words)
Idiomatic expressions: “Let me know”, “You got it?” (Compared to “Please tell/inform me” and “Was that clear/comprehensible?”)
Jargon
Phrasal verbs: “Figure out”, “drive up” (Compared to “proper” English: “figure out” means understand/calculate/think of and “drive up” means increase)

, Non-verbal communication impacts communication and people are affected by how you express yourself. Consider your tone of voice and facial expressions as you communicate your message and ideas. Be sure to speak at a speed that is consistent and clear. Avoid speaking fast and inarticulately.
, Get feedback from the people you are communicating with to be sure that your communication is comprehensible.
 Listening is equally important as communicating. Clarity originates from listening. Be an active listener and not a simple communicator. Repeat and rephrase to be sure you understand what people are saying.
 E-mail is your best friend to reinforce clarity after phone conversations, meetings, and conference calls. Use E-mail as a tool to review important points and details that you have communicated.
 Communication is slower when you make an effort to be clear and give people an opportunity to ask for clarification. Build confidence in non-native English speaking teams by being a “leader” in clarifying important points and details. Stress the importance of asking for clarification, if details are not clear. Use visual aids (diagrams, screenshots, pictures, and images) to facilitate communication and add clarity.

