 Nasal and sinus congestion are common symptoms of the flu. If you are suffering from congestion, using steam may give you some relief. The heat of the steam loosens mucus while the moisture helps to relieve dry nasal passages.Try a hot shower or bath to help to clear your congestion faster. Turn the water as hot as you can stand it and let the bathroom fill with steam with the door closed. If the heat leaves you feeling a little weak or dizzy, stop immediately and do not continue.
When you get out of the shower, dry your hair and body thoroughly. Damp hair can cause you to lose body heat, which is not good when you are sick.
You can also use steam by filling your bathroom sink with hot water and placing your face over it. Drape a towel over your head to keep the steam in. You can even add a couple of drops of a sinus-clearing essential oil, such as eucalyptus, or peppermint, to maximize the sinus-clearing benefits.;
, The Neti pot clears nasal passages by thinning and flushing the sinuses with a saline solution. The Neti pot is an oblong ceramic or clay teapot that can be purchased online, in health food stores, and in some pharmacies; however, any kind of bottle or container with a thin spout can also be used.


Buy the saline solution used in the Neti pot in health food or drug stores; however, you can make your own saline solution by mixing half a teaspoon of kosher salt into a cup of sterile water. It is essential that the water is sterile or properly distilled — ensure this by boiling the water for five minutes, then allow it to cool to room temperature.
Fill the pot with the saline solution and, tilting your head to one side over a sink, insert the spout of the pot into one nostril. Slowly pour the solution in, which should flow in one nostril before coming out the other. When the water stops dripping, blow your nose gently, then repeat the process on the opposite side., A dry, tickly, or sore throat is a common symptom of the flu. An easy, natural way to deal with this is to gargle a salt solution. The water hydrates the throat and the antiseptic properties of the salt fight infection.Make a gargling solution by dissolving a teaspoon of salt in a glass of warm to hot water. If you don’t like the taste, add a pinch of baking soda to ease the saltiness.
You can also try gargling with apple cider vinegar and warm water for a similar effect.
Gargle this solution up to four times a day.
 A fever is your body’s way of fighting off the infection, so it is best not to treat it unless it is severe. It is thought that he fever will heat up your body and blood, which makes it easier for your body to fight off the infection, or that the virus may be unable to replicate as easily when your body is at a higher temperature.Adults with a mild fever (less than 101°F or 38.3°C) may allow the fever to run its course. Do not try to bring it down with fever reducers.
Seek medical attention if your fever goes above 101°F (38.3°C).
Seek treatment for an infant under 12 months old with any type of fever., Blowing your nose often is the best way to get excess mucus out of your sinuses and nasal passages when you are sick with the flu. Do not inhale mucus back into your nose because that can lead to sinus pressure and earaches.To blow your nose, hold a tissue over your nose with both hands. The tissue should be covering your nostrils so that the tissue will catch the mucus when you blow your nose. Then apply gentle pressure on one nostril and blow out through the other one.
Dispose of used tissues immediately and wash your hands to minimize the spread of germs.

