 Many times cloudy water will disappear on its own while the water environment adjusts. Often, cloudy water is a result of mixture of microscopic organisms, such as bacteria, protozoa, and micrometazoa.These organisms come from your fish, the food, and waste. Usually, the tank will balanced out and clear up within around a week.


Be patient. Before adding chemicals or trying to do anything drastic to fix the cloudy water, remember that the aquarium is full of living organisms. Figure out why the water might have become cloudy before doing anything to the water. Adding unnecessary chemicals and cleaners can upset your tank environment and harm your fish.;
, Adding in good bacteria helps the natural processes of the tank. You can get good bacteria in the tank in a couple of ways. You can buy prepackaged bacteria from the store or buy gravel that has the bacteria already on it. You can also add gravel, rocks, driftwood, or a filter pad from an established tank to your own tank. It will have the bacteria on it.Bacteria cultures will help to eliminate ammonia and nitrite, which are toxins. It changes them into less harmful nitrate, which is then removed during water changes.The best bacterial species to do so are Nitrosomonas and Nitrobacter., Another way you can help keep your tank clean is by adding live plants. Live plants are covered in good bacteria, and they also are a filter for the water.You can buy these at your local pet store.
 There are different filters that do different things for your fish. Cloudy water might be due to having the wrong filter. The filter you choose depends on the density of fish, the type of aquarium you have, and the use of live plants or artificial plants.


There are three different filters to choose from. Mechanical filters remove the particles by forcing the water through a material that catches the particles. Biological filters use bacteria to change toxins into less toxic substances. Chemical filters use chemicals to remove toxins or chemical from the water.
 When you are putting fish in the tank, don’t place too many in it. This can cause health problems and make your tank harder to clean.Try to keep the amount of fish around one inch of fish per gallon of water.