 Protein gets more important as you age. While many people are concerned with protein intake with a vegetarian diet, it's easy to get enough protein if you make a point of eating protein rich foods throughout the day.Beans, soybeans, and peanuts are an excellent source of nutrients in addition to protein.
Soy-based products can be used as a meat or dairy substitute. You can opt for soy milk as well as tofu.;
, Potassium is important for your health as a senior as it keeps blood pressure under control. Opt for potassium-rich foods in your diet, such as cumin-seeds and limes. Try drinking coconut water on occasion, as this is also high in potassium.Other sources of potassium include bananas, sweet potatoes, beets, yogurts, and tomato-based sauces., Calcium is important for bone health as you age. Most of the foods you would eat on a non-vegetarian diet will provide with adequate calcium. Go for low-fat or fat-free cheeses, yogurt, and milks. You can also drink juices and other beverages fortified with calcium.If you're going vegan rather than just vegetarian, go for calcium-rich or fortified foods, such as tofu, plant-based drinks fortified with calcium, and leafy greens.
You may want to talk to your doctor about potentially taking a calcium supplement.
 Vitamin D may be a struggle to get if you're going for a vegetarian diet. Get your vitamin D through fortified drinks such as milk, fortified orange juice, or plant based milks such as soy or almond. Sunshine, however, is more important than diet for vitamin D, so make sure you go outdoors on occasion., When preparing vegetarian foods, how you cook them is important. Avoid frying foods in fatty oils, like vegetable oil, or things like butter.Instead, try cooking your foods in olive or mustard oil.You should also opt for a non-stick pan to cut back on your overall need for oil when cooking.
 Seniors should have at least three meals per day, but many find it is easier to meet nutritional needs with five to six small meals throughout the day.For example, eat a light breakfast such as a small bowl of yogurt with fruit. Then, have several healthy, vegetarian snacks leading up to a similarly light lunch.
 Drinking water with your meal helps if you have an issue swallowing solid foods, which is a common issue amongst senior citizens. It can also help with issues like constipation. In addition to eating nutrient-rich foods, you should keep up with your water intake on a vegetarian diet. Go for seven to eight glasses of water each day.If you drink other liquids, make sure to avoid very sugary, high-calorie liquids. Opt for diet sodas and juices without added sugar.
 Vegetable soups can be a healthy option for dinner if you're going vegetarian. However, how they're prepared does make a difference. Opt for hearty soups made with cream and that contain some sort of protein such as beans or lentils., Vitamin B12 can be hard to obtain if you're vegan as it's found in many animal products. It's a good idea to have your vitamin B12 levels checked if you've recently transitioned into a vegan diet.If you have a vitamin B12 deficiency, your doctor my recommend supplements.
Good sources of vitamin B12 include fortified cereals, lean meat, and fish., While a vegetarian diet is healthy for most people, you should always talk to a doctor before making dietary changes if you have age-related health concerns. You want to make sure you can still get the nutrients you need on a vegetarian diet. Ask your doctor about a vegetarian diet if you have high blood pressure or heart disease., Omega 3 Fatty Acids may also be difficult to obtain on a vegetarian diet. Ask your doctor whether taking supplements is a good idea. Your doctor will perform an exam and possibly do blood work to see if Omega 3 Fatty Acids are a good option for you.Do not start taking supplements without consulting a doctor. Supplements could potentially interfere with medication.

