 Expect less control over the bat if you go with one that is too long or short for your build. Follow guidelines regarding a bat’s appropriate length and width for your height. Do so even if you’re a younger player who hasn’t finished growing, since picking a bat for your future self will negatively affect your performance in the here and now.Search online for sizing charts, such as this one: http://www.desisport.com/how-to-choose-your-cricket-bat


, As you inspect each new bat, examine its blade, because shapes vary from one bat to the next. Locate each blade’s “sweet spot,” which is wherever it is thickest. Choose a bat whose sweet spot is located wherever you strike the ball most often. This will translate to more durability and power during play.If you’re a beginner, favor bats that are thickest in the middle for the best coverage. As you develop as a player, take note of exactly where along the bat you tend to favor when hitting the ball for future reference.
 Take the bat in your hands and simulate gameplay to judge how the bat’s weight feels in motion. Take test swings and practice pick-ups to make sure it responds quickly when you need to react fast. Hold the bat out on arm’s length with your weaker hand to see if it tires you too soon. Also keep in mind that:The location of the blade’s “sweet spot” will affect how the weight feels in your hand. Lower sweet spots will make the bat feel more bottom-heavy, while higher sweet spots will do the opposite.This is why it’s so important to visit a brick-and-mortar store, since an online description of a bat’s weight alone won’t inform you how a bat will actually feel in your hand.
 Don’t expect all bats to be ready for immediate use. Know that bats can crack in play without prior treatment or “knocking in.” If you are unfamiliar with how to do this, limit your search to bats that have already received this treatment and are ready for immediate play.“Knocking in” refers to a process of lightly striking the wood with a bat mallet or leather ball. This strengthens the wood by compressing it.
However, be aware that too much “knocking in” can damage the bat. If you’re unsure of how to safely do it, go with a pre-treated bat as well.

