 First, you need a white facial pencil so you can mark it. You will also need a straight edge to help you determine where your eyebrow should begin.Use the straight edge to create a visual line vertically from the inside point of your nostril up to your eyebrow. Make a mark on the inside edge.
If you prefer, you can use the outside edge of your nostril. However, doing so can make your nose look bigger.
Don't forget to do the other side.;
, Once again, you'll need to use a straight edge and a pencil. The end point of your eyebrows is the outer edge, the point nearest your ears rather than your nose.To create this boundary, make a visual line with the straight edge from the outside point of your nostril. It should run to the outside corner of your eye up through your eyebrow.
Mark it with a pencil, and then do the same on the other eyebrow.
 An arch can be a curve or more of an angle. Either way, it's where your eyebrow reaches upward near the middle. Once again, you'll need to use your straight edge to make a visual line that will help you determine where your arch should be.








The visual line should run from the outer point of your nostril. It should also line up with the middle of your pupil.
Once the line reaches your eyebrow, that's the place you mark for arch. Draw one on the other side, too.
 Now you want to make the boundaries of your eyebrow, going from point to point. Use the straight edge to create straight lines, following the natural lines of your eyebrow.








In other words, go up towards the arch on the bottom from the inside, then down from the arch towards the outside. Do the same on the top, keeping the lines mostly straight until you reach the arch.
If you don't want to use straight lines, you can just follow the curve of your eyebrow, making them as thin or as thick as you want, being sure you don't get them too thin, as they might not show up.
 If you want your arch shape very angled, don't curve as you come into the arch. Simply keep the lines straight. If you prefer the arch more curved, create a curve as you come into the arch.