 The most common symptoms of OM include ear pain or ear tugging (if the child can't yet verbalize pain), fussiness, fever, and even vomiting. In addition, a child may eat or have trouble sleeping normally because lying down, chewing, and sucking can alter the pressure in the ear and cause pain. Adults will also experience pain, a sensation of pressure, and increase discomfort while lying down.Given that the age group most commonly affected from ear infections and fluid ranges from three months to two years old, parents or primary caregivers will be required to give as much information and history as possible to the doctor on their children's behalf. Thus, it's important to keep track and careful record of any noted symptoms.
If you notice any discharge of fluid, pus or bloody discharge, see a doctor immediately., Ear infections are considered secondary infections that follow the "common cold", or the primary infection. You should expect to see a few days of nasal discharge or congestion, cough, sore throat, and a low fever, all typical symptoms that accompany colds.Most colds are due to viral infections and, given that there is no treatment for viral infections, there is usually no reason to seek medical attention. Only seek medical attention if the fever cannot reaches temperatures higher than 102°F (38.9°C). Keep track of all symptoms of the cold, as your doctor will want to know about the primary infection. The cold should last for a week. If you don't see improvement after a week, visit your doctor.
 The middle ear is normally filled with air which transmits sound waves. When the middle ear is filled with fluid during an infection sounds will be different or reduced. Some people complain that it sounds like listening to sounds under water. Signs that proper hearing may be impacted include:Failure to respond to soft sounds or other noises
The need to turn up the TV or radio to a louder volume
Talking in an usually loud voice
General inattentiveness

, Most ear infections don't cause long-term complications and often go away on their own within two to three days. However, frequent infections can result in some serious complications, including:Speech or developmental delays — In young children, hearing loss could result in developmental delays in speech, particularly if they are not yet verbal.Impaired hearing — Although slight difficulties in hearing are common with ear infections, more severe hearing loss can be a result of ear persistent infections or fluid, which can in some cases cause damage to the eardrum and middle ear.Spread of infection — Infections that remain untreated or that do not respond to treatment can spread to other tissues and should be addressed immediately. Mastoiditis is one possible infection that can result in the bony protrusion behind the ear. Not only can this bone become damaged but pus-filled cysts can also develop. In a few rare cases, severe middle ear infections can spread into the skull and affect the brain.Tearing of the eardrum — Infections can sometimes result in a tearing or rupturing of the eardrum.Most tears usually heal within 3 or so days, but in a few exceptional incidences, surgery may be required., If you suspect an ear infection may be at work, see a doctor to confirm the diagnosis.The physician will examine the ear using an otoscope, a small instrument that looks like a flashlight. This helps the doctor see into the eardrum.You may be referred to a specialist in ear, nose and throat (ENT) disorders (otolaryngologist) if the problem is persistent, frequent or unresponsive to treatment.