 It's easy to think of girls like a different species and think that you don't understand them. However, girls really aren't any different than you. They want the same things, they have the same problems, and they have the same feelings.When you realize that, it will be much easier to realize how you should treat them: treat them how you would want to be treated.


If it's easier, think of how you would want someone to treat a woman that you love. Treat a girl the way you'd want your dad to treat your mom. Treat a girl the way you'd want a guy to treat your sister.
 You want to look fly all the time. That's understandable. Who wouldn't want all the ladies to fall over themselves whenever they walk through a room? However, if you already have a girlfriend or a girl you like, working really hard to attract other women is disrespectful and rude to your girl. Just worry about looking hot to her and don't worry so much about what other women like. You shouldn't be flirting with a girl that isn't your girlfriend. You also shouldn't be showing off your body to other women.
 When she says "no" it doesn't mean "maybe later". It doesn't mean "I'm being coy". It doesn't mean "I'm trying to make you mad". It means "no". Don't continue to bother her after she's told you no. She knows what you want and she'll let you know if she changes her mind.


For example, if you ask her to wear a particular item of clothing and she doesn't like it, don't keep pressuring her to wear it.
 She's allowed to have secrets from you, just like you're allowed to have secrets from her. You're both entitled to have time to yourselves and things that are just yours. Do not invade her privacy by doing things like stalking her on Facebook or checking her text messages.


The temptation can be really strong if you see that she's left her internet browser logged in or something like that, but you should still resist. It's the gentlemanly thing to do.
 A lot of guys will worry about seeming manly. You don't want to seem weak, right? So they don't tell their girl how they feel. This is a huge mistake.Leaving her to wonder how much you really care is just mean. You wouldn't like it if she did that to you, right? When you care about someone, you should always tell them. Tell them when you mean it most and show them how much you care in little ways every day.


Don't hide it from others either. Your bros might tease you but they really understand: they've had girls they like a lot too. Take the teasing and make your girl happy by holding her hand when other people are around. It shows her that you're not ashamed of the close relationship that the two of you share.
 Trust is the absolute most important thing in a relationship. You can't have a happy relationship if you don't trust each other.This means that you need to give her the benefit of the doubt. Don't sweat it when she wants to hang out with her friends instead of hanging out with you. In your own behavior, don't do anything that would give her a reason not to trust you.


Don’t tell other people about the things you and your girl do behind closed doors, even if you’re just telling your best buddy. This is an invasion of privacy for your girl and can be very hurtful for her. All it takes is an argument with your best friend and that secret that you shared is posted on the internet for everyone to see.

