 Unlike an essay, which can either stick to one single topic or expand into other related topics, a nonfiction book should be focused on one specific subject. That subject may be some particular aspect of your life (with a specific time and place), or it may be about other people/places that interest you. It doesn't necessarily have to be your story like a personal essay. It's up to you to decide what subject matter you find most meaningful, and find interesting ways to talk about that subject.Think about the things that you find most captivating.
Unlike a personal essay, you do not have to be the main subject of a nonfiction book (though you can be!).
As you consider your subject matter, remember that you'll need to be able to write a whole book about that subject. Think about whether you'd be able to say that much about a subject before you commit to it.
 There are a few different ways to write a nonfiction book. Which format you choose depends largely on the subject matter. Before you start writing your book, it's best to think about what format would work best for the type of book you're imagining for yourself. Some examples include:A memoir (from the French word for "memory/reminiscence") is a detailed retelling of some part of your life. Unlike an autobiography, which can cover a whole life, a memoir is usually rooted in a specific theme, event, or time and place in your life.A travelogue discusses a place and its people, culture, and/or food. It tends to be very heavily based upon the author's experience and therefore is a subjective personal account (unlike a travel guide, which seeks to objectively convey information without any personal experience).Nature and environmental writing should revolve around a personal experience with nature. The writing should ultimately promote some degree of awareness of current environmental issues and should ideally foster a sense of wonder, adventure, and advocacy in readers.A biography is a retelling of someone else's life, and it may cover a specific time period (like a memoir of someone else's life) or that person's entire life. Biographies can be captivating narrative reenactments of a person's life, and can really bring the subject's story to life.If you have a series of related personal essays, you can organize them into a book-length essay collection.
 Once you've narrowed down your topic and chosen a format, you'll want to outline the project. Some writers find it helpful to narrow down what each individual chapter will cover during the outlining phase. This is not a hard-and-fast rule, but you may find it helpful. At the very least you should have a simple structure (even a list) that lays out what you would like to include in your book. This way you won't forget about those aspects when you're immersed in the actual writing of the book.Think about where you could best begin your book, and what the logical conclusion of that story should be. If writing a biography, for example, the book might end with a retelling of the subject's death.
If you're writing a memoir, the book should adequately frame the chosen time and place in your life. It's up to you to decide where the logical conclusion of that part of your life should be, and how to tell it best.
If you're writing a travelogue, you'll need to include details about yourself, as well as where, when, why, and how you traveled. You should make yourself easy to relate to for readers and write in a way that brings your experience to life on the page.When writing about nature or the environment, you'll need to show a genuine engagement with nature (ideally through some form of outdoor activity), balance nature facts with your subjective thoughts and feelings, and show a level of curiosity that makes everyday objects in nature seem new and exciting., Every nonfiction book requires some research, whether that entails actual encyclopedic research or simple interviews with others.Even if you're writing a memoir, you'll want to ask other people about their memories of that time/place/event so you can cross-check your own memories.


If you're writing a biography, you will most likely need a lot of factual information. This may require reading through textbooks and other biographies, or even visits to a museum or historical society.
If you're writing a memoir, talk to other people who knew you during that time (ideally a close relative, friend, or someone who was with you as you experienced that part of your life). You'd be amazed at how many details you've forgotten, misremembered, or completely fabricated.
A travelogue should draw heavily upon your notes and journals from the trip, but you'll also need to conduct research on the subjects you write about. For example, you'll want to learn as much as possible about the culture and people of that region, the food most frequently associated with that culture, etc.
A nature or environmental project should involve researching the names and descriptions of the plants, animals, and geographic areas you describe. You may also want to research how ecosystems work together in complex and unique ways in the areas you write about.
 Treating the book like a work of fiction does not mean fictionalizing the story. Rather, it means employing the skills and tools that fiction writers use.Create scenes within your essay or book, the same way a fiction writer would portray a scene in a short story or novel.
Think of the people in your nonfiction essay/book as characters. Are they fully developed on the page, and do readers get a good sense of their overall personalities?
Write strong dialogue. No one can remember the exact, word-for-word transcript of every conversation they've ever had, but your recollection of conversations should be as truthful as possible and written in a way that's easy to follow.
 Writing schedules are invaluable to every writer, but they're pretty much a necessity when you're writing a book-length project. Consider your designated writing time an extension of your job - you'll need to show up and do your work, no matter how you feel or what other distractions may present themselves.Make sure you work in a quiet place where you won't be distracted or disturbed.
You can measure your writing time temporally (by how many hours have passed), or by word or page count.
Be consistent with your schedule. It doesn't necessarily have to be every day, but it should be the same days and the same times, week in and week out.
 Remember that no one's first draft is perfect, and that includes now-famous authors. The well-polished works of nonfiction you love so much were re-written and revised many times until everything fit perfectly into place. Be patient and don't get discouraged.


Focus on larger issues as you hammer out your first draft. You can correct line-level issues during the revision/editing process.
Make sure everything is tied up by the end of the book. Don't leave anything unresolved, and make sure the reader will have a sense of closure and completion by the end of your book.

