 Plungers are great for unclogging toilets, but they also work well on clogged sinks and tubs. Fill the sink or tub with enough water to cover the drain and bottom. Press the plunger firmly down over the drain to create a tight seal and give it several quick pumps.Bellows-style plungers may work best.
If you have a double-bowl sink, you may need to close one of the drains with a plug or a washcloth before plunging in order to create a complete seal.
Keep a separate plunger for the toilet.
 Barbed drain cleaners, like the Zip-It Bath and Sink Hair Snare, are a great solution for clogs near the drain opening. Just slide the tool into the drain and pull it out. The back-angled barbs will pull out hair and other materials that have built up in your drain.
 Aerosol drain cleaners can blast clogs out of a drain with compressed air or gas. Water bladders use pressurized water to accomplish the same result.If you choose a gas-powered drain cleaner, you will need to make sure the device fits over your drain properly. It may be necessary to use an adapter. If you don’t create a good seal, the blast could be directed back at you instead of into the drain.
Water-based drain cleaning devices typically attach to a garden hose, but you may be able to get an adapter that will allow you to attach it to an indoor faucet.
 Wrap a heating pad around the trap pipe under the sink. Turn the heating pad on to warm up the pipe, then run hot water through the drain until the grease clears. Add a little dish detergent to help dissolve the grease., Use an enzymatic or bacterial drain cleaner overnight periodically for slow or partially clogged drains. Follow the directions on the package.Biological cleaners are slower to work and less effective than chemical cleaners, but they are safer for you, your plumbing, and the environment.
Biological cleaners may require repeated treatments to be effective.
 If all else fails, or if you don’t feel confident that you can safely handle the problem yourself, call in a professional to clear your clogged drain.If you live in a rental property, contact your landlord or property manager so that they can call someone for you.