 Pour ½ cup (120 ml) of vinegar into 1 quart (1 liter) of warm water. Use distilled white vinegar. Then mix in ¼ cup (59 ml) of borax. Mix the ingredients together in a pitcher until they are well-combined and the borax is completely dissolved.Alternatively, you may use 3 percent hydrogen peroxide. However, do not dilute it with water or mix it with borax. Instead, use straight peroxide, or mix 1 part peroxide to 1 part vinegar.You can purchase borax from your local pharmacy or grocery store.;
, Then spray the mold with the solution. Make sure to spray a generous amount of the solution onto the affected areas in your shower.You may have some solution leftover. As you clean the mold, re-fill the bottle as needed.
 Depending on how much mold you have, you may need to let the solution set for longer like 30 minutes to an hour., Use a scrub brush to do this. Scrub the mold in a vigorous back and forth motion until all of it is removed. For small crevices, use a toothbrush to scrub the mold.As you scrub, you may need to spray more solution onto the affected areas to clean them thoroughly.
 Use a clean, dry towel to do this. Wipe until all the debris and mold are removed. Do not rinse the area with water because any remaining borax will help keep your shower clean for a longer period of time.Alternatively, you may use a vacuum to clean away debris and mold. However, make sure to use a HEPA filter; this type of filter can collect and contain mold spores.
 Use a clean, dry towel to do this. Make sure the areas in your shower that collect and grow mold are thoroughly dried., Mix the baking soda and water in a bowl until they are well-combined. You are looking for a mixture with a toothpaste-like consistency.If the mixture is too thin, then just add more baking soda until a thick paste forms.
 Let the paste set for 10 to 15 minutes. For tough stains, let the paste set for longer like 30 minutes to an hour., Use a scrub brush to do this after the paste has set for the allotted time. Scrub in a vigorous back and forth motion until they are gone. Use a toothbrush to clean small crevices.If the stains remain, then you may need to repeat steps one through three again.
 Wipe until any and all paste, debris and grime are removed. Then use a clean, dry towel to wipe your shower down until it is completely dry., Make sure to do this while you are taking a shower or bath. Also, leave it on for an additional 30 minutes after you get out of the shower.If you do not have a ventilation fan, then keep your bathroom windows open during and after your shower.
 Do this after you shower three to five times a week to prevent mold growth. Mix equal parts water and vinegar, and fill a spray bottle labeled “shower spray” with the solution.Keep the spray bottle handy in your shower or bathroom.
If you have children, make sure to keep the spray bottle out of reach.
 Do this after you shower five to seven times a week. Make sure to wipe down and dry your shampoo bottles, cleansers, toys, and other objects in the shower as well.Keep a designated towel handy in your bathroom for this specific purpose.

