 Before even getting to take an excessive course load, you must first ensure you're eligible to take it. Not every university allows students to take 7+ courses. Hence you must get permission from your registrar.;
, Even if the rules disallow the course load you want to take, some universities might make exceptions. This is much more likely in a smaller, private institution than in a large public one with set rules, but see how far a little negotiation can get you. Explain your reasons and situation to the registrar, and if any of the following apply to you, you might increase your odds:


Having a high GPA vastly improves the odds as it shows your registrar that you are capable of taking the courses.
Having taken similar courses previously can help.
Having a reason or purpose will aid in getting your desired courses. Only provide this kind of reason if it's true and valid, and if needed.
Showing the registrar that you already have some topics covered for a certain course make them more likely to think you can handle it.
 You need to make sure that the course load won't stop you from fulfilling the basic time requirements for each class. Make a time-table, and keep the following tips in mind:


Avoid overlapping courses if possible.
Do not take too many back-to-back courses. A general rule of thumb is having a 60 minute break every 4 hour of classes.
Do not forget an extra break for lunch and dinner.
It is better to have your courses spread out over the 5 days then packing them up onto 3 or 4 days. It promotes long-term memory and spreads the work across the week.
Take shorter classes of 1 hour, 3 times a week rather 1 class for 3 hours once a week.
 With several classes, it's especially important to know when you have a test, when you have an appointment, when you have assignments due. Whether it's a physical copy or Google calendar, a solid schedule is needed to plan your day. Allocate 15 minutes at night to plan the day ahead.
 Overlapping classes should generally be avoided, but if you end up with any, you need to make sure you can still get the required material.


Some options include:

Buying or borrowing a recorder for the semester. Record the lecture for one course and attend the other course.
Having a friend to take notes or record the lecture.
Listening to an online recording, if one is posted.


Immediately after your course ends, listen to the missed lecture recording. It is important to not postpone as you will have other work to do.



Listen to lecture recordings throughout the day. When commuting, walking in between classes, eating lunch prior to sleeping.
Read your lecture slides 3-4 times a week. It is very important to rely on the long-term memory rather than short-term memory. Especially when it comes to a lot of material, short term memory will not suffice.
 Despite it being counter-intuitive advice, do not do the readings unless it is absolutely necessary. Most lecturers have the key points on their slides and it is possible to get As and not reading. Before you avoid all the readings, confirm with your professor how much of the material is coming from the readings. It varies from courses to courses.
 Focus on what can make use of your time.Time is very valuable when taking several courses.
 It is a skill to be able to get help when you need it rather than being a show-off. Dropping a course should be a last resort option as it is against your plan. However, if you do drop the course, you will be ahead of your classmates when you take it again.
 Before classes begin, get ahead of the material and stay ahead of the material. Staying one step ahead is crucial for not falling behind.
 Overlapping midterms or final exams are common when taking excessive courses. It is possible to reschedule your overlapping tests with a simple email to your professor. Proof will be required in most cases.

