 TV's are sold more and more like cars, with gifted salespeople or advertisements attempting to up-sell you with fancy features and a load of techno-jumbled words. The best way to prevent spending more than you want is to come up with your maximum price before you enter the store or head online. When possible, be upfront about it -- tell the salesperson you will absolutely pay no more than this number, preventing them from showing you certain items. Basic pricing estimates, as of 2016, are:



32-inch: $150 to $500

39- to 43-inch: $250 to $1,100

46-to-52-inch: $380 to $1,600

55- to 59-inch: $450 to $2,500

65-inch: $700 to $5,000, TVs are expensive investments, and should last you many years when bought correctly. Waiting a month or two for enormous Christmas and Black Friday sales can be worth it, helping you get potentially better TV for your budget than you expected.


November is overwhelmingly the best time to get a cheap TV. Prices are always lowest on and before Black Friday, and you can usually buy them online.March, after the companies have debuted their new sets at the beginning of the year, is the next best chance at a cheap TV before the new models hit store., The slimmer TVs get, the worse they sound. Speakers need physical room to work, so ultra-thin sets often sound tinny. A basic sound bar is often your best bet if you don't already have a stereo system, and they are generally under $100. Still, remember to consider the sound when buying a TV -- it is worth accounting for when pricing., There are some features that will matter -- if you want a Smart TV, built in DVR, etc. -- but at the end of the day the picture size is the most important consideration. If you want a TV that will last and satisfyingly display everything from sports to video games, then bigger is better.Do not, however, just buy a big TV without accounting for the room size. Remember -- you want to sit roughly 1.5 to 2 times the size of the TV away for comfort, so a 60" TV should have at least 90" to 120" of space in front of it.
 TVs in stores have artificially cranked up brightness and contrast meant to deceive you. They look great in a big row, with specially designed footage made to seem exciting, but they will under-perform when placed in your house and showing normal shows and movies. The bright, harsh florescent lighting in a store is leagues different from that in your home. This causes the picture to look far different than it will later.


Specially designed "theater rooms," with more natural lighting and a darker background, are much safer ways to test TVs in person., Ultimately, TV quality is much more than the sum of a few spec sheets. If you want a top-notch TV, you'll need to do some digging. Make a list of potential TV's in your price range, then plug them into an internet search with the word "reviews." How people feel watching the actual TV is far more informative than any sales pitch.


If you just want the biggest TV for your dollar and don't care about the features, head to Amazon or Best Buy and simply purchase the cheapest on at your size -- the quality may not be perfect, but size is still the most important consideration when buying a TV.