 Autograph authentication companies can help you verify an autograph was legitimate. They use a combination of specialized autograph authentication equipment, as well as handwriting analysis and computer technology, to ascertain if an autograph is legitimate. If you obtained an autograph secondhand, this can be particularly helpful. If you intend to sell an autograph you obtained in person, this can also be helpful as potential buyers will know your autograph is real.The most recognizable authentication companies include Professional Sports Authenticator (PSA), James Spence Authentication (JSA), and Autograph Certification Experts (ACE).
It's a good idea to go with one of these companies, as you want a recognizable company to authenticate your autograph. However, if there's an authentication company in your area, it may be less of a hassle to work with a local company.;
, Once you've selected an authentication company, you can begin the authentication process. If you live close by to an authentication company, you can go in and talk to someone in person. You usually have to work with a company from a distance, however, and must mail in autographs or autographed items.Any organization you're working with will have different requirements. There are usually a number of forms you must fill out that require basic contact information as well as information on where you obtained your item. Many authenticators have specific guidelines for how items should be packaged as well.
Most authentication companies charge a fee for evaluation, and may charge additional fees to issue you a certificate of authenticity. For example, JSA charges fees that range from $35 to $50 depending on the type of autograph you send. You are also generally responsible for all shipping fees.
 Once your item has been evaluated, the authentication company will instruct you on how to receive a certificate of authenticity. There may be additional fees for certificates. Some companies, like PSA, grade autographs on a scale of 1 to 10. These grades determine how well an autograph has withstood the test of time, so keep in mind a very old autograph may receive a lower grade from some authenticators., It's not always worth it to get a certificate of authenticity. Faded or messy autographs are difficult to authenticate, and the process may be more trouble than it's worth.On occasion, an autograph you obtain in person may be rejected by an authentication company if the handwriting is messy or the paper is crinkled or faded. Illegible or fading autographs are hard to authenticate, and the process can be costly.
Even if you can get a certificate verifying your autograph is authentic, a company may give you a low grade, potentially making the autograph difficult to sell. You may be better off keeping faded autographs for your own pleasure rather than attempting to authenticate and sell them.

