 If you have a poor credit score that makes lenders wary of dealing with you, rent to own can be a good Plan B. This option however takes a good deal more patience, as it can take awhile to connect with the right professionals.


Find a real estate agent and discuss rent-to-own options with them. The process can be sticky in rent-to-own agreements are private contracts between you and the homeowner, and having a third party can help things go smoother.
An ideal agent should know the local market well, and be able to navigate any potential pitfalls. Pick an agent with a lot of experience in a specific area and a good reputation.
Before signing anything, practice due diligence. That is, do a comprehensive appraisal of the home and your contract with the owner. Have the home examined for any potential problems to assure the homeowner isn't trying to shrug off a problem property on you, and have any contract you sign checked by a third party.
The main downside to renting to own is that, in the long run, the process is more expensive. Another con is that, oftentimes, contract specifics are fuzzy and added interest rates, fees, and payments mean many would-be owners get fed up and give up on owning the home. Work with owners and realtors your trust if you go this route., Owner financing is the financing of a property purchase directly through the person or entity selling it. It is a possible alternative if you cannot obtain funding through a conventional mortgage lender and the house owner is open to financing it for you (likely if if he or she is having difficulty selling the property).In order to protect his or her own interests, the seller may require a higher down payment than a mortgage lender would (20% higher is not uncommon)., Subprime loans got a bad reputation during the housing crisis, but with responsible financial planning they can potentially be a good alternative if your credit means you don't qualify for a conventional loan. However, you should be very careful with this option. Unless you are currently financially secure, you might want to try other alternative routes before looking into the subprime option.


Subprime loans have higher interest and fees than conventional loans, so plan accordingly. You are often not allowed to pay off the loan early, and interests rates sometime spike towards the end of a mortgage. People often end up in a situation where they suddenly cannot pay off their loan due to increased interest and fees, leading to foreclosures.Subprime homes, however, do allow people to buy homes who would otherwise not qualify for home ownership. If your bad credit is a result of extenuating circumstances - such an unexpected layoff or a medial emergency - and you are now in a financial situation that is sustainable long term and you know you will have the assets to pay the loan in the future, this route might work for you. However, never sign any paperwork you do not understand. You should always have a third party look over contracts, but this is extra important when signing off on a subprime loan., Credit scores affect how much we can take out in loans, so aiming for something at a low price with the intent of fixing it up over time. However, much like a subprime loan, this is only a good alternative option under certain conditions.


Be honest with yourself. How much home repair are you able to do on your own? If you're particularly handy, and can undertake many repairs yourself, a fixer upper can be a bargain. But if you have to factor in costs of labor, which can get expensive fast, this might end up far more expensive up front than buying a pricier home.Know everything you can about the house. A home appraisal and a home inspection should be conducted before you put in an offer. Once you know what needs to be fixed, figure how much these repairs will cost and whether you can afford them.
Aim to buy a house that's priced low because it needs certain cosmetic upgrades rather than a major overhaul.
Look for fixer uppers in good neighborhoods, as you can get them up to market value with time and work. A house in a bad neighborhood will always be priced lower unless the neighborhood improves.