, They can only happen to you. There is no real way “How to fall in love”, there may be a way to pretend that you are in love – but who wants to learn that? The goddess in you is already there, believe it or not. You do not have to do anything to create it. It is your deepest reality. But there are quite a few things that prevent you from feeling the goddess in you.


The most important mistake you can make is to look for your goddess in the eyes of other people. It is not important that other people see you as a goddess, what counts is that you feel your own divine quality. So it is not a good idea to pose a goddess and to show to others those sides of you that you think others may adore.
Stop wearing a mask.
Drop your false smiles.
You can even stop using makeup. You don’t need to make up anything to be a goddess because you already are.
 Cease to define yourself through the eyes of others. Look in. Get to know your body not by looking into the mirror but by feeling it from the inside in every detail of your body.


Become aware of your breathing, as often as possible.
Allow as much as possible times of silence in your day.
Respect your own rhythm.
Say “no” if you mean it. That creates space for the inner goddess to surface.
 Learn the difference of an impulse that comes out of your divinity and a move that comes out of the desire to be a good girl or to get some gratification.
 There are so many women on the way. Connect with them. Get to know about the many forms of the mother-goddess. For example: Gaiya, Kybele, Kali, Lakshmi etc. Sing their songs, dance their dances, chant their mantras, but always look in.


Don’t get lost in a new group-identity of Goddess-Seekers. Use the energy of these songs and mantras to stop more and more things that prevent the goddess in you to emerge.
Ambition is a major obstacle – especially the ambition to let the goddess to surface.
 Relax, trust, let go, melt into every moment. Become more and more aware of you the divinity around you and then it may happen to you. You will realize that you have been a goddess all along.

