 If you have a computer (which you probably do since you're reading this) it's a great chance to browse the web, chat with friends, play games or you can listen to music. Try editing a wikiHow article if you like and an afternoon of rain won't seem long enough!;
, Everyone has books in their house. You may not think about it, but magazines and comics make good reading too. Grab a small snack and get cozy with your book. You'll become hooked in no time!

, Dancing is exercise too, only it doesn't feel so hard or bothersome, but don't look in a mirror if you are a bad dancer, singing could be counted as exercise too.
 Surely you have a Nintendo DS, iPod, Game Boy, a mobile or a dirty old gramophone in the attic that needs restoring to life. Give your electronic gizmos a whirl for the afternoon. Some people even find pleasure in undoing them and putting them back together again to see just how they work (don't do this with anything that isn't yours though!).
 Put on a movie, grab some popcorn or chocolate and a drink. Choose a genre, such as scary movies, and make it a marathon. Ask friends over too, or your cat.
 If you have one, this can be a good time to catch up on some grooming, chatting and love lavishing.
 Also, nothing is more more romantic than kissing in the rain.
 Ok, it doesn't sound that fun BUT it will get your room neat and you'll actually feel good about not having moss-covered sandwiches on the floor (or just in general feel happy). Also, doing it without your parents asking you is a great way to built up trust and responsibilities which, in turn, will get you more privileges.
 If you have a treadmill in your house or even a jump rope, exercising to your favorite song or watching TV while doing so is a great way to burn some energy and pass time.
 There's loads of rubbish lying around, isn't there? Well make use of it and create a model, sculpture or a collage. The hours will whizz by!

, The funnest thing is to look around your house and see if there is a secret room nobody knows about. Then you and your friend can make it into your place. It's lots of fun! Even if you don't have a secret room, you can use your closet, your parents closet, or even your siblings closet (with permission from your parents and siblings).
 Use that new recipe that you have been eyeing for a month! Pull out an old cooking book that is full of cool family recipes, make sure you have the ingredients and you are good to go.