 While the essential oils in the air freshener will help give your carpet a pleasant scent, adding herbs that complement the oils can intensify the effect. Start by grinding 2 to 3 sprigs of the dried herbs in a coffee grinder or blender so they’re fine enough to mix with the baking soda.You can use whatever herbs you like, but it helps to choose those that correspond with the essential oil. For example, if you’re using lavender essential oil, use dried lavender for the most intense lavender scent. You can also pair dried rosemary with rosemary essential oil or dried mint with peppermint essential oil.
If you prefer, you can be creative with your essential oil and herb combinations. For example, try pairing lavender essential oil with dried rosemary for a unique scent. Dried sage also pairs well with lemon essential oil, while dried mint and wild orange essential oil are a good combination.
 After you’ve ground the herbs, add them along 1 cup (180 g) of baking soda, and 30 to 40 drops of an essential oil of your choice to a glass jar that has a lid. Place the lid on the jar, and shake well to thoroughly mix the ingredients.You can use any essential oils that you like, but you should avoid tea tree oil if you have pets. It can be toxic to animals.
Citrus essentials oils lose their scents quickly, so you should avoid them if you want a long lasting scent for your carpet.
You may want to use an antimicrobial or antibacterial essential oil in your carpet freshener. Oregano oil, cinnamon oil, and thyme oil are good options.
 Even when the air freshener ingredients are mixed, it’s best not to use it right away. Let the mixture sit in the jar overnight to ensure that baking soda fully absorbs the scent of the essential oils., After you’ve allowed the mixture to sit overnight, you can use the carpet freshener. Sprinkle it lightly over the carpet that you want to freshen, and allow it to sit for approximately 15 minutes.You can use a spoon to spread the air freshener, or place a shaker lid on the jar so you can sprinkle directly from the container.
 Once the carpet freshener has sat on the carpet for several minutes, vacuum the carpet as you normally would. Make sure to vacuum up all of the baking soda mixture to truly freshen the carpet.Before using the carpet freshener, check your vacuum cleaner’s instruction manual to ensure that the baking soda won’t damage the appliance or clog the filters.

