 Unravel a piece of yarn that is roughly the same length as your forearm. Stretch out that strand width-wise until it looks like netting.


Note that the bottom edge is the thinner, decorative edge. Usually, this edge has metallic thread running through it. For this project, you will only crochet into the upper part of the yarn netting. The bottom edge gets left alone and forms frills.
The upper part of the yarn netting resembles train tracks. You will only work with the larger holes of these tracks, leaving the smaller holes alone.
 Place the hook into one of the large holes along the top edge of the yarn, roughly 6 inches (15 cm) in from the raw edge.


Note that you do not need to attach the yarn to the hook using a slipknot, as you would with most standard crochet projects.
 Skip over one hole in the netting, then pick up the yarn along the side of your next large hole, moving down through the net instead of moving across. Pull this loop through the first hole to complete one chain stitch.


Place a stitch marker under both top loops of this first chain.
 Make another five chain stitches in the same manner. For each chain, skip over the next hole in of the yarn mesh and work your stitch from the loop after that.


This will create your foundation chain.
Turn the work over when you reach the end of this chain.
 Skip the first chain in your series, then work one single crochet into the second chain from your hook. Single crochet in each of the remaining four chain stitches, as well.


To make a single crochet for this project:

Insert the hook into the next loop you need to work.
Use your need to grab the side of the following loop from the back of the yarn, then pull that second loop up through the front of the first. There should be two loops on your hook at this point.
Wrap the side of the next loop on your hook from the front, then pull this portion of yarn through the first two loops on your hook. This completes one single crochet stitch.


Place one chain marker at the beginning of the row and one at the end of row.
 Make one chain stitch, then turn the work over before advancing to the next row.


For each chain, skip over one large hole in the netting and pick up the yarn of next large hole after that. Pull this loop through the first first hole and the yarn on your hook to complete the stitch.
 Work one single crochet into each stitch of the previous row. Chain one at the end of the row, then turn the work over.


As before, mark the first stitch and last stitch of this row.
 Repeat the previous step until your scarf reaches the length you desire.


For each new row, work one single crochet into each stitch of the previous row. Chain once at the end of each row, turn the row over, and advance to the next row. Follow this pattern for the rest of the scarf.
Note that the finished work will be about 4.5 inches (11.5 cm) wide and 36 inches (91.5 cm) long.
 When you reach the end of your scarf, trim the yarn, leaving a 6-inch (15-cm) tail. Tuck the loose end inside the two nearest ruffles, then use a sewing needle and matching thread to tack the end in place.


This step completes the project.

