 Discovering your purpose mainly entails answering the question - ‘why life’ or ‘why am I here on earth’. The author of human life (God) had a good reason for creating you. Finding His reason for your life and realizing it will lead you to the path of excellence. To discover your purpose identify the cause you’re most passionate about. That's a good indication of the purpose you're meant to serve.;
, To enable you fulfill your purpose, God strategically deposited potential in you. This potential is the tool you need to fulfill your divine assignment. Identify your potential by singling out the activities you excel in and enjoy doing.

Further break down the overall goal into short-term goals
Finally, incorporate the short-term goals into your day-to-day routine

, Being happy always is a personal decision that only you can make. Contrary to common belief, happiness is independent of every other factor. Conquer happiness drainers by appreciating life as a gift from God and understand whatever else that happens in your life is a gift wrapper procured by your actions. Mark you; a gift wrapper does not change the value or make of a gift. Therefore, celebrate the valuable gift of life despite what wraps it.
 Treat yourself whenever you achieve a goal. A token goes a long way in motivating you to keep on pursuing your goals.
 Take time off to meditate and relax. Doing this will release stress and bring relaxation. It also clears off your mind and prepares it for fresh new ideas.
 Engage in regular exercise and recreational activities. Exercise keeps the body fit and leaves you with a feeling of wellness. On the other hand, recreation brings refreshment and stimulates creativity.
 Know yourself, your society, your world. Develop a keen interest on life and everything that pertains it. Knowledge of the systems in the world not only gives you insight into what you’re up against, but also enables you to cope and adapt easily. In short, it gives you an upper hand on matters of life.
 Reach out to someone in need and help them overcome their limitation. Giving is a gesture of love and care. By showing love and care to a needy person through giving, you not only help them in achieving their objective but you also make a timeless investment for your life. Because whatever a man sows he reaps.
 Establish a strong relationship with your maker. He knows why He created you and therefore walking with Him along the journey of life is giving Him a chance to monitor your purpose closely as it unfolds. There is no formula of talking to God, you just need to focus your mind on Him and begin a conversation.

