 You should check with the birth parents to find out where the child is located. They have a right to be kept informed about which foster family their child is staying with.You should contact the birth parents and ask.


You might not want to talk to the child’s parents because your relationship has broken down. In that situation, you should realize that it will be harder to find out where the foster child is located.
 You can check with CPS to see if they will tell you where the child is. For example, you may be a family member or close friend who is willing to offer “kinship” care for the child while the birth parents are unable to care for them.CPS should have contacted you as soon as the child was removed from the parental home; however, you might not have been immediately available to care for the child. You can talk to CPS.


Grandparents and other family members should realize that very few states grant an automatic right to see the child. You have rights to visitation in some circumstances, but you really can’t demand to see the child.
Nevertheless, CPS may be more than willing to let grandparents and other close family members visit the child if they think it is in the child’s best interest. For this reason, you should call and explain that you want to see the child.
 If you are a child in foster care, then the court should have given you an attorney who will represent your best interests. This person is your “guardian ad litem.”You should call him or her and ask if you can see your sibling. Your guardian ad litem will work with CPS and your sibling’s guardian ad litem to see if you can contact each other.


You may have left foster care because you are now an adult. In that case, you should call CPS if you want to find a minor sibling still in foster care.
 Grandparents may need to sue to establish visitation rights with the child. Each case is different, but you shouldn’t assume CPS will let you see the child. Generally, you must prove to a court that it is in the child’s best interest to visit with you. States also have other criteria, which vary by state.If CPS is not forthcoming about where the child is, then you should meet with an attorney to discuss your options.
 Fathers have a right to know where their children are; however, you must establish your paternity legally. Generally, you would be considered the father if the mother put your name down on the birth certificate or if you were married to the mother at the time of birth.You can also establish paternity by completing a voluntary declaration of paternity form created by your state. Contact your local court clerk or a local legal aid organization in order to get the form. In some states, there is a time limit for claiming paternity using a voluntary declaration.
You may have to take a DNA test to establish your paternity, especially if you have waited a long time to claim paternity or if there is a dispute. You should contact your state’s Department of Child Services. The state will probably be more than willing to help you take a DNA test since you will have to financially provide for the child once fatherhood is established.
Accordingly, you shouldn’t claim paternity unless you really are the father. Once your parental rights are established, you will be financially responsible for the child until he or she reaches adulthood.

