 An established honey bee colony will sometimes divide itself, and one or more swarms will leave the hive. The new swarm may cluster for a while on a tree limb or bush near the old hive while scout bees search for a suitable place to establish a new home. Usually scout bees find a hollow tree, but occasionally they will choose the wall voids of a home.


Check under porches with gaps, along areas of new construction in your home, or other places that might house a hive. Anywhere with a large void is a possibility. Bees may nest in the wall or attic some distance from where they enter the wall.
 If honeybees have taken residence in your home or yard and are causing a serious problem, call your local beekeeper's association to see if they will come and collect the bees, since populations are declining. Afterward, you can simply and safely remove the hive and dispose of it without worrying about stings.
 If you've discovered honeybees, call a beekeeper and have the bees relocated. If you've discovered wasps, it's usually best to use insecticide to kill them and get them away from your home.


Once you know the general area of the hive, you can put a water glass on the wall and put your ear to the open end of the glass, and then slowly slide the glass around listening to the buzz behind the wall to locate the precise area occupied by the bee hive.] When the nest is located, a hole may be bored, preferably through the outside wall, so insecticide can be applied onto the nest directly.
 Carbaryl or Sevin 5 percent Dust is an insecticide commonly used to exterminate wasps and other pests from dwellings. If it is not applied properly, persistent efforts may be needed to finally accomplish the job.


Sevin dusted into the entrance to the hive may not reach the nest, which may be some distance from the entrance, so it's important to address the hive itself, not individual wasps and other pests.
It may take multiple attempts before you kill off the nest completely. Wear protective clothing and take care to avoid painful stings.
 Wearing thick clothing and heavy rubber gloves, you can safely dig out the remnants of the nest after the bees have been relocated or the wasps have been killed. If you've sprayed insecticide on the nest, it's important to dispose of it in the garbage, properly. If the bees have been moved, you can dispose of it outdoors without worrying. Take it far from your home and dispose of it.

