 If you don't have any pump to inflate your mattress with, don't worry — it's possible to use common household items to do the trick. For instance, you may want to try using an electric hair dryer. Simply turn the hair dryer on and hold it against the open valve hole to begin filling the mattress. Because the hair dryer won't perfectly fit your mattress's air hole, the inflation process will usually be slower than when using a pump.


Be sure to use cool air, not hot air, if you have a choice. Most air mattresses are made from plastic or vinyl, which can sometimes melt or deform if exposed to high heat.
 Any sort of machine that can be made to blow air can conceivably be used to inflate an air mattress. For example, many shop vacuums have a "blow" function in addition to their ordinary "suck" function. Other tools, like snow blowers or leaf blowers, are specifically made for blowing. With a tools like these, all you need to do is hold the nozzle or blower up to the air hole or valve and blow to inflate the mattress.


It's even possible to convert some ordinary home vacuum cleaners to blow air instead of sucking it up. To do this, remove the bag and connect a long, narrow cleaning nozzle to the hole that the bag was originally attached to — air will shoot out of this nozzle and can be used to inflate your mattress., If you've biked or driven to the place where you're using your air mattress, you may have a pump handy and not even know it. Many standard bike and tire pumps can be used to inflate an air mattress. However, getting a tight seal around the pump nozzle can sometimes prove tricky. You may need to use a suitable adapter nozzle or increase the width of the pump's existing nozzle with extra material to make it suitable for use with your air mattress.
 Most people don't know that it's possible to inflate an air mattress with nothing more than a standard-size plastic garbage bag. To do this, first open the bag and swing it up and down to catch plenty of air. Gather up the open end of the bag to trap the air inside. Bring the bag up to your mattress's air hole and hold the open end of the bag around it. Squeeze the bag to force the air out and into the mattress (it's often easiest to do this by slowly laying on the bag). Repeat as needed.


If you have a choice, use heavy-duty trash bags for this method. Weaker bags are vulnerable to popping under your weight

, If you can't find any of the objects above to help you inflate your mattress, take a deep breath and try the old-fashioned way. Use soap or sanitizer to ensure the mattress's air hole is clean, then simply put your mouth against it and exhale. Repeat until the mattress is full and firm — using your mouth, this can take some time.


If your air mattress doesn't have a one-way valve, you'll need to keep your mouth pressed into the air hole and close your throat to keep air from escaping between breaths. Breathe through your nose to fill your lungs rather than using your mouth.

