 What do the preps at your school wear? Do they shop at Hollister, Abercrombie and Fitch, Aeropostale, PINK by Victoria's Secret, or American Eagle? Or do they wear polos from Ralph Lauren? Wear what they wear.;
, from good jewelers like Tiffany's. If not, Claire's, or even (to save money) your grandma's jewelry. But never wear anything plastic. Hoop earrings, pink studs, statement rings, silver necklace, silver and gold bangles, and maybe even a charm bracelet are good to keep in your jewelry box.
 like ones from Juicy Couture, Guess or Coach. If you do not have a lot of money, buy Belvah. These bags are cheap and very cute.
, Preps keep their faces clean with no acne, chapped lips (Which you can fix by putting on chapstick), or sunburn. Make sure you are using the right facial cleaners for your skin type. Get into a daily routine of cleansing, exfoliating, and moisturizing. You don't need to tone your skin until you are 13 or older. Give yourself a facial once a week and 2-3 days before any big events or special occasions(it brings out the oils on your face).
 Just a little mascara, blush and lip gloss, not much of anything else. Light pink or white eye-shadow with light pink lipstick works too. If you don't want to buy new eye-shadow, use a crush blush and use a little on your eyes for a pretty pink eye that matches your cheeks. You may also try some sparkly eye-shadow and some eyeliner, but only a very thin line. Curl your eyelashes if possible. It will make your eyes look bigger. Use concealer and foundation if you have bags or pimples. Always wear lip gloss, all the time. Remember- Your face should be classy and neat. Not trashed out like the ladies in those mascara commercials.
 Make sure that your hair is always styled. Usually keep it straight, but giving it bouncy curls once every other week is absolutely adorable. Always do something to it, whether that be a twist, bun, ponytail, pigtails, braids, french braids, fishtail braids, high ponytails, half-ups, or really anything at all that is nice, smooth and neat. Put your hair in a side-parted low ponytail if you are unsure of what to do with your hair that day. Only put your hair in a pony if it is straight or has curls in only the ponytail itself. Keep it soft by washing it every other day and using conditioner daily. Get a hair cut with long layers. Make it breast length. If you are doing this to come back to school a new person, get side bangs if you have none, or grow out your bangs if you already do.
 Make sure that your nails are always clean, well-groomed, and colored. Make them french-tipped, pale pink, hot pink, bubblegum pink, or white.

