 There are many places online where people can post ads for dogs that need homes. Many of these dogs will have had previous homes, and they may be trained already. Enter keywords such as "trained dog," “adult dog,” or “housetrained” into the search field to view a list of trained dogs being sold or offered new homes in your local area. Some websites you might try include:


PetFinder
Adopt a Pet
ASPCA
Adopt a Trained Dog;
, If you are looking for a puppy, your options may be more limited. You may have some luck, however, calling the breeders in your area and asking them if they housetrain their puppies. While some breeders expect the new owners to train the puppies, there are some who will train the puppies from a young age. Call local breeders in your area to find out what options are available to you., Some rescue organizations will train their dogs to help find them new homes. Contact rescue organizations in your area to see if they offer obedience training to their dogs.Even if they don’t train the dogs themselves, let them know about your interest in a trained dog. They may have dogs that were trained before joining them.
 Working dogs are those employed by agencies for security or detection work. These dogs may be adopted from the organizations that once employed them. As they are retired dogs, they may be a little older.


Military Working Dogs were trained for use in the army. They have been deemed safe to live in a normal household environment and may be adopted for free from the Military Working Dog School in Texas.Occasionally, police departments or security organizations, such as the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), will offer retired work dogs for adoption.Service dog training organizations occasionally have younger dogs who were trained but who did not fulfill all of the requirements of their certification. They usually have been trained well enough to live in a normal home., Occasionally, vets or trainers will know of people who are looking to rehome their dogs. You can ask your vet or call a local dog training academy to see if they know of anyone who needs a home for a trained dog.


While training academies typically do not sell trained dogs themselves, they can still point you in the right direction. Furthermore, by contacting them, you might find a good trainer to help you if you do end up buying an untrained dog.

