 Walking meditation is about being aware of your environment, especially the movement of your own body. Some people find it easier to stay focused on your body during walking meditation than sitting meditation, since your body is more actively engaged during walking meditation.Scan your body from your head to your feet. Since you start walking with your feet, it may be a good place to start your focus on how you’re moving.
As you continue to scan your body, notice how each body part is moving to help you walk. For the time being, don’t focus on your surroundings, but start just thinking about your bodily movement and comfort.;
, Walking meditation requires that you are aware of the external world. This is because you are out in the world while walking, but it can also make you wonder and appreciate the natural world.Walking meditation works best in natural environments. If possible, take your walk out in nature where you can appreciate its beauty.
Being out in nature is good for walking meditation, but don’t let it be a distraction. Walking in nature somewhere that you’re familiar with may be better than a new environment that may sidetrack you from your meditative purpose.
 It’s important to not be mentally hurried or distracted during walking meditation. If you have a busy schedule, set aside 20 minutes or so to do some walking meditation.You’ll want to be relatively undisturbed when you first try walking meditation. Go to a park or another environment that is free from your own schedule and demands.
When you’ve got the hang of walking meditation, you can try to do shorter sessions. Walking to your car from work or from the grocery store can be small moments of walking meditation.
 Once you’ve gotten the hang of walking meditation, you can begin to change it to suit your needs. There’s no one right way to do walking meditation, so it can be utilized in a variety of ways.Adjust walking meditation to other physical activities. You may try being mindful of your body and environment while running, playing sports, or biking.
You may also want to include a mantra or focus your energies on different aspects of walking meditation. Change the walking meditation to suit what feels best for you and what you want out of it.

