 Take a piece of ginger about an inch long and crush it. Fresh ginger works best for respiratory conditions. Add it to a cup of water and boil. Filter it and drink the tea twice, once in the morning and once in evening.


Ginger tea reduces inflammation due to asthma. Gingerol, an active component in ginger, helps to clear mucus by warming up the nasal passage. Ginger is also known for its antiviral properties, which helps to treat coughs.
Avoid using dried ginger if you are having acidic issues as dried ginger may trigger acidic pain.
 Take ½ teaspoon of powdered cinnamon and add 1 teaspoon of honey to it. Mix well and consume it before going to bed.


Thanks to its expectorant, antibacterial and anti-inflammatory properties, cinnamon aids in treating various respiratory disorders by expelling mucus and reducing inflammation.
 Crush 10 cloves of garlic and add it to a cup of water. Boil it and drink it after filtering.


Owing to its powerful expectorant quality, garlic acts as a wonderful remedy to address respiratory disorders. It promotes mucus expulsion, thereby enhancing breathing capacity. The allicin in garlic also prevents and aids in curing cold and cough.
 Take a fistful of mint leaves and crush them well. Add crushed leaves to boiling water and simmer it for a few minutes. Drink it twice a day.


Menthol in mint is a decongestant and thins mucus. It reduces irritation in mucous membrane and cures coughs. Mint also controls inflammation and improves your ability to breathe.
 Green tea is rich in flavonoid, which helps to treat asthma. It protects your lung lining. It also contains quercetin, which help to reduce allergen symptoms.
 Take a fistful of basil leaves and crush them well. Add a teaspoon of honey to them and eat them.


Basil is a great expectorant. It has antiviral and antibacterial properties, which help to treat coughs. Being an expectorant, it promotes removal of phlegm from bronchial tubes thereby reducing the severity of the symptoms of asthma.
 Take ½ a teaspoon of flax seeds and chew them every day.


As a good source of Omega 3 fatty acids, flax seeds help to reduce wheezing. It also aids in preventing the occurrence of asthmatic symptoms.
 Crush two gooseberries and add a teaspoon of honey to them.


Gooseberry is a rich source of Vitamin C, which is a great antioxidant. Antioxidants fight free radicals in the lungs and help to improve lung performance.
The Vitamin A content in gooseberry helps to treat infections in the respiratory tract, thereby addressing asthma. Since Vitamin A stimulates the performance of your immune system, it helps in the prevention and treatment of respiratory problems and other health conditions.
 Grind the root of bitter gourd to get 1 teaspoon paste. Add one teaspoon of honey to the paste.


Bitter gourd is rich in vitamin C, which is a natural antioxidant. It helps to fight free radicals in your lungs and is an effective remedy for asthma. It is also rich in vitamin A, which aids in treating respiratory tract infections.
The bitter flavor of the vegetable helps to reverse airway cell contraction and aids in treating asthma and other obstructive diseases.
 Taking lemon juice regularly will help to prevent asthma attacks and wheezing. Lemon treats the clogging of your airways and increases air flow.
 Mix ½ a tablespoon of onion juice and ½ a tablespoon of honey and consume. Also try to include onion in your regular diet more frequently.


Onions, a very rich source of flavonoid, is anti-inflammatory, anti-allergenic and antibacterial. Flavonoids protect the lung lining and bronchial tubes.
Quercetin in onions act as natural antihistamines, thereby reducing allergen symptoms related to asthma. The sulfur present in onion also aids in treating breathing problems.
 Add a teaspoon of fenugreek to a cup of water and bring it to boil. Filter it and add a teaspoon of honey and a teaspoon of ginger juice. The combination is a great expectorant and helps to clear your airways.


Fenugreek is rich in minerals, vitamins and phytonutrients. It gives nourishment to your body and aids in curing coughing, which is a common symptom in asthma.
 Add a bunch of leaves to a glass of water and bring it to boil. Filter it and let it cool. Add ½ a teaspoon of crushed pepper and two drops of lemon juice.


Drumstick leaves are a rich source of antioxidants owing to their flavonoid content. Flavonoids enhance Vitamin C, which aid in treating cough and cold. They also help in preventing and treating asthma owing to their antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties.
 Crush two betel leaves and add it to a cup of water and bring it to boil. Filter it, add powdered pepper to it and consume.


The medicinal properties of betel leaves help to cure cough. It has antibacterial and expectorant properties. It expels mucus from the air passages and helps to control wheezing.

