 Cameras can either be hardwired and feed directly to monitors, or send footage over a wireless network. Wired systems are much cheaper, and can potentially be more secure. However, wireless systems can more easily be installed, and may even be necessary in certain environments. Your video monitoring system can also include some cameras that are wired, and some that are wireless.Expect to pay from $400 to $2,400 or more for a video monitoring system, based mostly on the number and quality of cameras you need. Package deals that include cameras, monitors, and storage equipment can help keep costs low.
 To view live security footage, you’ll need to set up your cameras to feed the footage to monitors. Size and type of monitoring screens should be determined by the clarity of the image you need, as well as the number of video feeds you hope to monitor. Choose a large screen to allow the simultaneous monitoring of several camera feeds.Monitors are the least important component of your video monitoring system. Most LCD or LED flat screens will be more than adequate to show security footage.
In an LCD monitor, look for a resolution of at least 1366 x 768 and a high contrast ratio of about 3500:1. These will cost between $350 and $8,000 per screen, depending on size.
Choose an LED screen if the footage will be viewed in a brightly lit place, or will endure a great deal of use. Shoot for an LED with a resolution of 1280 x 1024 and a contrast ratio of about 1000:1. Expect to pay between $200 and $1,200.
Ideally, match the resolution of the camera you’re using to the resolution the monitor is capable of supporting.
 If you want to be able to view recorded security footage, you need equipment to allow you to do so. First, decide between storage on a hard drive at your facility, or automatic storage to an online platform. The number of cameras you use and the amount of footage you hope to store will determine how much storage you need. You will likely need more storage that you think. Talk to a video monitoring system dealer or use an online storage calculator to help determine how much storage you’ll need.