 Clearly, it's easier to ask for local help if you're only gone for the weekend but relying on the good nature of other people for longer periods can result in worry and problems. Each of the following steps will depend on the length of time you're spending away from home.;
, The first port of call is cat-loving neighbors if you're only spending a short time from a night up to a week away. It's important to read the signs of willingness though – they must love felines, be around, not be snowed under by their own work and life challenges, and they must be asked well in advance unless it's an emergency. Listen carefully to how they respond to your request for help too – if they seem reluctant, don't hesitate to let them off the hook quickly and look for alternatives.
 If you have family members who live nearby, see if they're able to swing by regularly to help feed and tend to your cats. Again, this shouldn't be for too long but family ties might help you extend the request! Ditto friends.
 There are many pet-sitting services available now that will provide feeding, grooming, caring, etc. services in your own home for a daily fee. Always try to meet with the person beforehand to explain everything about the cat's needs. Many pet-sitters will also collect mail, water plants, etc. This service can work well for up to a month, as you're paying so you don't have to feel guilty but there will be a limit to how long your cat can stand to be alone.
 If you plan on being away for a long vacation or stay somewhere else, boarding your cat in a cattery or a vet's boarding service might be the solution. In this case, your cat will usually need to have proof of up-to-date vaccinations and please – no fleas. Some places might also have policies about neutering. This will be the most pricey option but it will give you peace of mind that your pet is being well looked after and attended to regularly. Just be sure to check out the place first and check its reputation, to satisfy yourself.
 If your budget is tight, you might try combining some pet-sitting with some neighborly help; plan out crossover dates so that everyone is clear on when they're expected to help out.
 In the case where you are going overseas for a long time, boarding your cat may prove too expensive, inconvenient or unavailable. In this case, you will need to consider either rehousing your cat permanently with a new family, or finding a foster family to care for her until you get back. Family can be helpful but don't assume they will do this for you. Call your local cats protection society or your vet for details of possible cat-lovers who have offered to help out in this situation. If you need to send your cat interstate by plane, make all necessary plans well in advance, including packing her favorite toys, blankets, etc., and getting an airworthy carrying case to travel in (check with the airline for an appropriate size/weight etc.).
 Although it can be easier to hope things will turn out all right in the rush of getting ready to go away, leaving plans for your pets to the last minute is never a good idea. Thorough planning beforehand will ease your anxieties about your pet's well being and having arrangements in place well before you go away solves last minute crises. If your cat is remaining at home, be sure to have adequate food supplies (always more than enough) and remember to leave the key with whoever is taking care of your cat. Always leave your contact details with the carer; there might be a call about health issues, emergencies etc., and you will need to be reached to make decisions.
 Even if you're not going away, owning a pet carries the responsibility of being prepared for any possibility and an emergency is one such possibility. If you are called away because of an emergency, it is a good idea to have in place already a phone tree of people who can jump in and look after your cat while you're gone (this is also wise if you have kids!). That way, instead of panicking about everything, you can calmly call about the cat needing care while you rush away on the emergency. Cats left alone can die of starvation, turn wild, or wander – they don't understand emergencies.

