 You can find reliable sources by typing in keywords generally known to the mainstream like "skramz", "emocore" and later "emoviolence" and "powerviolence". Doing so will bring up pages untainted by mainstream definition. Remember, you're researching the original Emotive hardcore movement in the 80s. You're not looking for emo pop punk, the emo phase or anything which states that it means "emotional".;
, Emo seems controversial if you haven't done your research, but actual followers of Emo understand and know that bands like the below are emotive hardcore hardcore bands.


Rites of Spring
Embrace
Jawbreaker
Drives Like Jehu
Indian Summer
Jets to Brazil
Moss Icon
Gray Matter
Hot Cross
Off Minor
Sleepytime Trio

, Like Emo, Screamo is also incredibly misunderstood. Most people think it's a sub-genre of metal, or that it's simply "doesn't exist". But in reality, Screamo (also known as "skramz") is a sub-genre of hardcore punk/emo which formed out of California in the early 90s. Screamo, being an off-shoot genre of Emo, incorporates Emo characteristics but also includes screamed vocals, melodic breakdowns and is often aggressive and faster paced. Some real Screamo bands are:


Orchid
Pg.99
City of Caterpillar
Circle Takes The Square
The Saddest Landscape
I Hate Myself
Angel Hair
Love Like... Electrocution
Love Lost But Not Forgotten

, One of the main clues to finding out if a band is "emo" or not is listening to the instrumental context of the band. If it's metal, it won't be "Emo" as they're two different genres of music. A band which uses emotional themes or screamed vocals doesn't automatically make it "emo" or "screamo" and that's how a lot of people trip up.
 Emo is not a mainstream genre, it was DIY, raw and most importantly, not about the fashion. Once Jimmy Eat World hit the mainstream with their song "The Middle", another genre was created called "Emo pop punk". Emo pop punk is a fusion genre of emo and pop punk, incorporating more hook filled choruses thus making it catchier and ear friendly (how bands like My Chemical Romance and Paramore can be played on the radio. You'll never find Rites of Spring or Embrace on the radio; because they don't appeal to the majority of people). Listening to Emo Pop Punk is not a bad thing, it just means that you're not "emo" but more "emo pop". Some bands that started the emo pop style/were later to be were:


The Get Up Kids
The Promise Ring
The Starting Line
Saves The Day
The Movielife
Paramore
My Chemical Romance
Panic! at the Disco
All Time Low

, Bands that commonly get mislabelled "emo" are Black Veil Brides, Asking Alexandria, Suicide Silence, Bring Me The Horizon and many other metalcore and deathcore bands.


Metalcore. Metalcore is a fusion genre of hardcore punk and extreme metal formed in the late 80s/early 90s staring with bands like All That Remains, As I Lay Dying, Bullet For My Valentine and Parkway Drive.
Deathcore. Deathcore is a fusion of hardcore punk, metalcore and death metal. It originated in the early 00s in North America and is defined by breakdowns, blast beats and death metal riffs. Some deathcore bands are Suicide Silence, Chelsea Grin, Bring Me The Horizon (their early work), Whitechapel, Impending Doom and Emmure.
 Hair is especially important, and is frequently dyed a vibrant or dark colour, rarely being in-between. Originally an emo appearance leaned towards intellectualism, with thick rimmed glasses, tight denim and sweater vests.


However, try not to obsess over fashion or you'll be labelled as stereotypical. All you have to do to "be emo" is listen to the genre, and maybe be involved with the hardcore scene by going to local shows.

