 Excedrin contains caffeine and can lead to (or worsen) a caffeine dependence. Excedrin Migraine, for instance, contains 65 mg of caffeine, or nearly as much as a cup of regular coffee (about 80 mg).Drinking coffee while taking it can also increase your addiction.


Reducing your caffeine intake will help to address a possible source of headaches – caffeine withdrawal headaches – that are unrelated to your normal headaches and to “rebound headaches.”
In addition to coffee, try to limit your consumption of other caffeinated substances like colas, black tea, energy drinks, and chocolate.
 You might find the concept of cutting coffee and caffeine out of your life to be painful. However, you do not have to entirely eliminate them from your life. The aim is only to reduce your intake, so that you are no longer dependent. People can safely consume coffee two or three times per week without building up a tolerance.As with Excedrin, you can choose to go cold turkey or slowly wean yourself. Cold turkey will be faster but involve worse headaches and poorer concentration.
If you decide to go slow, your schedule might look something like this. On Day 1 you drink your usual amount. On Days 2-5, make coffee that is half caffeinated and half decaf. On Day 6, blend 25% caffeinated coffee with 75% decaf coffee. At this stage, your body will be getting used to having less coffee in its system. On Day 7 drink purely decaf coffee.
Decaf coffee still has a small amount of the drug, about 2-12 mg.If you want to go fully without caffeine, switch over to a grain or plant alternative like chicory root.
Teas are a great, lower caffeine option. Black and green tea have modest amounts (between 14-70 mg depending on type and how long you steep it), and will work to “cut” your withdrawal symptoms. Herbal teas are usually totally caffeine-free., Stay hydrated while you wean yourself off coffee. Some people think that the less thirsty you are, the less likely you will be to crave coffee. Gulp an 8 oz. glass of water first thing in the morning and stay well-watered throughout the day.According to the Mayo Clinic, adult men should try to drink at least three liters of water per each day.Women should try to drink about 2.2. liters each day.