 Your asthma action plan is crucial to making it through the holiday season, since it helps you track your symptoms and take appropriate action. In a written diary or on a device, you should keep track of your asthma symptoms, triggers, and medication use during the holiday season. In dialogue with your doctor, you can use this action plan to adjust your medications in response to any changes in your symptoms.If you do not have an asthma action plan, inquire with your doctor about making one.;
, Asthma can get much worse if you get the flu. So, you should ask your doctor to give you a flu shot at the beginning of the season.
 Exercise can improve the health of your heart and lungs, which helps to reduce asthma symptoms. If you are vacationing in a cold environment, you will want to wear a face mask and stay warm. If exercise in the cold is an asthma trigger for you, you should look into indoor exercise options such as a local gym or indoor pool., The holiday season offers many opportunities for overeating. However, maintaining a healthy weight is important for asthma prevention and treatment. Becoming overweight, in turn, can worsen symptoms., Stress can make asthma much worse because it causes your body to release certain chemicals and tighten the muscles in your airways. Tackle your stress by eating well, getting exercise, meditating, talking to a friend, and making time for yourself. You might find it helpful to review these five ways of reducing stress:Give yourself an exercise break. A short period of exercise lasting at least twenty minutes can lower your stress levels significantly.
Remember that a few laughs and a smile can reduce your stress significantly. Take the time to go see a play or a film with a friend and remember to find a comedy.
Make time for meditation. Brief periods of meditation can help your body and mind deal more effectively with stress.
Take a moment away from the stressor. If there is a person or project in your life that is causing you stress, you should give yourself a bit of time away from it. Although it is not wise to avoid or ignore the stressor entirely, which will make it worse, it is important to take a break from it once in a while to gain some perspective.
Find social support. Take the time to call a friend and review the stressful situation. This can help you process the situation and reduce your stress levels.

