 Whiteheads develop when excess oil, bacteria and dead skin cells become trapped in the pores. You can eliminate the build-up of these substances on the surface of the skin by washing twice daily, using a gentle, non-oily facial wash. Try not to wash too vigorously or use harsh skincare products, as this can dry out and irritate the skin.


Although it may seem like a good idea to wash more often, cleaning your face more than twice a day can dry out the the skin, causing it to produce more oil to compensate and leading to more whiteheads.
Not all oil is bad -- your face needs a certain amount of natural oils to stay healthy. Washing twice a day just helps to remove the excess.;
, Having greasy hair can contribute to more oil on the surface of the skin, increasing the chances of blocked pores. As well as washing your face, you need to ensure that your are washing your hair on a regular basis, thus preventing excess oil from building up on the face. Washing every two to three days should be enough for most people, unless you tend to have very oily hair.


Remember that over-washing your hair can actually cause your body to produce more oil to compensate. Washing everyday is overkill for most people.
If your hair is long, you tie it back in a ponytail if it needs a wash, especially when going to sleep at night. Wearing a hair band can also be a good idea if you're working out, to minimize sweat on your face.
 Oily make up and other skin care products are some of the worst culprits when it comes to clogging pores. As a result your should look for make-up, sunscreens and face lotions which have the word "noncomedogenic" on the label. This means that they are non-oily and will not clog your pores.


You should also be sure to wash out make-up brushes and sponges regularly, as these can harbor bacteria which causes whiteheads, blackheads and pimples.
Remember to always remove your make up with a gentle, yet effective cleanser at the end of each day. This will give your skin a chance to breathe overnight and reduce your chances of developing clogged pores.
 Benzoyl peroxide is an effective acne treatment which can be used to remove whiteheads, along with blackheads and cystic acne. It works by killing bacteria on the surface of the skin and by unclogging the built-up oil and dead skin cells from pores. Benzoyl peroxide is available in several different strengths, some available over-the-counter, and some requiring a prescription.


Benzoyl peroxide can be quite harsh on skin, causing it to sting, itch or become dry and flaky. Always start with the lowest strength available, especially if you have sensitive skin, and only apply it on the affected areas.
Try not to get benzoyl peroxide on any clothing, sheets or hair, as it can have a bleaching effect., Salicylic acid breaks down whiteheads and blackheads.It also helps to slow down the shedding of skin cells in the hair follicles, thus preventing pores from becoming blocked in the first place.


Salicylic acid is also available in various strengths over-the-counter, in both cream and ointment form.
This treatment can also be irritating on the skin, so make sure you apply it directly onto pimples and avoid the surrounding skin.
 Retinoid creams and gels are made from vitamin A derivatives and are pretty much a one-stop solution for an array of skin problems, from fine lines and wrinkles, to superficial scars and discolorations, to acne related issues. Retinoid creams can help to clear-up whiteheads by unclogging pores and promoting cell turnover.


Retinoid creams may cause your skin to become a little red and irritated when you first begin using them. These symptoms should subside as your skin adjusts to the new treatment.
Retinoids can also be taken in oral form and are very effective at reducing oil production and killing bacteria from the inside. These are usually only prescribed for severe acne, however., In some cases, you can make an appointment with a dermatologist to have your whiteheads extracted. The dermatologist will use a sterilized instrument, known as a comedone extractor, to lance the whitehead and remove the built-up sebum and dead skin cells inside.


Do not try this at home.
 If the whiteheads have not cleared after 8 weeks, see a dermatologist. If you follow the correct skincare guidelines and use one of the creams or treatments mentioned above, you should notice a distinct improvement in your skin within a couple of months. If your skin remains the same or gets worse, you should make an appointment with a dermatologist. They may be able to recommend alternative options, or provide a prescription for stronger topical creams or even oral antibiotics.


Oral antibiotics are usually only prescribed for moderate to severe acne. The course will last 4 to 6 weeks and is usually used in combination with a topical treatment.
Other options -- usually only recommended in the case of whiteheads seen in combination with severe acne -- include laser treatment, chemical peels and oral contraceptives.Do not try to these at home.
 Tea tree oil is a natural essential oil which shows promising results in a few studies, and in traditional treatments. Use with caution and consider a patch test, as it can cause irritation or allergic reaction.To use the oil, dilute it to about 5% in a carrier oil (any vegetable oil), then apply directly onto the whiteheads using a q-tip.


Don't let the word "oil" put you off -- tea tree oil will not clog your pores like other oils.
 Oil, dirt and bacteria from your face can build-up on pillowcases over time, so even if you go to bed with a freshly washed face, you may be exposing yourself to unwanted oil and dirt overnight. To avoid this, replace your used pillowcase with a freshly washed one once a week.


This may not be important during a breakout, to prevent making the problem worse. In most cases, this is not the primary cause of acne.
 Honey has antimicrobial properties, but most studies have not focused on acne specifically.Dab a little honey directly on to the whiteheads or you can apply it all over as a face mask.


Many people consider manuka honey or raw honey the most effective options, although this is not guaranteed.
 Despite popular belief, there's no evidence that greasy food causes acne in most people. However, if you notice a possible connection between a particular food and acne, it won't hurt to stop eating it just in case. Just remember there is no universal "acne diet," and that an extreme change in your diet is more likely to cause harm than help.


There is a slight, uncertain connection between dietary vitamin A and decreased acne.High doses of vitamin A can be dangerous, so do not take supplements without consulting a doctor.
 Dehydrated skin may produce excess oil to make up for the lack of moisture, and this may lead to worse acne. If your skin feels dry or your lips are cracked, drink plenty of water to make up for it. However, if you are already hydrated, drinking extra water will not have much effect.


Don't believe the factoid about "eight glasses per day". Just drink whenever you feel thirsty.
 It's a myth that you should pick at a whitehead or try to squeeze it out with your fingernails, as this can cause it to become irritated or infected and can lead to pimples and scarring.Even a "comedone extractor" from a beauty supply store can cause scarring when used by an inexperienced person.
 Many people hold their face over steam or apply a hot compress to open up pores, allowing trapped materials to escape. This can help in some mild cases. However, heat irritates some types of sensitive skin, which can make the acne worse.Gentle, lukewarm showers and facial washes are usually more effective.
 Acidic foods are not intended for use on skin. They can cause stinging, peeling, or even serious damage if left on for too long. Lemon juice and other citrus ingredients are extra dangerous, as they can react with sunlight to cause severe rashes.