 Instead of washing your hair every day, try shampooing every two or three days. Shampooing too often removes the natural oils in your hair and leads to frizz.Try switching shampoos. Look for something with glycerin near the top of the ingredient list. Glycerin protects the hair and moisturizes it from the inside out, both of which can fight frizz.Look for a shampoo that is sulfate free. Sulfates are foaming agents used in a lot of shampoos. While sulfates are not necessarily bad for your hair, some people find them harsh. You might find that a milder shampoo helps keep the frizz down.If you can't bear the thought of dirty hair after a few days without washing, try using a dry shampoo.;
, Each time you wash be sure to apply conditioner. Conditioner protects your hair, keeping it from pulling moisture from the air. For the best results leave it in for at least 5 minutes.Search for a conditioner that has glycerin and other hydrating ingredients in it. Shea butter is common, as is coconut oil.Some conditioners have protein in them, which help tame frizz and add to your hair's shine.On the days you don't shampoo, give your hair a conditioner bath. Conditioners can clean your hair without stripping any natural oils., Roughly towel drying your hair can keep your hair from lying flat, contributing to frizz. Try pressing your hair dry with a microfiber towel.








After pressing the water out of your hair, wrap your hair in a towel. Lean over and let your curls fall into a towel. Wrap the towel around your hair and then pull it up as if it were a turban. Leave your hair like this for at least 20 minutes to add some shape to your curls and keep your hair from frizzing., You may find it better to separate tangles and knots in your hair with your fingers than with a brush. Brushes tend to break your hair and that leads to frizz.








After your shower, add a little conditioner to your fingers as you work your hair.Don't use a comb or styling brush on dry hair. If you need to tend to your hair when it's dry, just wet your hands and start finger-combing.