 It is vital that you research local zoning ordinances and regulations before deciding on a location for your restaurant. Zoning ordinances deem that a commercial property, such as a restaurant, cannot be located in a residential zone. Therefore, you should contact the town manager to find out if your potential property is properly zoned for a restaurant, before contacting the landlord about lease options.


Zoning laws also regulate how you intend to use the space within your property, along with any renovations or improvements you plan on making, so it is important to understand all of the ins-and-outs of the zoning laws regarding that specific property before you commit to a lease.If you intend on having a bar in your restaurant, be sure to ask about serving alcohol in that particular area as well. Some towns prohibit the sale of alcohol in certain zones., Once you’ve determined the location to be in the proper zone for a restaurant, you need to know how safe it is. A local building inspector or code enforcement officer can walk you through all the safety requirements needed to pass a building inspection. Along with a fire suppression system in the kitchen, the building may require an entire sprinkler system. The code enforcement officer will also look at the general safety of building to decide if it is fit to operate as a restaurant., A business licence is required by all restaurants. It essentially grants you the permission to open your doors for business. Generally, business licences are issued by the city or local municipality.


Go to the city or county office to apply for the business license. There you will be required to complete an application and pay a licensing fee.
You should also contact your state's department of revenue to determine if you are required to register your business with the state.
 You must obtain certain permits and licenses before opening the doors of your restaurant, including a health permit, a liquor licence and a music copyright licence.


Most health permits will only be granted after the restaurant passes a health inspection. Therefore, it is important to understand the local requirements early in the process to ensure that any planned kitchen or dining room configuration will be in accordance with the local health department rules.
If a restaurant plans to play live or recorded music (including music played on a iPod), it must obtain a copyright license from the appropriate music licensing agency. The two primary agencies are the American Society of Composers, Authors & Publishers (ASCAP) and Broadcast Music, Inc. (BMI).
Your local restaurant association can often provide information about required permits and licenses.
 Before a new restaurant opens, it must pass an initial health inspection. To arrange a health inspections, contact your local health department, at least 30 days prior to opening. During this visit, the health inspector will most likely focus on your equipment and food storage.


The health inspector may check to make sure your walk-in cooler is reading the correct temperature and make sure your establishment has enough hand sinks located in the correct places.
The health inspector will also check to make sure you have your food service operator’s license and any other documentation the health code requires.

