 If you wear your hair long, it’s going to turn into a bit of a sweaty mess during gym class. Try tying it up in a ponytail, and wearing accessories that match your gym outfit. You can also try tying it back in a braid or a bun for a different look.


If you have shorter hair, you have a few more options available to you. You can either pin your hair to the side or wear a headband. You might even get away with just leaving it down.
Avoid using gel or other product in your hair. They’ll lose their effectiveness when mixed with sweat and might even run.;
, You shouldn’t wear makeup in gym class for several reasons. First, excess sweat will make it run, possibly ruining your look. Second, makeup can clog your pores. Combine clogged pores with sweat and dirt and you’ve got a perfect recipe for breakouts. Use a cleansing wipe to get your makeup off before gym class.


If you want to wear makeup for your next class, make sure to keep your makeup in your locker., You’re going to have a lot of things to carry to and from gym class: your outfit, your shoes, a towel, maybe even makeup. Not only should your bag be efficient and able to hold all these, but it should look good too. Get something that fits your style and shows off your personality., You can usually get away with a well fitted t-shirt, but you can go sleeveless if you want to show off your arms. You can be creative with prints and colors; have fun with it. If you’re a bit more self-conscious about your upper body, try wearing a shirt or tank top that reaches your hips. It’ll hide your love handles or your tummy if you want it to.Fit is important when choosing a top. If it's too loose, it’ll be in the way. If it's too tight, it’ll be less than flattering. Opt for the happy middle.
 If you’re confident that you have nice looking legs, rock a good pair of shorts. They’ll keep you cool and show off what you’ve got. If you think you might get cold, or you’re a bit more self-conscious about your legs, wear a basic pair of black leggings or track pants.

It’s important to keep a healthy balance between looking good and feeling confident. If you try to wear things that look good but don’t make you feel confident, you might feel embarrassed during gym class and won’t have a good time., Your first priority with shoes should be the fit. Depending on the arch of your feet and their size, some models won’t make for a good fit. Even if you have the coolest shoes, gym class is going to be a nightmare if they make for a painful fit. Always try a shoe before buying it, and get it in the right size.


If you want to kick your style up a notch, pair your shoes with some colorful socks., Looking good starts with feeling good. Wear a pair that makes you feel confident, and it’ll translate into your attitude. Even though no one will see them (hopefully), just knowing that you’re wearing them will boost your confidence.

If you need one, make sure your sports bra fits well.
If you’re wearing leggings, thongs and boy shorts are best for avoiding panty lines., Your gym clothes shouldn’t be left in your bag overnight. Anything you’re going to sweat in should be washed after every use. Build up this good habit, and you’ll never have to wear stained or smell clothes to gym class., If you want to wear something on your head, you should keep it simple. Hats with brims tend to get in the way, so only wear them if you’re outside and need to block the sun. Stick to a simple beanie in a flat color that fits the rest of your outfit.

Wristbands should really only be worn if you’re worried about excess sweat. They’re great for wiping a sweaty brow, but aren’t the most stylish thing around., If you are worried about playing sports in class, practice at home. You won’t become an all-star player overnight, but you’ll feel more comfortable (and look better) playing basketball in gym class if you’ve dribbled a few times beforehand. The same goes for any other athletic activity. Even jumping jacks can be difficult if you’ve never done one., When you’re thinking of what to wear to look good in gym class, the goal should be to bolster your confidence. Thinking positively and dressing well create a self-confidence loop of sorts that will help you get through gym class more easily. You’ll feel confident because you look good, and you’ll look better because you carry yourself confidently.


Staying focused on what you’re doing will help you stop worrying about distractions. Your performance will improve, and you’ll feel more confident as a result.
Talk and bond with your classmates. Gym class is one of the few times you can interact with them outside of a classroom. Take the chance to set a relaxed atmosphere, and you’ll realize people care less about your performance than you think., People are spending a lot less time looking at you than you think they are. Remember that except for the jocks, most of your classmates are nervous about gym class on some level too. Most of them aren’t looking to judge you. Remember that gym class is one of the only chances you get to exercise in the day. Try to have fun with it.