 A useful way to do this is to read poems by the most famous of poets, like Shakespeare, Edgar Allen Poe, Lewis Carroll, E. E. Cummings, Emily Dickinson... you could go on forever! After this, you could go on YouTube and search for poetry there. Once you've done all of this, you can begin the process of writing a poem.;
, If you are angry, you could write "bursting, fury, rip, bite", or if you are sad you could write "dark, blue, drowning, hopeless." Write down as many words as possible relating to how you feel.
 If you fell in love, but were cast down by that person, you could invoke the Greek myth of Daedalus and Icarus. (In that story Daedalus' son Icarus flew too close to the sun on wax wings, but the wax melted and he fell to his death in the sea.) Try this exercise and see what you can come up with.
 Can they blend to make a plot or story line, metaphor or simile? For example, "Like the fool Icarus I was blinded by the sun's warm touch, my heart melted and I was cast down. Drowned in his lies, frozen inside the deep sea of his eyes."

, If you are writing a poem on betrayal, you could connect it with Lady Jane Gray. (She was only Queen for nine days before her husband beheaded her.) Or if you're having a quarrel, you can connect it with the many wars of today (or yesterday for that matter). The possibilities are simply endless!

, They just need to have meaning. But Robert Frost once said that "writing free verse is like playing tennis without a net" — you have to really know what you're doing.
 Inspiration. Whether it's a person, song, object, or animal, they could inspire masterpieces. Some people's muses, for example, are sorrow and tragedies. What could be yours?

, It's useful to have an extended vocabulary. Include every part of you, fragments of your soul, a reflection of your being. Let it write itself, let the words glide along the paper like an eagle in flight, let it roll off your tongue and provoke laughter or tears. Choose every word carefully — it's your life tumbling onto the page, make it something other people will want to read.
 You have just written a marvelous poem.
 (You'll be the awe of all your peers, too.)

