 Increasing your visibility in your community will attract clients to your cleaning service.


Print flyers, postcards, business cards and other materials that describe your business and provide contact information. You can mail these, hand them out or post them anywhere that business solicitations are permitted.
Advertise whenever you can. Your business might benefit from print ads in your local newspaper, or free online ads on sites such as Craigslist. Radio advertisements can also be affordable and easy to produce.;
, Many people turn to these places when they need a resource, so you want to make sure you are there under "cleaning services" or something similar.
 If your current clients are happy with the cleaning services you provide, ask them to recommend you to their contacts.


Look to your own network for referrals. Ask for help from friends, family, neighbors and social groups.
Invite, friends and clients to "like" or "follow" your social networking pages. This is a great way to build your base of potential clients.
 People love saving money, and a great coupon or special price will get the attention of potential customers.


Offer a deep discount for the first cleaning service.
Provide a discount to clients who refer you to other customers. Rewarding your current clients for new business will keep them happy and give them a great incentive to recommend you.
 Part of attracting clients is making a good impression.


Wear a uniform or clean clothes that fit well. While you are providing a cleaning service and plan to get dirty, you do not want to show up looking sloppy or unkempt.
Keep your vehicle clean and maintained as well. If you have people who work for you, make sure they follow your dress and image requirements.
 The more people you get to know, the more you are able to promote your business and gain new clients.


Join your local Chamber of Commerce. Look for other opportunities with local business groups as well.
 This will give your business extra credibility, and it will help you ease any concerns people might have about allowing strangers in their homes.
 It will be hard to attract clients if you do not offer a great service for a reasonable price.


Ask for evaluations periodically. Leave surveys for your clients to complete, or check in via email to make sure they are satisfied. You can use any positive remarks as testimonials.
Address any problems or concerns immediately.

