 When your horse rears, it can be very dangerous. If you are not confident that you will be able to regain control while mounted, get off quickly. You can still work him and regain control from the ground before mounting up again. If you don’t feel safe, don’t take the risk of staying mounted.If you cannot dismount normally you may need to perform an emergency dismount. There are a couple of ways to do this, but with each one you should try to land facing forwards or sideways, never to the rear.
For the vaulting method, kick both feet free of the stirrups and grab the pommel. Lean forward and kick both legs up over the horse's back. Drop to to the left side of the horse, holding the left rein in your left hand and facing forward.
If you don't think you can jump your legs over the horse's back you can kick free of the stirrups, grab the pommel, and swing your left leg over and slide down.
With either method you should not pull down on the rein when you land or you might prompt him to rear again, or pull him onto you.Stay calm, and if he doesn't respond to you getting off and keeps rearing, step away but keep your eyes on him.;
, As soon as you feel the horse begin to rear, try to loosen the reins and resist the urge to pull back or down. You can loosen the reins by pushing your hands up towards his mouth. Lean slightly forward in the saddle and tip your upper body towards his neck, but stay centred in the saddle., Often, when a horse rears the rider is taken by surprise and she loses her balance. This will prompt her to lean back in the saddle and pull back on both of the reins to try to hang on. This can be dangerous and can cause the horse to be pulled off-balance, potentially falling over backwards and hurting you and the horse.


If you pull on both reins, the horse may also try to fight your hold.
This will only make him more nervous and trapped, and will exacerbate the situation., Once he has placed his front feet back on the ground, try to encourage him to move forward to prevent him rearing again. Leaning slightly forward in the saddle, give him a squeeze with your legs to get him moving forward., If he balks, and seems to be about to rear again, hold one rein out to the side and lead him around in a half circle.Don’t use both reins and don’t pull him back. Try to just hold onto one rein and use that to redirect his feet. Do this to get him thinking about his feet, and not what has prompted him to rear in the first place.


Put him on a loose rein and concentrate on getting his feet moving with lots of changes of direction.
If you find yourself struggling for balance, grab the saddle horn or a handful of mane with your spare hand., If your horse is afraid and that is what’s prompting him to rear, you can tackle this by yielding his hindquarters. This means making him cross over his back legs so he loses his balance point, and has to think about how he is moving his feet rather than whatever is frightening him. When he loses his balance point, he also cannot stand up on his hind legs to rear.


To do this, pull one rein around to your hip, so you bring his head around towards your toe on one side.
Put your leg (the one that you are drawing him towards) back, and apply a little pressure to his flank.
When he responds to the pressure and moves the way you are directing him, release your leg.
When he has softened to the rein by giving to the bit, and noticeably softening his jaw and neck, you should release the rein., Some people advise hitting your horse on the poll (between the ears) to punish him for rearing, or even intentionally pulling him to the ground. This could end badly, with injury or horse. While it may stop him rearing at that moment, it does nothing to help prevent him rearing again in the future., There are generally two reasons why your horse will rear up. Either he is being held back, or he is feeling trapped. Rearing is a fearful reaction generally caused by the rider, however accidentally. Think of your horse as wanting to move forward but being held back, and it becomes easier to see why he rears up. Horses like to run, and running is the basic way a horse will react is he feels anxious. If you prevent him from running, the only direction he can go is rearing up.He may also rear if he is balking at something. If he doesn’t want to do something, his way to get out of it will be to rear or move backwards., If your horse rears, and you are not certain you can correct him, it is definitely not a bad idea to get off him. Some people try to avoid dismounting because they don’t want the horse to think he has won, and reinforce his behaviour. It’s perfectly fine to get off, but it does matter what you do next.


If you have dismounted, longe the horse, and do some ground work to get his feet moving. You will get him thinking again and regain his respect.
Do not rub him, or pat him, and walk him back to the stable. Doing this will only reinforce his bad behaviour and can encourage him to rear again in the future., Rearing is often a result of your horse not properly respecting you. To tackle this you have to go back to basics and work on building up your relationship. Do lots of ground work, and get him used to you touching him and working with him.The more you are able to get him to move his feet in all directions, forwards, backwards, left and right, the more he’ll be thinking and paying attention.
Use exercises that involve a lot of changes of direction, such as figure of eights and rollbacks.Reward good behaviour and have fun together.
 If your horse is particularly sensitive or anxious, certain stimuli may prompt him to rear. You can work on addressing this by progressively desensitizing him to the things which provoke anxiety. The basic technique for desensitization work is to expose him the stimulus in a safe environment, and wait for him to stop reacting.


When there is no reaction to the stimulus, remove it and praise the horse.
Wait a few seconds and then reintroduce the stimulus.
Repeat this over and over.
Remember not to remove the stimulus until there is no reaction from your horse., A rearing horse can be a very intimidating, scary, and dangerous thing to experience. If your horse keeps rearing and you are struggling to prevent it, be sure to contact a professional trainer who will be able to help you, and work with you and your horse.


The problem can be fixed with the right work and help.
A rearing horse can cause injuries and even be fatal, so you should never take risks or just hope for the best.