 You can change your Safari settings from within the Safari browser. Make sure that it's the active program so that the "Safari" menu appears in the upper-left corner.
 This will open a new window with your Safari preferences, opened to the "General" tab.
 The "Homepage" field allows you to set a specific page that will open when you start Safari. You can click the "Set to Current Page" button to use the page that is open as your new homepage.
 You can choose how links are opened, and enable shortcuts for opening tabs and switching between them.
 You can choose which information is used to automatically complete forms and credit card purchase fields. Click the "Edit" button next to each one to choose the content you want to use.
 You'll see all of the websites that you have passwords stored. Double-click a password to reveal it. You'll be prompted for your Mac user password in order to proceed.
 You can use the "Search engine" drop-down menu to select the search engine that you want to use for the Safari address bar. You can select Google, Bing, Yahoo, and DuckDuckGo. When you type something into your address bar, this is the search engine that will be used.


You can enable or disable various search preferences underneath this menu, including using Safari Suggestions.
 These include warnings for known fraudulent sites, JavaScript settings, and more. Most users can leave these settings at their default.
 You can set your cookie and tracking settings on this tab. Your location settings will be below your tracking settings. You can also enable websites to check that you have Apple Pay enabled. See Use Apple Pay on a Mac for more details.
 You'll see all of your installed extensions listed here. Select one to view specific controls for that extension. You can click the "More Extensions" button in the bottom corner to browse various extensions available for Safari.
 This tab contains several miscellaneous settings, as well as some advanced settings that most users can safely ignore. There are some useful accessibility and zoom settings available on this tab for people that have difficulty reading small text.