 Your first step should be to determine whether you and the person you are talking to know any of the same words. Even a few basic words can help, whether you can understand a few terms in their language or vice versa.


If you recognize their language and you know a few words, that's great. If not, ask if the other person understands any English.
English is the language of travel and business. It is likely that even in parts of the world education is not widespread, many people will still know a few words or phrases in English.If that fails, try any other languages you know, even if you only understand a little bit. See if the other person shows any signs of understanding. Just a few words can make communication much easier, even if they're not in either of your native tongues.;
, If it seems there is a chance the other person will understand even few words, try speaking to them in English (or any other language both you and he or she understand a little) very slowly. Slowing down will make it easier for him or her to understand.That said, try to keep a normal rhythm. When you slow down your speech, you may have a tendency to get into an odd, stilted rhythm and/or put emphasis on the wrong words. This can make you harder to understand.
If you speak English with a strong regional accent (e.g. you live in the deep south or have cockney accent), speaking slowly is doubly important., Many people have a tendency to raise their voices when talking to someone who doesn't speak their language, or doesn't speak it well. This isn't actually helpful. Avoid doing this.Shouting will only make you look foolish and may offend the person you are trying to communicate with.
 Use the simplest words you can to express yourself. Definitely stay away from any jargon, technical language, or similarly complex words.


Likewise, stay away from the use of idioms or figures of speech.These are expressions that, by definition, are culturally specific, and are not likely to be understood by non-English speakers.
For example, don't say something is "as easy as pie" or that you you need to "hit the sack." These common American expressions obviously don't have meanings that align with the literal meaning of the words. They are likely to seem bizarre and perplexing to non-native English speakers., Similarly, use the simplest sentence structures you can. Use as few words as possible to get your meaning across.Avoid confusing structures, such as questions asked in the negative. Instead of saying: "You don't have any idea what I mean, do you?" ask "Do you understand what I mean?", Once you've chosen a word for something, don't switch to another term for same thing. This can add confusion and create misunderstandings.


For example, if you are trying to ask where you can buy some pain medication, stick with that term, don't vary your words and say "aspirin" or "painkillers" or some other synonym a moment later, at least not if the person you are talking to seemed to understand the first term., Ask questions to make sure the other person is understanding you, and express your understanding when he or she successfully communicates something to you.


Similarly, be on lookout for signals that she or he does not understand you, such a scrunched brow or the universal "huh?", Many people who are just learning English understand things better in written form than via spoken language.If speaking isn't working, it might be worth writing down a few words.


This also eliminates problems that might come about because of pronunciation issues, especially if you have a strong accent.
Carrying a small notepad and pen for this purpose when you travel is a good idea., Interactions with someone who doesn't speak your language can be frustrating, both for you and the other person. Be as patient as you can, and try to keep your frustration to yourself.


Do not laugh at the person, roll your eyes, or anything else that you wouldn't do in polite conversation with someone who does speak your language., If you are traveling to a country where English isn't common, it's good idea to pick up a dictionary and/or phrasebook that will help you understand and speak a few words and phrases in the dominant language.


While a dictionary will give you a greater variety of words to choose from, a phrase book will contain useful sentences with the verbs already conjugated correctly. This can make you easier for others to understand.
Small dictionary/phrasebook combinations are available for travelers via your local bookstore or online.
Some travel guidebooks including a section of common phrases as well.