 Before you open your computer up, you'll want to uninstall your old graphics drivers. This is the software that allows your hardware to communicate with your operating system.


In Windows, you can uninstall drivers using the Device Manager. You can access the Device Manager by typing device manager into the Search bar in the Start menu or Start screen.
Expand the Display Adapters category in the Device Manager window. Right-click on the installed display adapter and click "Uninstall". Follow the prompts to uninstall the drivers from your system. Your display will most likely drop in quality and will become blurry.
Mac OS X users don't need to uninstall drivers before installing the new card.;
, Power down your computer after uninstalling the drivers. Once the computer has shut down, unplug all of the components from the back, and detach the power cable.
 Set the case on its side, with the connectors on the back closest to the table. These connectors are attached to the motherboard, and will help you determine which side of the computer you can access. Unscrew the screws securing the side panel of the computer.


Most modern cases use thumbscrews, though you may need a Phillips screwdriver for older cases or screws that are too tight.
For easy access, set the case on a table or workbench. Avoid laying it on carpet.
If the computer was running for a while before you turned it off, you may want to give the components time to cool before proceeding.
 Modern graphics cards almost always connect via the PCIe slot, which is typically located closest to the processor. You may have an old graphics card installed here, or it may be empty if you were using your motherboard's integrated graphics.If you are having difficulty identifying the PCIe slot, check your motherboard or computer's documentation.
 Whenever you are working with sensitive computer components, you should ensure that you are properly grounded. This will reduce the likelihood of of electrostatic damage to your components.


If possible, connect an electrostatic wrist strap to the bare metal of your computer's case.
If you don't have a wrist strap, you can discharge any built-up static charge by touching a metal water tap.
Make sure that you are wearing rubber-soled shoes while working in the computer.
 If you have an old graphics card installed, you will need to remove it before you install the new one. Unscrew the screw that secures it to the chassis, and then release the tab at the bottom of the card, near the rear of the slot.


When removing the card, pull it straight up (this is done by laying the computer case on its back, to make removing the old card and inserting the new card easier) to avoid damaging the slot. If the graphics card is tight, you may have to gently rock the graphics card to the left and right as you pull it up until it is free from the PCIe slot.
Make sure any displays are disconnected before removing the card, and that there aren't any cables attached from the power supply.
 While your computer is open and you have access to the inside, you should take this opportunity to clean out any dust that has built-up inside. Dust can lead to overheating, which can eventually lead to hardware failure.


Use compressed air or a small vacuum to remove as much dust and debris as possible. Make sure to get in all of the nooks and crannies.
 Remove your new graphics card from its antistatic bag, carefully gripping it on the edges. Be sure that you do not touch the contacts running along the bottom.


If you didn't have a card installed previously, you will need to remove the metal cover that covers the bay associated with the PCIe slot.
Insert the new card directly into the PCIe slot, applying even, firm pressure. You should hear the tab at the base of the PCIe slot click when the card is in place. Make sure that the screw holes line up on the chassis.
You may need to remove the neighboring panel on the rear of your case if your new card requires two bays.
Ensure that no cables or other components are in the way when you insert the card. you can detach other cables and then reattach them after the card is installed.
 Use case screws to secure the video card to the bay openings on the back of the case. If the video card is two bays wide, you will need two screws to secure it.


Make sure that the card is securely installed. When you put your computer back together, the card will be laying horizontally, so secure connections are important to prevent damage.
 Most modern graphics cards have one or two power connectors, typically located on the top of the card. You will need to connect these to the power supply using your power supply's PCIe connectors. If you don't have these connectors, many graphics cards come with Molex-to-PCIe adapters.
 Once you've inserted the card and attached all the necessary cables, you can close up the case. Make sure that you secure the case with the thumbscrews.


If you had to detach anything to make room for the graphics card, make sure to reattach them before closing the case.
 In order to take advantage of your new graphics card, you will need to plug your monitor into one of the display ports on the back of the card. For the best quality, use the HDMI or DisplayPort connector (if your monitor supports it). For older monitors, use DVI. If your monitor doesn't have a DVI cable, many graphics cards come with VGA-to-DVI adapters.
 Plug everything back into your computer and start it up. Your operating system should automatically detect your graphics card and attempt to configure it for you, but if it doesn't, download the drivers from the manufacturer's website or insert the driver disc if one comes with it. If you want to get the best performance out of your card, you should install the drivers for it.


If you install your driver from a disc, check for newer versions as they may be out of date. You can download the latest drivers from the manufacturer's website.
 Now that the card and drivers are installed, it's time to put it to work. Boot up your preferred testing program, be it a graphics-intensive game or a video encoder. With your new card, you should be able to bump the settings up and experience better graphics or faster encoding.


Game performance is affected by a variety of factors, including available RAM, processor speed, and even the amount of free hard disk space.
 Video cards are one of the largest draws on your computer's power supply, so you'll want to ensure that it is up to the task. You can see the wattage of your power supply printed on the sticker attached to it. Most video cards will say how much power they draw in their product specifications.If you don't have enough power, your hardware will likely not work correctly or your computer will not boot.
There are several power supply calculators online that allow you to enter all of your components and see how much wattage your power supply needs to put out.When choosing a power supply unit, avoid unreputable brands. Even if they are rated to support enough power for your computer, cheap power supply units may explode and damage everything inside of your computer including the new graphics card, even if the amount of power that the components of your computer are drawing stays well below the maximum amount of power that the PSU can give to them.
 This is less of a problem than it used to be, but if you are upgrading an older computer you may run into issues. Most modern motherboards have a PCI-E slot, which is what virtually all modern graphics cards use. Older motherboards may have AGP slots, which require a card that supports AGP as well.


Refer to your motherboard's documentation if you are unsure as to what your board supports.
 Many newer graphics cards are quite large, which can pose a problem for cases without much free space inside. Look up the card's dimensions, and then take a tape measure to the inside of your computer. Make sure that you account for length, width, and height.
 There are hundreds of different graphics cards on the market, ranging in price from $50 to over $1000. The first thing you need to do when deciding on a card is establish what you want to do with it. Find a good balance between price and power.If you aren't worried about pushing games to their limit and just want solid performance, you can find cards in the $100-$200 range that will suit your needs. A popular choice is the Radeon R9 270 or Geforce 750 Ti.
If you want to play most games at their maximum settings, look at cards in the $300-$400 range. A popular choice is the GeForce GTX 970 or Radeon R9 390.
If you need the best of the best, high-end cards are where its at. The average user won't notice much difference for the price, but overclockers and high-end PC builders will want these for the best performance possible. One of the most popular cards in this category is the GeForce GTX 980.
If you want one of the best graphics card, choose the GTX Titan X.
If you want an enterprise quality graphic card, choose the Quadro K6000.
If you are encoding video or doing graphic design, you will want a graphics card with lots of VRAM, either 3 or 4 GB.

