 If a friend or loved one has hypochondria, you more than likely want to help; however, you need to set clear boundaries. Your loved one may call you at all hours, ask you to go to doctor’s appointments with them, or turn any discussion of your own illnesses into conversations about them. Set boundaries to make sure you take care of yourself.


For example, tell your loved one that you understand their anxiety about their health, but they cannot call you in the middle of the night. Let them know what you will and won’t do or talk about.
You may say, “I understand that you may get panicked in the middle of the night because you believe you have an illness. However, I cannot allow you to call me to talk after I have gone to bed.”
You may have to say something like, “We are not talking about what illness you believe you have right now. We are talking about me and the illness I have been diagnosed with.”

, Hypochondriacs need constant reassurance from doctors, their families, and their friends. You may have already found yourself providing endless reassurance to your loved one that they are not sick. While you may feel like you should support and reassure your friend, giving a hypochondriac constant reassurance can lead to more attention-seeking behavior instead of encouraging them to get help.Instead of reassuring your friend, you can say, “We have discussed this before and your doctor said you did not have an illness. I’m not going to tell you that you are okay;” or, “I am not going to reassure you that you are not sick. I’m not a medical professional. If your doctor said you are not ill, then believe them.”

, People who suffer from health anxiety can let it negatively impact their lives. They may end up not doing things or letting it interfere with their normal activities. Try to avoid letting their anxiety interfere with your life.


For example, people who have health anxiety can stop doing activities, like exercising, going out into groups, driving to places, or going to dinner. Try not to let them keep you from doing things you are interested in.
You may also find that the hypochondriac is always talking about the illness they believe they have. This may dominate every conversation you have, or they may contact you all the time to talk about their fears. Work to not let the conversation always be about this.
Try saying things like, “But the doctor said you were fine, so let’s talk about other things. How are your family? How are things going at work?”

, If you have a loved one with hypochondria, you may feel guilty because you think you are not supporting them enough or that you may be ignoring a legitimate illness. Try not to let yourself feel guilty because of this.You should be caring of the person, but firm in helping them realize their symptoms are not real. Help them understand a headache is a common, normal occurrence, or that their funny heartbeat is probably related to stress.
You can listen to their fears and anxieties, but don’t reassure or encourage them. Be supportive, but don’t let your loved one dwell. Instead, carefully change the subject after they have voiced their concerns.

