 Take every item out of the closet and lay it out on the bed, table, or floor. This will allow you to examine all of your clothes. Having everything removed from the closet will also help you make more efficient decisions about what you should keep, donate, or sell.;
, As you clean out your closet, you will be dividing your clothes into four categories – keep, store, sell, and donate. After you try on and assess each item, you will place it in its respective pile. Grab a trash bag for donated clothes, a storage container for off-season clothes, and a box for clothes you will sell.
 It is important to try on all of your clothes and accessories when you are cleaning out your closet. This will help you make informed decisions about whether you should keep the item, donate the item, or attempt to sell the item., You will need a large trash bag for clothes you decide to donate. Having one set up near your closet will make the cleanout process go smoothly. Go for an extra-large or contractor’s garbage bag if you anticipate you will be donating a lot of clothes. Once you decide to donate an item, place it in the trash bag.
 When you clean out your closet, you will decide what items you will try to sell. Find a large box in which you can place these clothes and accessories. The box will allow you to keep the clothes folded and free of wrinkles. You can also use a laundry basket instead of a box.


Folding the clothes nicely means you won't need to iron them before selling.
If you are selling online, use this opportunity to take nice photos of the clothes to post with your online listings.
 Once you’ve decided what to keep and what to let go of, you can divide your wardrobe into seasonal piles. Take clothes that are out of season and store them in a container with a lid, like a Rubbermaid container or a basket. For example, if you clean out your closet in the summer, you can store off-season items like sweaters, gloves, and winter boots., Your cleaning mission should also include accessories like belts, scarves, and shoes. Try each accessory on with a coordinating outfit. If it's out of date, you don't love it, or it doesn't fit, get rid of it.

