 Take note of your dog’s symptoms, and exactly when they began. Try to be as specific as possible.Once you can determine the problem, you can begin to comfort him.


Things to look for include: loss of appetite, lethargy, and vomiting.
Use an online “symptom checker” for dogs to help determine possible causes.
Call and speak to your vet. Relay the symptoms over the phone and determine the best course of action.
 If your dog is eating grass, she may have an upset tummy. Eating grass can tickle her throat and tummy and may induce vomiting. This can be very comforting for dog’s with gas or upset tummies., Especially if your dog has diarrhea, dehydration can be a serious concern. Comfort your dog by offering him plenty of water. Try offering him water straight from a hose or faucet, or water with ice cubes. This might spice things up for him and help him to get more water down.
You can obtain an electrolyte powder for animals from any farm store. Mix this with water for additional prevention or treatment of dehydration.
You can check to see if your dog is dehydrated by lifting up his lip and examining his gums. If healthy, his gums should be covered with a shiny film.
If your dog is very dehydrated, get him to the vet right away. Dehydration can lead to organ damage or even death.
 If your dog as an upset tummy, feeding rice to your dog can give her some comfort.Boil one cup of white rice in one quart of water, until mushy.
Drain some of the water, and feed this rice water to your dog. This is both soothing to the tummy and hydrating.
Feed her some of the mushy, drained rice. You can mash it with a fork for a softer consistency. You can also mix with other food that she likes.
 Just like in humans, OTC medicines like bismuth subsalicylate (Pepto-Bismol) can soothe diarrhea or stomach symptoms. Give 1 teaspoon per 5 pounds, or 1 tablespoon per 15 pounds. Do this every two hours.Call your vet to see if giving your dog some medicine is a good idea.
OTC medications should never be used on dogs who are pregnant or nursing.
Never give Pepto-Bismo to cats!

, It is not abnormal for a dog to have an upset tummy or other illness once in awhile. However, if your pet is seriously ill, she may need to be seen by a professional.Contact your vet in the event of:


Vomiting or diarrhea persisting more than 24 hours
Seizure
Difficulty breathing
Moaning with pain
Trouble urinating

