 You'll need three month's worth of expenses in a liquid account in a bank or money market fund where you can immediately withdraw the money in case of urgent and unexpected expenses. You will pay for that liquidity, however, because such accounts offer very little interest. Just the same, bank or money-market accounts are useful for paying immediate expenses and for building up funds to put into CDs and other investments.;
, CDs are fixed-income investments for a predetermined length of time (the "term"). . They are illiquid: you cannot normally withdraw your money during the term of a CD unless you're willing to pay a penalty fee. CDs may be purchased from banks, credit unions, or brokerages. The interest earned may be added to the CD itself or be rolled into another account. Terms will range from one month to five years. Generally, the longer the term of a CD, the larger the minimum investment required and the higher the interest rate you'll earn. In addition, there are a variety of options available. you need to be aware of when evaluating CDs.
 What are you saving for? Purchasing a car, a home, college or retirement? Your goal determines how much you need and when you need it.


To create a more substantial emergency fund (three to six months worth of expenses is often recommended) you might need $3,000 a month for six months or $18,000. Each time a CD matures, roll it over into a new six-month CD.
If you're saving for a new car or down payment for a house, invest in longer CDs and purchase progressively shorter ones so that all your investments mature at the time you need the money. For instance, if in five years you would like to purchase a home you can buy a five-year CD now, then in one year purchase a four-year CD, in another year purchase a three-year CD, and so on. All the CDs will mature at the time you plan to need the money. That's the "ladder."
For retirement you might have CDs with five-year maturities staggered a year apart, each to be reinvested in new CDs.
 There can be a wide range of rates paid by CDs with the same term. Use a calculator to show you the best rates available. Consider all your options when shopping.
, Before a CD matures, shop around for reinvestment options. If you don't take immediate action, the CD may automatically roll over and may not earn the best interest rate available. Most banks will require you to transfer your investment into a checking or savings account within ten days of maturity. Otherwise it will automatically roll over into a new CD with the current interest rate. This is great if you don't want to have to actively manage your money, because the new investment will have the same term as your old one. Your income from the previous CD will be added to the balance, and you will earn compounded interest on those earnings.

