 Whereas some networks mostly encourage online submission of comments, Fox News does provide viewers with a 1-800 customer service number. You can use this phone number if you have a general inquiry, comment, suggestion, or concern.


To call Fox News, dial 1-888-369-4762.This is also the phone number provided for offering news tips.Be prepared to go through a series of phone prompts when you dial the number. These prompts will direct you to the person or department you need to speak with.;
, You could write Fox News the old-fashioned way by using snail mail.


The main address for Fox News Channel is 1211 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10036.
Rupert Murdoch is the Executive chairman., Fox News lists emails for its many programs so that viewers can send comments to hosts or show producers. The general email for comments is yourcomments@foxnews.com.All emails end with @foxnews.com. Here is the list:


You can reach Sean Hannity at hannity@foxnews.com and
Reach Geraldo at Large at atlarge@foxnews.com.
America’s Newsroom w/ Bill and Martha can be emailed at americasnewsroom@foxnews.com.
Email Cavuto on Business at cavuto@foxnews.com
Email friends@foxnews.com for Fox & Friends.
Fox News Specials can be reached at fncspecials@foxnews.com
Fox Report can be written at foxreport@foxnews.com.
The network’s website lists email addresses for other programs too., If you live outside the United States but watch Fox News on the Internet or on television, let them know by sending an email to FOXaroundtheworld@foxnews.com,


You can also use this email address to let Fox News know that you would like to view their news channel even though the channel is not available in your area.
Only international emails will work with this email address.
 Irena Briganti is the Group Senior Vice President of Media Relations at Fox News.


If you are in the media and need to contact Fox News for press-related matters, she is the person with whom you need to speak.You can send her an email at irena.briganti@foxnews.com or a fax at 212-819-0816.
 If you have a product or service you would like to advertise through Fox News, you can email the company's advertising department directly at advertise@foxnews.com.


Using this email address, you can inquire about advertising opportunities with FOXNews.com and Fox News in general. An employee involved with advertising will write back and explain the various advertising packages available to you.
If you would like to set up an advertising campaign with Fox News but do not want to contact them through the email address, you can also write a letter or make a phone call.The address is: FOX News Digital, Digital Media Sales,1211 Avenue of the Americas, 22 Floor, New York, NY 10036. The phone number is: 212-301-5789.

