 Open a new web browser tab or window and go to Gmail.


Provide your Gmail email address and password in the fields given. If you do not have a Gmail account, create one easily by hitting the “Create an Account” link below the login window.
Click on the apps icon (bold dots in 3 rows and 3 columns, forming a square) at the top right of the page.
A pop-up will appear showing a number of Google applications, including Google+, Google Drive, Maps, News, YouTube, and Calendar. Click “Calendar” to go to the Google Calendar application.;
, To begin creating an event, click the “Create New” button. It’s the red button found on the left side of the page. You will be directed to a page requesting you to input the details of the event.


Provide the name of the event in the first field. Just tap the “untitled event” words in the field and type in the name.
Below the title field, you will see the start date and time as well as the end date and time of the event. Pick the dates and times of the event in these fields.
In the “Where” field below date and time, enter the location where the event will take place.
Add a little something about the event in the Description field if desired.
If you want Google Calendar to email you a reminder (like letting you know one day before the event), set notification information in the Notification option. Under this option are 3 boxes. These boxes have drop-down menus. In the first box, select the way you want to be notified (e.g., mail or a pop-up window that appears when your computer is on and is connected to the Internet). The second and third box also contains a drop-down menu for selecting minutes, hours, days or weeks to set a specific date and time for the notification.
You can also choose to invite friends to the event by typing their email addresses on the “Add Guest” field. If you choose to invite friends, you have to specify their user rights. For example, they can invite other friends, view other invited friends, or modify the event.
Click the “Save” button to complete the process of creating the event. The “Save” button can be found at the end of the Create Event form. Next to this button is “Discard.” If you want to cancel the event creation, click this instead.
 All created events can be viewed in the Agenda tab at the top right of the Calendar page.
 If you have a particular event that you want to view but don’t want to go through all the daily, weekly, or monthly view to find it, search for it instead.


Type the name of the event in the Google Calendar search box and click the search button. It will search your calendar and the Internet for that event. Scroll through the results, and click on the correct event to view its details.
 On the calendar page, click on an event and a pop-up will appear above it. To the bottom right is an “Edit event” link. Click this to open the edit event window. Edit the event as needed, and when you’re done, click “Save” at the top of the page.
 If the event has passed or if it has been canceled and you want to clear up your calendar, you can delete it. Click the Agenda tab at the top of the Calendar page and then click the name of the event you want to delete. The event will be expanded on the screen.


Click “Delete” at the bottom most part of the event page, and a confirmation box will pop up. Click “Delete” to completely remove the event from your calendar.
Note that deleted events cannot be retrieved.
 Google Calendar has 5 views to choose from: Day, Week, Month, 7 Days, and Agenda.


You can select any view from the buttons found at the top right of the calendar page.

“Day” will display all agendas on the current day.
“Week” will display columns of the entire week, starting from Sunday.
“Month” will display the current calendar month. Events entered in that month will be displayed in its respective date.
“7 Days” will display the current day and the agenda for the next 6 days.
“Agenda” will display all agendas and events for the month in list view.


Add other calendars to your view. Find the “Other Calendars” section in the left hand column. Browse other calendars, such as the game dates for a football team, and add them to your calendar so that you can avoid conflicting events.
 This can be useful if you want to share a whole calendar with other people, not just one event. First, create your calendar using the settings you would like. Then adjust the settings:


Go to the settings cog on the right. Click and select the “Settings” option in the drop down menu.
Select the “Calendars” tab at the top. Click on the calendar that you would like to share with other people.
Choose the “Share this Calendar” tab at the top. Enter each email that you want to add individually. Choose the permissions (editing or viewing) that you want the person to have, and then click “Add Person.”
Repeat with the remaining invitees. If you allowed people to make changes, they will be able to add events and invite attendees for this calendar.
Click “Save” before returning to the main screen.
Encourage others to add themselves to accept your invitation so that you can view when they are busy or available for meetings.
You can also use this function when you first create a new calendar. It is available at the bottom of the creation page.
 Go to the Settings icon and select “Labs.” Enable the option to remove morning and night from your calendar. Peruse the entire list of labs to find open source improvements to your calendar structure.

Respond to an event using your Gmail address. When you’re invited to an event, click the “Yes” button. Your Google Calendar will update automatically.

Download the Google Calendar app on your Android device. You can easily sync your devices into one easily accessible calendar. Changes made online or on the phone will automatically update the calendar.

Combine Google Calendar with iCal by exporting your iCal schedule. Go to Google Calendar and click the Settings section. Instead of creating a new calendar, select the option to import a calendar and upload the iCal file.

