 Never throw around false accusations and never judge your current lover by what people in your past did to you. Only resort to monitoring someone's device usage if these tips fail and your suspicions are not simply based on jealousy, but reasonable suspicion. It is always better to be upfront and simply ask to see your significant other's phone. Same thing applies when wondering who your child is texting. Have a conversation about your trust issues, insecurities, suspicions doubts or concerns before resorting to spying on someone. Always be respectful and mindful of someone else's privacy.


Talk to your child about appropriate cell phone use. Do not be afraid to set limits such as when they can use their phone and regularly monitor their web and text behavior. There is nothing wrong with a parent that is trying to be completely aware of his/ her child's phone and internet activities.Set up a time to sit and talk with your significant other without any distractions. Set aside a couple hours for just the two of you. Use that time to discuss any concerns, doubts or fears that you have. You could also try writing them a letter in advance and then arrange a meeting in a neutral location (if that would be easier for you). Never jump to conclusions or hurl unproven accusations at them. That will simply push the person away. They will not view these issues as simple concerns that you have (that you two can work through). They will instead view your hostility and accusations as proof that you do not trust them, at all.
Just express how you feel and what actions led you to feel this way. Surely, if they are indeed not hiding anything, then they'll understand your honest concerns. They would likely be more than willing to let you see what you wish to see. Keep in mind, information can be deleted and people do lie. You should still always attempt to talk with your partner.;
, This is the most simple means of spying on a person’s phone. Wait for a time that they set their phone down due to being in a hurry. If they have to rush to leave a room or run an emergency errand. You must then quickly read text messages and search their call/web history, and if time permits check social media as well. Most times, if someone is doing something dirty behind your back they will delete the messages/ calls that could prove it. If you have a chance to get the device when they are busy, distracted, or caught off guard then they may have not had a chance to wipe away evidence, yet. So act quickly, and be smart. If you find anything, screenshot the evidence, send it to yourself, then store it in a private protected folder or print it out, to be kept safely in a lock box. Always make sure to delete the screenshots and messages that you send to yourself.

