 Your tone sets the stage for a story just as much as the words and images do. Determine to add inflection to your voice when you sit down to read a book out loud. Perform the voices of the different characters, too. Reading with expression means that you’re reflecting the tone of the story, and you should read slowly so that the child has time to think about what is happening.Adding voices can grab the attention of a bored or distracted child.;
, Your goal in reading aloud to a child is to help them understand the story and relate to it. Pausing until it looks like the child is done studying the pictures is one way to make sure that they are understanding that the words you read are describing these images.If you’re sitting with a child in your lap or beside you, they may want to turn the page themselves, which can also indicate that they have finished studying it.
Pay attention to the child, and if they seem like they are trying to get you to move through the book faster without taking the time to study the images, ask them questions about the pictures or the story so far to help them connect with the story.
 As children grow, they become more and more cognitively aware. If they are old enough, pause in the middle of the book to ask the child if they think they know what happens next. Tell them to guess what happens, and then confirm or correct these predictions as you work your way through the book.Don’t shut down predictions if you know they aren’t the “right” ones; encourage the child to think in terms of “possibilities,” affirming their guesses and referring to what actually happens in the book as “what the author had in mind.”

, Pay attention to the way the child is behaving. If they are twisting in place and commenting on other things going on in the room, you know that they are bored or distracted. Adjust for such behavior by adding more inflection to your tone or asking questions to help the child engage.You may also just need to shorten how long it takes to read a book next time.
 Being still long enough to understand what a book says can be difficult for a child who has not been read to very often. Children need time to develop interest in books. To help with this, begin reading stories aloud that are short and have bright colors. Pay attention to what they like and make sure this element is included in each reading time.For example, a child may like characters who are dogs; or they may like it when you read the mother character with a particular-sounding voice.
For children who are active, you may find success with giving them something to fiddle with while you read, like a ball of playdough or a crayon and paper.
 When you finish the book, ask the child questions to help them remember what they just read. You can also ask them what they think happens after the story ends. Just try not to turn this questions into a quiz or drill, so that it doesn’t feel like reading is a task they “have” to do.Try asking, "What happened at the end of the story?"
You could also ask, "What was your favorite part?"
Even ask, "Who was your favorite character?"

