 You can use machines, free weights, TRX bands, weightlifting classes or a combination of these choices.


Never go into weightlifting blind. It requires correct posture and positioning to correctly target muscle fibers. Take an intro to weightlifting class, buy some sessions with a personal trainer or take classes to learn the basics.;
, Do your weightlifting sessions every other day to give your muscles time to rebuild and strengthen. Do cardio to burn off extra fat on your "resting" days.
 The best results will happen when you push your muscles until they can no longer do the lift or exercise on the last step. You will tear and rebuild a leaner physique with this method.


Muscle fatigue requires some strategy. If you are training for an endurance event, it is recommended that you do 10 to 15 repetitions and 3 sets of a slightly lower weight. If you are training for a speed or sprint event, you can train fast twitch muscles with 6 to 8 repetitions and 3 sets of a heavier weight. The right amount of weight is defined by weight you cannot lift any more after your third set.
If you are short on time, it's better to choose fewer exercises, but do them until your muscles can no longer perform. A few reps will not build lean muscle.
 This timing seems to be more effective than 1 rep every 4 seconds.
 You can rest for longer between different exercises, but studies have shown that short rest times, especially with light weights, are better.
 You should aim for 16 oz. (0.47l) of water per every half an hour of a hard workout. Muscles that are hydrated perform better and you will get more out of your workout.
 These are the exercises that work more than 1 muscle at once, and usually ask you to do more than a single movement. The following are good compound exercises to try:


Push ups. This exercise works your core and your muscles. Get into a plank position. Check that your body is flat in the mirror. Then, lower yourself as far as you can go while maintaining the plank and push back up. For a better compound push up, do knee lifts while you push up or move your hands in and out between repetitions to target triceps, chest and biceps.
weightlifting on tip toes. Put your feet in a ballet first position. Raise up on your tip toes, and move your heels together. Perform bicep curls while you balance to target your calves, thighs, glutes, abs and arms at once.
TRX bands. These weightlifting devices are extremely versatile. You can do rows, chest presses, bicep curls, tricep curls, push ups and much more. Your body is in a plank position to work your core while you lift.
Burpees. Often touted as 1 of the best total body exercise, a burpee combines jumping, squatting, push ups and core work. Start with your knees hip width apart. Squat until your hands touch the ground. Jump your feet back into a plank position. Jump your feet forward and jump up. Extend your arms toward the ceiling as you jump. Repeat as many times as possible in 1 minute.
Kettle ball workouts. These weights are designed for dynamic use. Hold the top of the kettle ball. Squat and set the ball on the ground. Lift it and rise from the squat.
 Unlike traditional free weight and machine exercises, they are designed for a full body workout, so rest the muscles and do cardio the day after you do them.
 Each day your meals should include the following:


A breakfast that is between 300 and 600 calories within 90 minutes of waking up. Your muscles will not be told to store fat, and you will get a leaner body.
A meal 2 hours before you workout. Try to schedule lunch or a large snack so that you will have enough time to digest and use the calories as you train.
A protein rich snack after your workout. If you can eat a protein rich meal within an hour of working out, it is preferable. However, a high-protein snack that includes low-fat cottage cheese or yogurt, almond butter, whey powder, eggs, fish or poultry will help to heal muscles more quickly.
 They should cover half your plate at all meals. Spinach is an excellent source of glutamine, which encourages lean muscle growth. Beets are a source of betaine, which helps repair joints.
 Apples, oranges, bananas and cantaloupe have nutrient benefits that help muscles develop, in addition to high fiber.
 Brown rice, quinoa and sprouted grains are complete proteins in addition to adding fiber and taste.

