 Exfoliating your lips increases circulation, helping blood rush to your lips to make them look fuller. Use a toothbrush to scrub away dry, flaky skin, leaving the fresh skin underneath.


You can moisturize your lips at the same time by using coconut oil. Put a little on your toothbrush and scrub away. Your lips will look shiny and fresh when you're finished.
Or try using a baking soda paste to help exfoliate deeper. Mix a teaspoon of baking soda with enough water to make a paste, then apply it to your toothbrush and scrub.
 Choose a lip pencil that's the same color as your lips, a few shades darker than your facial skin tone. Carefully outline your lips just a centimeter or so above and below your natural lip line. Fill in the gap using the lip pencil. This will create the illusion that your lips are larger than they really are.









Don't be tempted to make them look too big, or it will be obvious that you're using makeup to create fuller lips.
To make your lips pop, use a colorful lipstick or gloss over the pencil, covering both your lips and the area you drew in.
 You can create a pouty effect by using a darker color on the underside of your bottom lip, and a slightly lighter color elsewhere. Choose a deep red and dab it on the outer part of your bottom lip. Sweep it across the underside of your top lip as well. Use a slightly lighter red to fill in the rest of your lips, both the bottom and the top. Use your fingers to blend the colors where they meet.









To create a more defined line, use dark lipliner on the bottom edge of your bottom lip, and a lighter liner on your top lip.
For a stand-out finish, apply a coat of clear gloss.
 If you don't have time for lining or contouring, wearing glossy lipstick is a quick way to make your lips look more pouty. Choose a shiny pink, red or even clear gloss that will make your lips stand out from the rest of your face. The contrast in texture will make your lips look fuller than normal.
 This is the ridged area between the bottom of your nose and the top of your upper lip. Highlighting it draws attention to your lips and makes them look fuller and more pouty. Rub highlighter into your cupid's bow, or simply use clear lip gloss there to make it stand out.

