 If you're less interested in a single quick jump scare and more interested in the sort of creeping, protracted scare that keeps you up all night, you'll want to start by setting the scene. Wait til nighttime (or go somewhere very dark, like a basement or cellar) and eliminate all sources of ambient noise. Ideally, you want to be able to hear a small object like a marble fall to the floor — this way, you'll find yourself jumping at minor noises you wouldn't normally notice.


Darkness is a very effective "scare enhancer" — that is, almost anything that's scary is more scary in the dark. Philosopher William Lyons proposes that people are afraid of darkness not because of the absence of light but, rather, "because one does not know what might be out there in the dark."Silence enhances this effect — hear a bookcase shift in the darkness and it's only natural to assume that a serial killer is creeping into your room.
Likewise, being alone can greatly increase the feeling of being creeped out. If you're alone, you have no one to help you when the some unknown terror comes for you in the night — not a comforting thought.
 Though it may at first seem cheesy or childish, getting sucked into a good ghost story is a fantastic way to put yourself ill-at-ease for hours on end. Ghost stories range from mild to absolutely bone-chilling — it's up to you to determine how ready you are to be scared. A few suggestions are listed below:


If you have time to spare, try reading a classic scary novel or short story. Old favorites like The Shining by Stephen King and Ligeia by Edgar Allan Poe are famous for a reason.Looking for something a little quicker? Try browsing online ghost story collections like this one from Americanfolklore.net. There are literally hundreds of these types of stories online that can be found with a simple search engine query.
If you want to read a story that you've definitely never encountered before, try visiting sites like Reddit's "No Sleep" subreddit, where users are free to share their scariest stories and experiences.
 Made-up ghost stories not doing the trick for you? Try the real thing. There are numerous instances in history of death, disappearance and worse with unknown explanations, making them essentially real-life ghost stories. Reading these stories can sometimes be worse than reading the darkest fictional ghost story — these things did happen and no one knows why. Some recommendations are listed below:



The Dyatlov Pass Incident: Nine hikers suffered violent deaths in the Ural mountains in Russia in the late 1950s under mysterious circumstances. Their tent appeared to have been cut open from the inside. Some had nonsensical injuries, like burnt hands and skull fractures with no apparent cause. Some of the hikers' clothing was even found to contain significant levels of radiation. No official explanation has ever been given.Elisa Lam: A 21-year-old Canadian tourist was found dead in the rooftop water tank of a Los Angeles hotel after disappearing for almost a month. It is unknown how and why she got into the water tank. In addition, security footage shows her acting erratically in an elevator, leading some to think that she believed herself to be possessed.

The Bell Witch of Tennessee: This apparent haunting inspired The Blair Witch Project. John Bell, a man from North Carolina, moved to Tennessee in the early 1800s and began to experience a wide range of unexplained phenomena on his property before suffering an untimely death from illness. It is unclear how much of John's story is fact and how much is fiction.
 Once you've started to become unnerved, amplify the effect by putting yourself into a paranoid mindset. This is very hard to explain exactly — essentially, you want to give yourself the sense that what you're seeing and sensing is "unreal" and that what you perceive to be the world around you doesn't actually exist. Many people find this easiest to trigger by staring at their reflection in the mirror for a long time in a dark, silent room. Eventually, you should get the strange sensation that you're "out of your own head," which can be very chilling, especially if you're already on edge.


Another good way to do this is to try to imagine things that, by their very nature, are impossible to imagine. For instance, sit in a dark room and try to concentrate on what it feels like to be dead. Alternatively, try to imagine what your vision would look like if you had eyes on every side of your head. You won't be able to do these things, but they should help get you into the paranoid, introspective mindset that you want to be in.
 Once you're sufficiently creeped out, all you have left to do is to keep the fire burning by imagining every horrible possibility that could conceivably happen to you. Below are a brief list of suggestions — feel free to add your own deepest, darkest fears. Pleasant dreams!


A serial killer could, at this very moment, come out of the closet and abduct you. It's possible!
You could slowly start losing your mind and fall into dementia. Or have you already?
You could conceivably die while you are asleep and never realize it, making these your very last thoughts ever.
Nuclear war may have already started and you may have minutes before bombs start falling and civilization ends.
The entire universe could, without warning, collapse into nothingness in a fraction of an instant. Scientist already believe that it may have spontaneously been created from nothing., Have you bitten off more than you can chew in terms of scares? Don't worry — everything is fine. You're not in any danger. You are sitting in a dark, quiet room alone and freaking yourself out. There is not a monster in the closet. You will live through the night. Take deep breaths and try reading How to Calm Down for a change of mood.

