 Almost all cats over age 12 develop arthritis. Your cat might have arthritis or degenerative joint disease if it doesn’t want to go up or down stairs, no longer jumps, has trouble grooming itself, or has difficulty climbing into its litterbox.Bring your cat to the vet for a physical examination if you observe signs of arthritis. Ask the vet if they recommend medication.;
, Try to watch your cat when it eats and look for signs of dental disease. Notice if it seems to have difficulty eating or doesn’t have much interest in its food. Check its teeth weekly for signs of decay.Since older cats are at a higher risk of developing dental diseases, you should brush its teeth daily with a cloth or cat toothbrush and toothpaste designed for cats. Don’t use human toothpaste to brush your cat’s teeth.
 Older cats are prone to developing cataracts, glaucoma, retinal detachment, and other eye conditions. Check its eyes every week or two for white or cloudy lenses, dilated pupils, or redness in the white area around the lenses. Observe your cat’s mobility and take note if it often bumps into objects.Take your cat to the vet as soon as possible if you see any irregularities in its eyes. If it seems to have trouble seeing, avoid moving furniture around to make it easier for it to navigate its environment.
 Overactive thyroid, or hyperthyroidism, is a common disease in older cats that can lead to hypertension, kidney problems, and heart disease. Symptoms include weight loss despite having an excessive appetite, sudden increase in energy, diarrhea, vomiting, and increased urine volume.Schedule a vet exam if you suspect your cat has hyperthyroidism. Blood work will offer an accurate diagnosis and help you and your vet decide if medication is necessary.
 While common in older cats, signs of chronic renal failure, or kidney disease, vary widely. Symptoms could include increased urine volume, weight loss, lack of appetite, and vomiting.These symptoms could be related to kidney disease, hyperthyroidism, diabetes, or heart disease, which are all common issues in older cats. Bring your cat to the vet if you observe these symptoms. Only the vet can make an accurate diagnosis and determine the best treatment plan.  

