 If your mouth consistently feels dry, prickly, or dehydrated, you may suffer from dry mouth. Certain medications, medical procedures, or conditions can cause this. You might find that certain dental products worsen the problem or irritate your mouth.


See your dentist first. Dry mouth is a serious problem that requires medical attention. Your dentist may prescribe you some collutory (a special rinsing solution) to help alleviate pain and other symptoms. You will also need to see your GP, for a referral to a specialist
Ask your dentist about what you should avoid. For example, spicy foods can dry out your mouth more and cause irritation, so you may want to avoid these. Also, mint-flavored mouthwashes, toothpastes, or candies can irritate a dry mouth., If you have bitten or burned your tongue, a saltwater rinse can reduce pain while killing harmful bacteria in your mouth.Dissolve a teaspoon of salt in eight-ounces of warm water, and gargle with it for up to 30 seconds. Spit the water out in a sink; do not swallow it.If you have a cut on your tongue larger than 1 cm, you should have it checked out by a doctor or dentist., Tongue piercings can be stylish, but they present significant risk to your mouth. Before you get a tongue piercing, you should make sure that you are having it done at a clean, licensed shop. Read local reviews to make sure that your piercer is skilled and highly rated. After the piercing, call a doctor if you notice any signs of infection, pain, swelling, or red streaks around the piercing.Before the piercing, make sure that you are up to date on your Hepatitis B and tetanus vaccines. You should ask the piercer if everyone in the shop has been properly vaccinated for Hepatitis B.Once your tongue is pierced, rinse your mouth after every meal with an alcohol-free mouthwash or saltwater. Avoid spicy, salty, or acidic foods, and do not kiss anyone until your piercing heals.You may also take some over the counter pills such as Ibuprofen to reduce the tongue inflammation.
Avoid habits such as holding the piercing between your teeth because you can hurt your tongue and destroy the enamel

, Mouth sores and painful bumps may be a sign of stomatitis. Stomatitis can be caused by chemotherapy, radiotherapy, herpes, or loose dentures. While you should see a doctor about potential stomatitis, you can reduce the discomfort using a few simple mouthwashes. Hold a mouthful of the rinse in your mouth, and swish it back and forth. Spit it back out into the sink. You should not swallow mouthwash. Some recommended rinses include:Club soda
Alcohol-free mouthwash
Benzydamine hydrochloride
Lidocaine Viscous (typically used for severe cases caused by chemotherapy)

, Your tongue should be a consistent pink color. Discoloration is the first sign of disease or sickness, so check your tongue everyday to make sure that it is the right color.


A black, lumpy tongue may be a sign of “hairy tongue” disease. This can be caused by certain medications or by smoking. Hairy tongue can give you bad breath. It might also distort your taste perception.If your tongue is bright red, you may have a Vitamin B-12 or folic acid deficiency. If it is accompanied by a fever, you might have scarlet fever or Kawasaki disease. Seek immediate medical attention.Alternating patches of red and white may be geographic tongue, which is a genetic condition. While people with geographic tongue may be sensitive to spicy foods, the condition is otherwise harmless.Lumps on your tongue may be canker sores or mouth ulcers. If they do not disappear after two weeks, visit your dentist to be checked for oral cancer.