 Different colors and shades make our environment, and they also send different signals to our brain and invoke varied responses. Because of this, it is important to think about the colors you are wearing and what they say about you.


A recently published survey by CareerBuilder revealed that black and blue are regarded as the best colors to wear on a job interview while orange is the worst. In a professional setting, the safest bet is to go for a conservative color.;
, Brown is a neutral color and signifies a calm feeling. It is a good color for an interview as it is an earthy and non-distracting color. It portrays a warm and dependable personality; many brands use it for their logo.For example, a brown skirt paired with a white top may be a good choice for an outfit if you want to portray yourself as dependable.
 Blue is a great color for an interview, especially dark and navy shades of blue. Lighter shades of blue signify a calm, trustworthy and confident personality. Navy also signifies an authoritative disposition.


Studies show that interviewers are more likely to select a candidate who is wearing blue than any other color., Black is a very popular color for any professional setting and displays power and confidence. Black is a particularly good choice if you are interviewing for a higher up position, or for a job at a law firm or bank.


However, at the same time, black can be very domineering for a casual fun loving office. It is a good color for a leadership position. You may want to add a little color, such as a scarf or fun tie, to soften the look for environments where black looks too overwhelming.
 Gray works well for interviews because it is not flashy or domineering, but still provokes a sense of sophistication. It also says that you are logical and to the point.However, keep in mind that some people find that gray may signify isolation or independence. If you are going to be working on a team, you might want to choose a warmer color than gray. If you are working on your own project, gray should suit you just fine.
 Red is a bold, cheerful color that signifies energy and passion. A little bit of red in your outfit an signify an energetic personality without looking too loud. A red scarf or tie adds that fun or creative element.


This can be a great color for roles that require negotiation or influencing skills.
 White signifies trust, purity and honesty. It signifies a trustworthy and organized personality. This is a great color for a blouse or shirt as it adds a bright look to otherwise sober outfits.


White, off-white or beige can signify a calm and organized disposition, someone who can keep cool amidst a chaotic environment.
 These are brighter fun-loving colors that may signify a frivolous but creative personality. It you are trying to get a job at a more professional company, you may want to limit these colors to one item in your outfit, like your jewelry or a tie.

