 There are many suicide prevention chat rooms that you can find by doing an internet search. It is important that the staff is supervised, trained, and ready to help you in crisis so that you can get the best possible care. Recently, crisischat.org has partnered with the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline (1-800-273-TALK) to expand services and help as many people as possible.This organization has paid staff and volunteers that go through intensive crisis training specific to suicide prevention.If you are not in the United States, the Unsuicide wiki offers a list of online chat services that can provide help.If you are an LGBTQ+ youth experiencing suicidal thoughts, reach out to the Trevor Project (1-866-488-7386). They provide trained staff who understand what you're going through. They also have an online chat service and a text messaging service (text "Trevor" to 1-202-304-1200).;
, Enter your zipcode and agree to basic conditions, like safety and privacy precautions. For example, the terms simply state that if you are in immediate danger, like if you have already done harm to yourself, overdosed on some kind of substance, or have a weapon available to harm yourself, to call 911 immediately. There is also a disclaimer that the chat room is not a substitute for therapy or medical intervention and that your privacy is protected.A short Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) section should answer questions you have about the terms and conditions.
Remember, you are seeking help. You came to the online suicide prevention chat because there is some part of you that wants to live. Try to have patience and hold on to the fact that you are getting help.
 You may have to wait before someone's available to chat. On the crisischat.org website, there are tips for how to log back on if there are no staff available to chat with you at the moment. You can set a timer on your phone or computer and take deep breaths while you wait. Focus on the help that will be there soon, even if you're frustrated. Try to hold on again to the fact that you are seeking help and that help is there.


Crisischat.org also suggests calling the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline (1-800-273-8255) if the chat is unavailable.Crisischat.org also has a library of resources and suicide screening tools that you can access while you wait. Sometimes just reading about what you are going through and knowing that other people have experienced the same level of suicidal thoughts or emotional crisis can be comforting.
 You'll be asked questions about your situation, whatever supports you currently have in your life, and details about feelings of depression or anxiety. Try to answer as honestly as you can so that the crisis staff can help you as best they can.You don't have give your real name, and it's up to you about how much contact information you want to share. You're in control of the session, and the more comfortable you feel, the better you'll be able to express how you're feeling.


Let the trained staff take care of you. They want to provide a safe, non-judgemental space for people in crisis and help you make a safety plan to explore positive coping strategies.
Remember that you are using this service because there is something inside of you that wants to live. Admitting you feel suicidal won't result in the police or emergency services being called.
 While you may initially feel uncomfortable talking with someone you don't know about your suicidal thoughts, allow a human connection to release your problems. Try to be as open and specific as you can so you can make the most of your chat. Talk about the specific events that have been happening lately, as well as stressors that are causing your suicidal thoughts. The more detailed you can be, the better the chat can help you stay safe.Although the crisis chat staff are not therapists, they are trained in handling suicidal ideation or thoughts, emotional crisis, and despair. Remember that they've chosen to use their time to be there for you.
 Try to absorb what the crisis chat staff is suggesting to you. Remember that this chat is a crisis intervention, so the recommendations and help you're going to get are geared towards keeping you safe right now, until you can make lifestyle changes or get help for the long term.It may be difficult to concentrate and remember things when you're distressed. You may want to have a pen and paper nearby so you can write down any safety suggestions you get. You can also take a screenshot of the chat session, if you like.
 Hopefully, after talking with chat line staff, you're feeling more safe and secure. But, if you don't feel it was helpful or you have a plan to carry out harm to yourself, call 911 immediately. You may need more help than the chat was able to give you.Remind yourself that you're reaching out for help. Keep going until you get it.
 Suicidal thoughts and ideas don't usually go away on their own, and they may get worse over time if not addressed. If you're struggling with feelings or thoughts of wanting to harm yourself, contact someone for help immediately.If the thoughts or feelings feel immediate, call 911, emergency services, or a service such as the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline (1-800-273-TALK). If you're having suicidal thoughts or feelings but don't want to act on them in the immediate moment, find a mental health professional to talk with as soon as possible.Be aware that this can be a process. It's fine to try out as many therapists as you want until you find someone who you can connect with. They are not there to judge you or make you feel bad about yourself.
 Ask a friend or family member to keep you company, so you don't have to be alone. You don’t have to tell anyone anything that you don’t want to. Everyone has moments of despair, and even if you don’t go into details, people can relate to going through stressful, difficult situations. Life can be difficult at times. Let yourself rely on the people in your life to support you.For example, you can just say: "I’m having a hard time and I don’t want to be alone."

, As a short-term way to deal with suicidal thoughts, relax and distract your mind for the moment. Relax your body and release tension with hot water by taking a shower or bath. Imagine the water washing away the despair, hopelessness, and emotional distress that you have been feeling.You might also change the sheets on your bed, light some candles, use essential oils, or do some deep breathing from your belly.


Try listening to music that makes you feel relaxed, comforted, or joyful. If there is a movie that gives you comfort, then put it on. Listen to podcasts or radio shows that you enjoy.
 You can include anything, from yourself, your goals, your children, your loved ones, or little things you're grateful for. These might include the sun shining, your favorite foods, or a smile someone gave you. Write down the last time you laughed or look at pictures of people you love and who love you. Try to ground yourself back into your life.When it comes to your survival, there is nothing too big or small to improve your mood and make you feel safe.
 This journal can include information or pictures of people in your life that support you, and who you can call if you just need to talk to someone. You can also write or put pictures of things that are important to you in this journal. Try to add at least one thing to your journal every day to keep your mind focused on the reasons you have to live.Keep your journal or list of reasons to live nearby so you can easily remind yourself why life is worth living.
 Recognize that life is difficult and that challenges you overcome often define you. Think of the courage it takes to be you. For example, if you're struggling with your sexual identity and orientation, think of the courage it takes to be you. If you're feeling hopeless about money or employment, take comfort in the fact that you're doing the best you can and you're not alone.For example, if you are a survivor of abuse, instead of holding on to the helplessness you experienced, begin to focus on the tenacity and courage you embody in surviving the violence.
 Sometimes helping others is a truly life enhancing way to help yourself. You can boost your feelings of usefulness, helplessness, and despair about the world by getting involved. Volunteer at a soup kitchen, a homeless shelter, or your local humane society.


Humans helping humans is an enlightening experience that can give you have a reason to wake up in the morning, and learn about others and yourself.