 While not all pit bulls are aggressive, there is stronger tendency in the breed for aggressive behavior, particularly towards other dogs. Letting your pit bull interact with other dogs from an early age will help them understand that other animals and people are not threats. It might also reduce their aggressive tendencies in social situations.


The younger you begin socializing your pit bull, the more adjusted they will become to their surroundings. The first six months are particularly vital in socializing your dog.Avoid leaving your pit bull with another dog unattended. American pit bull terriers do have a tendency to fight with other dogs. Even well socialized pit bulls can be aggressive towards other dogs if left unsupervised.Dog parks and doggy day cares may not be appropriate for your pit bull. While some pit bulls can learn to interact well with other animals, they are still an aggressive breed, and they are prone to fighting with other dogs. All interactions with other dogs should be supervised., By nature, pit bulls are strong-willed and highly intelligent, but they are also eager to please. If you begin training as soon as they enter your home, they will quickly pick up the house rules without developing bad habits.


Start by teaching them basic commands such as “sit,” “come,” and “stay.” Give them a treat when they properly follow the command.If your pit bull does something wrong, do not hit or yell at them, as this can make them afraid of you and increase their aggression.Reward the dog instead when they do something right, and they will learn proper behavior quickly.
 Because the breed is very energetic and strong, your dog may have the urge to run ahead of you or tug at the leash. By pulling back firmly and encouraging them to walk by your side, your pit bull will learn leash manners, and your walks will become easy and enjoyable.


Leashed walks around other people and dogs can also help socialize your pit bull. Let your pit bull interact with others, but be ready to remove them from the situation if they become upset or aggressive., Housebreaking is generally easy to accomplish with pit bulls. The best method to use for teaching your dog not to eliminate inside the house is to take them outside frequently and on a regular schedule. Take your pit bull outdoors first thing in the morning, after meals and playtime, and before bedtime. This will allow your dog to adjust to a break schedule while teaching them that inside is not the appropriate place to eliminate.When you first bring your pit bull home, you should watch them carefully to make sure that they do not have accidents inside the house. If you catch them going in the house, interrupt them and take them outside.