 Your doctor can check to make sure you don't have systemic problems, like diabetes or arthritis, that may affect your weight loss goals.;
, This is especially important to create realistic goals. It is also essential if you are not familiar with strength training, body weight exercises or fitness classes.
 Start your journal by detailing the reasons that you want to lose weight. You can return to this page to refresh your motivation during the weight loss process.
 Studies have shown that it is hard to stay motivated for large weight loss over a period of 11 weeks. Set a date to end your weight loss period and begin a maintenance period.
 Moral support will increase the likelihood that you will lose 20 lbs. Joining with a partner in your family may further help you change your diet and start active habits.
 It is easier to stay motivated if you have a group of people encouraging you. Programs like weight watchers have meetings where people can share information and remain committed.
, If you plan to workout every day, you may want to reduce by 10 to 15 percent to help your body adjust the first few weeks. You can further reduce your intake later.


Never plan to eat less than 1500 calories per day. Use the Web MD calorie calculator to plan ahead or review your past meals. It is available at http://www.webmd.com/diet/healthtool-food-calorie-counter.



If possible, remove most processed foods from your diet. These are usually filled with hidden sugar, fat and calories. Studies show cooking fresh meals can help with weight loss.
 Fill your plate 1/2 full of fruits and vegetables. Split the remaining space between lean protein and whole grains.
 Timing your meals so that your blood sugar doesn't drop significantly, such as morning meals, a morning snack and a post workout meal or snack can help you stick to your calorie restriction.
 Make sure you consume over 300 calories and under 600 calories of healthy fruits, whole grain cereals, eggs, or low-fat dairy products every day. Your body will start to store fat if you do not boost your metabolism with food in the morning.
 Try to schedule what you will make every Sunday, including snacks and drinks.
 Alcohol, dairy coffee drinks and soda add significant amounts of empty calories to your diet. Restrict them as you would other processed foods.
 For increased weight loss, do 45 minutes to 1 hour of cardio 5 times per week.


Allow your body time to adapt to a cardio fitness plan. Workout every other day for the first 1 to 2 weeks, if you were previously inactive. Add extra time and days to your plan until you reach a 6 day fitness goal.
 You workout at a moderate intensity and do bursts of high-intensity or resistance movement. You will burn more fat in the same period of time if you do intervals.
 Use free weights, weight machines, resistance bands or a combination to kick start your metabolism and lose extra weight.
 A weight loss period should be treated like training for a sports event. Failure to drink water, stretch and give your body a rest will result in injury and it will be more difficult to lose weight with good nutrition alone.
 Signing up for fitness classes with a friend is a wonderful way to stay motivated. Meeting hour-long fitness goals is easier if you have scheduled the class in advance.
 Once you get to the second month, try some new workouts. Using different muscles for strength training and cardio exercise will increase your metabolism.
 Ask your trainer to do fitness tests at 1 month and 2 months to help you meet weight loss and inch reduction goals.

