 You will need to address several considerations in making your choice. Here are a few:


Is the stream on public property, or do you have permission to fish there?
How clean is the water? Streams in agricultural or industrial areas may have pollution levels that make the fish unhealthy, or, in extreme cases, poisonous. Ideally, choose streams above the elevation of nearby industry.
Does the stream have good water flow year round? Some streams only maintain a flow during snow melt season, or when sufficient rainfall occurs to support them.
The species of fish you are intending to fish for. Keep in mind, small streams generally don't support large sized specimens of the fish that live in them, due to the limits imposed on this particular environment.;
, Generally, the basic items you have to have are a hook and line, and bait. For practical purposes, though, you may want to look at some refined fishing tackle for small stream fishing. These are some things to consider:


Use light or ultralight fishing tackle. Small streams are often crystal clear, and you will need a very light monofilament line to keep the fish from being spooked.
Bait or artificial lures appropriate for the fish you are fishing for.
Use long shank wire hooks in the smallest size suitable. You will get hung up on snags, and long shank wire hooks will bend, rather than breaking, so they will pull free of the snag. This will save time replacing lost hooks. Another benefit is the ease of getting a long shank hook out of a small fish's mouth.
Appropriate accessories may include insect repellent, a creel or bucket for the catch, and in some cases, waders to keep your feet dry.
 Creek fish are usually truly wild fish, or natives, and will often prefer native food for bait. Worms, grubs, insect larvae, and small insects like crickets and grasshoppers are good choices. Small jigs and spinner baits may be easier to use if the species of fish you are angling for will bite them.
 Digging worms requires a suitable location, like a compost heap or other place with good moisture and rich soil. Catching crickets or grasshoppers will test your reflexes, speed, and eye-hand coordination, but either method will add to the self-sufficient experience if that is what you are looking for.
 Unless you are fortunate enough to have a creek nearby, you will need to load the car or truck and drive to the creek. Finding a remote area like a state or national forest can offer an experience both of good fishing and pleasant scenery.
 Even small streams may experience significant fishing pressure, so heading away from civilization can increase your chances of having a good trip, both in the amount of your catch, and the enjoyment of a pristine forest or wood.
 Fish any pool or eddy that has enough water to support fish. Often, a good fish can lay in the current motionless and invisible until your bait or lure gets close enough for him to attack. Fishing stump holes, bank undercuts, eddy pools, and other places that provide enough water to support fish will give you a better chance of success.
 Small streams in heavy woods will often have brush-cover banks and lots of blown over or washed in trees over the stream bed itself. You may find the only approach to a potential fishing hole is to wade the stream and stand in the current while fishing your chosen spot. Underhanded casting, if using a spinning reel, or flipping, if using a cane pole, can get your bait underneath any but the lowest branches and obstructions.
 Fish will suspend at a depth where the water conditions are most favorable, and feed in the depth where the natural food is present. Sometimes, this is on or near the surface, sometimes, it is flat on the bottom, so don't exclude any zone from your bait offering.
 If you fish with a spinning or bait casting rig, you can approach a pool from the downstream end, cast to the upper end, and allow the bait to drift through the water. This will offer the fish the most natural presentation of the bait, since insects and worms that fall or are washed into the stream follow a similar path.
 When using different artificial lures, try different colors, types, and sizes to try to establish the fish's preference. For live bait, you may try worms, insects, or insect larvae, even insects you may find on the creek's bank. There may also be hellgrammites and crayfish in the steam which you can catch to fish with.
 This makes it much easier for a less experienced fisherman to tell if a fish is biting, and also keeps the bait at a desired depth. Use the smallest float that will keep the bait off the bottom. This makes the setup more sensitive, since the float requires less force to be pulled under when the fish bites. Using a smaller sinker and hook will enable to use the smallest float possible.
, Don't leave anything but your footprints when you go, so the next visitor to the spot you have enjoyed will find it clean.
 This may be an incredibly painstaking process for very small creek fish, but scale, gut and remove the heads in preparation for cooking. Keep the waste parts so they can be buried or disposed of to prevent an odor problem later.
 Small fish can be difficult to eat because of the many tiny bones, but fresh caught fish from a clear spring-fed stream are great, fried up crisp and golden brown (so that the bones are crispy like crackers).
