 If, despite an open conversation, the problem persists, you may have to take further action. When you wait until the perfect moment to bring up interference, the underminer can resort to pretending as if they don’t know what you’re talking about or they forgot the situation in question. Calling them out on the spot ensures they know exactly what you’re talking about.


Whether it’s your ex, your sibling, or your mother-in-law, provide constructive criticism as soon as an incident occurs. You might say, “Sis, can I speak with you really quickly?...You’re doing it again. I told Brady he couldn’t have candy, and you went right behind me and promised him some. We have rules about sugar in this household.”However, do not take the candy away from your child, or it may seem to the child that they are being punished when they have done nothing wrong.
 If undermining doesn’t stop after setting a boundary, you may have to turn to more extreme consequences. Once you are at your wit’s end with others stepping on your parenting toes, be vocal about how they will have to visit with the children in your presence only.


For instance, you might tell your parents, “Each weekend when Jessica visits with you all overnight, she eats a lot of junk food and stays up past midnight. I hate to have to do this, but we are going to stop the overnight visits for now. We are concerned about her health and well-being.”, If in-laws or other family refuse to support your authority, you may have no choice but to limit your children’s exposure to these people altogether. This is especially true if the boundary violations involve behaviors that are detrimental to your kids’ development.


For example, you might say to a sibling, “Toby, we’re going to have to stop you from coming to see the kids for a while. We’ve talked about this in the past, but you continue to curse, smoke, and drink around them. They are too young to be exposed to that kind of behavior.”

, If undermining continues to happen between co-parents, exes, or in-laws it might be helpful to see a professional. A professional counselor who has experience with families and parenting can help you all reach a solution to make it work for the sake of the children and your relationships.