 Lint is highly flammable, so allowing it to build up in your dryer’s filter is dangerous. Before you start a load of laundry, make it a habit to pull out the lint filter and wipe it clean. You also need to check around the vent pipes and ducts to make sure that they stay clear of lint.Don’t throw the lint on the floor because it will continue to be a hazard; instead, take it to the trash can or keep a small can for lint in the laundry room.
Pop off the vent where it hooks into the dryer to check for built-up lint.Lint is so flammable that it’s a common ingredient in fire-starting recipes.Keeping your lint filter clean will also allow your clothes to dry faster.
If you live in an apartment building with a shared laundry facility, ask your landlord if they can post signs reminding people to clean the lint filter.;
, Many dryers have a foil vent pipe that can collect lint that easily gets stuck in the folds of the vent, becoming a fire hazard. You can prevent lint build-up by replacing the vent pipe with a sturdy metal vent, which will not collect the lint., Lint and other debris can build up in the spaces surrounding your dryer. Heat or a spark from the dryer can ignite the flammable materials, causing a fire. You can reduce the risk of fire by dusting and sweeping around your dryer once a week to keep it lint free.If you live in an apartment with a shared laundry facility, check the area around the dryer to see if it's clean. Talk to your landlord if you see a lot of lint debris around the dryers. Say, "I noticed that there's usually a lot of lint around the dryer. Did you know that that's a fire hazard?"

, If you’ve gotten oil, grease, or gasoline on a piece of laundry, don’t put it in the dryer because the heat could cause the item to catch on fire. Instead, line dry the items to keep your laundry room safe.If you use a shared facility in your apartment complex, ask your landlord about posting a sign or sticker reminding people not to dry items that have been exposed to combustible materials.
 Your dryer needs clearance from the wall so that air can circulate around it to cool it down. If the heat cannot escape, then it can easily overheat. Additionally, your vent pipe needs space so that it doesn’t get bent or compressed. If it does, the lint could build-up., Dryers are the most dangerous when they’re unattended because it’s easier for something to go unchecked. Turn off your machine if you have to leave the home or are about to go to bed. It’s better to have damp clothes than to have a house fire.

