 Eyes are just like any other part of the body – they need nutrition to function at an optimal level. Similar to other organs, a diet high in fruits and vegetables and low in sugar and fatty foods will go a long way in maintaining healthy eyes.Vitamin A, C, an E, along with minerals like copper and zinc should be in your daily diet. These vitamins and minerals are essential for good vision and protection against disease. Eat strawberries, oranges, eggs, salmon, mackerel, and almonds for your vitamins, and oysters, crab, or turkey for your minerals.
Antioxidants such as beta-carotene, lutein, and zeaxanthin help protect your eyes from getting sun damage. You can find these antioxidants in dark leafy vegetables, pumpkins, sweet potatoes, and carrots.
Garlic, onions, and caper should be in your diet to get sulfur, cysteine, and lecithin, which protect the lens of your eyes from forming cataracts.
Blueberries, grapes, and goji contain anti-inflammatory properties, such as anthocyanin, that will help improve your vision.
About 1,000 mg of omega-3 fatty acids per day will help prevent macular degeneration (AMD) and dry eyes. Salmon, mackerel, herring, flaxseeds, and walnuts are high in omega-3 fatty acids.;
, Exercising your eyes daily will help you maintain healthy eyes and optimal vision. Plan to exercise your eyes when you wake up, before going to bed, or when your eyes are fatigued. Make sure your hands are clean so that you do not irritate your eyes and your mind is relaxed before starting.Start simple. Roll your eyes in a circular motion clockwise ten times and then reverse it counterclockwise for another ten rolls.
Place your thumb (or a pen) six inches away from your nose and stare at it for five seconds. Then, five seconds on an object immediately behind your thumb. Try to do this ten times for about a total of two minutes. This is something else you can do at your desk quickly at work.
Rub your palms together for heat and then placing them against your eyes for five to ten seconds. Repeat this procedure three times to keep your eyes warm.
Massage your temples, forehead, and just below your eyes by using your thumb knuckles in a small circular motion for about twenty times in each area.
 Since you use your eyes every waking moment give them lots of rest and relaxation by taking breaks throughout the day and getting enough sleep every night to fully rest, repair, and recover your vision. A lack of sleep will weaken your vision health.Shut down for about three to five minutes. Close your eyes and lean your head back while trying to clear your mind of thoughts.
Focus on an object that is twenty feet away for twenty seconds. This is the same test you are administered to check for 20/20 vision.
Try resting your eyes for at least ten minutes for every fifty minutes you spend in front of a computer screen, television set, or reading a book. Take a quick nap if necessary.

