 Katy Perry likes classic pinup model kind of outfits.Try on anything retro, particularly outfits that have a 50's or 60's look, such as rockabilly swing dresses, or dresses with polka dots. You can go to a yard sale, thrift shop, or you can even find vintage in some clothing shops.;
, Katy is almost always wearing bright colors. She likes pinks, blues, purple, all of which work well with her dark hair and pale skin. Dark colors are okay to wear as well, but usually Katy will find a way to contrast them by wearing something colorful as well.
 Look for outfits with patterns featuring gumballs, ice cream, bananas, or similar such food items.Katy is often dressed in outfits that quite literally show her sweet side.
 Many of Katy Perry's outfits feature a revealing low neckline. Pick out tops and dresses that show a fair amount of cleavage.Invest in a good bra. If you are wearing anything low-cut, be sure to invest in a good bra that will lift and showcase your features.
 Some people will wear festive colors to celebrate a holiday, but you need to take the look a little further to pull off a Katy-like outfit. For example, to go to a holiday party for Christmas, look for dresses that look like a Christmas tree. The key is to go big and be fun and festive.
 Katy often has a lot of outfits with themed objects attached to them. You can use some plastic strawberries or other foods by getting a toy grocery set. Use velcro to attach the pieces to your outfit.


If you have trouble finding the right piece, try designing them. Get some craft foam and cut the shape you need and attach it to your clothing. It's pretty easy to make a plain white dress into a candy button dress with a few foam craft balls cut in half, colored and attached in rows to the dress.
 Katy Perry picks out a certain style of clothes that she enjoys wearing, but she doesn't care what other people think of her persona.Just have fun and go with outfits that you enjoy even if they might be a major fail. Katy Perry has made the worst-dressed list a few times herself.

