;
, You will find the topic of the research, how it was done, information about the sample, hypotheses, main results and a preview about the points that are discussed.
 Necessary terms are defined and in many cases you will find a brief historical outline of the topic. The introduction is also the place where the previous findings of other scientists will be mentioned.


The basic sense of the introduction is to explain the research question and the predictions (hypotheses) that were derived from the theory. These hypotheses were tested against the data later on to see if the predictions will be validated or need to be rejected.
 cultural background, religious denomination, school degree etc.
Procedure (how they did it)
equipment, machines (e.g. MRT, cardiograph),  special software etc.
questionnaires that were used
experimental conditions and assignment pattern
materials (e.g. pictures, video spots, tasks etc.)
preliminary results like means about participants´ characteristics
method of analysis

, The major aim of this part is to clarify whether the hypotheses have been supported or not. Frequently you will find charts and graphic representations in the results part as well.
, Adequate citation is mandatory in the world of science to give appropriate credit to the work of others and to make the information given in the article transparent.
 A well-written abstract provides information about the purpose of the study, the measures they used, the sample, the basic outcomes and an indication of what has been discussed.
 Now see if you can find some visuals like bar diagrams or a correlation charts that give you a little more detailed information about the basic results.
 Results are mostly much easier to understand in the discussion part because they are presented as conclusions and not as statistics.


This first part of the discussion is often the most valuable part of a journal paper in order to get key information. Sure, not all discussions are written alike and quality varies, but in most cases this is the part where you find “the gold”.
 If you feel you need more theoretical insights or related research outcomes refer to the  introduction. For some extra information about the specifics of the sample, instruments and procedures, the method is the place to go. If you need more in-depth empirical outcomes see the results part and for additional interpretation check out the discussion.


This process will save you a lot of time when reading a journal paper and you will get the main point of the study in 5 minutes or less. Have fun with it.

