 When someone is being hateful toward you, notice how and where you feel it. This can help you decide what to do next. For example, do you feel a tightness in your stomach, pain near your heart, or like your throat is closing up? These signals tell you how your body is responding to your emotions.Knowing what’s going on in your body and learning how you feel can help you know how to respond in the best way. For example, you might want to take some deep breaths if your throat feels tight.
 If rumors are spreading about you, try to get to the bottom of them before responding. For example, is someone being purposefully malicious or is there some miscommunication or exaggeration of facts? If you’re one to spread rumors, recognize how hurtful they can be when they’re about you and stop the habit.Resist the urge to seek revenge. It’ll only make things worse and may bring out the worst in you.
 You might jump to the conclusion that someone hates you, yet it may not be true. Ask yourself if the person intends to hurt you with their words or if you’re being defensive. You may interpret their actions much more harshly than they were intended.Ask yourself if the person intentionally tries to hurt you or cause you damage. If you’re not sure, ask them. Say, “Are you purposefully saying mean things about me?” If nothing else, they may be surprised you want to talk about it.
It's common for people to resort to mind-reading when trying to figure out how people perceive them, which can become a self-fulfilling prophecy. If you think that people hate you, then you may act in a withdrawn, hostile way toward them. This could make them develop a negative opinion of you that may not have been there before.
 It’s normal for people not to get along. You may need to accept that other people don’t like you and not let it get to you. It’s okay not to get approval from everyone. After all, you likely have people in your life that you don’t like, either. While it feels bad to be hated, remember that there are other people who love you. Getting approval from everyone isn’t a worthwhile goal.

