 You want to make sure your plants are in top condition before bringing them indoors. Examine the plants as you prepare them for the transition. If you notice any dead or damaged leaves, cut them off. This will help the plants thrive inside., Pests often hide in the topsoil of plants. You should not collect the topsoil in a pot when transferring your outdoor plants to pots. Before removing the plant from the ground, scoop out one to two inches of top soil surrounding the plant.Dig into the ground until you reach a plant's roots. Shake off as much of the dirt as you can, and then spray the plant down with a mild dish detergent diluted in a quart of water. This should get rid of any spider mites or egg sacks on the plant.
 Once you're sure most pests are eliminated, get a clean pot. Add fresh potting soil to the pot. You need potting soil rather than outdoor soil, as it's specifically made for indoor use. Replant the plants in the new soil., The transition to indoor life will be too dramatic if it's not done in intervals. Placing the plants so far away from natural light directly can cause problems. A week before moving the plants inside, put them in a shady area in your backyard.Even if you have good natural light in your home, this is important. Even a sun room does not provide nearly as much natural light as being outdoors.
 While your plants were out in the shade, new bugs may have gotten into them. Check your plants for spiders and other pests carefully before at last transporting them indoors.Make sure to check the leaves, stems, and soil for any bugs.
Remove the bugs by hand using gloves. Then, gently wash the plants down with an insecticidal soap. Make sure the soap you choose is safe for humans and, if you have them, pets.
 In general, plants need a stable temperature to thrive. Before bringing your plants indoors, find an area that stays around room temperature. Areas with dramatic temperature fluctuations are not great for house plants.Avoid areas prone to drafts. If you, for example, place a plant near your front door, it may be exposed to a lot of sudden temperature fluctuations.
 Humidity is usually lower indoors, especially if you have a furnace going. You will need to make sure your plants stay humid over the winter.Mist down the plants regularly with a spray bottle.
If it's very dry in your home, your plants may benefit from a humidity tray. This means placing your pots in a small tray filled with pebbles and water.
 Plants need light to thrive. Try to keep potted plants near a window. If you don't have a lot of natural light, or if your plants wilt even with exposure to a window, stop by a local greenhouse. Buy some grow lights. That will give your plants artificial light that should help them thrive., Plants actually need less water when they're indoors. There is less light to dry the plants out. Make sure you only water your plant when it's necessary.To check if you plant needs water, place your finger into the soil along the edge of the pot. If the first inch of soil has dried out, water your plant. Do not water your plant unless you notice this soil is dry., If you have pets, they can be a real hazard for house plants. Cats and dogs may eat plants, and may also knock over pots.If possible, keep your plants out of your pets' reach. You can hang plants on the wall or put them on high reaching counters and shelves.
You should also check to make sure the plants you're bringing in are not toxic to pets.
 Vents, radiators, and back doors are bad for plants. They cause rapid changes in temperature and humidity. Keep plants away from these hazards., It's a good idea to invest in a humidifier when keeping plants indoors. Humidity should be between 40 and 60% for plants to thrive. If humidity drops below these levels, you will have to quickly mist plants or invest in a humidifier.