 As with any new skill, you need to practice. If you are able to treat people the way you would like to be treated, you are more than half-way there.


Take the opportunity to practice compassion when out in public. If you see someone struggling getting into the doorway of a store, rush to open it. If you see someone that looks like she is having a bad day, smile and say hello. Your goal is to allow others to feel the impact of your good deeds.
Expand your empathy by talking and, most importantly, listening to people outside your social circle. Try to strike up a conversation with a stranger once a week. Go beyond small talk and try to (respectfully) inquire about their lives and experiences. This will broaden your worldview and help you become more understanding of others., Fear, insecurities and an inability to communicate are the impetus of many hurtful behaviors. Some people don’t understand why they act certain ways because they have not explored the deeper inner-workings of their own behavior. This does not excuse the person’s actions.


You must tell yourself that you are not responsible to help or make this person evolve into a fully developed human being. Wish the person well and do not let it prevent you from moving on toward forgiveness.
Make an effort to understand what happened and why the person acted the way he did. You can do this by discussing the matter with the person, or someone you trust. Also, go online or to a bookstore or library to research the subject. Information is power and learning about the underlying motives of human behavior is interesting.
 You have probably been holding strong beliefs about a situation in which you were wronged by someone. Many times a person’s perspective is askew and needs to return to a balanced state. It is important to keep things in perspective, especially if yours is causing you harm.


For example, if the conflict is occupying your thoughts on a regular basis, then it is taking up too much of your time. Questions like: In comparison with a serious life or death situation, is this issue really that big of a deal? Is this matter worthy of taking all my time, which is robbing me of time I could be spending enjoying my life? Think about your answers and make a decision to shift your perspective and not allow the conflict to consume you.
You might be avoiding social situations with people you enjoy because you do not want to see a person who betrayed or hurt you. This perspective is hindering your involvement with people you enjoy, which robs you of a positive experience. Be brave and accept invitations to attend. You don’t have to talk to the person while you are there; but if you do cross paths be civil and refrain from lengthy discussions.
 It is true that resentment only harms you because you are the one harboring the negative feelings toward another person. To combat feelings of resentment, shift them to feelings of gratitude. The higher amounts of gratitude you have will decrease feelings of resentment. Your reward will be an improvement to your mood, which will likely be appreciated by others.Asking yourself the following questions will help shift your thoughts and result in you feeling less resentful:


How do I feel when I think negatively about this person?
Do I want to hurt myself?
Can my thoughts alone hurt the person?
Your answers were likely: bad, no and no. Use your answers to form a more grateful response: I deserve to feel positive feelings, take care of myself in a positive way, and keep myself safe from harm.
 Let go of what is holding you back. Some people learn to hold on to resentment and the role of the victim and allow it to influence many parts of their lives. These people believe that they are the victims of other people’s actions, even when there is evidence to the contrary.


Question yourself if you are that type of person. If the answer is yes, then you can un-learn this behavior.
Letting go of feelings associated with a conflict involves identifying a negative feeling, then examining the benefits you would experience if you were free of that negative feeling. For example, you would feel free, light, relieved, able to focus on good things, able to stop holding on to resentment, able to feel like your life is back on track. The goal is to show yourself with an overwhelming amount of evidence that your life will be better if you let go and move on.
 If you try to let something go and it continues to eat at you, then you likely need to process more feelings about the situation. This may include talking with a trusted friend or family member, writing, or going for a hike to physically work out your emotions.


It can be upsetting if someone tells you to, “just let it go” if you haven’t reached a level of resolve about the matter. Take a deep breath and say, “I’m working on letting it go, but I’m not there yet.”

, You can learn to let go by rediscovering your playful side. When you play it allows you to be free from the negative thoughts you harbor about a conflict.


For example, you could go to the beach and fly a kite. It would require you to pay close attention and will give you a sense of fun and accomplishment when you launch it and make it fly. It provides an excellent distraction that will allow you to look at the situation differently. As they say: laughter is the best medicine. Play and laughter will help you remain positive and optimistic through difficult situations.Schedule time in your calendar at least once a week to play and have fun.
 Remaining in a state of anger and upset is unhealthy. Processing feelings of anger through physical activity or artistic expression are good alternatives for reducing anger, stress and anxiety. Anger must be released to move you toward feeling forgiveness.


Consider running, hiking or lifting weights to expend the energy you have pent up over the issue. The physical exercising of your body will help blood flow and increase endorphins that increase feelings of pleasure and lessen pain.Meditate by yourself or in a group. Meditation has been used for centuries by many cultures to overcome negative thoughts that may be causing your to be angry, and cultivate positive ones.Creating a painting, sculpture or digital work of art might be just the right thing to shift your focus toward creating art that allows you to process your anger., When we let others into our lives we take a risk. Those same people can betray the trust that you have built together. An essential part of the forgiveness process is allowing someone to earn back your trust.


Allow the person to show you they are reliable, truthful, and sincere. Create opportunities for the person to show you. When you give a little, you may receive many positive rewards in return.
For example, consider accepting his invitation to go to the movies. This allows the person the opportunity to show up on time, treat you with respect and have a good time. Without your willingness to accept his invitation, you would not be witness to his sincere efforts to earn your trust.
If the betrayal has to do with lying about where he went, suggest that he check in with you via text or call you to let you know where he is.
Remember to acknowledge when someone is making an effort to earn your trust. Consider telling him you appreciate every effort.
 People and opportunities come into your life to teach you something. Each experience prepares us to be smarter and more in tune with what we want out of life. We learn from the good and the bad.


Sit down and make a list of the things you learned from the situation you are processing. Perhaps you learned to not co-sign for a loan for a friend who has a history of poor financial habits. You may have learned that some people would rather party than pay rent; or that roommates can be slobs and ruin any opportunity to get a cleaning deposit back from the property owner.
Don’t forget to write about all the positive things that happened. It is easy to see only the negative when we are in the midst of all the pain; but no situation is all bad. Perhaps you learned to interview potential roommates to ensure they share the same study habits and housekeeping skills. This will help you have a more peaceful living situation in the future.

