 One of the most important aspects of Christmas is togetherness. Buy Christmas cards and send them out to family members and friends that you care about. Add a handwritten note for a personalized touch. This will show that you are thinking of them. Invite friends over to your house or out for a meal or a cup of coffee or hot chocolate. Catch up and have a good time. If you really want to go all-out, throw a Christmas party!

, Bake an old family cookie recipe or look up some holiday recipes online and try something new. Invite friends and/or family over to bake with you or host a Christmas recipe swap! This is a great way to add new recipes to your collection and socialize with loved ones at the same time.
 Watch classics such as the Charlie Brown Christmas Special, "Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer," or "Frosty the Snowman" to get more into the Christmas spirit. You could invite some friends or family over and have a Christmas movie marathon!, This is a fun activity for friends or family that can also be an affordable way to exchange gifts. You can set a price limit of $25 to limit costs and to make the value of the gifts relatively equal. Each participant will bring wrapped gift to the gathering.Draw names out of a hat to determine the order in which they will select a gift.
Sit in a circle so that everyone has a view of the gifts and each other.
The first player will select a gift from the gift pool and open.
The players who follow can either pick an unwrapped gift or steal a gift from someone who has already gone.
After everyone has had a turn, the first player decides if they want to swap their gift for one that is already open. The person whose gift is “stolen” may then steal from someone else or select an unopened gift from the gift pile.
The game ends when someone declines to steal a gift.
 One way to get into the Christmas spirit is to dress us as Santa Claus for your significant other or family members. This will be a great way to recall the childlike excitement and awe you may have experienced as a child, but this time you will be on the other side of it! Have fun with it and remember to be silly and laugh, as the holidays are a great time to relax, unwind, and laugh with loved ones.