 It’s normal for a person to sometimes feel dizzy on a hot day or if they stand up too quickly, but if your dizziness is recurring it means something is going on with your body that should get checked. You may be dehydrated, have low blood pressure, low blood sugar, or be experiencing another easily-treatable cause of dizziness. You may also be experiencing an early symptom of something more serious. Don’t ignore recurring dizziness.Get checked out if your dizziness doesn’t go away after you have water and sit down for a while. “Normal” dizziness should be short-lived and resolve on its own.
 Some people just have low blood pressure naturally, and the drop in blood pressure going from sitting to standing can cause momentary dizziness. Dehydration can cause this, too, so notice if drinking extra water helps. Sometimes, however, low blood pressure occurs because your heart isn’t pumping blood to your body effectively – due to an arrhythmic heartbeat, a weak heart muscle, or diseased blood vessels. Have a physical exam and possibly other tests to rule out problems that could cause a heart attack or stroke.If you consistently have low blood pressure (under 100 on top and/or 60 on the bottom) and always have, don’t worry – some people are just made that way.
 Unlike many other causes of dizziness that make you feel like you are spinning, vertigo causes the sensation that the room around you is moving, tilting, or spinning. Dizziness from vertigo may be accompanied by nausea, vomiting, or trouble standing and walking.Vertigo can be caused by serious or non-threatening issues, usually due to dysfunction in your inner ear. See a neurologist to rule out a serious cause and to get treatment quickly. Your regular doctor can refer you to a neurologist.
 Some viruses that affect your inner ear can cause abrupt dizziness. Vestibular labyrinthitis and vestibular neuritis usually resolve on their own, but you should be examined and diagnosed by a doctor – they may want to prescribe anti-viral medications or provide you with other medicines to relieve your symptoms.Vision changes and weakness could also indicate a neurological disorder like Parkinson’s or multiple sclerosis, which should be treated early., Older people are more at risk for dizziness, and are more likely to experience dizziness as a symptom of a serious disorder like a stroke, neurological disease, or heart condition. Be wary of dizziness if you're over 65, especially if it is recurring or associated with imbalance.Dizziness in the elderly increases the risk of falls, and should be treated to prevent complications of falling.
 Your doctor may need to take a detailed history and do a physical exam to evaluate the cause of dizziness. Some of the types of dizziness and their potential causes may include:


Sudden onset of dizziness can be caused by low blood sugar and metabolic disturbances such as hypoxia, hypocarbia, and hypercarbia.
Chronic dizziness might be related to Meniere’s disease, cerebral insufficiency, cardiovascular or neurologic illness such as multiple sclerosis, blood loss and severe anemia.
Lightheadedness may be related to anxiety, depression and other psychiatric problems. Panic attacks frequently are accompanied by feelings of lightheadedness or dizziness. Medications for these conditions, such as tranquilizers and antidepressants, can also contribute to dizziness.

