 Quick scoping is based entirely on timing and muscle memory. Practice raising your scope and learn how long it take for the scope to become "active". Raise and lower your scope over and over to get the timing down.;
, In order to successfully quick scope, you will need some specific attachments and perks before you start playing. Try this example loadout, and tweak it based on your playstyle and preferences:


Weapon: L96A1 - This is the premier quick scoping sniper rifle.
Attachment: Variable Scope or Extended Mags. Many people claim that the Variable Scope is more accurate when quick scoping, so give it a try to see how it feels for you. If you can quick scope well with the standard scope, use extended mags to increased the number of shots you have until you need to reload.
Perk 1: Ghost. Keeps you hidden from enemy UAVs
Perk 2: Hardened or Steady Aim. Hardened allows your bullets to penetrate stronger materials, allowing for more wall shots. Steady Aim increasing your accuracy while not aiming, making it useful for no-scopes but it does not affect quick scoping.
Perk 3: Marathon. This perk will allow you to sprint for longer periods, which is very beneficial as moving constantly will keep you alive longer.
 Use the Combat Training option to play against computer controlled opponents. Set them to easy difficulty so that they don't kill you immediately. This will give you a lot of moving targets to practice your quick scoping skills on.
 Even though you should be constantly moving between shots, be sure to stop for a split second while you take the shot. This will keep your accuracy from being penalized due to movement. As soon as you take the shot, start moving again.
 Quick scoping is a skill that is all feel and muscle memory. You won't get it right away, but don't get discouraged. Keep at it, and you'll be getting hate mail in no time.
 No-scoping means taking a shot without raising the scope, or firing the sniper rifle from the hip. The shot will almost never shoot straight at your crosshairs, and will instead shoot randomly in a cone. Steady Aim will lower this cone, but it is still randomized. No-scoping is almost always purely luck.

