 You can sign up for Netflix on any device, but you'll find that the quickest way to create an account is to use a computer with a keyboard. You can also use the Netflix website from your mobile browser.

If you want to create an account from a device such as a Smart TV, click the Free Trial or Sign Up button on the Netflix login screen and follow the prompts. The process will be largely the same as the one described below.;
, Note that this offer may vary depending on your country., If you want to watch HD video, you'll need to select the Standard or Premium plan. The Standard plan allows two different devices to be playing Netflix at once, and the Premium plan allows four devices.,, You'll use this email address to sign into Netflix., Make sure that the password is unique to Netflix.,, You'll need to enter a payment method to proceed, but you won't be charged until after the trial period ends., If you have a Netflix gift card, you can enter the gift card number to use the balance to sign up. The gift card won't be charged until after the trial ends., This will not affect your service and you can still stream to any devices you don't select now., In order to get the best quality possible (1080p "true" HD), you'll need to use specific web browsers depending on your operating system:Windows 10 and 8 - Internet Explorer (1080p) or Microsoft Edge (up to 4k)

OS X 10.10 (Yosemite) and later - Safari (1080p)

Windows 7, OS X 10.9 (Mavericks), and earlier - Chrome or Firefox (720p maximum),, If you have multiple profiles associated with your account, click the one you want to log in with., You can use your mouse wheel or two fingers on your trackpad to scroll quickly., You'll see this on the right end of each category list. Once you scroll to the right, a < button will appear on the left to go back., You can search by title, genre, or actor.,, You'll see a description and can select an episode if you chose a TV show.,, This process is a little different for Apple devices and Android devices. Once you have the app installed, the experience is essentially the same:


Apple devices - Tap the App Store icon on your Home screen. Tap the Search tab and then search for Netflix. Tap Install next to Netflix and wait for it to download and install.

Android devices - Tap the Play Store app in your Apps list. Tap the Google Play search bar and search for Netflix. Tap Netflix in the results, then tap Install.
 You can open it from the app store page or from the new shortcut on one of your Home screens.,,,, If you have multiple profiles, you'll be prompted to select the one you want to continue with.,,, You'll see this button in the upper-left corner.,, You can search by title, actor, or genre.

If you search for a title that Netflix doesn't have, you'll get suggestions for similar titles.
 If you have a Chromecast connected to your TV and you're on the same wireless network, you'll see the Chromecast button at the top of the screen. Tapping this will allow you to select your Chromecast and begin playing Netflix on it., This will show more information, and if you tapped a TV show you'll be able to browse the available episodes., This will immediately begin streaming your show or movie., If you've never used your Roku before, you'll need to set it up before you can start watching Netflix.

If you are using a Roku TV, select Roku from the list of apps on your TV.
 You'll need a Roku account in order to start the Netflix channel on your Roku device. You can create a free Roku account at owner.roku.com/Account/Create/ in your browser.,, Netflix should come preinstalled on most Roku devices.

If Netflix is not in the list of available channels, return to the main menu, select Streaming Channels, then select Movies & TV. Select Netflix then click Add Channel.
,,,, If you have multiple profiles on your account, you'll be prompted to select the one you want to sign in with., Press Up and Down on your Roku remote to move between rows. Each row is a recommended category of content., Here you'll see a list of categories as well as your menu options., You can search by title, actor, or genre., This will show the full list of categories for Netflix movies and shows., This will open up details for the selected title, including a description and a list of episodes if you selected a TV show., This will begin streaming the movie or show to your TV., The process for starting Netflix on a Smart TV varies from model to model, and there are far too many to detail here. Generally, you can either start Netflix directly from your TV's remote or from the list of available apps., You'll usually see a Home button on your remote. You may open the Home button by pressing the Menu button., The wording for this will vary, but this is the section that contains the various streaming apps., If you're still having difficulty finding the Netflix app on your TV, refer to your TV's manual or look it up online on the manufacturer's Support page., The prompt and button wording will vary depending on your device., For many smart TVs, you'll need to enter an activation code for your Netflix account. If you're taken directly to the Netflix main menu, you don't need to worry about activation.,,, Your TV will proceed with signing in and you'll see the Netflix main menu., The arrow keys on your remote will allow you to move through the Netflix interface. Press the Enter or OK button on your remote to select something., Each category is a row of recommended titles., Each category has more titles than will fit on the screen.,, You can search by title, actor, and genre. Use the arrow keys on your remote to select letters from the on-screen keyboard.

If Netflix doesn't have the title you're searching for, you'll see suggestions for similar shows and movies.
 You'll see a description and will be able to select specific episodes if you selected a show., The show will begin streaming immediately.