;
,


Click the File tab on the standard toolbar and select Save As.
Enter a name for the PowerPoint file and, in the Save as Type menu, select Windows Media Video. Depending on the length of the video copy of your PowerPoint presentation, the amount of effects and transitions used, and the system processor, the conversion may take several minutes to complete.



Right-click the file and select properties from the pull-down menu.
Click the general tab in the properties dialogue box to view the size of the file in megabits. Verify that the file size is not more than 1,024 MB.



Open the video copy of your PowerPoint presentation in any media player application.
Click the file tab on the menu bar and select Properties from the file menu. Click the Details tab to view the exact length of the video file, making sure it does not exceed a run time of 20 minutes.



For Internet Explorer, click the Tools icon located in the far right corner of the browser window, next to the Home and Favorites icons. Select Internet Options from the pull-down menu. Click the Privacy tab in the Internet Options dialogue box and click the Settings button in the Pop-Up Blocker menu. Enter https://www.facebook.com/ in the field labeled Address Of Website To Allow, press enter and click the close button. An exception for Facebook has been added to Internet Explorer.
For Firefox, click the Tools tab in the menu bar and select Options from the pull-down menu. Click the contents option from the menu in the Options dialogue box, then click the exceptions button. Enter https://www.facebook.com/ into the field labeled Address Of Website and click OK. An exception for Facebook has been added to Firefox.
For Google Chrome, click the image of a wrench located in the upper-right corner of the browser window to access the browser options. Click Under The Hood located in the panel on the left. Click the Current settings button at the top of the page and click the manage exceptions button in the pop-ups menu. Type "Facebook" into the empty field labeled Pattern and click enter. An exception for Facebook pop-ups has been added in Google Chrome.
, The video upload dialogue box will open.



The Terms of Agreement window will open. Read the Terms of Agreement and click the "I Agree" button to begin the upload process.
Depending on the size of the video and your Internet connection speed, the upload process may take several minutes to complete. The video copy or your PowerPoint presentation is complete.

