 Look for crafting clay specifically designed for use in creating your own erasers. This special molding material comes in a variety of colors and kits, available in most craft stores.


Try brands like Sculpey or Creatibles for easy-to-find eraser clay in a variety of colors, and even some that come with sculpting tools.
Eraser clay is made with a special type of polymer clay, which doesn’t harden completely when cooked. While some have discovered methods like rubbing an eraser on the sticky part of a post-it note will create a similar substance, it is easiest and most consistent to buy the premade clay.;
, Pull off pieces of the eraser clay to squeeze and warm them in your hands until they’re very soft and pliable. You can then shape pieces into any shapes you want.


Make the clay into any fun shapes you like, including animals, foods, or geometrical shapes. You might find that very thin shapes are too brittle to use, and the shape that traditional pink rubber erasers come in is easiest to hold and use when erasing pencil marks.Try blending colors together to create one that’s not already included in the eraser clay kit that you buy. To do this, simply roll and knead two colors together until they are fully blended. You may want to test two very small pieces first to make sure you get the color you expect.Note that if you make shapes using more than one piece stuck together, you should make sure that they connect very well to one another, or they may become detached during cooking.
 Use any household items you have on hand to help cut, roll, and shape your eraser clay into your desired shape. You may also have some shaping tools included with the eraser clay you bought.


Try using popsicle sticks, toothpicks, butter knives, and cylindrical objects to cut, poke, roll, and shape your eraser clay. You can even find objects with interesting texture to press into the clay to make a unique pattern.
If you want to make an eraser that fits on the top of a pencil, use the end of a pencil to make an indentation in your eraser clay design, or shape the clay right onto the pencil. Then slide the eraser off the pencil carefully to keep its shape before putting in the oven or hot water to set.
Try a silicone mold if you want to make your erasers into clearly defined shapes. You can even make your own silicone mold of any object using mold putty. Pack the clay into a mold evenly, then pop it out of the mold and trim any unwanted excess.