 No matter what your intentions are for the morning, your plans can quickly become derailed if you oversleep or wake up groggy. Most people don’t get the recommended seven to nine hours of sleep each night, and it can affect everything from cognitive skills to work performance the following day.


Aim for better quality and quantity sleep by going to bed an hour early. Fall asleep easier by creating an unwinding ritual each night that involves taking a bath or shower, listening to music, reading, or trading massages with your partner. Lower the temperature in your sleep environment and reserve the bedroom for bedroom activities only.When you go to sleep earlier you are more likely to feel positive and intentional throughout your day. Plus, you’re less likely to set off a negative chain reaction by hitting the snooze button five times.
 There’s nothing worse than feeling discombobulated in the morning because you can’t remember what the day’s agenda consists of. Counteract the morning scramble to figure out what you’re supposed to be doing by preparing a to-do list the night before.


Jot down the most important tasks that need doing the following day and note any special appointments or events. You will feel more prepared in the morning and probably sleep better during the night., You’ve probably heard this advice before, but it bears repeating. Prepping your outfit for the day ahead of time ensures that you will don well thought-out attire that sends the message to the world that you are a person of intention. Throwing on the first thing you see hanging in the closet leaves you open to being wrinkled, stained, or mismatched., Intentional living translates to making thoughtful choices that support your mental, physical, and emotional health and well-being. Clambering through your apartment over tossed-aside shoes or frantically searching for your keys won’t help you start your day off intentionally. Sorting and organizing your belongings periodically helps to tame clutter and lets you have stress-free morning experience.

Set a timer for 15 minutes and go through each room in your home picking up trash and tidying as you go. You’ll be glad you did in the morning when it makes the difference of you getting to work on time.

