 You can be a know-it-all in school by making sure you attend every class and raise your hand often. As a know-it-all, you should not be afraid to show off your knowledge in class around your peers. Raise your hand in class as much as you can so your teacher can call on you and ask you for an answer.As a know-it-all, you may be tempted to raise your hand every time your teacher asks for an answer to a problem or an opinion from the class. But you should make sure you are aware of the answer to your teacher’s question before you raise your hand. You are not going to seem like such a know-it-all if you end up providing the wrong answer to your teacher’s question.
 Know-it-alls are also prone to correcting the mistakes of others, such as their peers or fellow students. As a know-it-all, you may correct any mistakes your peers make in class, such as providing a wrong answer to a question. You may also expand on the answer of one of your peers during a discussion to show everyone how much you know.


For example, one of your peers may say, “I think the answer is 9.” You may then respond by raising your hand and saying, “Actually, the answer is 5 because…” As a know-it-all, you should be willing to correct someone’s mistakes in a straightforward and honest way.
 To prove that you are a know-it-all, you should strive to do well on all your exams and tests in school. Being a model student will show your peers and your teachers that you do in fact know it all and are able to perform well academically. You should study hard for your exams well in advance so you are prepared and confident going into the exam.You may also try studying with your peers for exams, though you may find this difficult as a know-it-all. Collaborating and working with your peers can make you a stronger student, even if you may have to sacrifice some of your know-it-all traits.
 As a know-it-all you should also be comfortable with sharing your knowledge and expertise with your teachers. You may try correcting your teachers on their mistakes, though this may end up getting you in trouble with your teachers.Another option is to make suggestions on a different approach to a problem or issue so you appear less threatening and aggressive to your teachers. You may present a different approach as a way to debate an issue with your teacher and with the rest of the class.
For example, you may feel there is a point that is being missed during your teacher’s discussion on a play by Shakespeare. You may then raise your hand and say, “Actually, I thought Shakespeare was more interested in exploring these themes…” or “In my opinion, I think Shakespeare misses the point..”. Presenting your ideas in this way will still allow you to be a know-it-all without alienated your teachers or your classmates.

