 A liquid diet is often prescribed by a doctor if you have severe inflammation. Usually, patients who go on this diet are waiting to have surgery done on their bowels to improve their situation, and the liquid diet is a temporary solution until surgery can happen. It is sometimes used after surgery, as well.You may also try a partially liquid diet during a flare-up.
Often, this diet is only used for about two to eight weeks at a time, depending on the type of diet.However, some people do need to use it for much longer. For instance, some people use it for a year or longer, though it may also cause you to lose weight.;
, People with IBS are often at risk of malnutrition and nutritional deficiencies, particularly if they have Crohn’s Disease or ulcerative colitis. A liquid diet can help you better absorb the nutrients your body needs. The liquid is composed of the base components of nutrition, including proteins, fats, carbohydrates, and vitamins, making it easier for those with IBD to absorb. Often, the proteins are broken down into component parts, which means your stomach has to work less to digest it.Think about it this way: normally, your mouth and stomach begin the process of breaking down large pieces of food. In the case of a liquid diet, it doesn't need to be broken down into smaller pieces because it's already liquid. In fact, sometimes this diet is used to skip the stomach altogether, through the use of a tube.
Children, especially, benefit from this treatment, as it ensures they get adequate nutrition even if they have a poor appetite.If you think you are at risk for malnutrition, speak with your doctor or nutritionist.
 Often, this diet is used in place of corticosteroids as a treatment. If you have sensitivity to these medications, for instance, this diet may be a better option. It can help control inflammation, though it may not put you in full remission.A liquid diet is beneficial because it can help reduce inflammation, calm a flare-up, and assist in nutrition absorption. In some cases, it may lead to a remission of the disease for a period of time.It also doesn't produce as much stool, making it easier for you to go to the bathroom., Before making a drastic diet change like going to a liquid diet, it's always best to discuss it with your doctor first. With IBD, your ability to absorb nutrients is reduced, and going to a liquid diet is a big change that many people have difficulty sticking to.When talking with your doctor, bring up why you think a liquid diet would be a good option for you. You could try, "I've been having almost continuous flare-ups lately, and I was wondering if a liquid diet may help reduce those occurrences, at least in the short-term."
If you're having flare-ups, your doctor can put you in contact with a nutritionist that may be able to help you tailor your diet to reduce flare-ups.

