 Hormonal changes in the body can cause the breasts and nipples to swell and feel sore. Usually imbalances in estrogen and progesterone are to blame for this. There are a few situations where these kinds of hormonal fluctuations are normal.


During pregnancy, especially during the first trimester.Right before or during menstruation.When women begin entering menopause.Men can also experience this. It is usually because of an imbalance of estrogen and testosterone. While men don't experience menstruation, pregnancy, or menopause, it's still common for hormones to fluctuate.Sore nipples can be caused by obesity and peripheral conversion of estrogen in fat cells. this can lead to gynecomastia.
 If your nipple pain is due to hormonal fluctuations, topical creams probably won't work. It is best to dull the pain with a cold compress. Remember to wrap any ice packs in a towel and apply them for no more than 20 minutes. If your nipples are still sore, you can reapply the compress after your skin has warmed up and all feeling has returned., To deal with the pain and tenderness in your nipples from hormone changes, take OTC pain relievers. This will help dull the pain and keep you comfortable.In this case, acetaminophen is the best option. NSAIDs reduce inflammation, which isn't causing your nipples to hurt in this case. NSAIDs will also be effective, however. Avoid aspirin if you are under 20 because of risk of Reye's Syndrome.
 If your nipples and breasts are sore, a more supportive bra can help alleviate the pain. This is especially important if you're pregnant to prevent stretching.You might also want to wear a sports bra while sleeping. If the breasts move at night, it could make the pain worse.
 If your pain lasts longer than a few days to a week, it could be an indication that another problem is causing it. Visit the doctor for an examination to see if you're suffering from another underlying problem that's causing your nipples to hurt., If your breast pain is persistent or unbearable, he or she may prescribe danazol. This drug has several uses, but can be used to treat swelling, pain, and tenderness in the breasts and nipples. However, it causes androgenic side effects that can limit its use. Ask your doctor if this drug would be helpful for you.