 After the initial breakup, both you and your ex will doubtlessly need time and space away from each other to process the breakup and recover emotionally.Even if you decide the next day that you want to get back together, give your ex at least a month or two before you start making new overtures.


If you like, use this time as an opportunity to meet and even date other people. If you date someone new, you may find that your desire for your ex fades with time.;
, If you still want your ex back after a couple of months, keep things low-key and send a friendly, short text. This can be a good way to judge if your ex has any interest in talking with you. It’s still too early to flirt, and certainly too early to say anything sexual. Be brief and sweet, and say something like:“I just walked by the bakery where we used to buy baguettes together and it reminded me of you. I hope you’re doing well.”
“I heard our favorite song on the radio together and thought of some good times we’ve had. Hope you’re great.”

, If your ex replied to your text and the two of you have had even a short texting conversation, you can take the next step by calling your ex. Keep the conversation light—don’t mention the breakup and don’t bring up any long-term plans to get back together. Your ex could register these as red flags and decline your invitation to see one another.This will show that you’re willing to put in effort, that you have an interest in reconnecting with them as a person, and that you’re not just looking for a quick hookup.
 It’s a good sign if your ex seems willing to talk with you on the phone. At some point during the conversation, ask them if they’d like to meet and do something brief and light. For example, you could bring up attending an art gallery, visiting a farmer’s market, etc.Say something like: “I heard that there’s a new photography exhibit at the art museum. I’d like to go and it should only take about an hour. Would you be interested in joining me?”
If your ex agrees and the hangout goes well, ask them if they’d like to do another similarly fun, light activity. This will also work as an effective way to gauge their interesting in rebuilding the relationship.
 Your ex will doubtlessly be curious about why you’re reconnecting with them. Be honest.This is also the time to be a little romantic even, although your ex may not be interested until they see that you’re sincere in wanting to reconnect. Say something like:


“While we’ve been apart for the past couple of months, I’ve realized how much I miss you.”
“I’ve processed things emotionally after we broke up, and I figured out that I’m not happy when you’re not a part of my life.”

, This is a delicate subject to bring up, and you shouldn’t do it on the first date. Wait until your ex has agreed to see you a second or third time, and then talk about your feelings. It’s best to be open and honest: state that you still have feelings for your ex, and that you’d like to consider getting back together.Reconnecting and getting back together with an ex can be a time-consuming process. Don’t expect your ex to immediately agree to jump back into a relationship.
Depending on how your ex feels, they may still harbor anger towards you, or may have moved on altogether.
 Once you’ve explained your romantic feelings to your ex, your ex may make it clear to you that they are not interested in getting back together and do not have any lingering romantic feelings.In this scenario, honor their wishes and abandon your plan to reconnect.


It may be appropriate to make a final appeal. Say something like, “I’m not asking for us to get back together right away. I just want one more chance to show how much I care for you.”
If your ex still declines, move on and give them the space they want.
 If you were the one who ended the relationship, or if you said hurtful things to your ex, you need to explicitly apologize. Don’t try to skirt around the issues that lead to your breakup. Own up to your mistakes and take responsibility for ways in which you may have wronged or offended your ex.On the other hand, you will also need to forgive your ex for any emotional harm they may have done you. If you reconnect with your ex but still harbor resentment or bitterness, the relationship is bound to fail again., While you and your ex will need to discuss and somehow resolve core issues that lead to your prior breakup, there’s no point in dragging one another through the emotionally painful details. Focus on good things about your ex, and express these in conversation.For example, say things like:


“I was out with friends the other night, and I started thinking about how funny you are and how much I love the way out senses of humor work together.”

, In the best-case scenario, you and your ex can get back together as if the breakup never occurred. It may make your ex unhappy or jealous, though, to hear stories about any indiscretions you committed following the breakup. For example, don’t tell your ex unnecessary details about other people you’ve dated.Looking to the past can result in the second relationship with your ex going just as badly as the first time around.
 If your ex agrees to re-kindle the relationship, start making new memories, going on new dates, and re-forging your emotional connection. It can be tempting to bring old relationship baggage with you when reconciling with an ex, but don’t give in.It can be helpful even to form a couple of new friendships that you and your partner both enjoy. This will help you both get over the breakup by interacting with more people socially.

