 These are often the first symptoms of ringworm. Above all, these symptoms certainly provide a good indication that you need to inspect the dog more closely.;
, If you suspect your dog has a skin infection, you must begin by inspecting all areas that you suspect are affected. Part the dog's fur so you can see the skin clearly. Focus your attention on any areas that the dog was itching, as well as on commonly infected regions, such as the head, ears, and forelegs.


To reduce the risk of spreading the possible infection, you also need to wash your hands after handling any animal you suspect has ringworm. , This can commonly occur on the head, ears, paws, and forearms.Are these patches circular? Do they have an bright red rim? If the answer to these two questions is yes, then the likelihood of ringworm increases., If you see areas that appear to be infected or irritated keep an eye on them. You may be unsure if ringworm is the culprit immediately, so continue to observe the situation and see how the dog's condition develops.


It can be wise to isolate the dog whilst you make up your mind. Keep him or her away from other pets and in one room with minimal soft furnishings. This will allow you to more easily vacuum the room and reduce the risk of contamination. If it turns out the dog does have ringworm, then restricting his access to other pets makes a big difference to reducing the spread and risk of infection to others.
Be on the lookout for anything resembling insect bights or a more generalized rash that does not develop a circular shape. These would be indications of an alternative diagnosis--such as an allergic reaction--that would require a very different course of treatment. Ringworm infections are often the result of weakened immune systems, while generalized rashes can be caused in part by over-active immune systems.
 If the lesions become bigger and more inflamed while maintaining a circular shape, it is likely to be ringworm. You will need to get your pet checked out by a vet and obtain anti-fungal medication to treat the condition.

