 Before you get started, be sure to slide out the removable racks arranged in the center of the oven. This will get them out of your way and give you more room to work comfortably. It will also make the racks themselves easier to clean separately later on.Scour the oven racks in the sink using hot water, liquid dish soap and an abrasive sponge or scrubbing brush.
If your oven’s racks have seen a lot of drips and spills, you can soak them while the oven is cleaning itself to loosen whatever residue happens to be clinging to them.;
, Program your oven to the desired time and temperature setting. Make sure the oven door is completely shut and locked before initiating the cleaning process. Otherwise, heat and noxious fumes may escape into your kitchen and spread through the rest of your home.Self-cleaning ovens use extreme temperatures to burn food particles off of their smooth interior surfaces.Do not use any other chemicals or cleaning products in your oven while running the self-cleaning feature.
 Because of the intense heat generated during the oven’s self-cleaning cycle, it’s best not to be around while cleaning is in progress. Set a separate timer or use the countdown on the oven display to let you know when it’s finished cleaning.Keep small children and pets out of the kitchen while the oven is being cleaned. The fumes released as chemical residues and burnt food are incinerated can be dangerous.If possible, keep the doors and windows open, and exhaust fans on to provide proper ventilation to the room.
Self-cleaning ovens typically take between 2-4 hours to complete a full cycle.
 After the self-cleaning cycle has ended, open the oven door to release excess heat. Give the oven a few minutes to cool down to a safe temperature before cleaning out the inside. At this point, you can simply use a damp cloth or paper towel to lift away the ash that’s settled at the bottom of the oven. It’s that easy!The inside of the oven door can be doused with an all-purpose cleaner or liquid dish detergent and scrubbed separately.