 Get established on popular sites such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Snapchat, Pinterest, Tumblr, Reddit, YouTube, and Flickr.You will find the broadest audience there.


Ask people you know what social media they use.
For professional social networking, try LinkedIn.
Once you have a nice picture and a cute or accurate name on your platform of choice, add friends freely.;
, To network with the people you have in your life already, check out communication apps that will let you send what are basically cooler text messages. Check out messaging apps that are popular in Asia, like WeChat or WhatsApp.

If you're interested in privacy, download an encrypted app like Signal.
 Search the platforms you have joined for causes you care about and other interests of yours. For instance, you can join groups on Facebook, follow organizations on Twitter. Post in these groups, reply to other members, and add other members with whom you get along.


For instance, if you're in a Facebook group for Panda Habitat Conservation, and you always feel inspired by the jokes some man named Heinrich from Idaho posts, you can like his post, reply with a joke of your own, and then add him as a friend.
Find message boards or online communities that focus on one of your interests. Post on the topic and share your knowledge. If someone on the message board has similar interests or can teach you something, then send them an email or a private message and get to know them.
 Request connections with everyone you know and like in real life, and anyone you have interacted with online. Don't be offended if people choose not to connect with you. Your strategy is to connect broadly and trim down as needed—this will help you build your network. Others may be in the habit of only following close personal friends, or only friends from school.
 Be active on the sites you choose! Once a day or so, share a comment, photo, or article that interests you and that you think may interest others. If you only use your site to follow others, people will forget you are there.
 The best way to strengthen your network is to interact with the people you are connected with. Take a few minutes a day to check the site and express enjoyment of various posts. Different platforms will let you do this different ways—you might comment or press "like" "heart" or "favorite." Only do this when you actually like something! Otherwise your feed will slowly fill with things that do not interest you.On many platforms, you may post things and tag the people you think may be interested. Only do this on occasion, and try not to tag more than a few people—otherwise it won't feel personal.
 Go through your address book, day planner, or other contact information for your current friends and contacts. Make connection with them just to talk. The subject of your conversation isn't really important at this point. Just staying in touch works wonders and will serve as the foundation for the next steps.

