 Add the oil to a room temperature skillet and place on the stove. Heat the oil over medium-high heat for a minute or two.


The oil should be glossy and smooth, but it should not smoke at any point during the cooking process. If the oil begins to smoke, it means that the fat has begun to break down, which, in turn, means that the flavor will be thrown off.;
, Add the chopped onion to the oil and cook, stirring frequently, for about 5 minutes. Add the minced garlic and cook for an additional 1 minute.


Both the onion and garlic should be tender and fragrant when ready.
Do not add the garlic simultaneously with the onion. Wait until after the onion has already gotten somewhat tender before adding the garlic; otherwise, the garlic may burn.
 Sprinkle the chili powder over the onion and garlic, stirring it in and cooking the contents of the pan for another 1 minute.


The onion and garlic should be evenly coated by the chili powder.
After cooking the contents with the chili powder, the fragrance of the chili powder should be drawn out, as well.
 Add the rice, water, undrained tomatoes, chipotle peppers, peas, salt, and black pepper, as well as 1 Tbsp (15 ml) or more of the reserved adobo sauce.


The adobo sauce provides the "kick" associated with chipotle flavor. If you prefer a milder rice, stick with 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of sauce. If you like it hot, though, go ahead and add a little more.
Bring the contents of the skillet to a boil, stirring occasionally.
 Reduce the heat to medium-low and cover the pan. Cook the rice until the liquid is fully absorbed.


Clear a path in the pan by running a wooden mixing spoon along the bottom. If juices flow into the empty space it leaves behind, cook the rice for a little longer. If the empty space stays clean and clear of juices, the rice is ready.
 Stir in three-quarters or more of the black olive slices.


Also add more salt and pepper if necessary.
 Transfer serving sizes to individual serving dishes and sprinkle with the remaining black olive slices.

