 Make sure it is plugged into a power source and press the power button to turn it on.;
, You'll need to access the control panel, Wireless Wizard set up, then follow the instructions to connect.
 Merely lift it up away from the printer.
 Lay, facing down, the document or photo you will be scanning.
 Make sure you’re connected to the same Wi-Fi network as your printer’s.
 From your computer desktop, click on Start menu then Programs. Look for the HP Deskjet 5520 series program or HP Scan link. The program will load and then detect the connected printer in your network.
 From the left panel, you can see a list of available scan settings for the most common scanning tasks or types.
 On the right panel, after you’ve chosen a scan shortcut, you can further adjust your settings:



Select scan size—Define how large the scanned document or photo is. You can choose from the Entire Scan Area, a Letter, an A4, and other various dimensions.







Select output type—Define the output file’s color. It can be set to Color, Grayscale, or Black & White.







Select resolution—Define the output file’s resolution in dots per inch (dpi).







Select item type—Define whether your output is a Document or a Photo.







Select file type—Define the file type of your output file. It can be in Bitmap, JPEG, PNG, TIFF, or PDF formats.
 Tick on Show Scan Preview. It is a good idea to review what the output will be like before confirming the scanning process.
 If you want to further tweak your settings, you can do so by clicking on the Advanced Settings link toward the bottom of the box.



Scan— A dialog box will appear to show you the progress while scanning.

Lighten or Darken—You can further adjust the output’s Brightness and Contrast in the Preview screen. Just drag the corresponding bars until you find your proper setting.

Rotate—You can either rotate 90 degrees to the right or to the left by clicking on the corresponding buttons.

Crop—You can do some final cropping and selections before finally scanning the photo or document.
 Click on Save to define your output file’s name and location in your computer.

