 Wet your lips, open your mouth slightly, and pull your lips back over your teeth until your teeth are completely covered. Your lips should be tucked entirely into your mouth, so that only the outer edges of your lips visible.


You may need to move your lips around when you begin to practice the whistle, but for now, keep them wet and tucked inside your mouth.;
, The role of your fingers is to keep your lips in place over your teeth. Hold your hands up with your palms facing you. Hold your index and middle fingers close together in front of you, with your thumbs holding down your ring and pinky fingers. Press the sides of your middle fingers together to make an "A" shape.You can also use your pinkies. Hold your hands the same way, holding up your pinkies instead of your index and middle fingers.You can also use one hand. Hold one hand up, and make the okay sign by pressing the tip of your index finger and thumb together. Then separate your fingers slightly, leaving a small space between your fingers for the air to escape. Keep your other fingers out straight., The whistle sound is produced by air flowing over a bevel, or a sharply angled edge. In this case, the sound is created by the upper teeth and tongue directing air onto the lower lip and teeth. To make this sound, you need to position your tongue correctly in your mouth.


Curl your tongue toward the back of your mouth. Using your fingers, fold the tip of your tongue back onto itself. The back of your tongue should cover a wide portion of your lower back teeth., Your lips should still be wet and cover your teeth. Keep your fingers about a knuckle into your mouth, still holding your tongue in place, which should be folded back on itself. Close your mouth enough to make a tight seal around the top, bottom, and outer edges of your fingers., Now that your lips, fingers, and tongue are in position, you need to start blowing out air so you can finally whistle. Inhale deeply and then exhale, pushing the air out of your mouth over the top of your tongue and lower lip. If air is coming out of the sides of your mouth you need to make a tighter seal with your lips on your fingers.


Don’t blow too hard at first.
As you blow, adjust your fingers, tongue and jaws to find the bevel’s sweet spot. This is the area of maximum efficiency for your whistle, where the air is blown directly over the sharpest part of the bevel.
 Your mouth will start to focus the air onto the bevel’s sweet spot with increasing accuracy as you practice. Once you locate the sweet spot, your whistle will have a strong, clear tone, as opposed to a breathy, low-volume sound.


Make sure you don't breath too fast or too often while you are practicing. You don't want to hyperventilate. If you take your time, you will have more breath to practice with.
Using your fingers to apply some extra downward and outward pressure onto the lips and teeth may also be helpful. Experiment with the position of the fingers, tongue, and jaw.