 Regardless of your belief system, understand why this tradition is so important to devout Muslims. If you're visiting Dubai, try to honor the culture. Ramadan is the ninth month of the Islamic lunar calendar, and it is a sacred time for Muslims throughout the world. Indeed, it is the Fourth Pillar of The Muslim Faith: most Muslims believe that the Qur'an was first revealed to the Prophet Mohammed during Ramadan. Thus, this holy month marks the beginning of revelations from God., Ramadan is always the ninth month in the Islamic calendar, but it varies from year to year on the (Western) Gregorian calendar. This is because the Islamic calendar is lunar (in tune with the moon), while the western calendar is solar (with the sun). Find out the first day of Ramadan by running a simple web search: for instance, "Ramadan 2016".Note that in the Muslim calendar, a holiday begins on the sunset of the previous day. Thus, if Ramadan falls on the 6th of June, devout believers will begin to observe the month after sundown on the 5th.
With each passing year, Ramadan cycles 10-11 days earlier on the Western calendar. For instance, in 2013, Ramadan began on July 9th; in 2014, it began on June 29th; in 2015, on June 18th., Ramadan is a holy month, and practicing Muslims are must refrain from eating, drinking, smoking, or having sex between dawn and dusk of each day. Many believers take this time as an opportunity to give up bad habits. Some people try to deepen their faith by praying more or reading the Qur'an. The general mood is one of abstinence, penance, and clarity.


As a visitor, you do not need to fast or to show any religious fervor. It is enough to respect and appreciate the culture. Above all, be considerate of Muslims during this time, and do not tempt those who are practicing any sort of abstinence.
 Islam is the primary religion in Dubai, although other religions are allowed. Muslim religious holidays are a big deal in the United Arab Emirates, so it may help to know what else to expect. Important dates in the Islamic calendar include: the Prophet’s ascension (Al Isr’a Wal Mairaj), the Prophet’s birthday (Mawlid Al-Nabi), the start of Ramadan, and the two "Eid" (festival) holidays: Eid Al-Fitr and Eid Al-Adha.

