 The stress of a breakup can affect your food preferences. You may crave more fat and sugar, even if your diet doesn’t normally include much of them.Making smart food choices throughout the day—at home, restaurants, or cafeterias— can help you maintain your healthy diet after a breakup.Focus on heart friendly fats like avocado, nuts, and oils. They can fill up your belly and kill cravings for junk food. Add these to foods you cook at home or select dishes with them at restaurants. Taking a lap around a cafeteria before making your choice(s) can also help you make smart choices.Make yourself a big salad if you can’t find anything healthy. Choose sources of protein such chicken, tuna, or tofu with lots of colorful vegetables. Selecting crunchy vegetables can also help beat any stress or anxiety you’re feeling.;
, Have a stash of healthy snacks with you at all times. Carry things such as fruit, granola, nuts, and canned soups with you to curb any cravings for junk food from stress or loneliness.Selects snacks that are high in protein, such as guacamole, to fill your stomach. Pairing guacamole with cut veggies can give you the satisfaction of fat from avocados with stress-busting crunch.Curb late-night or sleepless bingeing with snacks such as hummus and pretzels or cut veggies., A cup of tea provides a warm and soothing experience. It can also fill your belly with liquid so that you don’t crave junk foods. Green, black, and oolong teas come with the added benefit of theanine, a chemical that can calm your mind. Keep a pot of tea by your side after a breakup to soothe yourself and keep your belly full.Recognize that green, black, and oolong teas contain caffeine. Drinking too many cups of these kinds of tea may make you jittery. Consider mixing these types of teas with fruit or herbal infusion teas including yerba mate., One of the best ways to maintain your diet after a breakup is keeping your kitchen stocked with healthy choices. Keeping nutrient-rich foods on hand can reinforce your healthy eating habits. It can also keep you from reaching for a bag of chips or cookies instead of something like fresh fruit.Have a variety of frozen fruits and vegetables, which are as healthy as fresh food, ready to use at any time. You can incorporate them into dishes such as a smoothie, stir fry, and soup.Stock non-perishable foods including pastas, beans, oatmeal, nuts, and rice to cook quick and easy meals.Keep a small selection of perishable dairy and meat products to use in meals. Select low fat choices including yogurt, cheese, and fish.
Maintain a selection of healthy oils and spices to jazz up your meals a bit. This may also brighten how you’re feeling.