 When your cat is microchipped, he should be clean. This will save your vet time from having the clean the area when she injects the microchip.;
, Never inject your cat with a microchip on your own. This is illegal in many states and can cause you to have legal measures taken against you. There are sellers who will sell you a microchip without going through a veterinary office, but you should never implant these devices yourself. Take these to your vet to have them checked out and implanted in the right way.
 When you decide it is time for your cat to be microchipped, take him to the vet. Qualified veterinary professionals should always administer microchips to your cat. They know exactly how much pressure to use, where to place the microchip, and how to combat the rare chance of side effects.


Since your cat is smaller than other animals, it is important that the microchip is injected in the right place to avoid issues., When you go to the vet to have your cat microchipped, complete the paperwork that goes along with the microchip. The paperwork acts as the registration form for the manufacturer's database, such as Homeagain, once it is sent in by the vet. Ensure that all of your contact information is correct so the database has the right information for you.


Always obtain copies of the microchip paperwork for your records. This will help you keep track of your unique ID number and manufacturer information attached to the microchip.
There might be a registration fee for the database, but the microchip is worthless without the registration., While your vet is preparing to inject your cat with the microchip, she will verify the unique ID of the chip matches the paperwork you have. She will run the microchip reader over the chip inside the applicator and make sure the reading is correct.


This also checks to make sure the microchip is emitting properly before it is injected in your cat., You will be in a normal exam room when your cat is injected with the microchip. This procedure requires two people, one being an assistant who will secure your cat. The assistant should hold your cat by the scruff of her neck, which is the skin right on the neck. He should also hold your cat's rear end steady with his other hand.


This will keep your cat from jerking when the microchip is injected., Once your cat is secured by the vet assistant, your vet will find the right area between your cat's shoulder blades for the microchip. She will then tent the skin of your cat's back and press the applicator to the area, implanting the microchip under the skin.


The microchip is around the size of a grain of rice, so it shouldn't cause too much pain.Your cat's skin around the injection site doesn't need to be sterilized as long as he is clean.
 After microchip administration, your vet will verify the microchip is still working. This will ensure that nothing went wrong with the microchip during implantation. She will run the reader over the implantation site to check that your unique ID is still emitted from the microchip.


When your cat goes in for his yearly checkup, your vet will likely recheck the device to make sure nothing has gone wrong with it., In order for your cat to be returned to you, your contact information in the microchip manufacturer's database needs to be up to date. If you change your phone number, move, or have any other contact information change, you need to contact the database to let them know. This way, they can update your information to reflect your new situation.