 This is a very messy process, so lay out a nice area to work on that you can easily clean later. Have a trash bin handy to put the plucked feathers in while plucking., Pheasants have two types of feathers, each of which come out a little differently. Be ready for them to avoid any surprises and ugly plucked pheasants.



Thick, quill-like feathers are found along the neck, sides of the breast, and flanks. They should be removed 1-2 at a time.

Thin, wispy "under-feathers" are found along the body, and come out relatively easily, even in bunches., Don't let the skin of the bird pull with the feathers, as this will rip it and lead to an ugly, ungainly roast bird. Instead, use the hand holding the bird to keep the skin in place around the area where you are plucking.


Slow down even more around pellet holes from hunting or joints -- these areas are often the softest and most prone for rips.
This should slow you down as you pluck. Pheasants have delicate skin, and you need to work slowly to get a nice bird., These feathers will take a bit of effort to get out, but work slowly for the best results. Hold the bird under your arm, tucked against your ribs for support, and pull in the direction the feather is pointing. You want a quick, forceful yank to get the feather out, not a gradual pull.


If you're struggling to remove feathers, think about the direction you're pulling in. You want to pull hard in the direction the feather is going, but at the last minute you can pull upwards a bit, away from the pheasant, to get some extra power., Again, work slowly here, using a strong, quick yanking motion in the direction of the feather. Do not try and grab a handful of feathers and remove them all at once -- this usually leads to ripped skin or wings.


The wing are the deepest quills, and often take most effort.
 Start near the tail, grabbing only 2-3 feathers at once. This time, pull the feathers off by yanking up towards the head of the pheasant, opposite the natural direction of the feathers. You only want to pull a few feathers at once, as pheasant skin is thin and this motion can quickly rip the bird to shreds., Again, work in small areas, going slowly and holding the skin in place as you work. These are the thinnest, easiest feathers and will likely come off easily., These are the thickest feathers and some of the softest skin, so work slowly. Make sure you keep the skin in place to prevent large rips.While it seems counter-intuitive, a rapid, forceful yank will protect the bird much better than a slow, gradual pull.
 There should be some more thin under-feather around the bird, so simply rotate the pheasant and pluck away any last feathers you find. Remember to go slowly, especially in these hard-to-reach areas.
 Most people will dry their birds by the neck before plucking. Simply use a meat hook in the neck or beak to let the birds dangle for a few days in a cool, dry place, like your garage. This loosens the skin and feathers and prepares for later drawing and gutting.


Feathers come off best in heat. If you do hang the pheasants, let them return to room temperature before you start plucking.