 If your parent’s PTSD frightens or unnerves you, you need to talk to them about it. Perhaps sharing your concerns will be the incentive that your parent needs to take their treatment more seriously. Choose a time when your parent seems to be in good spirits and ask them if you can talk for a moment.You might start by saying, “Mom, since your accident, you wake up every night screaming. It scares me and I don’t know what to do. I love you and I want you to feel better…”

, In some cases, your parent may not be very well educated about PTSD. Learning more about PTSD can help them develop better coping mechanisms. If your parent is open to talking about it, you might suggest some helpful resources, like these:

The book Waking the Tiger: Healing Trauma, by Peter A. Levine
The website for the national center for PTSD: https://www.ptsd.va.gov/index.asp


, You may require one-on-one intensive treatment to deal with your parent’s PTSD. This may be necessary to minimize your chances of abusing alcohol and drugs or developing anxiety or depression.If you believe you need professional help to cope with your feelings, express your concerns with a parent or another trusted adult.


Suggest individual counseling by saying “Dad’s illness has brought up a lot of feelings in me that I don’t know how to deal with. Can I talk to a professional to help me through these feelings?”

, Family therapy can be a great tool to assist the whole family in coming to terms with a PTSD diagnosis. It can help your parent learn how to express how their feeling, identify trauma triggers, and manage their symptoms. It can help the rest of the family learn how to be more supportive to your parent and cope with the stress of how the disorder is affecting you.Your parent’s therapist or doctor can either offer family therapy services or refer you to a professional who offers these services.
 One of the most beneficial aspects about reaching out to others in the mental health treatment community is the variety of individuals and families you will meet that help you recognize that you are not alone. Participating in support groups is a terrific way to play an active role in your parent’s treatment and get support for yourself.


In family-oriented support groups you will learn more about PTSD, including its causes and treatments. You will also hear first-hand accounts of others who have experienced what you are going through and learn more effective strategies to cope., If you find yourself unable to cope with your parent’s PTSD, or if they refuse to seek help for their condition, you may need to move out and create some healthy distance between you and them. While the ideal situation is that you continue to support your parent as much as you can, your own health and sanity must be your priority.