 If you aren't already logged into Uber, do so with your phone number and password (or Facebook profile) first.;
, This is in the top left corner of your screen.
,, This will open the form that allows you to dispute a cancellation fee if you feel you weren't supposed to be charged one.


You're charged a cancellation fee if you cancel after 2-5 minutes have passed since ordering the ride. The time until you get charged varies depending on your city.
 It's located under the list of Help options.
 You'll want to tap the option that's most pertinent to your situation. The disputable reasons include:



My driver didn't start or end my trip on time - Keeping in mind that Uber estimates are fickle, choose this option if you feel like your trip took an unreasonably long time solely because of your driver's behavior.

My driver took a poor route - In extreme cases (e.g., your driver went the opposite way of your objective), Uber will refund your fare if you choose this option.

My driver stopped mid-trip - You shouldn't be charged for any unscheduled stops. If you were, choose this option.

I did not take this trip - If you see a trip and a receipt for which you were not present in your "Trips" tab, choose this option.

I missed my flight or event - While Uber usually won't claim responsibility for these, you can choose this option if you feel like your driver was the sole reason you missed your event.

I was charged a cleaning fee - If you feel like you were wrongly charged for cleaning, choose this option.

I paid a toll for my driver - Any tolls encountered along the way should be factored into your Uber fare automatically; you shouldn't have to pay a toll for your driver.

I paid my driver cash - Most Uber services are cash-free; if you paid cash for your ride, choose this option.
 Depending on the reason you choose, your options for doing so will vary.


For example, if you chose "My driver took a poor route", you'll only see a "Share Details" field for you to describe the event.
If you chose "I paid my driver cash", however, you'll have more options such as "Did your driver ask for a cash tip?" and "What was the amount of cash paid?".
Be thorough when providing this information. The more detail you provide, the more informed a decision Uber will be able to make.
 Uber will review your provided information; if they deem your fare unreasonable, you should see a partial (or full) refund in a few days' time.

