 Yes, bacon! Line strips of bacon on a oven pan and place into a preheated oven (350 degrees) until crispy (about 10 minutes). Use 1-pound of sliced bacon.


You can also cook your bacon in a frying pan.
Try this experimental cola float for a fun twist., Once the bacon is cooked, lift each piece into a medium bowl and pour your cream on top of it. Seal and refrigerate overnight. Avoid pouring all of the bacon grease over the cream.
 In a medium bowl, add 6 egg yolks, 1 cup sugar (you can also use honey), 1 teaspoon salt and 1 teaspoon vanilla extract. Whisk until smooth.


If you desire a stronger vanilla flavor, add 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract.
 Remove your cream and bacon mixture from the refrigerator and heat it in a pan on the stove until softened. Add the yolk mixture one cup at the time.


Don’t pour the yolk mixture into the pan all at once. Scoop it in one cup at a time and mix in-between. This way, the eggs won't curdle.
Slowly stir until your mixture has a custard texture.
 Remove the pan from heat and strain the custard mixture. Cool on the counter or in the fridge until room temperature or cooler.
 Add your custard to your ice cream machine and spin to the manufacture’s instructions.


Once thickened, place your ice cream into the freezer to set.
For best results, let your ice cream harden in the freezer overnight.
 Set the glass on small plates so you can catch the overflow from the fizz. Pour the soda slowly so keep from overflowing.


For best results, start with chilled soda.
Pouring the soda first and then adding the ice cream will result in a small amount of foam. If you prefer a float with more foam, add the ice cream to the cup before the soda.You can also chill your glass by setting it in the freezer for about 10 minutes beforehand.
 Slowly add one scoop of vanilla ice cream into each glass. If you have more room, and you prefer more ice cream, add another scoop.


For best results, make sure your ice cream is very cold. If it gets too hard to scoop, you can leave it on the counter for a few minutes to soften.
If the ice cream sticks, use a spoon to push it off the scooper unto the cup.
 Drizzle a small amount of cola on top of the ice cream. This will turn to foam. Keep pouring until your glass is full.


Tilt your glass slightly and pour the cola slowly to reduce foam, or add the ice cream first and pour the soda quicker for more foam.
Fill your cup into the cola is just higher than the ice cream.
 Let your float sit a while. Give it about 5-10 minutes for the ice cream to melt but not too long, or it won't be cold enough.


Stir until it reaches a consistency somewhere between "ice cream soup" and a milkshake. Add cola to thin it or ice cream to thicken it as you desire.
 Dip a spoon in your cup and top it off with a straw. Eat your float slowly, starting with the cold frozen foam on top, scooping ice cream and cola together with your spoon. Use the straw to sip the remainder of creamy cola left in the glass.

