 If you’re exfoliating your brows to help grow them out, it’s important to do it regularly. Use a scrub or toothbrush on your brows every night for two to four weeks. That will help improve circulation in the area to promote hair growth.If you find that your skin is too sensitive for daily exfoliation, try scrubbing your brows every other night or every couple of nights. Signs that your skin may be too sensitive include increased dryness and redness.
 Right after you exfoliate your brows, massage a brow growth serum over the area. These products contains peptides, while help promote growth at the hair follicle. In most cases, you should apply the serum daily, but consult the instructions on your product for proper usage.It can take up to six weeks to see results from a brow growth serum. Be sure to apply yours regularly to get the results that you want.
 While you’re in the process of growing your brows, you’ll likely go through an awkward phase with stray hairs or hairs that are too long. Resist the urge to pluck your brows, though. Instead, use a brow gel to carefully groom your brows into place and keep them there all day so they look neat and tidy.You can find clear and tinted brow gel formulas. The clear gel is a good option if you don’t have many gaps in your brows. However, the tinted gel may be a better choice if you need to fill in holes in your brows because it can save the step of using a pencil, powder, or pomade first.
 When you finally start to see some growth in your brows, you can wind up undoing all of the work you’ve done if you pick up a pair of tweezers and try to shape them yourself. Instead, visit a professional brow specialist to have your brows shaped exactly as you want them to ensure that they stay full and lush.If you don’t like the idea of having to go to a brow specialist every few months to get your brows shaped, don’t worry. Once you’ve had them shaped professionally, you can use the specialist’s work as a guide and tweeze away the stray hairs yourself.

