 The free client can be difficult to find on the Hamachi website, as they want you to sign up and download the trial of the professional package. All you need for Minecraft is the free one. To find it, visit the LogMeIn website, then select Hamachi from the Products menu (you need a LogMeIn account, but that's it).


Click the Buy Now button at the top of the page. This will open a new ordering page. In the left menu, click the Download link. This will take you to the “Choose a Mode, Any Mode” page, where you can select the Unmanaged download for free.
Up to five people (four others) can join a free Hamachi server. If you want to connect with more friends, you’ll need to purchase a license for a larger server.;
, The Hamachi installer should just take a few moments to download. Once you run, you should be able to stick with the default installation options.
 Once the "LogMeIn Hamachi" client is open, click the power button in the upper right corner. You will be asked to enter a name for your computer on the network. Click Create when you are ready.
 Once you are connected to Hamachi, you can create your own private network. This is what your friends will connect to before they join your server. Click the “Create a new network” button to open the “Create Network” window.


Enter in a name for your network, along with a password. Your friends will need to enter this information to connect to your network, so be sure to write it down.
 You have now created a network.
 You can get the Minecraft server program for free from the Minecraft website. Click the “Download it here” link to open the Downloads page. Look for the link to the download in the “Minecraft Server” section.
 Create a folder for your server files somewhere easily accessible. You can place the folder on your Desktop if you’d like, or anywhere else on your computer. Once you’ve created the folder, move the downloaded server program into it.
 After dragging the server file into its new folder, run the server program to load the initial files. Wait until everything loads, then stop the server and close the program. You will see more files in your server folder that the game created.
 There will be a file called “server.properties” located in your server folder. If the file doesn’t automatically open in a text editor, right-click on it and select “Open With”. Choose Notepad from the list of available options.
 This should be located towards the top of the document. Change the value to the server IP address shown in your Hamachi program. Make sure to include the full address (four groups of up to three digits each). Click File and then Save when you are finished.
 With the changes made to your server.properties file, you can start up your Minecraft server for real. Run the program again and wait for everything to load. Once you see the line “Done”, your server and game world are ready to play in.


For information on creating servers with all kinds of crazy custom rules and plugins, check out this guide.
 Make sure that you leave the server program running in the background, otherwise you won’t be able to connect to it. After logging into Minecraft, click the Multiplayer button, and then select Direct Connect.
 Type in the IP address of your new Hamachi server into the field. Click “Join Server” to join the game world. You will soon appear in your Minecraft game. You must be in the game for others to be able to join.
 Now that the server is up and running, your friends will be able to join. They will need the free Hamachi program as well as a copy of Minecraft. They will not need the server files.
 Your friends will need to log in to Hamachi with the name and password that you created earlier. Click the “Join an existing network” button to enter the network information. Once they are connected, they will be able to join your game.
 Once they are connected to Hamachi, all they need to do is open up Minecraft, click Multiplayer, and then select the game from the list of local games. If the game does not appear, click Direct Connect and enter in the IP address of the server.