 Take a shower to wash your body every day. Use a matching shower gel and body lotion, and exfoliate weekly. Brush your teeth and tongue 2-3 times a day with whitening toothpaste, use floss and possibly mouthwash. However, if you have marks on your teeth from braces, go and see the dentist to see what can be done. Use deodorant or anti-perspirant that smells good, don't forget to spray your feet and use perfume on pulse points!;
, It boosts your confidence and you will be toned and fit in no time. You don't have to go to the gym; you could take yoga classes, jog or take dance classes. Try to do two sessions of weights and three of cardio per week.
 For example, greasy hair usually needs clarifying/volumizing products, and dry hair needs more nourishment. Wash your hair at 3-4 times a week. Refrain from cheap products, as they probably won't help your hair. Always comb/brush your hair, as it must look neat and be really clean. You can also change your hairstyle, and do different things with it, like loose curls, poker-straight, up-dos, clips, head bands... Loose, "bedhead" layers are in, as well. Long, lush locks with a sweeping side fringe are fashionable and very womanly. Always choose a hair-style that suits your face shape and lifestyle. Use a deep-conditioning/hot oil treatment weekly.
 Feeling good makes you automatically look good. Take a relaxing bath, have a facial, pedicure and manicure weekly. All of these can be done at home or at a salon. If at home, use skin products that match your skin's needs; like an oil-free moisturizer for oily skin.
 Never exaggerate or over-do makeup application, as you'll end up looking trashy. Always moisturise and wash your face before applying. For example, an ordinary school day: tinted foundation/powder, concealer, light powder/cream eye shadow (brown suits most eye colours), a bit of natural-looking blusher, a little brown/black mascara (after curling lashes with a quality lash curler), and clear/lightly tinted lip gloss.
 Visit www.vogue.com, or read OK! occasionally to see styles that are "in" at the moment. You don't have to spend hundreds of pounds/dollars to look fashionable though. Get your clothes, don't buy "outfits", buy pieces you can mix and match to see what looks great! Buy new clothes that fit you perfectly. Don't forget, the number on the label is just that; a number. You can always cut the label out. As long as you are healthy and fit, they don't matter. However, this doesn't mean you should get stressed out with the latest fashions all the time. Try being a trend-setter, instead of a trend-follower!

, An unfriendly person becomes instantly ugly, even if they're pretty on the outside. Be yourself and treat people well, also study and pay attention in class and watch documentaries, watch the news, and read non-fiction books and newspapers so you can hold intelligent conversation. A pretty person becomes prettier when she is clever and nice!

