 It will be much easier for you to stand up for yourself if you are well rested. Lack of sleep can make you irritable, slow to react, and easily confused. So make sure that you are getting plenty of rest each night.


Teenagers need between 9 and 9 ½ hours of sleep to be healthy. Make sure you go to bed at a time that allows you to get this much sleep. (Most teenagers only get about 7 hour of sleep each night.)Do things like taking a warm bath or shower, reading a book, or sipping some tea to get ready for bed.
Turn off your phone and other electronic devices so that you can sleep without alarms and alerts waking you up.
 It will be hard for you to stand up to someone if you feel hungry, tired, or just generally bad because you aren’t eating right. Taking care of your body and eating right is one way to make sure you feel good.


Make sure you are eating enough fresh fruits and vegetables because they can give you energy.
Drink plenty of water and avoid drinks with a lot of sugar or caffeine.
Try to eat three to four meals a day and have small snacks in between. Make sure you are eating breakfast to start your day off right.
 Doing something active can help you stand up for yourself by improving your self esteem, giving you more energy, and making you healthier.It can also help you release any tension or stress that you might be feeling because of the situation.


Join a team sport like basketball, soccer, or hockey so that you can spend time around positive people.
Try something like martial arts, yoga, Zumba, or a self-defense class.
Go for a walk, jog, hike, or swim to be active and give yourself time to clear your mind.
 Being bullied or having trouble getting along with others can cause a lot of stress, which may make matters even worse. Learning healthy, productive ways to deal with stress can help in many ways — improving your health, your mindset, and may even help you stay calm in the face of conflict.


Try deep breathing to calm yourself in the moment or when you feel anxious or stressed out.
Make sure you are giving yourself enough time during the day to relax and do things you enjoy. Avoid over-scheduling yourself and that you have a few nights a week and time on the weekend to relax and just watch TV, play games, or do whatever you feel like.
Try meditation.
Remember that exercise is a great way to de-stress, too.
 Sometimes people feel like they just don't fit in with their classmates. Your school may feel like it's your entire world, but there are actually tons of people out there to befriend. See if your town or city offers clubs that draw from multiple schools, things like boy scouts or girl scouts, 4-H clubs, book clubs, or clubs based on hobbies (chess, programming, knitting, etc.). Check the YMCA for sports or activity clubs.


Try taking art classes at community centers or studios.
Reach out to people at your place of worship.
Get involved in volunteering and meet others through service.
If you like gaming and/or comic books, look for a gaming store that has events, such as trivia nights or times when people get together to play card games or board games.
Get a part-time job if you are old enough.

