 There are three pieces to the structure of creating a character.


Bone, it is your character's body without clothes on. Literally, it is the height, the name, the age, the weight, the size, the strength, the abilities, the powers, the everything up to this point and after all it has been through.
Flesh, it is your character's everything about them, literally. What are they like? Tell all that you want and think that other people should know so that they can make a choice about role playing with you or not.
Past, it is your character's past. Why are or why aren't they supposed to be the way that they are, or why are they the way they are? Does your character hold a grudge with a previous foe? Does your character feel depressed because of a lack of nurturing as a young child? It doesn't matter as long as it is somewhat different each time.;
, With Chatango a person is entitled to a much more broad load of characters that range from vampires to other creatures to plain but powerful races of human. Most of the time, you'll see speed role-players. They are a little newbie, so don't go too hard on them. Most of the time those with the more decorated profiles are much more better at role playing but not always more open and friendly.
 Don't be drawn too quickly to the speed role playing because that is how bad habits (and rps) form! It is best to be analytic about the different styles of Role-playing. They include but are not limited to: Paragraph, semi-para, multi-para, sentence, the less turn-based "speed" which in my own personal experience and my own personal opinion should not be classified as a valid form of Role-playing. I would call it fucking around.


Paragraph or "Para" in colloquial and general abbreviation is a type of role-playing that is usually done in paragraph after paragraph after paragraph. It is sometimes called Multi-para depending on the amount of paragraphs that are used. An immense amount of detail is usually used for this style, especially when it takes more than one Chatango post.
Semi-para or "Semi" in colloquial and general abbreviation is a type of role-playing that is so very similar to Para, but usually isn't more than one post and about five to six lines of text.
Sentence has no colloquial classification for it. It is much shorter and usually requires just a single line of information most of the time. It can be two or three more but those are generally the rules.
Last and least, speed. This method of role playing is very very lazy and simple. If someone "slashes" at you can either just say "*dodges*" or "*ducks*". It takes no effort whatsoever to think of what to do, how to dodge or anything, but the upside is you can usually expect a response due to its quick and under-achievement as a "registered" style of Role-playing.
 For example:


Imagine a person in front of you. What is their eye color? Their hair color? Do they have an expression that tells you whether they're kind or horrid? Do they give off an aura of some sort? What do they wear?

What it might look like: I stopped, frozen as I managed to get a look at him. He sat on a bench, laid back. People had always said he was a demon, so I would image him with blood red eyes and dark hair, but it was not like that at all. He had blonde, short hair and light blue eyes - the color of the sky. It looked like he had no troubles whatsoever because of his calmness, the expression in his eyes. His attire was his usual school uniform. As I stepped a bit closer to him, I felt at ease when he noticed me. I raised my hand and waved, smiling. "Mind if I sit with you?" I asked. He returned my smile and shrugged. "Only if you want to."




