 You can make your donation online at the SPLC website: https://donate.splcenter.org/sslpage.aspx?pid=463. You can contribute in your own name or in someone else’s name. SPLC allows you to make a one-time contribution or a monthly donation. You select the amount and then provide personal information.


You can set up recurring payments here: https://www.splcenter.org/support-us/friends-center.
You can pay using a credit card (American Express, Discover, Visa, or Master Card) or by using PayPal.;
, You can also donate by calling SPLC at 1-888-414-7752. Your call is toll-free. Someone is available to take your call Monday through Friday, 8:00 am to 4:30 pm.You can also mail your donation to 400 Washington Avenue, Montgomery, AL 36104.
 Some employers will match your donation to SPLC. You can check if your employer will match by visiting the SPLC website at https://www.splcenter.org/support-us/employer-matching and entering your employer’s name.


If your company matches, then contact Human Resources and ask for a matching gift form. Complete the form and send it to Attn: Special Gifts Coordinator, Southern Poverty Law Center, 400 Washington Avenue, Montgomery, Alabama 36104.
You can also email the form to Workplacegiving@splcenter.org.
 SPLC also accepts appreciated stock or mutual funds. In return, you reap some tax savings. For example, you get a charitable contribution tax deduction for the stock’s fair market value. You also can avoid paying capital gains taxes.If your broker holds the stock, then tell them that SPLC’s brokerage account is with Stifel Financial Corp., Nicolaus & Co, Inc., and that their account number is 22024754 and their DTC number is 0793.
If you hold the stock certificate, then you should read the instructions at the SPLC website for how to send them the stock.
Direct questions to SPLC’s Planned Giving Department, 1-888-414-7752.
 You can give SPLC real estate, provided it doesn’t have a mortgage. You can also arrange a life estate, which will allow you to remain in your home for as long as you live. At death, SPLC takes over the property.SPLC will have to review the property and agree to accept it. You can contact them at 334-956-8367 or by email at PlannedGiving@splcenter.org.
 You can donate cars, trucks, motorcycles, motor homes, and boats to SPLC. In return, you get a charitable deduction on your income taxes. You should call 888-414-7752 or email DonorServices@splcenter.org for more information., A donor advised fund is like a savings account. You contribute assets to the fund, where they grow tax-free. When you are ready, you advise the fund to contribute to a charity. By contributing to the fund, you get an immediate tax deduction.You can contribute to a donor advised fund through the SPLC website.