 Look for an all-inclusive kit, containing all the additives you'll need, pre-measured (so you don't have to buy and measure them yourself). You can get a kit that is composed solely of pure juice, or a kit that comes with concentrated juice. The pure-juice kit requires no additional water, but is typically more expensive and needs to be refrigerated.
 Before making your wine, have all your equipment ready to go. Timing is critical. Read the instructions that came with your kit carefully, so you know what you'll need to do and when. The remainder of these instructions will give an overview; the exact process will vary from kit to kit., There is a difference in "Sanitizing" and just washing your equipment. The kit you buy should come with a sanitizing agent. Prepare and use it per the instructions on the package., Mix well. Draw a sample and take a hydrometer reading., The yeast should come pre-measured, but in case you're measuring your own, remember that you can't really add too much yeast, but you can add too little (which leads to bacterial spoilage).,, When it is as low as the instructions require (e.g. 1.020) it's time to rack the wine. The lower your fermenting temperature, the longer it will take to reach this stage. Test daily.,

Clean and sanitize siphon rod and hose, hydrometer and test jar, wine thief, carboy, bung and airlock. Rinse well.
Place the primary fermenter on a table top. Place the carboy on the floor.
Place the stiff plastic end of the siphon tube at the bottom of the fermenter.
Siphon the wine from the primary fermenter into the carboy.
Attach the airlock and bung.
, It should be lower than before (the instructions should specify what specific gravity you're looking for). Make sure you get the same measurement for two days in a row (ensuring stability) before racking, or else the wine might not clear properly., E.g. "Dissolve contents of package(s) #2 (metabisulphite) and package(s) #3 (sorbite) in ½ cup of cool water. Add to carboy and stir very vigorously for 2 minutes to disperse the stabilisers and drive off CO2. Again, be sure to stir up the yeast sediment from the bottom of the carboy.",, Wait for the wine to reach the desired specific gravity and clarity, then rack again...and again...as instructed. You may need to add sulphite powder during this phase., It will help make the wine ready to drink sooner and will make the wine stabler. Many homebrew shops loan or rent filtration units; ask the retailer how to use it., Clean and sanitise the needed number of wine bottles, siphon rod, hose and siphon filler. Rinse well. Siphon your wine into the bottles and seal with a good quality cork. After corking, store bottles in a dark, cool, temperature-stable place, standing upright for three to ten days. Then lay down all bottles. After a day or two, check the bottles and re-cork any you find leaking., Be patient! Usually you need to wait 2-3 months before even tasting the wine, but you can let it age for a year or longer for the flavor to improve.