 An ophthalmologist will determine which stage of AMD you have based on the amount of drusen found in your eyes. Drusen are white or yellow deposits found in the retina.Early stage: Medium-sized drusen equivalent to width of a hair strand and no vision loss.
Intermediate stage: Large drusen and/or pigment changes; typically no vision loss.
Late stage: This consists of two types:

Geographical atrophy/dry macular degeneration: The photoreceptors in the macula are damaged. The eyes cannot use light to convey vision to the brain. You may suffer a gradual onset of the condition. You will experience vision loss.Neovascular macular degeneration/wet macular degeneration: This is caused by abnormal vessel growth, in which the vessels can eventually swell and break. Fluid builds up in and underneath the macula and causes visual changes. The onset is much faster than dry macular degeneration.;
, Dry macular degeneration is due to a degeneration of the cells in the retina. The degeneration or dying of these cells and the lack of excess fluid gives it its "dry" name. These cells are also known as photoreceptors, or cells that use light entering the retina to help our brain understand the images via the visual cortex. Basically these light sensitive areas help us to understand what we are seeing.


The degeneration occurs because fatty lipids called drusen build up in the macula as we age. This build-up is seen during an eye exam as yellow spots on the macula.AMD does not lead to total blindness, but it can drastically inhibit the central fields of vision.
The “dry” form of macular degeneration is more common compared to its “wet” form. The following are the signs and symptoms of dry macular degeneration:Blurring of printed words.
More light needed when reading.
Difficulty seeing in the dark.
Difficulty in recognizing faces.
Greatly diminished central vision.
Noticeable blind spot in the field of vision.
Gradual vision loss.
Geometric shapes or inanimate objects mistakenly identified as people.
 This kind of AMD happens when blood vessels grow abnormally underneath the macula. Because of the macula’s growing size, the blood vessels may begin to leak or ooze fluid and blood into the retina and macula or, rarely, they may fully rupture. Though wet macular degeneration is less common than dry macula, it is a more aggressive visual disease that can lead to blindness. The cause for macular degeneration is unknown, but several studies have stated that there are risk factors that can lead anyone to develop the condition later on in life. Its signs and symptoms include:Straight lines that look wavy.
Visual blind spot.
Loss of central vision.
Rapid vision loss.
No pain.
Scarring of the blood vessels, which may lead to irreversible loss of vision if not addressed promptly.
 Macular degeneration is a common age-related condition. As you get older, the risk of developing AMD increases. At least one-third of adults over the age of 75 have some level of AMD., If one or both of your parents developed macular degeneration, then chances are you might develop the same condition when you hit the 60-year-old mark. However, remember that genes aren't everything and how you take care of yourself matters, too.


In general, women and caucasians are more at risk of developing macular degeneration., Smokers are at high risk of developing this eye condition. There have been several studies that have linked smoking to the deterioration of the macula.Cigarette smoke is linked with damage to the retina.If you're a smoker (especially if you're female or caucasian), macular degeneration is something you need to be conscious of, even if the symptoms aren't present., Knowing your overall health can be a major factor for developing AMD. Those afflicted with conditions such as high blood pressure and diabetes are at risk. Even non-diabetics whose diet is comprised of carbohydrates high on the glycemic index tend to develop macular degeneration later on in life. Remember that one sign of wet macular degeneration is leaking of blood from the retinal vessels. This will worsen when you have clogged arteries due to plaque deposits.
 How frequently are you exposed to fluorescent lighting? There is concern that the UV radiation from fluorescent lighting may increase your risk of eye disease.In addition, if you live in an area in which your eyes are often exposed to sunlight, this may also increase your risk., Diagnosis is done during a routine eye exam where the ophthalmologist will use eye drops in order to dilate or enlarge your pupils. In case you are suffering from dry macular degeneration, the ophthalmologist can easily detect the presence of drusen upon inspection.
 You will also be asked to look at the Amsler grid, which looks like graph paper. It is possible that you have macular degeneration when you see that some of the lines are wavy. To check if you have symptoms, print the Amsler grid test from the Prevent Blindness website and follow these instructions:


Place the reversed chart 24 inches away at eye level.
Put your reading glasses on and cover one eye completely with your hand.
Focus on the center dot for one minute and repeat steps with the other eye.
If any of the lines on the grid appear to be wavy, contact your eye care professional immediately.
 This method will involve inserting dye into a vein in your arm. The dye is then photographed as it travels to the veins of the retina. It can detect leakages, which can indicate wet macular degeneration. ,The dye should be seen in the optic nerve about eight to 12 seconds after injection.
The dye should be seen in the retinal area about 11 to 18 seconds after injection.
 This exam will look at the multiple layers of your retina using light waves. The test can assess the thickness of your retina, the anatomy of the retinal layers, and if there is anything abnormal in the retina like fluid, blood or new blood vessels.The doctor may first dilate your eyes, though OCT can also be performed through an non-dilated pupil.
Then you will place your chin on the chin rest to stabilize your head, and refrain from moving.
A light beam will be aimed at the eye.
Using light waves, the exam can painlessly detect live tissue in a matter of seconds.
 Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is the main chemical that causes the abnormal growth of blood vessels. When this chemical is suppressed through anti-VEGF agents or antiangiogenics, the growth of the blood vessels can be inhibited. Your doctor will know if this is a suitable option for you.


One good example of antiangiogenics is Bevacizumab. The usual dose is an injection of 1.25 to 2.5 milligrams of the drug into the vitreous cavity of the eye. This drug is usually given every four weeks over a period of four to six weeks. The antiangiogenics Ranibizumab is given at 0.5 mg, and Aflibercept is given at 2 mgThe procedure will be done with the use of a very fine needle together with local anesthesia to prevent pain. In general, the whole procedure is painless with only slight discomfort.
Some side effects include increased intraocular pressure infection, bleeding, and damage to the lens. You should obtain better visual acuity within one year. This can begin as early as two weeks and usually peaks by three months after the third injection.
 This procedure uses a drug and light therapy to help stop blood vessel growth. It can be an effective treatment for wet macular degeneration only.


This is a two-step procedure done in one visit. A drug known as verteporfin or Visudyne, will be administered intravenously. It works by stopping additional blood vessel growth, which occurs in wet macular degeneration, and is done 15 minutes before the photodynamic therapy.
Then, light with a correct wavelength will be applied on the eyes, particularly to the abnormal blood vessels. The light will activate the verteporfin, which was administered earlier to seal off the leaky blood vessels.Since the light is tuned to the correct wavelength, it eliminates the threat of visually impairing scar tissue. Ask your doctor if this therapy is safe for you. Anti-VEGF is currently the standard of care first line agent, and PDT is sometimes used in conjunction with anti-VEGF therapy., If you experience any sudden headaches, vision changes or any other unexplained pain while undergoing treatment for macular degeneration, visit the nearest emergency facility and immediately contact your eye doctor.
 When it comes to macular degeneration, the most affected area is the central vision, with the peripheral vision still partially intact. For this reason, people with macular degeneration can still use their peripheral vision to compensate. A magnifying glass can help make object seem larger so that they are easier to see. Magnifying glasses vary from 1.5 to 20 times magnification. They are easy to travel with. Many can fold up to pocket size.
Try a stand magnifying glass. This type varies from two to 20 times magnification. It can be mounted so that your hands are free. It is helpful for patients who may also suffer from unstable or shaky hands. Some types have an additional light feature to aid in dim lighting situations., This type of device varies from 2.5 to 10 times magnification. It can be useful to help see distances., With the same variations of magnification as telescopes, binoculars are useful because you can use both eyes to view items., This type of magnifier is mounted on the patient's glasses and is useful for distance vision. It allows the patient to transfer between distance viewing and telescopic vision. There are also spectacle lenses for normal viewing.


These work similar to bifocals.
These are approved and prescribed by Low Vision Specialists., This stand-mounted video camera magnifies reading or writing material onto a video screen. You can use this type of magnifier to aid in a variety of tasks, such as reading, writing, crafts and viewing photos. Some can also underline and highlight information. This type of device can also be used with a computer., This machine will read typewritten text out loud.


Use Ocular Recognition (OCR) software to turn your personal computer into a reading machine. ,, These types of lenses work by absorbing the light transmitted through the eye. They reduce glare and harmful ultraviolet rays. These lenses can transition between light and dark areas.
They can be worn over prescribed glasses , Macular degeneration cannot be prevented since it is related to aging. However, getting regular examination can lead to early detection and prompt management. When your macular degeneration is detected early enough, you can exponentially delay the loss of vision.


Starting at the age of 40, regular eye examination should be done at least every six months or according to your ophthalmologist's advice.
 You should expect the eye doctor to do a few different types of eye exams to look for drusen, vessel damage, pigment changes in the retina or visual disturbances. Some examples of exams to detect visual disturbances are as follows:


Visual acuity test: This tests your vision at a distance using a chart.Amsler grid: This checks for central vision disturbances by allowing the patient to dictate whether they are viewing straight lines on the grid, or if they appear wavy. Wavy lines indicate macular degeneration.Dilated eye exam: In this exam, pupils are dilated so allow the doctor to see the optic nerve and retina to evaluate for damage. The doctor will also check the retina for pigment changes. Pigments in the retina indicate poor light reception. Fluorescein angiogram: This test will evaluate the arteries in the eye in order to detect leaky vessels. The doctor will inject a dye into the arm a patient’s arm.Optical coherence tomography: This exam is done after first dilating the eyes. Then an infrared light is used to image the retina, therefore allowing the examiner to determine damaged areas. , Aside from the many destructive effects of smoking on the entire body, it can also lead to macular degeneration. Smoking contains tar that can stimulate the formation of drusen (waste deposits on the eye). In addition to this, smoking contains caffeine which is a known stimulant that can increase blood pressure. The blood vessels beneath the retina and macula can easily burst when blood pressure is high.


Smoking can double your chances of having macular degenerative disease, compared to those who don’t smoke.It's bad for you, your eyes, your organs, and even those around you.
Even if you stop smoking, it may take a few years before the effects will wear off. Consider that an invitation to start the journey of quitting sooner rather than later.
 Take your medication, attend your scheduled exams and make lifestyle changes to adapt to this.


If you are suffering from hypertension and are diagnosed with wet macular degeneration, for example, the already damaged vessels in your eye have trouble compensating with an elevated blood pressure. This can lead to an increased potential for bursting vessels, thereby causing more leakage., Exercise has a multitude of health benefits, and that includes benefits for your eyes. Drusen formation is related to high levels of cholesterol and fat. Exercise can burn fat and eliminate bad cholesterol, preventing this waste buildup.It is advisable to exercise at least three times a week. Make sure you concentrate on aerobics exercises that can make you sweat and burn fat., The eyes are constantly exposed to harsh ultraviolet (UV) light from the sun and pollutants from smog. The continuous exposure of the eyes to these elements can lead to oxidative damage. The oxidation of the cells in the eyes can lead to macular degeneration and other eye diseases. As a way to counteract this process, you need to eat foods rich in antioxidants. The most common antioxidants that can help you are Vitamin C, vitamin E, zinc, lutein, and copper.Vitamin C: The recommended daily dose of vitamin C is 500 milligrams. Some good sources of vitamin C are: broccoli, cantaloupe, cauliflower, guava, bell peppers, grapes, oranges, berries, lychees, and squash.
Vitamin E: The recommended daily dose of vitamin E is 400 milligrams. Some good sources of vitamin E are: almonds, sunflower seeds, wheat germ, spinach, peanut butter, collard greens, avocados, mango, hazelnuts, and Swiss chard.
Zinc: The recommended daily dose of zinc is 25 milligrams. Some good sources of zinc are: lean beef, skinless chicken, lean lamb, pumpkin seeds, yogurt, soybeans, peanuts, starchy beans, sunflower butter, pecans, lutein, kale, spinach, beet greens, lettuce, asparagus, okra, artichokes, watercress, persimmons, and green peas.
Copper, lutein and zeaxanthin: Both lutein and zeaxanthin are naturally found in the retina and lens. They work as natural antioxidants, aiding in absorption of harsh light and UV rays. Both can be found in leafy green vegetables.

Get two milligrams of copper daily.
Get 10 milligrams of lutein daily.
Get two milligrams of zeaxanthin daily. , According to research, beta carotene can increase the risk of lung cancer, especially if the patient is concurrently smoking. Research also shows that beta carotene has no effect on reducing the stage advancement of AMD. Now, doctors typically recommend a list of supplements that omits beta carotene., Over-exposure to UV light from the sun can damage the eyes and may contribute to the development of macular degeneration. Use sunglasses certified with blue light and UV protection for best results.
 Some activities that may seem like everyday tasks should now be approached with care. Depending on the severity of your vision, some tasks may require the help of a caregiver, friend or family member. It is better to ask for help in these situations, rather than deal with potentially harmful consequences. Be careful when engaging in these activities:


Driving Riding a bike
Operating heavy machinery

, As an AMD patient, it may seem as though your life is suddenly out of your control. However, as a patient, there are several things that you can do along with the care of your eye care professional to help regulate your situation. Getting informed is the best way to fully understand the disease as well as adhere to the treatment regimen. Start by learning about AMD, treatment options, and new technology aimed to help rehabilitation.