 Plug in the hairdryer and turn it on. Using a medium or high heat setting, aim the nozzle at the tape and blow on it. After a few minutes, try to pry the tape off of the surface using your fingernail. This is especially effective on paper.








Use caution when working with photographs, as the heat may damage them.
 Many products, such as Goo Gone and Goof Off, can effectively remove double sided tape, but they can also damage plastic surfaces. If you choose to use one of these products on plastic, keep this in mind. Simply pour some of the product over the tape and let it soak for a few minutes, then pull the tape off. If the tape doesn't come off, then try scrubbing it with a scratchy sponge until it does. The chemicals in the fluid will have dissolved the sticky adhesive on the tape.









This will be most effective on glass. Avoid using this on paper, cardboard, and fabrics as you will risk staining them.
 It will work similar to commercial products, such as Goo Gone and Goof Off, but it won't contain any harmful chemicals, making it safer to use on sensitive surfaces such as plastic. Simply pour some oil onto the affected area and let it sit for a few minutes, then scrub it with a scouring pad.









Do not use oil on paper, cardboard, and fabric surfaces, because it will stain them.
 This will dissolve the adhesive in the tape, making it easier to remove. Like alcohol, it evaporates and leaves behind no residue. Unfortunately, it will also dissolve any paint and finishes as well, so may not be the best product to use on plastic or painted surfaces. Simply pour some acetone or nail polish remover onto the tape and let it soak for a few minutes before peeling the tape off. This will be the most effective on fabrics, as it won't stain.









This may work on paper and cardboard, but it may also cause the paper to warp and become wrinkled (as with any other liquid).
If you are using nail polish remover, try to use a basic one, without additives, such as vitamins and strengthening properties. Also, try to avoid colored nail polish removers, as they may stain your surface.
 It will work just like acetone, but it is not as harsh; this means that it is less likely to remove paint or mar finishes. It also means that you may still see some residue and will have to scrub the left-over adhesive with a scouring pad. This will be effective on fabric surfaces.
 Slowly pull the masking tape towards you; it should also pull the double sided tape along with it.









You can also use duct tape or scotch tape as well.

