 College academics, especially in the first term, will be especially difficult because it is new material that you have never seen before. Plus, you are facing much higher expectations for performance and the expectation that YOU are the one responsible for your own motivation and success. Unlike high school, college expects you to build your education from the bottom up, rather than regurgitating whatever facts a teacher feeds you. This means much more work than you are used to.


Give yourself incentives to study in advance. Don't cash your paycheck until you're finished with that term paper. Celebrate with friends after you've taken the test. Treat yourself to something you've been wanting after you finish your studying goals.
Choose your priorities. It is not possible to fit in all the same social, academic, employment, and logistical responsibilities in college that you did in high school. Be realistic about how much time is required to meet your academic obligations and how much you can devote to social activities.;
, Take a moment to reflect on what you enjoy doing and studying, and what you're genuinely interested in. What are your goals? What are your plans? College is another step on the ladder to the rest of your life. What do you want to do after college, and how will college prepare you for that next step?

, Most colleges require a broad range of classes in the beginning, often referred to as "general education" or "distribution" requirements. Even if you've already declared your major and know what you want to study, the distribution requirements build critical skills such as written and oral communication, critical thinking and problem solving skills. Keep your mind open and look for ways to apply these skills within your major.


Another reason to take advantage of this broad range of classes in college is that you're likely to change careers over your lifetime, and even a class or two can make an impact in know-how and understanding. Anecdotally, you are likely to be in a different field at the end of your career than the one in which you started. , Learn to use observations and evidence to form your own opinions. Attend special events and seminars on campus. Join clubs for students in your major program. Read a *reliable* news site every day. You are your own person, and you owe it to yourself to form your own opinions about things.
 A big mistake college students make is never forming a relationship with their professors. Forming a relationship with professors can help make your education richer and your network bigger.


Go to office hours with the serious intent of improving your mastery of the course material, NEVER just to "show your face" in an attempt to suck up, change a grade, or appear more dedicated. Office hours are your opportunity for extra help with ideas and methodologies with which you are having trouble. Arrive prepared with specific questions. Brings your class notes and your textbook. Ask specific questions about the concepts where you need help. Professors will not repeat an entire lecture that you missed. Professors want to help you, but always remember that YOU are responsible for your own motivation and your own success.

Look for a mentor. A mentor can be a professor or staff member who can dispense advice specific to your personal goals. Start with the professors in your major department. There is usually a program advisor who helps you choose classes, and can make recommendations on graduate school. However, do not expect a mentor to secure a job for you after you have graduated.
 Everyone studies in a different way. Having a television or music in the background is a bad idea. Some people like to study alone. Some people like studying in groups. Find out what habits work best for you. Ask yourself and answer these questions:


How much time does it take an idea to stick for you? Do you need weeks before the light bulb goes off, or days?
What kind of a learner are you? Keep in mind that while you may have a preferred way of learning things, this does not excuse you from engaging with other teaching and learning styles. Are you:
An auditory learner? Do you learn by hearing something? You would rather have an idea explained aloud than reading in.
A visual learner? Do you learn by seeing something? You would rather learn by looking at graphs, reading, or watching a demonstration.
A kinesthetic learner? Do you learn by touching something? You would rather build whatever you're reading about, and see it in action.


What time of the day do you work best? Do you bust out a lot of work in the morning, or are you a night owl?

, If you don't set any academic goal, you might leave college wondering whether you tried enough. Your academic goal doesn't have to be the same as someone else's goal. Try to be realistic about it when you set it; balance it out with other personal goals you may have. Getting through college isn't always about getting a 4.0 or graduating summa cum laude. It's about doing the best you're capable of, given your resources.

