 You know what you like to do to help yourself relax or de-stress. Do something that you know helps calm you down before you get ready for bed.


Take a bath. Use special bath salts or bubble bath to pamper yourself. Make sure it is something that won’t irritate your skin. Consider using something with lavender to help you relax.
Exercise. Consider some gentle, calming yoga poses or stretching. Or maybe you’d rather dance away your jitters. Don’t try anything new. You don’t want to inadvertently amp yourself up, or worse, injure yourself before the wedding!

Write in a journal. If you find writing in a journal relaxing and therapeutic, consider taking a few minutes to jot down your thoughts the night before the wedding. It may be an entry you end up treasuring a few years down the road.Meditate. You can download some guided meditation apps onto your phone to help you relax, too.
Drink an herbal tea, such as chamomile, to help you feel sleepy.
 You will have a full day ahead of you on your wedding day, no matter what time your ceremony starts. Go to bed at a reasonable hour to account for the amount of time it may take you to even get to sleep in the first place. The more sleep you can get the night before the wedding day, the more energy you'll have to make it through one of the biggest days of your life.An adequate amount of sleep also helps regulate your emotions. Keep in mind that a good night’s sleep will help you stay calm and relaxed the next day as well!Consider taking a sleep supplement, such as melatonin, to help you fall asleep. Only take something if you know how it works for you and you have taken it before. Do not try anything new, and do not take more than the recommended dose.Double check your alarm clock. Designate someone to wake you up in case you oversleep.
 Your wedding may be one of the biggest, most exciting events of your life. It’s okay that you are excited about it! Don’t put too much pressure on yourself and get frustrated if you can’t calm down and sleep. You won’t ruin your wedding because of a lack of sleep.


Because a wedding is such a big event in a person’s life, you will probably be running on stress and excitement, anyway, and will likely not notice your fatigue!