 You can begin by thinking about when electricity is necessary or not. Try to use natural light every-when you can in order to save some electricity. For example, if you want to read,you can sit next to a window and use natural day light.


Turn off the light if you are not using it. Turn off everything you don't really need to be on, like your TV if you are not watching, or your laptop if you are doing something else.
This way you will have to pay less for your electricity and you are actually helping the planet.;
, This step is similar to last one. You only have to think about when it is necessary to use water and when it is not. For example turn the water off when you are brushing your teeth, and try not to spend too much time in the shower. Don't shower twice a day and turn water off when you are shampooing or soaping.


You can take a look at this article for some ideas to save water: www.wikihow.com/Save-Water.
Again you will pay less for water and you will help the planet too.
 You don't have to cut off meat of all your meals. However you can eat a little bit less of it. Try to eat more salads and enjoy all kinds of food that doesn't have meat in them and are quite healthy.


Meat is quite expensive and if you reduce it in some of your meals you will be saving money and actually helping the planet.
 Don't trow to the garbage everything you think you don't need anymore. Before that think about what can you use it for. For example,if you just got from the super-market and you have lots of empty bags, save them in a little box and then take them to the super-market again so you don't have to use new ones. You can do the same with things like paper; try to have a little box where you can put some used paper and re-use it to write little things like a list of what you need to buy at the super-market next week.


It is not about keeping a lot of useless things at home. Try to think about what can you use things for before keeping them. You have to be pretty organized so you can save some money while being green.
 This way you will save LOTS of money that you usually use in gas and you will be actually helping to reduce contamination. You can go in your bicycle to work or school, or you can only use it at weekends to do something different and have some fun if you want.
 If you can walk, and it is not to far where you are going to, walk. Again you will be saving lots of money because you are not using gas and you are reducing contamination.
 buying could be exciting but you have to spend lots of money if you do it, and you are actually consuming too much and that is not good for the planet. So be sure to buy things you need and control yourself while shopping.


You can help some people by donating your old clothes to charity.
 You can begin hanging out in a green way. Like just going to the beach with your friends and drinking some beer. Enjoy the outdoors. This is the best way to save some money while having fun. There are a lot of nice things to do without spending lots of money and you will have the chance to enjoy wonderful and beautiful places.
 This way you are saving paper that would be used by the company when sending your bills at your mail. And you will be saving some of your money too because you won't need to spend in stamps.

