 Stand toward the back of your yoga mat so that you have room, firming up your thighs in mountain pose and focusing on keeping your spine straight and your shoulders open.Make sure your heels are separated and your big toes are touching. Spread your toes and push through your heels, getting comfortable and stable in the pose.
 From mountain pose, lower onto your hands and knees. Flatten your back so that your knees are under your hips and your hands are under or just in front of your shoulders. Curl your toes under and spread your fingers, flattening your palms.As you exhale, raise your hips and lift your knees away from the floor. Your knees should remain slightly bent, heels up so that your weight is balanced between your hands and the balls of your feet.
Straighten your knees and firm up your thighs, at the same time you firm up your arms. With each inhale, think of pulling up towards the ceiling, and with every exhale firming up your hands and pushing down through your fingers and your heels.
 To move into chair pose from downward-facing dog, you can either drop to your hands and knees and then stand, or raise up on exhale and stand, placing your hands on your hips.Slide or jump your feet together. As you inhale, raise your arms so they are extended in front of you and perpendicular to the floor. You also can bring your palms together in front of your chest in prayer position.
On exhale, bend your knees and lower as far as you can. Try to go low enough that your thighs are parallel to the floor, but don't go any lower than is comfortable. Firm up your thighs to maintain the position. You are in chair pose – you should look as though you are sitting on an invisible chair.
Keep your shoulder blades firm against your back, your spine and lower back straight and long. Stay in the pose for 30 seconds to a minute if you can, then stand on inhale, raising your arms overhead as though you are using your arms to lift your body.
 From the chair pose, stand and walk or lightly jump your feet further apart. Turn your feet and knees outward at a 45-degree angle and bend your knees deeply out to the sides.Sink your hips down, going as low into this pose as you comfortably can while keeping your knees turned outward. Raise your hips slightly if your knees start to turn forward or buckle. You also can move your feet a little closer together. If you bring your palms together in front of your chest in prayer position, you are in temple pose.
As you inhale, extend your arms out to either side at shoulder height, bending your elbows at a 90-degree angle to point your fingertips toward the ceiling. Keep your palms and fingers spread wide, engaging the muscles in your back to hold your arms in position.
Firm up your core and keep your shoulders neutral and your spine long. You are now in goddess pose. Hold the pose for 30 seconds to a minute, then exhale and squat deeper into your temple pose, bringing your palms together in front of your heart in prayer position. You can flow back and forth between the two poses for several minutes, resting in mountain pose when necessary.
 To close the entire sequence, slide or jump your feet together with your big toes touching and your heels slightly apart. You can extend your arms by your side or bring your hands together in prayer position in front of your chest.Hold this rest position for several breaths, focusing on the air cycling through your body. As you inhale through your nose, think of expanding and filling your lungs from the bottom to the top.
On exhale through your mouth, imagine pushing the air out of your lungs, the air at the top leaving first and all the air slowly and deliberately leaving your lungs.
Allow a pause at the completion of an exhale before you start to slowly inhale again.

