 There are many over-the-counter medications for preventing motion sickness. Here are the most common options:Antihistamines such as dimenhydrinate (Dramamine), diphenhydramine (Benadryl), or cinnarizine (Stugeron; not available in the U.S. or Canada)are the most popular choice. Non-drowsy versions may be less effective.
Scopolamine (also called hyoscine)may also be effective.
If neither option above works for you, ask a doctor about other prescription treatments. Benzodiazepinesare rarely used, but may be appropriate for severe seasickness., If you suspect you might vomit, look for drugs that don't enter through your stomach. Scopolamine is available as a skin patch and as an intranasal spray, both of which may be more effective than the pill form.Dimenhydrinate (Dramamine) is available in chewing gum form, which bypasses the stomach but is only used for immediate, fast-acting treatment, not prevention., The medicine will be more effective if it's already in your bloodstream when you step onto the boat. Plus, you avoid the problem of forcing yourself to swallow medicine while you feel sick. Take your first dose prior to departure as indicated by your doctor or on the packaging.


Schedule regular doses on a long boat trip, but do not exceed the recommended daily limit. Overdoses can cause serious medical problems.
 Many people experience drowsiness, dizziness, or blurred vision after taking these medications, especially in high doses or as a skin patch. If you plan to help steer or operate machinery on the boat, conduct a test run on land to make sure the drug will not interfere with your work.Some children react to antihistamines by getting agitated instead of drowsy, which you may want to test for before your trip.Seek emergency attention if you experience an allergic reaction (rash, swelling, tight chest, difficulty breathing), or any serious symptom.
 Ask for a doctor's advice if you are pregnant, nursing, have a serious medical condition, take any other medication, or have an allergy to any medication. Children 12 or under should follow age- and weight-based dosage instructions. Large doses of sedating antihistamines can be fatal to young children.Many medications can increase nausea, including birth control and antibiotics. Consider asking your doctor about alternatives to take during your boat trip.
Always talk to a doctor before medicating a child under 2 years old. Seasickness is unusual in infants and toddlers, so treatment is rarely necessary.
 If you have a stuffy nose or blocked ears, treat the problem before and during travel. Blocked sinuses can increase pressure on your inner ear, which can make dizziness and seasickness worse.


Do not take medication for your sinuses and for seasickness at the same time without consulting a doctor. They often contain similar drugs, which could lead to an unintentional overdose.

