 Your company might have a policy regarding rehiring laid off workers. You should check with Human Resources and read your company’s employment manuals. The policy could explain the following:The time limit for being considered a “preferential hire.” For example, someone might have been laid off two years ago. If your policy states that someone is a “preferential hire” for only one year after being laid off, then the candidate is not a preferential hire.
The order of recall. Sometimes the employee first laid off is the first rehired. Check to see what your company’s policy states.;
, If your workforce is unionized, then the applicable collective bargaining agreement could describe the ground rules for rehiring laid off employees.You should find the collective bargaining agreement and read it.


Many bargaining agreements require that you rehire based on seniority. Check your bargaining agreement for any rules that limit who you may rehire.
 Federal and state law prohibits discrimination in employment, and this includes hiring decisions. You cannot discriminate on the basis of sex, race, ethnicity, religion, age, and other protected characteristics.Accordingly, you need to understand how your decision to rehire one or more ex-employees could expose you to a lawsuit.


For example, if you choose to rehire several white employees, then those who are not white could potentially bring a lawsuit for employment discrimination.Your state law might offer protection to more people than federal law. For example, many states protect against discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. You can find your state law by searching “employment discrimination” and “your state” on the Internet.
 If you have any questions about your legal obligations, then you should contact your attorney. If your company doesn’t have an attorney, then you should get a referral by contacting your state or local bar association.Schedule an appointment to discuss your interest in rehiring a laid-off employee. Bring any company policy or collective bargaining agreement to the meeting.
Also be prepared to discuss why you laid the employee off and why you want to rehire him or her.
 There are several. Foremost is the fact that you know the person and are happy to give them a job again. However, there are other advantages:You may increase employee morale. Your other employees may feel relieved that you are bringing back a former employee, especially if you have gone through a period of downsizing. Your current employees may feel more secure in their jobs as a result.
You don’t need to train the person. If you rehire the ex-employee for the same job, then you won’t have to train them. This can save you time and money.
 Unfortunately, there are also several negatives related to rehiring a former employee. Among the more common are:The employee might resent you. If things ended badly, the employee might not have released all negative feelings toward you. Time does not heal all wounds.
The employee might feel entitled. In particular, the employee might expect better treatment than new hires. This can create tension in your workforce.
Your current employees might resent the new hire. This is especially true if your current employees applied for the job you are filling with an ex-employee.
 Sometimes it is easy to know whether you want to rehire a person. You can definitely rehire someone you regretted having to let go in the first place. On the other hand, you should avoid rehiring any employee who you thought was a terrible fit. However, some employees fall somewhere in the middle. Consider the following:Has the employee addressed his or her weaknesses while separated from the company? For example, an employee might not have had the skills to do a job as efficiently as possible. Check to see if the ex-employee has gained new training since being let go.
Has the employee addressed problems in their personal life? Employees sometimes underperform because of problems at home: an angry spouse, a sick child, etc. If the ex-employee’s personal life has changed for the better, then he or she might be worth rehiring.
Did you do everything you could to help the employee the first time around? Sometimes an employee might underperform because, at the time, you didn’t have the skills as a manager to help your employees. Ask yourself if you have grown as a manager and whether you could effectively manage the employee if they were rehired.
 You need to perform the same kind of due diligence on an ex-employee as you would for a new hire. This means that you must look afresh at the employee’s skills and experience. Don’t assume that because you have worked with this person that you already know everything about him or her.You should conduct the same series of interviews that you would schedule for an unknown candidate. Ask the same types of questions and honestly review the answers given.
Also check references. Even if the reference is another employee in your company, you should still check the reference.
Honestly assessing the ex-employee helps you counter any argument that you discriminated against people who were passed over for the job.
 The employee might be rehired to do a different job, or the terms of the job will differ from when the employee previously worked for you. You need to make sure that the employee understands the role he or she will serve.Provide the employee with a job description, even if he or she is returning to an old job. The job requirements might have changed since the employee last worked for you.
 You should follow your standard procedures for making an offer. Don’t treat the process informally simply because you have worked with the person before. Instead, send the person an appointment letter (if you use appointment letters).
 Current employees might have applied for the job that you are giving to an ex-employee, so you need to clearly communicate to your staff why you are hiring the ex-employee. Be prepared to provide several concrete reasons why you hired the ex-employee.If you honestly assessed the person’s credentials before offering employment, then it should be easy to explain to other employees why you rehired the person.
 At least once a quarter, check in with the employee. Find out if they are getting the kind of organizational support they need and whether they need additional assistance.A rehired employee might be hesitant to reach out for help. If you want the relationship to work, you need to be proactive.

