 Put on your favorite music, close your bedroom door, and dance like nobody's watching. Watch yourself dancing in front of the mirror, and pay attention to what moves look good and which ones don't. Even if you have no idea how to dance, practicing dancing at home will help your body's muscle memory kick in so that you can dance more naturally in front of others.


Do this at least once a week. Not only will you improve your skills, dancing is a great form of exercise!
Practice dancing to different kinds of music; hip-hop, electronic, classic rock, country and blues. This way you won't be thrown off when an unexpected song comes on.;
, Hip-hop and modern dance classes help you become more familiar with your body, and also teach you the essentials of rhythm and coordination.


You should also consider taking a dance aerobics class like Zumba if you are a member of a gym.
 Before going to a party, put on your favorite clothes and be sure to properly groom yourself so that you feel confident about the way you look. The more attractive you feel, the less self-conscious you will be about being watched by other people.


Be sure to wear comfortable clothes and shoes that you can actually move in. Clothes that are too tight can hold you back when dancing and make you look stiff.
Girls should consider wearing a loose, flowing dress or top that will give you some extra movement while dancing. Even if you just stand there awkwardly swaying your hips back and forth, the movement of your dress will look graceful.
 After arriving, take some time to do a lap around the party, say hi to your friends, and grab a drink. Soaking up your surroundings will help ease some of the nervousness you may feel and allow you to relax and have fun. If people are already dancing, then watch them for a moment and take some mental notes.


If you are old enough, then have a drink or two before dancing. It will help loosen you up and make you feel less self-conscious. Don't take it overboard though; drinking too much will have a reserve effect, and you'll feel embarrassed the next day.
 Before hitting the dance floor, pay attention to what kind of music is playing. Find the beat, and start bobbing your head to it. Keeping up with the beat of a song is a fundamental skill to dancing, and helps you determine how fast or slow to dance for a given song.
 If there is a group of people already dancing, then join them. Try to dance in the center of the group so that you're not as visible to people standing around on the outskirts.
 Don't try to do pre-rehearsed moves, and don't try to dance faster or slower than the music that's playing. You can start by taking one step out with your right foot, bringing it back in, and then doing the same with your left foot.


Keep your upper body and arms relaxed.
Continue bobbing your head to the music.
Don't lock your knees.
Close your eyes every now and again and just try to go with the flow!
If you are stuck, watch what other people are doing and imitate them. Don't stare and make it obvious, though!

, The only people who look silly while dancing are the ones who look uncomfortable or nervous. No matter how ridiculous your moves are, if you have a smile on your face and are laughing or singing along with the music, you will look cool. Guaranteed!

