 Write down exactly what made you feel stressed, how you felt, how you responded to that stress, and what, if anything, you did to feel better.


Identifying the common areas that cause you stress can help you better manage them long-term.
When you know what’s causing the stress, you can take steps to counteract it before it gets out of control.
The stress journal can also help you identify if you have any unhealthy coping mechanisms, such as overeating, binge drinking, or procrastination.
 Meditation is a great way to de-stress and relax for a few minutes each day. Daily meditation may even make you more resilient to the stressors of everyday life.Sit up straight with both feet on the floor, close your eyes, and recite a positive mantra such as, “Be at peace.”
Take deep breaths and try to sync them with your mantra.
Don't get mad at yourself or become frustrated if your thoughts wander — this is normal. Just gently return to your mantra. Let the distracting thoughts drift away.
 Deep breathing can lower your heart rate and blood pressure allowing you to take a moment away from a stressful task.If you are feeling overwhelmed, stop what you are doing and take a quick breathing break. Turn everything off for five minutes and focus on inhaling deeply and exhaling slowly. You should feel your belly rise with each inhalation and lower when you exhale.
 When you’re feeling stressed, it’s easy to get into a “doom and gloom” mode. Every little thing seems to be working against you, but in reality it’s just the way you’re currently seeing the world. Thinking positively will help you get out of this mode and reframe your view of the situation.Try thinking positive phrases, such as “This will pass,” “I’ll get through this,” and “I can manage this with a few deep breaths.”

, A lot of stress in our lives comes from knowing that we have a thousand things to do and no time to do them. Write a master list of all the things you can remember that need to get done and then break that down into manageable tasks. It can also be helpful to set certain tasks for certain days.


Don’t worry about the huge to-do list, just focus on a few items that you want to tackle that day. Before you know it, you’ll have everything crossed of your list.
Breaking tasks down into smaller, manageable chunks makes it easier to actually get started crossing them off instead of being paralyzed by the work load.
 If there is a task that has been nagging you, but it will only take two minutes to complete, just do it right when you think about it. If you’re not able to do it in the moment, add it to your small, but manageable to-do list.


Tackling the small things will keep them from bringing you down and give you a feeling of accomplishment.
Write down all the tasks you’ve taken care of each day to keep track of how much you really can do in a day.
 Many individuals don’t get enough sleep at night. Lack of sleep can lead to premature aging, high blood pressure, and increased stress.Try to get at least eight hours of sleep a night. If you find you have trouble sleeping at night, there are a few ways to improve your sleeping habits.Keep your bedroom at a comfortable, cool temperature.
Only use your bedroom for sleeping. If you have a desk in your bedroom and do work in there, your brain will not associate that space with sleeping. Try to keep the bedroom just for sleeping to train your brain that it is a place just for resting and recharging.
Establish a nightly routine. Do the same few things before you go to bed every night to let your body know that it’s time to sleep. Keeping this routine will help you fall asleep faster.
Set a sleep schedule and stick to it. Oftentimes, it is hard to stick to a consistent sleep schedule, but it is one of the easiest ways to improve sleep quality. Set the same time for going to bed and waking up every day, including weekends!
Don’t have caffeine at least six hours before bed.
 If you’re happy about things and feeling good about your life, you’ll be able to handle stress better than if you’re in a bad mood all the time.Make a list of activities that make you happy and help you relax and use them when you are feeling overwhelmed. Take a little time out of every day to indulge in an activity you enjoy.


Schedule relaxation time. If you’re a planner, you might need to specifically schedule time in your day to relax; that’s okay, as long as you actually take that time for yourself.
Small activities such as cuddling with your pet or significant other, making a quick art project, taking a walk, listening to music, or writing in a journal can be great stress relievers.

