 Look through a telephone book or through online directories to locate an antique bookseller in your area. Depending on your location, such a store might be far away. However, these stores are treasure houses of old, rare books, and visiting them will give you the opportunity to discover books that could be perfect for your collection.If you’re interested in a particular volume, you might be able to call the store to find out if they have it.
Some antique bookstores might even have an online catalog of their inventory.
Regular used bookstores might also have a rare book or two on hand, so give them a shot, too.
 Find what you’re looking for by using both digital marketplaces like eBay and auction sites or online stores devoted specifically to books. Before committing to a purchase, make sure that the seller is reputable (and, preferably, associated with a professional organization like the Antiquarian Booksellers' Association of America).Visiting a store and examining old, rare books firsthand is the best way to evaluate whether a book is worth purchasing. However, if an old, rare book is too far away (in another country, for instance), buying online might be the only option.
 Rare or antique book fairs hosted by antique bookdealer associations are ripe with opportunities to obtain “new” books for your old, rare book collection. For information about such events in your area, consult the events calendar of your local or national antique book organization online., Both large and small auction houses often deal in old, rare books. Check the websites of local auction houses regularly for announcements about rare book auctions. Additionally, check your newspaper for announcements regarding estate sales in which old, rare books might be listed.Estate sales might advertise old, rare books for sale by listing their specific titles or by issuing a general announcement of the items for sale (such as “old books”).
 Dealers in rare books often produce catalogs to advertise their inventory. Obtain and consult these catalogs by requesting one from the book collector or dealer in question.You might also be able to contact other booksellers by utilizing message boards, blogs, and other online communities.
Building a relationship with a particular book collector (by becoming a regular customer) could prove beneficial. Such a dealer might keep an eye out for books of interest to you or give you the first shot at purchasing certain volumes.
Some book collectors might be willing to make a trade for one of your old, rare books.
 Shopping for old, rare books at these shops and points of sale will rarely yield anything of interest.However, if you are a seasoned collector of old, rare books -- or just extremely lucky -- you might be able to obtain a volume that matches your collection interests., Suppose you’re shopping for a particular volume and know of two extant copies. If one volume is in tatters and falling apart while the other one looks as if it was printed yesterday, you’re generally better off obtaining the edition that is in better condition.