 Look up images of old women online or in books to see what they’re wearing and get ideas for yourself. Consider what decade you’d be from as old lady and what kind of style you’d have.


A good rule for placing your old lady costume in a certain time period is to choose clothing that was popular a couple decades before that time period, as the style of clothing on elderly people is often slightly outdated.
Try talking to a grandmother or other older female person you are close to for tips and advice. If you’re lucky, she might let you borrow some of her clothes! Just remember to be respectful and avoid offending her by wearing the clothes as a joke or costume.;
, Go to a secondhand store, garage sale, or vintage clothing store to find older clothing. Keep an eye out for clothing in outdated styles that you think an old lady might wear.


Choose garments that look more worn and even faded for a truly old appearance. You can always wash secondhand items before wearing them, but in this case keeping the strange, old scent of another person on the clothes might help your authenticity!
Check online stores like Ebay if you’re looking for an item that’s very specific. Otherwise, inexpensive items from a thrift store will suffice.
 Look for a loose-fitting top or t-shirt in a muted color. Go for one with an applique design of flowers, animals, or other similarly cute or cliche motif on the chest.


Pick out a shirt that is one or two sizes too big on you so that it is roomy and comfortable.
Avoid modern styles, bright colors or prints, and low necklines.
 Choose pants in a stretch fabric and a fit that is not form-fitting. Ideally the pants have an elastic waistband for the most comfort and ability to move in them.


If you can, find pants in a similar shade as your top, or any other element of your outfit. Or, look for two-piece sets of pants and a top that are intended to go together. The more matching, the better!

, Look for a house dress or muumuu, which is a long, shapeless shift dress, often in a colorful pattern. Or choose a long and loose-fitting skirt worn with a top.


If you wear a dress or skirt, pull pantyhose in a similar shade as your skin onto your legs.
If you’re going for the look of a very elderly person stuck in a hospital or their home, try a muumuu in more muted colors, or anything that looks more like pajamas, including a robe and house slippers if you like.
 Find an oversized knit sweater or cardigan to wear over the rest of your outfit. A sweater that looks hand-knit is ideal.


Layer on sweaters, even in warm weather, as old ladies often have poor circulation and get cold easily.
Also try a colorful vest, ideally with applique or embroidered details with scenes from nature, a holiday, or any other theme.
 Tie a thin scarf, either silk or knit, around the top of the head and tied at the chin or around the shoulders and tied at the chest.


If wearing a scarf around the shoulders, try securing it with an old brooch at the chest.
 Choose a simple white sneaker for the perfect granny shoe, or strappy white sandals if you’re wearing pantyhose with a dress or skirt.


For a dressier old lady look, try pumps with a small kitten heel, worn with pantyhose.
Look for sneakers with velcro, a signature senior style for those too old to easily tie shoelaces.

