 The landscape plants you choose should be compatible with the weather and climate of the region in which you live. For example, if you live in a region with snowy weather and freezing temperatures, plant pine trees instead of palm trees, which thrive in tropical regions with warmer weather.


Speak with an associate at your local nursery or gardening shop to determine the types of plants that grow best in your climate.
Verify your climate type by visiting the "Landscape Design" website listed in the Sources section of this article. An interactive climate map can be found by clicking on the "planting zone" link within the body of that particular article.;
,


Choose tall, full trees that provide shade if you live in an extremely hot and sunny climate, or if you want your home or yard to have the extra privacy provided by these types of plants.
Choose small shrubbery and other flowers or small plants for your landscape if you want lots of sunlight to enter your home; as tall, full trees or bushes may block the sunlight from entering through your windows.
Verify that the plants you choose for your landscape will grow to a width and height that will satisfy your needs in terms of providing shade or sunlight for your home.
 Some plant breeds may require constant pruning, watering, and other types of maintenance; whereas other plants will thrive naturally with little to no maintenance on your behalf.


Determine if additional maintenance for your plants is required during certain seasons. For example, if you live in a climate in which trees will shed their leaves during autumn, you may be required to spend time raking up the fallen leaves from your lawn during these months.
Consult with a nursery or gardening shop to learn of the maintenance required by certain plants.
 In some cases, you may want to choose plants or flowers with colors that compliment one another or the color of your home's paint job.


Verify whether the plants or flowers you choose maintain their color all year long or if the plants are seasonal, as this factor may impact your decision when choosing certain plants.
Select landscape plants or flowers with contrasting colors that compliment one another or that blend well together. The color wheel located on the "Landscape Design" website in the Sources section of this article can help you with choosing particular colors for your landscape.
 Some trees and plants may grow large enough in which roots may collide with or impact your sidewalks, swimming pool, water pipes, and other parts of your home.


Plant larger trees or plants with the potential to impact your home's foundation far enough away from your home where they will not cause a negative impact to the foundation.

