 Visit the Facebook home page from any web browser.;
, Use your Facebook account and password to log in. The login fields are found on the upper right corner of the page. Click the “Log in” button to proceed.
 It is right under your name and profile picture on the upper left panel. You will be brought to your Events page. You can see all your events from here.
 Click the “Create” button on the rightmost part of the header tabs of the Events page. A small window for “Create new event” will appear.


Type in the name of your event in the first field. Are you celebrating a birthday, a baptism, or a wedding? Put it in and make it interesting.
You can put some additional info for your guests, such as attire, gift registries, and directions in the second field.
Clearly indicate where your event will take place in the third field. Make it very specific so that your guests can easily find it.
Clearly indicate the date and time of your event in the next field.
 The last field in creating an event is for Privacy. Click the drop-down list to see the options. Select “Invitation Only” to limit visibility and invitees to your event. Only you, as the host, can invite guests, thereby making your event strictly private.
 You will be brought to the event’s Facebook page.
 On your event’s page, click the “Invite” button on the header. A window will appear with your Facebook friends. Click and select the people you will want to invite to your event. The list of your invitees will be displayed on the rightmost panel.


Be sure not to click the “Select All” link at the top of the list so you can properly filter out the people you’re inviting. You don’t want to mistakenly invite someone you wanted to block in the first place. It would be an awkward situation to withdraw an invite once you’ve sent it.
 The people you’ve invited will be sent invitations on Facebook, and they will see your event on their Events pages. Since you’ve set it to “Invitation Only,” you’re assured that people you didn’t invite will not be able to see and know about your event.