 Before you start making your website, you'll want to consider exactly how it will be made. There are two main options that you can choose from when building a website: have a professional build it for you or build it yourself. Consider which option would be a good fit for your website before moving forward.Building your own website will allow for full customization.
You can build your website from scratch or use software to help you create it.
There are many content management systems that you can use to make creating your site easy.
Hiring a professional can result in an excellent site for your crafts. However, many professional website development services will be costly.
 It's a good idea to have an overall vision for your website before you begin building it. You will want your site to represent your crafts and your business, conveying an image that fits the items you're selling. You can use your ideas to build your own site or convey them to a designer to have it built for you.For example, if you sell handmade axes to campers, you may want to have an outdoor theme for your site.
You might consider a natural look, featuring forests and woodlands, if you are selling rustic pieces of furniture.
 Beyond having a stylish site, you'll want to make sure your customers can easily navigate it. If your customer can't find where to buy an item or how to buy it, your craft site won't do as well as it could. Make sure your site has a clean design that allows your customers to easily find what they are looking for.


It's a good idea to favor usability over presentation when designing your website.
Buying something from your store should only take a few clicks.
Your crafts should be showcased in easy to see areas of your site.
The focus of your site will be to sell crafts, not to talk about your business. Avoid putting up information that isn't necessary or won't help sell your crafts.
 Once you have a vision for your site and you've got a way to create it, it's time to start building. Exactly how you create your website will depend on the methods you are using to build it. After the website is complete and functional, you can launch it live on the internet and officially open for business.You can purchase a domain name for your site to be located at.
You can purchase server space to host your website on.
You might want to use a content management service to help you easily create a website.
Services like Wordpress will allow you to create a basic website for free.
Make sure your website is up and running before announcing it to customers.
 Creating and running your own craft selling website will require your attention. You will want to be creating new content, promoting your site and offering new incentives to bring people onto your site. Keep working and improving your site to engage your customers and help bring in new ones.Opening a blog section on your website can give readers something extra to look forward to.
You might consider frequently offering sales and promotions to entice customers to make a purchase.
Always keep an eye out for technical troubles. You'll need to be ready to fix any errors or problems that might arise on your site.
Don't stop promoting your website.
Think of future additions that you might want to add to your site. Maybe you could put in a virtual gallery of your crafts or your workshop. Perhaps you could add a review page that highlights feedback from satisfied customers.
 Having your site up and running will allow customers to browse and purchase the crafts that you have posted. As the orders come in, you'll need to fulfill them by packing and shipping the item out to the customer. Payments made by customers will be directly transferred to your account, through the shopping service your site uses.
 Once you've successfully made a sale, you'll need to ship that item to your customer. There are many options open to you when sending items to your customers. However, you'll want to carefully consider which service you work with and make sure they meet your needs and are cost effective.You might work with services like the USPS, UPS, FedEx or DSL.
Make sure the service you use is conveniently located and allows you to quickly send your packages out to customers.
Consider the cost of shipping that your customer will pay. Low cost or free shipping have both been shown to boost sales.
Think about your return policies and what you want to charge for those.
You should know how much you want to charge for handling fees to cover the cost of shipping materials and time spent packing the item up.

