 Don’t ignore your boyfriend or girlfriend’s threat or assume they’re bluffing. They could be, but it’s always better to be safe than sorry. Assume they are serious and act accordingly.If you the person makes vague threats of suicide, offer to take them to the local emergency room or call a suicide crisis hotline at 1-800-273-8255.
Call a friend or family member to come be with the person.Don't leave them unsupervised, but don't think you have to be the one with them. You don't want them to think that suicide threats are the only way to get your attention.
 If you think your boyfriend or girlfriend is in immediate danger of hurting themself or someone else, call the police immediately. Don’t worry about whether you might have misread the situation – it’s always better to err on the side of safety.Try to find out their location before you call the police. Do not let them know that you are calling the police when you do so. This will help the police reach them in a timely manner.
 If you are fearful of your partner's safety, make sure someone will look out for your ex after you break things off. Contact one or two of their family members, friends, or roommates, and tell them about your concerns. Ask them to be present in the household so they can offer extra support after the breakup.Say something like, “Hey, I know this isn’t a fun thing to talk about, but I’m going to break up with Emily tonight. She’s threatened to hurt herself, and I’m worried. Will you come over so she has support once I leave?”
Avoid leaving until others have arrived so that you can be sure the person is safe.
Choose people you know are close to your soon-to-be-ex boyfriend or girlfriend.
 Sometimes threats of self-harm can be a sign that a person has a bigger problem with violence. If you feel threatened at any point during your breakup, leave the situation. Finish breaking up on the phone if you need to.If your boyfriend or girlfriend has a history of violence, break up with them over the phone or in a public place.
Put your own safety first in a dangerous situation, even if you’re afraid for the other person.

