 Contract the corners of your mouth to form a round shape with your mouth before phrases like “Oh dear” or “Minnes-ohhh-ta” and extend the emphasis on this vowel.


This is a similarity to Canadian accents in some areas.
Practice by saying the word “Sound”. While it only has one syllable and can be said quickly, a Minnesotan might say “S-ownd” or “S-ow-und” as a part of regular speech.;
, The “I” should be drawn out and spoken with the mouth open and the tongue behind the bottom front teeth. This is also true when using names and words with the letter “y”.


Practice by saying the word “Why” and drawing out the vowel.
 For example, the words “are,” “work” and “mother” rely more heavily on the letter “R” in the Minnesota dialect. Stress the “err” sound.


Try saying the phrase “Oh, dear” to practice the “O” and the “R” together. It can sound like “Oo-ha, De-arr”.
 This is often called “Minnesota nice” because they use an inquisitive tone when speaking with other people. There are several changes in tone throughout a sentence.


Use the phrase “Oh, that’s interesting”. Although it is a statement and shouldn’t end with an inflection, the Midwestern accent would include an upward inflection with the word “interesting”. it is basically being passive in an aggressive way.
 Thanks to a large influx of Swedish and Norwegian immigrants in the 19th and 20th centuries, the Minnesota accent has a sing-song quality, employing inflections and words like “Yah” for “Yes”.Try the comic phrase “Ya sure, you betcha” to practice your use of the regional pronunciation.
 For example, “Have to” is often “hafta”, while “I’m going to” is “eye-mina” and “what are you” is “what-cha”.
 It is a generic, but common reply to questions like “You doing alright?” or “Are you full?”

, Almost all of Minnesota and most of the Midwest call Coke, Pepsi and other sodas “pop”.
 For example, “I didn’t buy that dress because it was too spendy”.
 Other like “can” are pronounced with a similar soft “eh” sound.
 This phrase and “Nice to meet you” are used to indicate you’d like to depart. You also might want to draw out your goodbye like a true Minnesotan and talk about the weather, sports, and politics. This is known as the "Minnesotan goodbye".
 For example, “cash” is sometimes pronounced “caish”. The word “different” is often pronounced with two syllables as “diff-rent”.,, This is the act of being outwardly nice, without conveying your real opinions or emotions. It is often referred to as “passive aggressive” or “enthusiastic neutral” tone because of the friendly inflections while saying something negative.
 This form of non-verbal communication is used when driving and greeting oncoming cars or pedestrians. You lift your index finger off the steering wheel for a second and set it back down.
 If someone asks your opinion and you want to show a little opinion, “that’s different” will show that you don’t like it, without having to go into detail., Minnesotans may talk while at a 45-degree angle or while looking out at something else. This is a way of remaining nice, non-confrontational, but not too personal.
 It’s better to say “Not bad” than “Not good”.


Pronounce “Not Bad” as “Naaht Bah-d”.

