


Start with your local grocery stores. Some of them might provide online shopping and delivery. Some grocery chains such as isupermarket.in, Chennai Online Grocery ,Chennaibasket.com will allow you to order groceries online and then pick them up in the store or get them delivered.
Do an Internet search, or check an online listing for specialty grocery stores that allow you to do your shopping online.;
, Look for lower prices on the things you buy most, and a selection that will work for your grocery list.
,


Move the items you want to buy into your digital shopping cart.
Track your spending by glancing at the total that adds up every time you put something in your cart. This can usually be found in the top right corner of your screen.
 Some grocers will only deliver perishable items to certain areas.


Check with the company or store to make sure you can order frozen or refrigerated foods. Some retailers will ship using dry ice, and some will not deliver such items.
 This will help you manage what you buy every week or every month.


Check to see if your shopping list items will automatically be included in your cart the next time you shop. Most online grocers will do this for you, and you will have the option of reviewing the list before all of the items are added to your cart.



Review the items, quantities and prices. Make sure you have everything you need.
 You will be asked to create a logon name and a password either before you start shopping, or before you checkout.


Use a logon name and a password that you will remember. Your computer can often save the information so you do not have to type it in every time you visit the website.
 Some online grocers will allow you to choose the day that your groceries are delivered. Others will give you a window, such as 2 to 4 days.


Prepare to pay a delivery charge of between $6.00 and $15.00. The amount will depend on how much you order, where you live and how quickly you want the groceries delivered. Local grocery stores will offer you the option of picking up your groceries if you do not want to pay for delivery.
Make sure you are not being charged more than once for shipping, delivery and postage. There should be one fee that encompasses all of the handling and shipping or delivery costs.
 You will need a credit card or a debit card for most sites.


Allow the website to save your payment details so you do not have to provide a card number every time you shop.
 You will receive an email as well.

