 If you pick something that you're passionate about, then your audience will be able to see and feel your passion. This will also make you much more excited to generate ideas for the speech and to deliver the speech.


If you only have a limited amount of options and can't pick anything you're truly passionate about, you should at least pick something that you like or are interested in to make it easier and more enjoyable for you to write and deliver the speech., If you're giving a speech at a professional conference, then it's logical that you would pick a topic that you're an expert on so you can give credibility to your speech. But even if you're not delivering a speech in a professional setting or on a particularly complicated topic, you should still pick something you know a lot about, whether it's baseball or your neighborhood. You can even start by making a list of the things you're knowledgeable about, whether it's your family, career, politics, gardening, pets, or travel.


You don't have to know every single thing about a topic to deliver a great speech. You can pick something that you're knowledgeable about, and can supplement that job with some careful research.
If you're picking a subject you're knowledgeable about but know you'll need to research further, make sure the topic is easy to research. If you pick something fairly obscure, then it may be difficult to find more information about it.
 It could have to do with literature, movies, sports, foreign languages, or even gender relations. Whatever it is, you may even be able to find a theme that carries through a variety of categories, such as "loss of innocence." Make a list of all of your hobbies and interests and see what would make for an engaging speech topic.You may find a large overlap between the things you're interested in and the things you know.
 If there has been a topic that has been in the news again and again, you can use it as an occasion for a speech. It may be something controversial like gay marriage or gun control, but if the occasion is appropriate, you can give a speech about this current event, offering a nuanced perspective of the situation.


Read through popular national and local papers, listen to the radio, and watch the news to see what people are talking about and how the public is reacting to these events.
You can also pick something that is particularly timely for your community. If there has been controversy over a new policy regarding public schools in your neighborhood, you could use it as an occasion for a speech.
You can pick something that is timely for your audience. If you're addressing high school seniors, you can talk about the next stage of life after graduation, and can bring in any relevant current information from the news.
 If the occasion calls for it, you can give a speech about something personal in your life. It could relate to your experiences with your parents, siblings, or friends, to a personal struggle, or a formative episode in your life. Just make sure the information isn't so personal that it makes the audience uncomfortable, or that the subject is so close to you that you can't talk about it without getting emotional.Remember that you can add personal information to a topic that doesn't feel so personal; you can discuss an aspect of your career, for example, while throwing in a personal anecdote.
 You should be able to deliver a speech about the topic with clarity and conviction. This means that you should feel strongly enough about the topic to inform, persuade, or entertain your audience. It also means that your audience should trust you as an authority on the subject; if you're an only child, you should avoid giving a speech on the importance of having a sibling; if you haven't entered college yet, it may be difficult for you to give a speech on the importance of choosing a major.Whatever the topic, you should be able to connect with your audience through the speech. At the end or even during the speech, a little light bulb should go off in your audience's heads, and they should reach a new understanding of your topic. If you don't have the ability to truly connect with your audience about this topic, then pick another one.

