 Your state's child services agencies may have a list of private agencies that are licensed with the state to handle the adoption of children and infants. You also want to check the background and reputation of any agency you plan to use.The U.S. Department of Health & Human Services has a national directory of adoption agencies online at www.childwelfare.gov/nfcad/.
Individual private agencies typically have their own websites with more information about their eligibility requirements and the process of adoption.
Rules for private agencies differ from state to state. Keep in mind that in some states, if you want to adopt an infant who has not been identified as having special needs, you may have no choice but to go through a private agency.
 Private agencies have their own eligibility requirements for adoptive parents that may differ from the state's requirements. Typically, private agencies are more selective, and may have stricter criteria.Because private agencies are more selective, they tend to have shorter wait times. However, if you want an infant you still should expect to wait several months after you've been approved.
At a minimum, the private agency will have eligibility requirements similar to the state requirements.
For example, if your state requires adoptive parents to be over the age of 25 and you are 23, you probably won't be able to adopt through a private agency in your state until you are 25.
 Adopting a child through a private agency can cost anywhere from a few thousand dollars to upwards of $10,000. Many states offer grants and other financial assistance to help prospective adoptive parents with limited funds.However, while grants and financial aid may help with the costs associated with adopting through a private agency, don't expect them to cover all or even most of your adoption expenses.
Most private agencies do have payment plans, and some have sliding-fee scales depending on your household income.
You also may be able to take out a loan to cover initial adoption-related expenses. Some employers even have programs to reimburse some of the costs associated with adoption.
 Private agencies typically hold regular informational meetings where you can learn more about the agency and its services. You'll also have the opportunity to talk to staff, as well as other adoptive parents.The meeting will explain the agency's mission and adoption procedures, as well as discussing the roles and responsibilities you will take on as adoptive parents.
In addition to staff, the agency may have parents who've adopted children through the agency give short presentations about their experiences or answer any questions.
Take notes during the presentation in case there are any questions you have. If you have extensive concerns, you may want to consider speaking to a caseworker privately after the meeting is over.
 Just as with the state agency, you must fill out a written application to initiate the process of being approved for adoption. This application typically must be accompanied by a check or money order for all or part of the agency's fees.The agency will give you forms to fill out, along with a list of any supporting documentation required.
Keep in mind that you will need to provide detailed information about yourself and your partner, as well as any adults or children who live with you (even part-time).
You don't have to be wealthy to adopt a child from a private agency, and you won't be turned away solely because you have limited income or assets.
However, the agency will want to verify that you have the financial means to take care of the people already in your household, as well as the additional expense of a new baby.
 Just as with the state agency, any private agency typically must complete a home study before you are approved to adopt. Some private agencies may accept a state home study report, if you've already had one completed.Other private agencies will want to conduct their own home study, even if you've already had one through your state agency. Some of these private agencies have more extensive requirements than state agencies.
Private agencies charge a fee for the home study, typically a few thousand dollars. The fee covers the time the caseworker spends evaluating your home, interviewing people, and conducting criminal and employment background checks.
Expect to pay fees for your training classes as well. Many private agencies offer their own classes

, If the agency approves you as a prospective adoptive family, you typically will complete a family profile that identifies characteristics of the infant you hope to adopt. When a child matching those characteristics comes through the agency, your caseworker will let you know.One of the benefits of a private agency is that they may have access to children available in other states. This broader pool can mean a shorter wait time.
The process of placing an infant may differ from that of placing an older child. Typically with an older child there will be more meetings before the child ultimately comes to live with you for good.
The process also may differ depending on whether the agency does open or closed adoptions.
With an open adoption, you get to know the child's birth family. In some instances, this may mean you have an opportunity to meet the birth mother while she is pregnant. Some agencies also give the birth mother a choice in the family that will adopt her child.

