 You want the stems to be at least 3 inches (7.62 centimeters) long. You can use just one type of flower, or a variety.


Daisies and dandelions are classical, but you can also use alyssum or forget-me-nots.
Flowering herbs, such as mint, thyme, oregano, chamomile, and lavender work as well. They will also smell great.
 This will make the flowers easier to braid and take off any unnecessary bulk.
 This will keep the flowers fresh while you work. Braided flower crowns can take a while to make, and the picked flowers may wilt by the time you get around to using them.
 Wrap a small piece of wire around the stems a few times, and snip the excess off. Try to get wire as close to the blooms as possible. You want all the blooms to be at the same level; if one sits higher than the other, your crown will look uneven. The wire will hold the flowers together while you braid them.


If you don't have any floral wire, use twist ties or thread instead.
 Take the left stem and pull it over so it ends up between the middle and right stems. Take the right stem and bring over so that it ends up between the left and middle stems. Keep doing this until your braid is 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) long., The new flower should sit just beneath the one that is already in the braid.
 Keep them together; they will count as one stem.
 The new flower should sit just below the flower that is already in the braid.
 Don't let the stems spread apart. Try to keep them together and think of them as one thick stem.
 The sections you are braiding will get thicker and thicker as you continue to add flowers.


Try using different types of flowers. This will add color, texture, and beauty.
Don't be afraid to weave in a few leaves, vines, or grasses.
 You want the garland to be a little large, because you will be overlapping the two ends. This will make the crown more secure in the end.
 Place the wire just beneath the blooms of the last bunch of flowers. Wrap the wire around the end of the garland a few times, then snip the excess off with a pair of wire cutters. This will hold your flowers together and keep the garland from unraveling.
 Overlap the ends until the crown sits comfortably on your head. Hold the two ends together as you take the crown off.
 When you come across a flower, thread the wire underneath the bloom. You are binding just the stems together. Once the crown is secure, snip the excess wire off. Gently tuck both ends of the wire into the braided stems.

