 Figure out what your income is before and after taxes. Mark down your fixed, essential expenses, such as your rent or mortgage. Look at your utility bills’ histories to figure out your average monthly expenses.Give yourself a 10% buffer for expenses like groceries. For example, if you plan on spending $250 a month for groceries, give yourself an extra $25 buffer to budget $275 a month.
Try to save at least 10% of your income.
When making your budget, consider using a budgeting app to help you break down how you spend your money.
 Fill your fridge and pantry with healthy food items. Cut down on junk, prepared, and processed foods, which are not only less nutritious but often more expensive. Consider shopping for grains and non-perishable foods in bulk in order to cut your grocery budget.


Freeze foods where you can, and consider cooking meals in bulk then freezing leftovers for later use.
Look for local farmer's markets and compare the cost of their produce with what's available at your grocery store.
Use coupons where you can, and check local newspapers or a grocery store's front entrance for coupon books. If you go to a chain grocery, look on their website for weekly deals before heading out to shop.
 Remember, the sooner you start reducing your costs, the more money you’ll end up saving. Cut down on going out to eat, to the movies, and on other costly outings. Instead, stream a movie in your living room, learn to cook a gourmet meal, and schedule a regular board game night with your family and friends.Be conscious of your gas budget as well. Avoid going for long drives just for fun, and be a little extra careful not to drive over potholes and other hazards to avoid unnecessary maintenance.
 Try to reduce the amount of money you spend on your clothes and accessories. Avoid extra expenses that are flashy or in season, and check out thrift and consignment shops for cool finds.


When you do buy clothes, try to find options that are versatile and can be mixed and matched into various outfits.
When you wash your clothes, make sure to separate them by color and fabric and use cooler water temperatures to increase their lifespan.

