 Registered nurses perform all nursing functions while working closely with physicians. Many RNs supervise nursing aides and LPNs. Registered nurses must have a 4-year, Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degree from an accredited college or university. During the course of their studies, Colorado RN candidates can select a specialization. RNs sometimes pursue a Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) degree, which gives them more opportunity for advancement, including jobs in management, as nurse practitioners and specialized nursing. An MSN also is required to teach nursing.
 Colorado RNs often select a specialization and pursue it during the clinical phase of their training. Your focus can be based on your interest in a particular field of medicine, job availability, pay rate or advancement potential. Some of the leading nursing fields in Colorado are:


Obstetrics: Many nurses find caring for expectant mothers to be a rewarding career.
Emergency room: This is a stressful and challenging specialty that requires decisiveness and an ability to withstand emotional pressure. Emergency-room nurses can work any time of the day.
Surgical: RNs who specialize in this area of nursing assist surgeons during operations and must be detail-oriented.
Public health: Nurses working at public-health clinics help many patients and must be able to diagnose and treat a wide range of illnesses.
Intensive care: Nurses who specialize in ICU closely monitor patients' vital signs and medications, and sometimes must perform emergency procedures. ICU nurses are needed 24 hours a day.
Gerontology: Caring for older patients, often in nursing homes. This field will require study of geriatric diseases like Alzheimer's. It also may require an emphasis on emotional and psychological facets of care.
 After completing your clinical and classroom work, you will be required to pass the National Council of State Boards of Nursing, or NCLEX, exam to become a licensed nurse. All nurses must be licensed before they can practice in Colorado. The NCLEX-RN exam is for aspiring registered nurses. The NCLEX-PN is for practical nurses in Colorado. An applicant must:


Be a graduate of an accredited LPN or RN program.
Be a Colorado resident.
Pay all application fees.
Arrange to take the exam by registering with the Colorado Board of Nursing via standard mail, telephone or online.
Complete the test, which is intensive and can take 5 to 6 hours to finish.

