 It is important to find a type of art that you enjoy. This can mean trying a few different varieties settling on the one you love best. Consider drawing, painting in oils, painting in watercolors, drawing with charcoal, sculpting, making installations, and wood carving. Be open to experimenting with different styles of art.


You might find that a trip to the art store will make your choice for you. Certain art media are more expensive than others. Consider starting off with something like drawing, which does not require expensive materials, and then moving on to other forms of art once you have the skills and resources to support them.You might also find that as your skills evolve, you will move on to more complicated forms of art. After you develop the ability to replicate shapes in drawing, you might want to introduce colors and move on to painting.;
, It's hard to be a good artist without the right gear. Think about the basics first, to keep it affordable to allow you to experiment. Once you're happy with the art form you've chosen, start to expand your art kit and add more advanced items until you have a decent amount of tools at your disposal.If you can't afford the items, look online for locals selling their art equipment.
 Go to art shows or look online for local artists. Once you find one who you like, talk to her about lessons. Remember, you don’t need to rediscover all of the artistic techniques that have been developed over the past two thousand years. There are people who can teach you these methods.Professional feedback can also be very helpful for your development. Learning from your mistakes is vital and usually requires someone else who can see your work objectively.
 Usually art school is the best way to master your craft. But, if you’re having trouble getting into a good art school or don’t believe that a four year degree fits your schedule, there are other options. Most community colleges offer art class that you can take individually. These are usually cheap and can even help you develop the skills to get into a better school.Fear not. Although art school can be a great way to improve your skills, there are few fields where your degree matters less than in art. Ultimately, you will be judged on the basis of what you produce., There is always room to learn new techniques and styles. While the internet has some of these resources, you will find the most comprehensive treatment of these subjects in full length books. Start with the art books that you can find in your local library and then look online for the best reviewed books., If you don't practice, you won't get better. You should make practice a habit. Allot a specific amount of time per day to practicing—even better allot a specific period in the day to practice. Don’t be afraid to challenge yourself and try new things when you practice.


Try things that you know that you can’t do. You can learn a lot more by grappling with things you don’t know than by repeating things you’re already good at.Don’t worry about how good what you’re doing is. The only way to learn new things is to experiment.Try a master study. A master study a type of practice wherein you take a great work of art and replicate it. It probably won’t be perfect. But you will be learning from the best., Give yourself plenty of time to improve and test the direction your art is taking. This means being patient and giving yourself time to stand back and obtain a bigger perspective of where you're headed. Most importantly, keep at it.


Personal style takes time to develop. Don't expect it to be innate. It is like the sculptor chiseling away at the rock; what you're capable of can take years to be revealed.

