 Keep a small notepad where you can write down tasks that need to be done. If you are in the middle of something important and get interrupted, writing down what you need to do later will help you remember.Consider using a notepad on your cell phone, tablet, or computer, where you can type in a short to-do list electronically.;
, If you're busy with school, work, or caring for your family, it can be hard to keep track of all the assignments, meetings, and events going on each day, week, or month. A calendar will help you to avoid forgetting when something is due as well as the exact time and date.Consider using a monthly calendar at your home or office for events that are specific to work or family. An office calendar can help you remember important meetings or a co-worker's birthday. A calendar at home can help you remember upcoming travel, appointments, or special events with family.
Consider having a calendar on your cell phone or in your bag. That way you can update your calendar as you go.
 If you need to do something on a routine basis, such as take your medications at a certain time or wake up at a certain time, there are various ways to make remembering things easier. Consider these ways to alert yourself:


Write a note, and place it in an area where you always look — near your computer screen, on the refrigerator, or on your bathroom mirror.
Set an alarm. If you need to set alarms throughout the day (and not just to wake up), consider using your cell phone's alarm clock, a watch with alarm settings, or another device that has an alert feature.
 If, for example, you always forget to pack your yoga mat for class after work, you can work on making this part of your daily routine and create a new habit. Making something a habit takes time (longer for some than for others), but it can be done. Try forming habits by using the 3 Rs: Reminder, Routine, Reward.Reminder — This is the cue that begins the behavior. Try picking something you already do every day as your reminder. For instance, let's say you pick out your outfit for the next day before you go to bed. Use this as a cue to put your yoga mat with your work bag — piggy back on something that is already an established habit.
Routine — This is the action. Using the above example, the action would be packing your yoga mat. It could also be flossing, putting down the toilet seat, paying your bill, etc.
Reward — This is the payoff for the behavior. If something good happens as a result of your routine, you are more likely to stick with it. You can even congratulate yourself each time you follow through, saying something like, "Yes! You did it!"

, You may postpone doing something because it will take a long time, isn't fun, makes you stressed, or seems less important. But when that "something" is due, suddenly you're scrambling to do it because maybe you forgot about it or kept putting it off.


When you're a procrastinator and you forget something, it's likely combination of active avoidance and forgetfulness.
Identify things that you continue to "forget" that may be due to procrastination. When you understand the things or activities that trigger procrastination, you'll be less likely to forget about them, as well as seek ways to address these stressors effectively.
 With a busy and stressful lifestyle, there may be things that you or others do that distract you from getting things done. Distractions can be your own avoidance technique, or they can be external forces that inhibit focus and concentration.Are there people at work or school that regularly consume all your time and energy? They can be external sources of distraction and inhibit your focus.
Do you worry about something regularly that makes it difficult to focus and concentrate? By focusing your time and energy on worries, you may be less able to remember what things you need to do.
Try minimizing distractions at work by disabling notifications for emails and designating a specific time at the beginning and end of each day to respond to them. Put your phone on silent (and turn off the buzz notification as well). If you have your own office, close the door when you need to focus and don't want to be disturbed.

