 Fish oil contains two types of omega-3 fatty acids: eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA.) EPA and DHA are considered essential fatty acids (EFA) in that the body needs a dietary source of these fatty acids. They cannot be produced by the body.There is one other type of omega-3 fatty acid, alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), which is derived from plants. Dogs can only efficiently use EPA and DHA, as ALA needs to be converted by the body to fatty acids and the dog’s body inefficient at this conversion.;
, If your dog suffers from skin allergies, or painful arthritis, fish oil could help your dog's condition. It takes about 3-4 weeks for the levels of fish oil to build up in the body, so you need to keep giving a daily dose for at least a month to decide if it has helped your dog.If you’re supplementing a visibly healthy dog, you may not see any outward sign that the fish oil supplement is working.
 When dogs get older, their joints can get weaker. Fish oil tablets can help the tissue in the joints become stronger allowing an older dog to walk easier.


Heart attacks are also more common in older dogs and fish oil will help keep there heart healthy.
In both young and old large dogs, hip dysplasia can happen. However, adding fish oil to the dog's diet, in addition to exercising it with gentle swimming, can help build back the ligaments in the hips.
 While your veterinarian is the best source for dosing advice for a older or sick dog, general dosing instructions will work on a healthy dog. For healthy dogs, doses can range from 50 to 220 mg per kilogram of weight or 22 to 100 mg per pound of body weight. This range of dosages are usually well tolerated.Do not use any higher doses than these, as adverse effects can start at higher doses.
To make dosing easier, particularly for small dogs, manufacturers have made small capsules, chews and liquid forms. Generally the oil is placed on the food and most dogs readily eat it this way.
 If your dog is unhealthy or suffers from any disease ask your veterinarian for advice before using fish oil supplements. In some cases they can make a condition worse.
 If you are giving the fish oil in pill form, and your dog won't eat the pill, smear it with peanut butter before you give it to the dog. Follow with a dog treat to make sure the dog has swallowed the pill.
 Fish oils can cause some negative effects on a dog’s health if doses are not calculated correctly or if they are given to dogs with chronic health problems. In lower doses fish oil is usually well tolerated even by dog’s with health problems, but adverse effects can include:Increased bleeding
Stomach upset and diarrhea
Pancreatitis
Slower wound healing
Insulin sensitivity (use with caution in dogs with diabetes and only under a veterinarian’s guidance)
Weight gain
Toxin exposure (due to the problem with contamination of fish)

