 Physical affection helps individuals feel loved, appreciated, and understood. But intimacy can be demonstrated through more than just sex. Frequent displays of physical affection, such as cuddling on the couch, a morning hug, or resting a hand on your leg at the movies, are good signs that your significant other feels very close to you.A study by Brigham Young University psychologists suggests there are 7 basic types of physical affection (separate from sexual intercourse): backrubs/massages, caressing/stroking, cuddling/holding, hugging, holding hands, kissing on the mouth, and kissing on the face.Couples who engaged in these acts frequently rated themselves as resolving conflicts more quickly and easily and feeling more satisfied in their relationships.
 If you’re like most people and have very busy lives, the two of you probably can’t spend every moment together. However, if your significant other actively arranges for you to spend time together, whether it’s an elaborate weekend getaway or grabbing a quick workday lunch together, it’s a good bet they enjoy investing time and energy into your relationship -- a sure sign of love., A person who loves you will try to make your life easier when they can. These helpful gestures don’t have to be huge; offering to run to the drugstore for you when you’re sick may not seem super romantic, but it shows a level of care and attachment that indicates your significant other really cares about you.
 Compromise is a necessity for long-lasting love. If the other person is willing to give up on the idea of being ”right” sometimes, they probably care about maintaining their relationship with you more than they care about their ego.The other person offering to do things that they really don’t enjoy is a particularly good sign that they’re crazy about you. If your significant other really hates parties but is willing to go to your office Christmas party with you because they know it will make you happy, it’s a pretty good bet they truly love you.
 Research shows that individuals who rate highly on feeling “in love” with another person usually want to know where that person is and what they’re doing, not out of a lack of trust but because they’re interested in the other person’s life. People in love also spend significant amounts of time thinking about the person they’re in love with when they’re apart.If your significant other routinely checks in throughout the day to ask you what’s up or what you’re doing, it’s a good sign that they feel attached to you.


There’s a difference between feeling attached and being controlling. If your significant other demands to know where you are at all times, refuses to let you go places without him/her, or expresses distrust of your friends, these may be warning signs of a larger relationship issue., If your significant other is in love with you, they will probably want you to be involved with the other people who are important to them. Meeting your significant other's family and hanging out with their friends are excellent signs that your relationship is more than casual.The flip-side of this is how well they know your friends and family. if they seem interested in meeting the people closest to you, they’re probably in it for the long haul.

