 Because Sylveon is an evolved form of Eevee that can't be captured anywhere else in the game, you'll need an Eevee to start with. If you already have one caught, you can proceed to the next step, but if you don't, you'll need to catch one yourself.


In Pokémon X and Y, Eevees can be caught on Route 10, which is located between Geosenge Town and Cyllage City.
Eevees can also be caught in the Friend Safari, an area that uses another player's 3DS Friend Code to generate an area containing Pokémon of a single type. Because Eevee is a Normal-type, you'll need to use a Friend Code that generates a Normal-type safari.
Finally, Eevee can also be obtained from a trade with another player.;
, The first requirement for Eevee to evolve into Sylveon is that it must know at least one Fairy-type move. Unlike other Fairy-type Pokémon like Clefable, no moonstone is needed to evolve Sylveon. Eevee learns two Fairy-type moves from leveling up: Baby-doll Eyes at Level 9 and Charm at Level 29.Note that Eevee can't learn any Fairy-type moves from TMs.
 The second condition for evolution into Sylveon is that your Eevee must have at least two affection hearts for you in Pokémon-Amie. Pokémon-Amie is a feature new to Pokémon X and Y that allows players to develop a bond with their Pokémon by petting it, feeding it, playing minigames with it, and allowing it to play with other Pokémon on your team. Don't worry, this feature is also available in Pokémon ORAS; you can find it in the PlayNav.


Pamper your Eevee in Pokémon-Amie until it has at least two Affection hearts before proceeding. You can do this either before or after you've taught it a Fairy-type move. Make sure you only get 2-3 hearts, because maxing out Eevee's affection may cause it to evolve into Espeon or Umbreon.
 Once your Eevee has at least two Affection hearts and knows a Fairy-type move, level it up. You can do this through random battles, fights with other trainers, and so on. Once your Eevee levels up, assuming the conditions above have been met, it should immediately evolve into Sylveon. Congratulations!

, While leveling your Eevee up in the vast majority of the areas of the game will cause it to evolve into a Sylveon once the conditions above are met, there are several important exceptions that you'll want to be aware of. Failing to observe these exceptions can cause your Eevee to evolve into an undesired form! Two of Eevee's evolved forms, Leafeon and Glaceon, require you to level up the Eevee near a moss rock or an ice rock respectively to achieve the evolution. If you level up your Eevee near either of these, it will evolve into one of the other forms no matter whether or not you met the conditions for Sylveon above. In Pokémon X and Y, the spots to avoid are:


Route 20, which contains a moss rock.Frost Cavern, which contains an ice rock.