 Low lunges can be a good pose to start a posture-focused yoga practice, because they engage the whole body to get your blood flowing and warm up your muscles as well as stretching your legs and opening up your hips.From all fours or downward facing dog, step your right foot forward between your hands on an exhale so that your right knee is directly over your right ankle. Slide your left foot back until you feel a stretch in your groin, rolling over your toes so the top of your foot is resting on the mat.
On an inhale, lift your torso to an upright position, drawing your tailbone down and lifting your chest. Hold the position for a minute, then lower your hands back to the floor on an exhale, turn your left toes under, and return to all fours. Repeat, switching legs.
 Balancing on one leg is a good practice for any athlete, and extended-leg balance pose will strengthen your legs while also improving your posture.From a standing position, raise your right leg up and hold it out in front of you, flexing your foot. Keep your hands on your waist and firm up your core.
Breathe deeply through this pose for 5 to 10 breaths, then lower your leg to stand and repeat with the other leg.
 Balance is important for all athletes, but especially for runners. Tree pose will help train your core to stabilize your spine for better alignment and improved posture, preventing running pain and injury.Start in a standing position with your feet, knees, and thighs together. Lift your right leg, bending your knee, and grasp your right ankle with your hand. Pull your right foot up to place the sole of your right foot on your inner left groin with your toes pointing toward the floor.
Focus on a point several feet in front of you on the floor, and release your ankle to come to a standing position. Firm up your lift thigh and your core to find a stable balance.
Extend your arms overhead and hold the pose for 5 to 10 breaths, then slowly lower your right foot to the floor in a controlled movement. Repeat the pose on the other side.
 Running doesn't involve much twisting, so use this delicious twist to open up space in your spine and relieve any stiffness in your neck.Come to a comfortable seated position, then cross your right leg over your left so that your right foot is flat on the floor next to your left thigh, knee pointed upward.
On an exhale, reach back with your right arm and twist your torso toward your knee, bringing your right arm to rest on the outside of your right knee and turn your head in the direction of the twist.
Bring yourself back to center on an inhale, then repeat the twist on the other side. You also can hold the twist for a minute or two if you prefer, breathing deeply. With every exhale, try to deepen the twist a little more.
 Bow pose will open your chest and give your shoulders a good stretch, as well as providing length in your spine. Prepare for bow pose by lying flat on your stomach on your mat.On an exhale, bend your knees and reach your arms back to grab your ankles or the tops of your feet. Press your feet away from your head as you pull them towards you with your arms, creating opposition.
Hold this pose for 5 to 10 deep breaths, keeping your shoulders neutral, shoulder blades melting down your back. Then slowly lower your feet and chest to the floor.

