 You can try to manage your addiction to chocolate by having it in moderation as part of a daily snack. Incorporating chocolate in a limited and healthy way into your diet can make it easier to control your cravings.You may try having chocolate covered fruit, such as strawberries, blueberries, or melon, as a snack rather than a chocolate bar. Or you may have trail mix that contains dark chocolate pieces or try chocolate covered nuts as a snack.
Try to vary how you add chocolate to your snacks. Make sure you balance the amount of chocolate in your snacks with other healthy items, such as fruits and nuts.;
, You may also attempt to control your cravings by only having one chocolate per a day. You may go for a small portion size, such as a three squares of dark chocolate or a small bar of chocolate, rather than a larger portion size, such as a jumbo piece of chocolate. Try to limit yourself to having 30g of chocolate a day, once a day, so you do not go overboard.When you do have your one chocolate for the day, go for high quality dark chocolate. Dark chocolate made with 70-85% percent cocoa does not have as much added sugar or fat as milk chocolate. High quality dark chocolate is also often richer in taste and texture than other chocolate, making it easier to eat less of it.
 You may also try drinking hot cocoa to help you manage how much chocolate you consume every day. Prepare a nice cup of hot cocoa and limit yourself to one a day. You may have your one cup of cocoa in the morning or in the afternoon as part of your lunch.If you are still eating a piece of chocolate every day, try alternating a hot cup of cocoa one day with a single piece of chocolate the next, rather than having both in one day.
When you prepare hot cocoa, use low-fat milk or a milk substitute like almond or soy milk to reduce the fat content. You should also go for high quality cocoa, with no additives or added sugar.
 When you do have your one piece of chocolate a day, it may help to make it feel like a ritual. Sit down and take some time to enjoy your one piece of chocolate at the same time every day. You may have your one piece of chocolate at the midpoint in the day with a cup of tea or at night as you are watching television.Pick a set time for having your one piece of chocolate and try to be consistent. Having a set ritual for having chocolate will help ensure you only consume chocolate at a specific time and not throughout the day.
When you do sit down for your one chocolate ritual, savor the experience. Chew the chocolate slowly and let yourself enjoy the taste. Take your time to savor the chocolate so you do not end up craving more later., If you have a lot of chocolate readily available to you at home, you may be tempted to eat too much of it. Get rid of excess chocolate in the house, and don’t buy more than you need for the healthy diet you have planned.