,


First you must enter your club name. Make sure your satisfied with your name, as it can not be changed. If your role play club is a school, you may want a name such as Redwood Prep, Clarherst Academy, or Shady Hills High. If it's a town, perhaps something like Riverville or Clifftown.
Next, you  must enter a brief description for your club. It could be something simple such as "Hollywood High: Where only the best succeed..." Or slightly more descriptive. Remember: you have limited space. (Note: Your club description can be changed as often as you like.)
Finally, you must choose the club category, language, and membership type (private or open). Role play clubs typically fall under Tears and Joy or Miscellaneous. The club language should be the language that you speak (It's assumed that's English if you're reading this). As for membership type, this is completely up to you.

Click the "Create Club" button. Congratulations, you now have your own Stardoll club!



,


To do this, open a Microsoft Word document on your computer and play around until the font, colors, and text are the way you want. Your text should include the name of the club, a little bit about the club ("Welcome to Ford Academy..."), a list of cliques (if your club has cliques), and anything else you feel like adding that will draw people to your club.



Your club's poll can be found at the bottom of the club home page. A good poll question to start out with is "Which event should we hold first?". Then you can list options such as A Dance, A School Play, Cheerleading Tryouts, etc.



This is where members of your club can enroll their characters in your role play and describe their characters. In the description for this topic, put the following:
Name: Age: Hometown: Personality: Appearance: Bio:
These are the basics, but you can add other things such as Likes/Dislikes, Hobbies, Dreams, etc.



It's important that you have other discussions ready for role playing, even before your club has any members. Otherwise, people who join your club will get bored and leave the club.
A good discussion to start out with is a welcoming dance. This gives role play characters a chance to get acquainted.
Your discussions should vary in topic. Some ideas are a park, dorms (if your role play setting is a school), library, movie theater, Starbucks, etc.



Now that your club is ready to go, you need members! Broadcast your club, post in people's guestbooks, ask your friends to join...just get your club name out there!
Be patient. Usually the number of members a club already has influences how quickly people join the club, so the number of people joining might start out slow, but will rise.



Remind members to stay active and post often.
Create special events such as blizzards or parties to keep things interesting.
Keep recruiting members. The more the merrier!

,


This way you can see what's trending in role playing, get ideas for role play plots, and meet other role players who may want to join your club!

