 India’s University Grants Commission sets regulations for higher education, including essential qualifications for university professors. Incoming assistant professors will need at least a Master’s Degree or equivalent in a relevant subject from an accredited Indian or foreign university. Your application will be stronger if you have a Doctoral Degree.Keep in mind that you will not be able to advance through promotion from an assistant to an associate professor without getting a PhD.
 Besides having a degree, you will need to submit transcripts that prove your marks or grades are above average. Indian universities will judge your record according to the evaluation standards set by your degree-granting university., While assistant professor positions usually do not require a minimum number of publications, your application will be stronger if you have a record of original research in your field. Submit articles to peer-reviewed journals and book proposals to academic publishers in order to show that your work has been vetted by fellow scholars.In order to secure promotions, you will need to hit a minimum number of qualifying academic publications (5 for associates, 10 for full professors), so you might as well start early!

, If you only have a Master’s Degree, you will need to pass a qualifying exam in order to teach at an Indian university. You can either take the University Grants Commission’s National Eligibility Test (NET) or one of the UGC’s approved equivalent exams, such as the SLET/SET (the State Eligibility Test for the appropriate region in which the university is located).If you have a qualifying PhD, you are exempt from having to take an eligibility test.
 You can look for job openings through specific university websites or search for comprehensive listings at dedicated academic job sites, like IndianFaculty.com. Each opening will include information about the associated duties, necessary requirements, and application process for the job. Be sure that a position aligns with your needs and qualifications before applying.