 Seafood and poultry are two excellent sources of protein.They’re also healthier options than other forms of meat protein because they’re generally lower in fat.


In addition to being a great source of protein, many seafood options, such as salmon, are also rich in omega-3 fatty acids, which are good for the heart.Dark meat poultry is slightly higher in fat than white meat. You should also remove the skin from poultry before cooking because it’s loaded with saturated fat.Pork tenderloin is another protein-rich white meat.It is less lean than poultry but still leaner than red meat.;
, When you do have a dish that calls for beef, ensure that you use lean beef. Lean cuts are generally only 1g higher in saturated fat than skinless chicken, and they’re still a great source of protein.Some examples of lean cuts of beef include top round, sirloin, flank steak, and 93% ground beef. A 3.5 oz serving of lean beef has 10g or less of fat, 4.5g or less of saturated fat, and less than 95mg of cholesterol.In addition to a source of protein, lean cuts of beef also contain zinc, iron, and vitamin B12.Look for the terms “loin” or “round” to help pick out lean cuts of beef.
 Milk, cheese, and yogurt are all good sources of dietary protein.Full-fat options can carry heavy calorie counts, though, so always opt for low-fat options (such as 1% or skim milk) to maximize the amount of protein while minimizing calories.Dairy products are also a great source of calcium and many are fortified with vitamin D.Try strained Greek or Icelandic yogurt for a higher protein snack. Each 6 oz serving has about 14g protein, compared to 10g in low-fat yogurt., If you’re looking to add more protein on a budget, eggs are one of the least expensive sources of protein you can find.The American Heart Association even says that healthy adults can safely add an egg to their diet every day.As with dairy products, you can also maximize protein while minimizing fat based on how you eat the eggs. Egg whites contain nearly 50% of the protein in the entire egg while containing almost no fat,so consider separating the egg white from the yolk when eating eggs. Purchasing a carton of egg whites can also be a good option. Be sure to read the label to make sure it is 100% egg whites, since some brands add salt., Beans are a great source of protein for any diet, and they’re also loaded with fiber and other nutrients that keep you feeling full, which makes them a perfect substitute for red meat in a number of dishes, including chili and tacos.1/2 cup of beans even contains as much protein as a full ounce of broiled steak., Soy is another great source of protein, and it’s lower in fat than many other sources, which makes it a heart-healthy option., Almonds, cashews, and pistachios are all relatively low-calorie nuts at approximately 160 calories per ounce.These options also contain between 5-6g of protein in the same serving size as well as beneficial fiber, making them a great protein-rich snack that’s much healthier for you than something sugary and processed.Avoid nuts coated in salts or packaged/roasted in oils. Raw or dry roasted nuts are the best options for maximizing protein while minimizing calories.
 If you are protein deficient or extremely physically active, consider a protein supplement. Many grocery stores sell affordable protein bars or protein powders that you can add to smoothies, shakes, cereal, and other foods.


Check the label on the product to ensure that it contains at least 6g of protein per serving and that it is low in both sugar and fat., Many people assume that the more protein they can pack into their diet, the better. However, there are establish daily recommendations for how much protein someone’s diet should include. The easiest breakdown for this is by age.Children ages 1–3: 13 grams
Children ages 4–8: 19g
Children ages 9–13: 34g
Girls ages 14–18: 46g
Boys ages 14–18: 52g
Women ages 19–70+: 46g (71g if pregnant or breastfeeding)
Men ages 19–70+: 56g

, When considering protein in this manner, it helps to know how much protein is in certain common foods.1 cup of milk has 8 grams of protein
A 3-ounce piece of meat has about 21 grams of protein
1 cup of cooked beans has about 16 grams of protein
An 8-ounce container of yogurt has about 11 grams of protein

, Seeing protein listed in grams can be hard to visualize. Another way to see it is that your daily amount of protein should constitute between 10-35% of your caloric intake., Athletes and the elderly may need more than the Recommended Dietary Allowance for individuals in their age groups to maintain muscle health and proper skeletal function. Ask a health professional or dietitian to help you calculate your daily needs if you are highly active, over the age of 65, or have a metabolic or kidney condition.Vegetarians and vegans are other groups of people who may be at risk of a protein deficiency. However, plant-based diets can still include enough supplemental protein sources. You can find more information about eating enough protein as a vegetarian at: How to Eat More Protein in Your Vegetarian Diet.
 Depending on your current diet, you may already consume adequate protein, even for an active lifestyle. Write down the type and quantity of foods you eat every day for a week (including snacks, drinks, and supplements). If they have an ingredient label, calculate the grams of protein in the serving you consume; otherwise, look up the probable amount of protein in a food through the USDA nutrient database or an online ingredient tool.
 Getting accustomed to the quantity of protein in common foods, such as milk, can help you plan your daily menu to ensure adequate protein intake. If you are concerned about sufficient protein intake, opt for foods fortified with protein, such as energy bars or specialty athletic drinks.
 Consuming a variety of foods can help you achieve your daily protein needs with little additional meal planning, particularly if you do eat animal products. Obtaining the recommended number of servings for dairy, grains, vegetables, and lean protein (such as fish or chicken) every day should provide more than sufficient protein for the average person’s needs.

