 Not all companies offer an online bill payment option, but many larger companies do. Call the company directly or visit their website to find out what bill payment options they offer.If you enjoy the convenience of being able to view and pay your bill all in one place, then you might prefer paying your bills directly on the vendor's website as opposed to on your bank's website. You can't see your bills on your bank's website (except for credit cards and loans issued through the bank).
The downside of paying bills through the vendor's website is that you need to create multiple accounts and log on to a different site to pay each bill.
 You will have to register for an account on your vendor's website, just like you would for an account on your bank's website. You will probably be required to provide an account number, so it's a good idea to have a bill in front of you while you create your account.


If you are creating multiple online accounts to pay bills, you shouldn't use the same username and password for each account. Come up with a unique, secure password for each site., When you have an account on your vendor's website, you typically have access to both current and past bills, so you can easily keep track of your expenses. While each website is different you should see a link that says something like "view bill."Depending on the vendor, you may have different options for viewing your bill. Some vendors will continue to send you a paper bill, even if you pay your bills online, while others will give you the option of receiving your bill by email.
 When you pay your bill through a vendor's website, you will be required to enter a credit or debit card number. Prepaid debit cards are also accepted. You should see a link that says "pay bill." Once you click it, simply enter your card information and submit your payment.Depending on the vendor, you may have the option to pay the statement balance of your bill, the minimum payment, or a custom amount.
Some vendors may also give you the option to store your credit card information so you don't have to enter it each time you make a payment.
 If you don't want to have to worry about remembering to pay your bills each month, you can easily automate them by requesting an electronic funds transfer (EFT) from a checking account or an automatic charge to your credit card.Make sure you ask the provider if there is a cost for this service. It's also very important to make sure you always have enough money in your account to cover the charges, or you may be subject to a fee.
When requesting an EFT, you will need to provide the vendor with your complete bank account information, including the routing number. This can be found on your checks.
If your bill is not the same each month, it will be more convenient for you to set up an automatic payment through the vendor instead of trying to do it through your bank. With the vendor, you can simply request that the amount owed be automatically charged to your card or deducted from your account each month, while you need to provide an exact dollar amount to the bank.
Don't forget to alert the vendor if your credit card number changes.

