 You’ll want a flat, stable surface with plenty of space to spread out your materials in a well-lit and well-ventilated room. If possible, try not to pick an area in a room with rugs, as paint will be more difficult to remove from carpet than wood or tile.
 Begin by washing your hands. Then, using a cotton ball soaked in nail polish remover, remove any previous polish from your nails. Hold the cotton ball against your nail for about ten seconds, and then swipe in a side-to-side motion. Use a Q-tip and nail polish remover to clean the edges of your nail.

It’s a good idea to use nail polish remover even if you don’t have any polish on. This will remove natural oils that might prevent the paint from properly adhering to your nail.
 You’ll want your nails to match, so they should all be the same length. Start by cutting them down, and then use a file to smooth out the rough edges. You can also use your file to shape your nails into either a rounded or squared edge, depending on your preference.


Be sure to file in one direction, from the outside toward the center of the nail, rather than in a back-and-forth motion. This will prevent your nails from breaking.
 Your cuticles are the little strips of skin at the base of each of your nails. When you push this skin down, you get a cleaner looking manicure and a broader area of your nail for painting and decorating! Use a cuticle stick to gently move this skin down to the very bottom of your nail bed.You may want to soak your fingers in hot water for a few minutes before you push back your cuticles. The water will soften the skin and make the process easier.
 Do this instead of shaking the bottle, as this motion will warm and mix the polish without creating bubbles. Avoiding bubbles results in a smoother manicure., Start with a base coat, and then let it dry for about five to ten minutes. Next, apply two coats of your chosen color, allowing each coat to dry completely before applying the next one. Finish it off with your choice of nail art.
 Once your nail art is dry, apply your final coat of clear polish. This will prevent the nail polish from cracking or chipping, and it will add some extra shine to your nails. Be sure to apply a swipe of polish on the underside of your nail for added protection.