 This "truss" is the basic structure of the pyramidal design.Prop two cards together into an inverted "V" shape. The top edges of the cards should meet, and the bottom edges should be evenly spaced apart from a central axis. Spend some time practicing this process. You'll need to repeat it over and over again in the construction of your house., Create a steady line of triangular trusses, two cards each. The point of each triangle should be no more than one card's length from the point of the next triangle. The number of triangles in the foundation determines the possible height of your house of cards: each "floor" will be built upon one less triangle than the floor below. For instance, if you build a three-triangle foundation, you'll be able to go up three "floors" before the house reaches a point; if you build a six-triangle foundation, you'll have more space to build, and you'll be able to go up six floors. Start with a three-floor house.


Brace each new triangle against the base of the adjacent triangle. Eventually, you should have three triangles (using six cards, total) that are all touching.
 Gently lay a flat card on top of the first two triangles (say, 1 and 2). Make sure that the card is perfectly balanced between the points. Now, lay another card between Triangles 2 and 3. You should have a "foundation" of three triangles with two flat cards on top. This takes eight cards, total., If your foundation comprises three triangles, the next "floor" up should use two triangles. Try to stack each new triangle at the same angle as the two triangles below, for the sake of structural integrity. Place the base of each card above the point of a lower triangle. When you have formed these two triangles, lay one flat card on top between their points.Be extremely careful. If you built the foundation well, it should be strong enough to hold up these new cards – but you will need to keep from knocking the whole thing over with a tremble or sudden movement. Stack the new cards lightly and cautiously.
When you've finished laying the second "floor", your tower should comprise thirteen cards: five triangles and three flat cards.
 To complete your house of cards, you just need to stack one more triangle atop the structure. Slowly and carefully prop two cards together at the same angle as all of the prior triangles. Hold them in place until they are completely even, and pull your hands away when you feel confident that the point will stand on its own. If the structure stands, you have built a house of cards!

