 In order to practice volleyball, you need access to good equipment, including a comfortable outfit that allows a range of body motion, shoes specifically designed for volleyball, and a good quality volleyball. As well, you should have access to a volleyball net and court.


Men, especially taller men, may need to opt for a basketball shoe instead of a volleyball shoe.In order to do some volleyball drills, it can be helpful to practice against a tall smooth wall or a basketball hoop.;
, When you play volleyball, you will assume a basic ready position. Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart and bend your knees. Make sure your body weight is more on the balls of your feet so that you are ready to move quickly.Hold your arms loosely in front of you

, Many volleyball moves require you to move quickly from side to side. Minimize the amount of movement (and the amount of energy required) by shuffling your feet side to side. Stand in the basic ready stance and move sideways in a straight line. Keep your body low to the ground.Do not cross your feet over one another while shuffling. You might trip.
Once you’ve got the hang of shuffling your feet, start integrating it into other drills, such as passing the ball to another player.
 Serving the ball is done from one back corner of the court. The ball is hit over the net. This puts the ball in motion in the game. To serve the ball, toss the ball straight up into the air with one hand. Bring your other arm up over your head to hit the middle of the ball. Make sure to fully extend your arm, and make contact with the ball when your arm is extended. It is also important to make sure the ball is in front of you when you make contact with it. Keep your arm moving downward in order to follow through with the hit. Your footwork is also very important here, as it can determine how hard you hit the ball, and if it even goes over the net. you can either start with the foot opposite of the hand you're hitting with, or on the same side as your hitting hand. If you start on the same side that you hit with, you will take another step, and lean on that opposite foot for leverage.If you start on the opposite foot you hit with, you will simply toss the ball, and lean in as you hit. You will need to see which works best for you, and also practice your timing., Stand in the basic ready position as the ball is moving downward. Position yourself just behind where the ball will land. The earlier you’re ready to hit the ball, the more time you have to make minor adjustments.


Put your arms together in front of you with your elbows close together. Hold the back of your hand in the palm of your other hand and press your thumbs together. Don’t swing your arms; rather, move your shoulders to pass the ball.Use the force of your core and lower body to power the ball in the right direction.
 Setting the ball is a maneuver in which one player makes contact with the ball, setting it up for another player to spike the ball. Set the ball by raising your arms above your head. Touch all of your fingertips together and then pull your hands apart so there is just enough room for the volleyball. When the ball comes down over the net or is passed from another player on your team, get under the ball and bounce it up with your fingertips.Do not touch the ball with your palms. A correct set uses only the fingertips of the thumbs, index fingers and middle fingers.
Work up to properly setting the ball by first catching the ball in between your fingertips. Once you’ve mastered the ball settling into your hands smoothly and with balance, then work on springing the ball into the air with your fingertips.
 Spiking the ball is a technique to hit the ball forcefully over the net so that the other team has a hard time recovering the ball. Spike the ball after another player on your team sets the ball. As the ball moves upward in the air, jump up to meet the ball at its highest point. Hit the top of the ball with the middle of your hand: this will give the ball a solid top-spin, sending it over the net.Spiking the ball effectively requires good timing. If you jump too early or too late, you’ll miss hitting the ball at the best position. Practice spiking frequently to hone your timing.
 Volleyball is a sport that demands keeping your eye on the ball at all times and knowing when to pass, spike or hit the ball over the net. Having a good sense of timing will strengthen your defense.


Develop your sense of timing by practicing drills that emphasize timing, such as blocking the ball at the net. Blocking the ball will demand that you watch the ball carefully and keep your eye on other players’ movements.