 You should give them at least the first two weeks of their life to socialize with their mother and littermates, since separation during this stage often results in aggressive behavior.Kittens learn how to play by interacting with their littermates and mother. For instance, if they bite one of their littermates too strongly, the reaction of the littermate will stop them from biting inappropriately.If kittens are not given sufficient time to socialize with littermates and their mother, they may never learn how to play nicely.A lot of social development happens between the second and seventh week of a cat’s life, but it isn’t until the six month mark that cats start to really understand the social hierarchy in a household.If you get two kittens of about the same age, they will learn how to play nicely with each other. They will understand the pain inflicted by a bite or a scratch, as well as how to reduce such pain by playing nicely., If you start playing with your kitten by wagging your fingers or getting them to latch onto your hands, they will assume this is appropriate behavior. Although it might feel fine when they are small kittens, it will be pretty painful by the time they grow up. So, you should never use your fingers during playtime., By using toys during playtime, you will teach your kitten to direct their attention away from your body and towards an appropriate object, such as a mouse toy. You can use a fishing rod or wand toy, which allows you to keep an appropriate distance between you and your cat while keeping their attention on the toy.

You could also use wrestling type toys, such as furry animals that your cat can pretend to hunt and tackle.
 Every day, you should have an interactive play session scheduled with your cat. Preferably, schedule a fifteen-minute session in the morning and another fifteen-minute session in the evening. The predictability of the play sessions will give your cat a crucial outlet, and help stop any acting out or poor behavior.Regular playtime can help strengthen the bond between you and your cat.
 If your kitten bites or scratches you during playtime, you should avoid hitting them or yelling at them. These tactics will make them want to avoid you altogether and will do nothing to stop the biting and scratching.