 Since you'll be using it as a model, make sure that the fit is just right and looks good on you.


If you don't have a tank top to use as a template, don't worry. You can still make a tank top.;
, The shirt does not need to fit well, unless you want a fitted tank top. If the shirt is a brand new shirt, wash and dry it first. Fabric tends to shrink after you wash it the first time, and you want the shirt to be the right size before you start working on it.
 Even if your shirts are already nice and smooth, it might be a good idea to do this. Ironing will smooth the fabric and make it easier to work with.
 Lay the t-shirt flat on a table, then lay the tank top over it. Make sure that the shoulders of the tank top are aligned with the shoulders of the t-shirt. Also, make sure that the front of both shirts is facing upwards.
 Place straight pins all along the edges of the tank top. Take care to pin all the way through all layers of both shirts. This will keep the shirts from moving, and make your cutting more even.
 If you'd like a finished hem around the armholes and neckline, leave a ½-inch (1.27 centimeters) seam allowance. A finished hem is not a requirement for t-shirt tank tops, as the fabric does not fray. A finished hem will look nicer, however.









If you don't have a tank top to use as a guide, cut the sleeves and collar off of your t-shirt. Consider folding the shirt in half before cutting it, so that both sides will be even., Take the pins out and put the tank top away. Make sure that the t-shirt is still inside out at this point. You won't be turning it right side out until the very end.
 Some tank tops will have a lower neckline in the front than in the back. The same goes for the armholes. Don't trim too much off, if you plan on having finished hems; remember to leave a ½-inch (1.27 centimeters) seam allowance.
 Fold the edges down by ½-inch (1.27 centimeters). Secure the folds with straight pins, and press them flat with an iron. When folding, make sure that you are folding towards the outside, not the inside.









If you'd like the edges to be raw and un-hemmed, you can skip this step. T-shirts are made from jersey material, which does not fray.
 You can sew by hand or use a sewing machine for more professional, durable stitches.









If you are using a sewing machine, try to use a stitch intended for knit fabrics. It looks like a straight stitch, except that it is broken up by a V every few stitches.
When you are done sewing, remember to tie the ends of the threads off into tight knots, and to snip the excess tail ends off.
 The tank top will be a little loose, unless you used a fitted t-shirt or trimmed the sides down.

