 You should ideally work on any homework assignment the same day you get it, even if it isn't due until a week later. That way, you'll learn early on if you don't understand it, and you'll have more opportunity to get the help you need before the due date.The same idea also applies to homework due the following day. Working on it during study hall lets you know if you’ll need clarification before you leave school. Working on it earlier in the evening, rather than right before bed, gives you the chance to contact friends, ask an older sibling or parent for help, or email your tutor or teacher.
 This is good advice for any homework you complete, but it's especially important when working on homework you don't understand. Turn off your phone, sit in a quiet area without noise from a TV or radio, and dedicate your full attention to your homework.The exact location doesn't matter as long as it's relatively free of noise and tempting distractions. You'll need your full concentration when tackling difficult problems.
 While this won’t be applicable to every homework assignment you get, for math problems and science problems, show your work instead of only showing your answers. You may get partial credit if part of the work is accurate, but even when that isn’t the case, your teacher can still highlight where your process went wrong and provide you with the precise information you’ll need to understand the same type of problem in the future.


That said, you should still keep working at a problem until you think you’ve arrived at the right answer--or, at least, at an answer that could be correct.
If you know something went wrong or know which part of the process you don’t understand, you could also consider writing a note for your teacher to that effect. For instance, you might draw an arrow pointing at a formula you don’t know how to use correctly, with a note saying, “I know something went wrong here, but I couldn’t figure out my mistake.”, Always work on every piece of homework you get, and turn in every piece of homework, even if you didn’t fully understand it. Your teacher doesn’t expect your assignments to be perfect. They do, however, expect you to put effort into your education, and that means doing the work they assign to you.


Also keep in mind that many ideas build on each other as you progress through the material, so if you fall behind on earlier assignments, you may not learn the material you need to understand future assignments.
 When you get homework back with corrections on it, redo the incorrect work following your instructor's advice. Ideally, keep going over the corrections until you can solve the problem accurately and understand your previous mistakes.Even if your teacher doesn’t provide detailed instructions, reviewing your returned assignments will at least confirm which parts you were able to understand and which parts you’re still a little lost on. You can then approach your teacher, tutor, parents, or classmates with questions on those parts you still need help with.

