 There are multiple methods to this step, depending on your situation.


For a Game: If you are going out to play an organized softball game, you should obviously be wearing the same uniform as everyone else. This isn't just preferred, it's in the rules. If you aren't wearing the same shirt and shorts as everyone else, you can potentially be kicked out of the game, depending on the umpire's discretion.

For a Practice: Unless your coach has specific dress guidelines for practise, the choices are pretty much open. The simplest option is simply a comfortable t-shirt and shorts. Make sure the shirt is neither too tight or too loose because you need to have a full range of motion to be the best you can be.
;
, Softball games can end up being played in pretty horrible climates, so make sure you check the forecast before heading out for softball. If it's fifty degrees or under, the best idea would be to wear a turtle neck, long-sleeved shirt under your uniform, or at least pack one. And if it's sixty or over, a simple under shirt beneath your uniform would be sufficient.
 Sliders are basically thigh-cut leggings that protect your upper leg from getting scratched when sliding. They should fit quite snugly, and should have pads on each outer side. They should be worn under your shorts.
 Make sure that you tuck in your shirt all around, and not just in the front. The umpire may or may not call you on it if your shirt is only tucked in the front.
 You can have metal spikes or molded/plastic cleats , and should fit you well. Your shoes should also be tied before the game, you may even want to double knot them to make sure they don't come off. Be aware that there are in fact more than one type of cleat; be sure yours are specifically softball cleats, and not any other kind.
 Your glove shouldn't be too big nor too small. Make sure that you can properly snap the glove shut to grab a ball before you go into a game, which could mean breaking it in. Here are some ideas:

Put a softball in your glove and then place it under your mattress. Sleep on it through the night, and it should be flexible in the morning.

Many sports stores own an oil that you can put on your glove before putting it in the oven which does wonders for it's stiffness.

Place a softball in your mitt, and wrap the glove entirely in twine. After a few days of being wrapped up, the mitt should be ready to go.
 Your socks can be any colour: as long as your entire team matches during a game. At a practice, it isn't necessary to wear socks unless your coach prefers it, or if you don't have sliders for any particular reason.
 The umpire can call you out on it if you are wearing jewelry, and you can miss your inning to bat. If you have studs in your ears that cannot be removed for any reason, put tape on your ears. You are not allowed to wear any jewelry, which includes rings, necklaces, metal hair pins/clips, and earrings.
 Although it isn't supposed to, your calf can scrape the ground while sliding. If you think you may accidentally do this, you may want to invest in a good knee pad. While you’re in the field or doing field work, your kneepad can rest at your ankle. However, once you’re at bat, your kneepad should have migrated to your shin. This will do a load of good when you slide. There are two types of kneepads, one of which is placed at your knee. In most cases, people keep it there even when they're not up to bat.

