 The whole grunge persona is built on a sense of ambivalence towards society, consumerism, and conformity. The clothes are worn, large, and comfortable because you don't care about many things anymore. Don't rush around and stress about anything. A grunge girl is content to just sit around and listen to some good music. She is not typically high strung or obsessive. She lets things happen as they happen without much though or care., Now that you have the look, you need to adopt the attitude. Although grunge girls don't care, they get an attitude with people when they try to make them conform or join things. Don't listen when people tell you to do something. Just tell them you want to sit and listen to your music all day long. Do what you have to do in life, but get an attitude with others when they interact with you.


The way Courtney Love, Liv Tyler, and Drew Barrymore acted in the 90s provide perfect examples for the grunge attitude. Their lack of respect for authority and snarky attitude led them to constant trouble and even some arrests.
This doesn't apply to your grunge friends. They understand your carelessness and apathy for the world, which means you don't have to get an attitude with them to get your point across.
 Grunge would not be a way of life if it wasn't for grunge music. While Nirvana popularized grunge music, there are many other grunge bands that you should become familiar with. Research who were the seminal bands of the era and familiarize yourself with their music. Go to your local CD store and look through their rock collection.


While there were many grunge bands in the 90s, some of the most influential were bands such as Hole, Green Magnet School, Pearl Jam, Soundgarden, Garbage, Rage Against the Machine, Alice in Chains, Smashing Pumpkins, 7 Year Bitch, Fastbacks, Temple of the Dog, Mad Season, Cat Butt, Veruca Salt, Skin Yard, Mother Love Bone, Tad, The Gits, Bush, Seven Mary 3, L7, Screaming Trees, Green River, The Melvins, Mudhoney, and Stone Temple Pilots.
Newer bands are still in the style of grunge. Look into Modest Mouse, Afghan Whigs, and Dinosaur Jr.