 Look at your fish and the room the tank is in. Think about what is most important in the look of your tank. Do you want to bring out the color of your fish? Maybe you want the tank to bring a certain mood to the room, or perhaps you would rather it match the existing décor in the room.;
, If you don't already have fish, now is the time to choose which ones you would like to have in your finished setup. Consider your level of experience, tank size, and time commitment. If this is your first aquarium, choose hardy community fish that can survive your learning curve. Once you have a few kinds in mind, visit some fish stores and choose which colors and breeds you would like to have in your aquarium, making sure they are compatible tank mates. Hold off on buying them until your aquarium is set up and cycled. Keep the breeds you want in mind when choosing the rest of your tank elements.
 Once decided, get gravel or sand in the color you want to bring out of your fish,or one that reflects the mood you are looking for. Buy about 1 pound for each gallon of water in the tank, you can add less or more until it looks good to you. If you plan on having live plants, make sure you have at least 1" of gravel on the bottom. Be sure to pick out an appropriate gravel (or sand) for you fish.
 Buy several different types of plants for your aquarium in different shapes and sizes. A variety helps to keep the tank interesting to watch and provides different territories for your fish. Fake plants are easier to take care of, and are better if you're new to aquariums. Live aquatic plants require more care, but can keep the tank cleaner and even provide food and oxygen for your fish.
 Having one main decoration that is larger than everything else can provide a good focal point, but also make sure it won't crowd your tank. Twisted driftwood gives an interesting, natural look to the tank, or you could try a Japanese-inspired statue for an Asian theme. Try to pick something out that compliments your gravel and is functional for your fish. Consider getting a few decorations in different sizes to provide different territories. Decorations that bubble can provide oxygen to your tank, which is important if you don't have another source of oxygen already.
 If one side of your aquarium is going to face a wall, consider attaching a background to it. These simple sheets of plastic can be bought at any pet store, and come printed with beautiful pictures, from undersea plants to deserts. A simple black background will lend a very professional look, hiding cords and tubing and making the colors in your aquarium stand out, especially if you have a lot of plants. If your aquarium is looking a little sparse, a background printed with plants or coral reefs can give the impression of a much lusher environment. Measure your tank before going to the store, and buy a piece at least 1" longer than your tank to account for uneven edges. When you get home, cut it down to the proper size and tape it to the outside of the back of your aquarium.
 Once your tank has been set up and cycled, you are ready to purchase your fish and add them to the tank. Buy only a few fish at first, and then add the remaining fish a few at a time, with two week intervals. Sit back and enjoy the view, and don't be afraid to make changes and upgrades!

,