 Get on the trampoline and bounce up and down. All of the other participants roam in a marked off area about 25 feet (7.6 m) by about 15 feet (4.6 m). This area should be about 10 feet (3.0 m) away from the trampoline.;
, You can only throw the ball while in the air. Any player that is tagged with the ball is then out. The last person standing is the winner of the competition. The players that get knocked out early help return the ball to the player on the trampoline.
, All participants on the ground surrounding the trampoline get to throw balls at the players on the trampoline. Ground participants must not be within arm's length of the trampoline when throwing the ball. This is more unsafe than Game Option 1, but if all 6 safety tips listed below are followed, no one should get seriously hurt.
 Players on the trampoline only jump up and down to avoid the ball.
 There are no winners since it's a continuous replacement of players. You simply quit whenever its time for dinner or time to go home.
 Okay let's face it. Most parents are scared to death that you are going to get killed, so they have a net installed on the trampoline. This is actually better for dodgeball, because you don't have to run and get a ball that went flying in the wrong direction, unless it goes over the net. Anyway... Everybody is on the trampoline, and they have to jump around and not let the ball hit them at all. This is called poison ball (the ball should be on the trampoline just rolling or bouncing around.) If a person is hit, they sit at the edge of the trampoline and roll the ball at people, if they throw the ball and it hits somebody, the person is not out, it doesn't count. This can go on endlessly.
 hit or throw the ball at someone else. If the person is hit while they are on the ground/mat, they are out and proceed to roll the ball at people. If they land on the ball, they are also out). This is called regular trampoline dodgeball.
 In tournaments, you play until there is only one person left standing. All the ones who are out must get off of the trampoline until the next round starts. You can have regular or poison tournaments. These are more fun if there are more than 4 people playing.

