 Make sure there are no other annotations. For best results, buy or ask for a copy of the work that you can mark on directly.;
, For example, decide to underline the thesis statement, circle imagery and make notes on characters and plot in the margins.


If it is helpful to you, a professor or writer, create a legend of your annotations on the first page of the work.
 An initial reading is essential to mark down first impressions and plot developments. Annotation helps you to refer to this initial reading after you begin to write your critique.
 Reading for critiques should be focused reading, so don't do too much at once.
 In addition to annotation, if you are critiquing a draft of a story or essay, questions can help elucidate if the author has additional plot work or if they are simply creating tension.
 During the second reading, expand your annotation for grammar, spelling and character or plot development errors.
 If imagery, character or an argument is well made, highlight it or note it in the columns.
 If you are being asked to do a critique of non-fiction work, it is usually with an attention to scholarship and detail.
 Detail the work, author and subject area. You may want to include initial dates of publication and any changes that were later made to the work that should be taken into account.
 Suggest what you think the thesis statement the author conveys. Add what evidence is used and what the purpose of the article is.
 In 3 or more body paragraphs you should refer to the following subjects:


Explain what the author's credentials are. Establish whether you think the author is reliable in the treatment of the evidence. For example, perhaps the author makes a leap that is outside of his expertise or establishes himself as a foremost expert with this work.
Evaluate the evidence given. Do not be afraid to do this over several paragraphs, if the author uses different types of evidence or studies.
Write about the author's argument. Answer whether it follows a logical path. Decide whether the author was successful.
Outline any counter arguments that the article or book inspired. Detail any possible newer research, changes or holes in the evidence.
 The critique should be based on research and reading; however, it should ultimately say whether you agreed with the author and why.


Try to avoid overly-emotional reasoning and stick to facts about the writing and argument.
 If you are asked to do a general analysis, you can include what you think are the most important problems and assets of the text.
 For academic critiques, the introduction should outline what you are being asked to critique.
 This can be done in the introduction or near the end, if you desire.
 Critiques based on works in progress should begin and end with positive assessments.


The positive assessments should begin with a general description of what is positive in the text. Then, you can include praise of imagery, characters and other details.
 For a published work, this will give your basis for review. For a non-published work, this will tell the author how you interpreted the work.



You do not need to do an analysis of all of these elements, unless you are asked to by the author or assignment. Focus on things that stuck out as you read and reread the work.
 Try not to refer to things that need work as weaknesses.
 It is up to the author to revise.
 If you are doing an academic critique, add how you interpreted the work and found it convincing and complete. If you are doing a draft writing critique, feel free to leave a few opinions or topics for thought and discussion.

Consider presenting your critique to the author in person. Written critiques do not have the nuance of verbal critiques.

