 Before you can collect feedback on your management team from employees and clients, you will need to consider your company’s key performance indicators (KPIs) for managers, which should identify a manager’s roles and responsibilities, as well as the targets used to measure her performance. You may establish KPIs for managers at your company that include:Asking what needs to be done for employees and for the company.
Developing employee action plans and employee goals.
Taking responsibility for decision making, communication, and overall functioning of employees.
Creating opportunities for employees and for the company.
Running productive employee meetings.
Using a “we” approach instead of an “I” approach.
 Use the key performance indicators for your management team to create a survey for employees and a survey for clients that measure the effectiveness of management.


The survey for employees should cover all the key performance indicators for management and ask employees to use examples to illustrate how well or how poor management is doing. You may structure the survey online based on a points system or using a short answer format. You should also note that all feedback will be confidential and will only be shared with management if it is considered valuable or important for the growth of management effectiveness.
The survey for clients should look at how management interacts with clients on a daily basis and how effective management is at communicating with clients. Some managers may have more direct contact with clients than others, so you may need to customize the survey to fit the role of your management team.
 Once employees and clients complete the surveys, you should collect the data and go through them. Look at how each manager scored in the employee feedback and the client feedback, and how the management team scored as a whole.


If management scored low on communication and productive meetings with clients, for example, you may highlight this as something to address in your training of management. If management scores high on developing employee goals and action items, you may note this when you share the feedback with management as a positive takeaway of the surveys.

