 If you bought a new iPhone directly from a carrier, they will usually install the SIM card for you. If not, you'll need to do so.

The SIM card must be activated by your carrier.
If you're using the same carrier and both iPhones use SIM cards of the same size, you may be able to transfer the SIM card from your old device to your new one.
 Do so by holding down the Sleep/Wake button until the Apple logo appears on the screen., The setup assistant will guide you through the process., To do so, tap the language you prefer to use on your device., Do so by tapping the country or region in which you'll use your device., This will be displayed beneath any available wireless networks., Use the USB cable that came with your device to plug the USB end into your computer and the other end into your iPhone's charging port., Do so if it doesn't launch automatically when your device is connected., An icon for your iPhone will appear at the top of the screen once iTunes recognizes it.

Make sure you're running the most recent version of iTunes. To check, click on Help in the upper-left corner, then click on Check for Updates. If prompted, click on Download iTunes.
 You can either:

Click on Restore from iTunes Backup to add the settings and apps from a previous iTunes backup to your replacement iPhone; or
Click on Set Up as New iPhone to start from the device's factory settings.
 This starts the activation process., Doing so synchronizes your iPhone with your iTunes library.

An internet connection is required.
 Do so in the labeled fields., It's in the upper-right corner of the screen. Doing so displays Apple's "Terms and Conditions."

Scroll down to read them.
 It's in the lower-right corner of the screen.

If prompted, tap a backup. Choose the one with the most recent date and time.
Your device will begin downloading the backup from iCloud. After it's restored, your settings, apps, and data will be reinstalled.
When the Lock screen is displayed, your phone has successfully been activated and set up.

