 Find your school handbook, or any packet of policy information that you’ve received, and review the attendance policy section. Specifically find out if they will call your parents if you have an unexcused absence. If they automatically call when you don’t show up, you’ll need to find a way to make sure your parents don’t get the call.


Get your hands on your parents’ phones and block the school’s number the day before you skip. Deceiving your parents and tampering with their phone can get you in big trouble, so weigh the risk before you do this.
If your school does not call when you’re absent, you won’t have to worry about your parents hearing from the school.
Skipping school frequently is called “truancy” and can get you suspended from school. You may have to go before a judge who can order mandatory counselling, extra school, detention, or probation. Skipping school can lead to truancy, which will remain on your permanent record.;
, Pick a specific day that you want to skip school, rather than deciding to skip spontaneously. Give yourself enough time to take some precautions and make arrangements. Take into consideration any tests or special events that you can’t miss.If you miss a big test or project that has a significant effect on your grade, your parents are much more likely to find out that you skipped.
A day when you don’t have much going on will have less consequences when you show back up to school than a day where something important is happening.
 One way to avoid having the school tell your parents that you skipped is to turn in a note for an excused absence a few days before you skip. Write the note in good handwriting and sign it with your parent’s name. Turning in an excuse note before you skip helps you avoid detection.


Practice your parent’s signature so it looks authentic.
Give a simple reason for why you will be gone. Say you are visiting a relative out of town, taking a one day vacation, or doing some work around the house.
Keep in mind that lying to the authorities at your school is never a good idea. If you lie about skipping, you may get in serious trouble.
 If you ride the bus to school, you need to come up with a way to get back home. If your house is close enough, you may be able to walk. Catch a city bus or get a cab if possible. Get a friend or older sibling to drive you home or wherever you decide to go.This is a tricky step, but it is important. If you get stuck at school with no way to leave, you really have no way to skip.
Another option is to tell your parents that a friend is picking you up that day so you don’t need to ride the bus. Then once your parents leave, just stay home.
 If you plan to leave after you are already inside the school, use a door that you aren’t likely to be seen using. If you know of a door that's out of the way and not a lot of people use, this is the best bet for sneaking out. Make sure there aren't a lot of exterior windows or teachers will see you leaving.


Your best bet is to not go inside the building at all, but if your parents drop you off or teachers see you when you arrive, sneaking out of the building is your only option.
You may even have to hide somewhere until school starts so you’re less likely to be seen walking out of the building.
If you get caught leaving school, the punishment could end up being worse than if you hadn’t shown up at all. Leaving school can be risky, so make sure it is worth it to you.
 When you're leaving school with friends, don't walk out of the door together. Go one or two at a time to avoid drawing attention. If possible, have everyone use a different door, too. Establish a meeting place and time, somewhere off of schools grounds, if you can.


If someone doesn't make it, assume they got caught. Don't go back toward the school to find them.
Meet as close to the school as possible but still off of school grounds. You don’t want to have to travel too far before you meet up.

