 This includes late fees, taxes, interest rates, and any other fees that may have been added since the original bill. It should also include the terms of repayment and procedures and rights in the event of default. Contact the creditor before you write the letter to find out these details.;
, Create a budget based upon your current circumstances, including income and monthly expenses. This will help you know how much you can afford to pay in settlement payments to your creditor and will also allow you to prove your case that your settlement is all you can afford to pay. Make sure to collect documentation of this information so that you can prove your financial details if the creditor requests it.A good percentage of net monthly income (after-tax income) to allocate towards debt repayment is 20 percent. This way, you can save 10 percent and put the remaining 70 percentage towards living expenses.
This 20 percent should be used for all debt payments. So, if you have other debts in addition to the one you are negotiating, you will have to factor in that monthly cost before determining how much you can pay on the negotiated debt each month.For example, if your monthly take-home income is $3,000, you would be able to put 20 percent of that ($600) towards debt repayment each month. If your only other debt is your car payment at $200 per month, this leaves you $400 to pay off your negotiated debt each month.
 Your settlement offer, if accepted, will reduce the total amount of debt you repay or modify your payment terms. However, this can be done in several ways. Ask for the solution that fits your situation best. You can ask for a balance reduction, a lower monthly payment, or temporary relief from payments, among other options. Just make sure you can afford the settlement that you ask for.For example, a temporary respite from payments may be useful if you have a temporary income reduction, such as if you've lost your job but are actively searching for a new one. This way, you can continue repaying your loan as you were before when your income returns.
On the other hand, someone with more serious, long term income reduction or high, ongoing expenses (such as a serious medical condition) may be forced to ask for a balance reduction. Doing so allows you to reduce your payments to a manageable level indefinitely.
 When considering your debts and financial situation, focus on your most important debts first. This depends primarily with whether or not your debts are secured with collateral or unsecured. You want to focus first on those debts where default would be the most painful, such as losing a home or an automobile. Letting payments lapse on these debts would be much more difficult for you than, say, your credit card debt.
 You should offer to pay as much as you realistically can given your income and expenses. However, your creditor will likely expect you to repay between 40 and 60 percent of your total debt amount, regardless of what you can afford. Start at the lower bound (40 percent) or your creditor may immediately reject your settlement offer.This also depends on the type of debt settlement you are asking for. If you are asking for a balance reduction due to medical difficulties or another long-term reduction in your ability to pay, your lender may realize that they will have to accept what you offer or risk getting nothing (in bankruptcy proceedings).
However, asking for a payment break due to a temporary reduction in income may mean that you may be required to make higher payments once you regain your income. These payments would be used to make up for the missed payments.
If you are asking for a monthly payment reduction, keep in mind that you can ask for an increase in repayment duration so that you can eventually repay the majority of your debt while paying a lower monthly payment.
You can also work on negotiating a lower interest rate. This would reduce the overall amount paid without changing your principal.
 Overdue debt that has been sold to a collections agency should be handled differently than debt still owned by original lenders. At this point, the debt has been sold for a very small amount and the collections agency just hopes to get back more than they paid. This opens them up for a very small settlement as a percentage of the original debt amount. For example, a collections agency might accept less than 10 percent of the original value, especially for old debts.


Know your creditor rights. Notify creditors to limit communications to letters, rather than phone calls. You do not need to be harassed during this stressful phase.
Before paying anything, make sure the debt is still legally collectible under your state's statute of limitations for debt collections. Collectors may seek repayment for debts that you no longer have a legal requirement to pay.Check the statute of limitations for your state and type of debt by visiting http://www.bankrate.com/finance/credit-cards/state-statutes-of-limitations-for-old-debts-1.aspx and locating the relevant number of years in the chart.
You should consider engaging an attorney to work with creditors. An attorney is evidence that you are knowledgable of your rights, prepared to make collection difficult, and capable of filing bankruptcy as a last resort.
 Address the letter to "Dear Sir or Madam." You can also use the person's name if you know it. Place a header on the left side of your letter with the name of the lender, their address, and "RE:" followed by your account number., Restate your account number and the name that the account is under in your first sentence. State the amount that the creditor claims that you owe and the monthly payment they are asking for., Briefly describe the situation you are in that is preventing you from making your payments. Many borrowers have unexpected health-related expenses and experience job loss, for example, so creditors are used to hearing these reasons. However, don't write a sob story to get your creditor to feel sorry for you. Instead, keep it brief and professional, explaining the situation in objective terms.


Include a description of your financial situation using actual numbers, like your monthly income, living expenses, and debt payments.Make it clear that your only other option is to file for bankruptcy, but do so in a non-threatening way.
It may help your case to attach proof of your situation to the letter. For example, you could include proof of unemployment or a doctor's note that specifies your serious illness., Clearly state that your reason for writing the letter is that you owe money and request a compromise. Be clear about what you are requesting. Do you want a reduced interest rate, longer repayment period, or a reduction in loan amount? Make your offer terms clear in amount and purpose. Ground them in actual numbers by making your monthly repayment amount as much as you can afford given your income and expenses.Be sure that any offer of payment made to creditor would be realistic for you to make. Defaulting on an agreed upon repayment plan can limit future opportunities and your ability to work with future creditors.
 Request that the amount you propose be considered payment in full so that your credit report is not damaged when you negotiate your debt. Creditors can choose what they report to credit reporting agencies, so asking them to not report your debt as unpaid or settled may actually work out.Be clear that you want the debt removed from your credit report, rather than just listed as "paid as agreed." This will protect your credit score., Indicate a date when the payment or payments will be received by the creditor in order for the contract to remain valid.Having cash on hand to pay the debt will likely motivate your creditor to accept your settlement., Do not threaten the creditor and avoid giving too much information about your personal life. Keep your letter to the point and short (under a page).


Avoid lying, pleading, or begging with your creditor for sympathy. They will only respond to cold, hard facts and your offer of repayment.
 Close the letter out with "Sincerely," and then your name underneath. Include your address and telephone number under your name., Consider having a lawyer or credit counselor inspect the debt negotiation letter before you send it to make sure the language is professional and the point comes across clearly. The letter is considered a legal document, so make sure you don't make any statements that can be used against your interests in court (threats, lies, etc.)., Send your letter through certified mail so that you have a record of your creditor's receipt of the letter. Keep copies of your letter, any future letters, and any responses you receive in your records. They will be useful if you end up in court with your creditor in the future., If the creditor does not agree to the sum proposed in your debt negotiation letter, increase the offer until it is accepted. If you cannot afford anything further, stress that accepting some payment for you is in their best interest. They know that if you file for bankruptcy, they will typically receive no repayment, so getting something from you is preferable.If the loan is secured, you may still lose the pledged assets if you file for bankruptcy.
There is also a probability that co-signers will be called upon for payment.
If you end up negotiating on the phone, write down everything that is said. Write down settlement amounts, repayment details, who you talked to, and when you talked to them.Always receive a counteroffer before revising an offer previously made.
Consider getting a recording device for collection/negotiation calls and let callers know you are recording conversation. This is especially useful when dealing with collection agencies.
 To make the agreement legally binding, you will need a written agreement from your lender. Make sure that the agreement clearly states the terms of the settlement and that the settlement, if fully paid, will result in the forgiveness of the original amount. Make sure that your lender creates and signs this document, rather than just signing a copy of your letter and sending it back., Pay the amount that was agreed upon by the specified date in order to uphold your part of the contract. Request a receipt from the creditor once you have paid. The settlement agreement should be kept for seven years in the event another creditor appears with the same debt.
 It should be referred to as paid in full on your report so that your credit score is not negatively affected. If it does not show up as being paid, send a request to the credit bureaus to correct the report, and also include a copy of your debt negotiation letter and receipt.