 You shouldn't be speaking too much and you shouldn't be forcing the other person to hold the entire conversation either. Try to maintain a balance by responding to what the other person is saying rather than waiting for your turn to speak.


Giving positive feedback during the conversation is very helpful. For example, if the person tells you something say "oh, interesting. Can you tell me more?", Self awareness is key to effective communication. You have to understand that while your ten year old cat may be a very important part of your life, other people don't necessarily want to hear about it constantly. Understand what is of interest to others and react according to the way that they respond.You don't only have to use stories from your own life as you make conversation. Don't be afraid to talk about anecdotes that you read or heard from someone else. This will show that you are willing to pay attention to and talk about topics other than yourself., All conversations end at some point, so don't feel discouraged if you stop talking with someone. If you have had a good conversation with someone you don't need to force it to continue along. Gracefully end the conversation.


For example, say something like "it was good talking to you, we should hang out again sometime", or "hope to chat again soon".This will end the conversation on a positive and comfortable note.
 One myth about communication or good social skills is that you are not allowed to disagree with the person you're talking with. This is entirely untrue.. You shouldn't disagree in an impolite or aggressive way, but being willing to express your own opinion will make the conversation more interesting. It will also last longer.


Talking about sports is a good example of polite disagreement. Someone might say, I think this player is the best player in the league right now. If you don't agree you can say something like, "I'm not so sure, have you seen this other player play? He is having a really good year this year. I think he may have passed your player by." This is a polite way of disagreeing that will spark debate without offending the person.