 Once you have caught the possum, you will need to remove the cage with the possum in it. When handling the cage, make sure you wear heavy gloves. Buy gloves that are specifically made for handling animals, for example Kevlar gloves., Before lifting the cage, place a blanket over it. Placing a blanket over the cage will calm the possum. It will also prevent the possum from reaching out to grab your hands, legs, or shoes. When lifting the cage, make sure to lift it by the handle.Do not put your fingers in the trap.






When carrying the trap, carry it away from your legs and feet.
 Place the trap on top of newspaper or in a cardboard box in your car or in the back of your truck. This will prevent any feces from getting on your car while transporting the possum., Contact your local wildlife management agency to find safe and humane relocation areas. Because possums have a great sense of smell and direction, you should relocate the possum to an area that is at least 25 miles from your home.Examples of safe and humane relocation areas are wildlife preserves, forests, and areas that are similar to a possum’s natural habitat.
 When you find a suitable relocation area, safely set the trap down on the ground. Point the opening of the trap away from you, and in the direction of the area where you intend to relocate the animal, i.e., facing the forest. Push down on the safety bar and springs, and pull the trap door all the way up. This will allow the possum to exit the trap safely.Always stand behind the trap cage when you are releasing the possum.






If the possum turns to look at you while it is exiting the cage, put your arms up in the air and make loud predator noises as if you are a bear. This should scare the possum and cause it to turn away and leave.






If the possum does not leave immediately, step away from the cage and go inside your car. Wait 10 minutes before checking the cage again.
 If you are uncomfortable relocating the possum yourself, then contact your local animal control or wildlife management agency. Let them know that you captured a possum and need help relocating it. They will send someone to your home to relocate the possum for you.

