 Many people report changes in their energy levels and mood when experiencing an episode of reactive hypoglycemia. You may experience the following symptoms:Hunger
Weakness
Shakiness
Drowsiness
Sweating
Lightheadedness
Anxiety
Confusion
Decreased awareness;
, Call a doctor if you have hypoglycemia but do not have diabetes or you have diabetes but your blood sugar levels are not returning to normal after ingesting something sweet. Call an ambulance if you or someone you are with has the following symptoms:Losing consciousness
Seeming drunk because they slur their words and lose their coordination
Having seizures
Having blurred vision

, If you think you have reactive hypoglycemia you should make an appointment to discuss your symptoms and have a blood test. Your doctor will likely confirm the diagnosis by:Measuring your blood sugar levels when you are having symptoms. If you have reactive hypoglycemia, your blood sugar should be low when you are experiencing symptoms.
Giving you something to eat or drink when you are having symptoms, then measuring your blood sugar again. If your blood sugar returns to normal and your symptoms stop, this means that you have reactive hypoglycemia.
 Eating smaller amounts more often will help you maintain steady blood sugar levels. People with reactive hypoglycemia should eat small amounts every three hours. This may mean that you need to divide up your larger meals into six or more smaller ones.Bring convenient, healthy snacks with you wherever you go. That way, if you feel your blood sugar drop, you can quickly have a nutritious snack to bring it back up to normal.
Easy snacks include fresh fruits and vegetables like bananas, apples, carrots, green peppers, or cucumbers. Other possibilities include small sandwiches or peanut butter on whole-grain crackers.
 Consult your doctor and/or a nutritionist to create a meal plan that works with your condition and your lifestyle. In general, protein and complex carbohydrates are digested more slowly and will provide energy to your body more steadily, relative to simple carbohydrates and sugars. The latter are more likely to make your blood sugar increase sharply and then crash.Excellent sources of protein include lean meats like fish and poultry, low-fat dairy products, eggs, tofu and beans.
Complex carbohydrates can be found in whole grain breads, whole wheat pasta, brown rice, and oatmeal.
Choose healthy sources of fat which are also digested slowly and can help balance your blood sugar. These include: nuts, seeds, avocado, olives and olive oil.Avoid eating simple carbohydrates and sugars. These are found in cookies, cakes, and pastries that are made of white flour and processed sugars. Avoid eating sugary foods on an empty stomach.
Spread out your carbohydrate intake evenly over the day. This will help you avoid having your body produce a lot of insulin, which might later, cause your blood sugar to crash., Caffeine causes your body to produce adrenaline and it can cause you to have similar symptoms to hypoglycemia. Foods and drinks to avoid include:Coffee
Green and black teas
Caffeinated sodas
Chocolate

, If you are drinking alcohol, don’t do so on an empty stomach and avoid using sugary drinks as mixers. This can cause your blood sugar to spike and then crash.The Mayo Clinic recommends limiting your drinks to one per day for women and one to two per day for men.A drink is 12-oz of beer, 5-oz of wine, or 1.5-oz of spirits.
 Being physically active increases the amount of sugar your body uses and reduces the likelihood that you will produce too much insulin. Consult with your doctor or a physical therapist to develop an exercise plan that is right for you.The Mayo Clinic recommends that adults do 75–150 minutes of exercise per week. This can be whatever you enjoy most, such as biking, walking, running, or playing sports., Be aware that some people experience drastically reduced awareness and reaction times when they are hypoglycemic. To avoid problems, you can carry snacks with you and test your blood sugar before you do important or potentially dangerous activities like:Driving
Operating heavy machinery
Working with chemicals
Taking important exams at school

, If you are vulnerable to severe hypoglycemic states or your performance at work or school is suffering, you may want to consider telling those around you. This will enable them to support you and to recognize what is happening if you experience a hypoglycemic reaction in their presence. You can:Wear a medical identification bracelet in case you lose consciousness.
Discuss it with your family and friends so they can support and help you.
Tell your coworkers what you do to manage your condition.
Talk to your nurse and teachers at school.
Join a support group if your condition makes it difficult to manage your daily responsibilities. You can ask your doctor about support groups near you or search online for support groups and forums., If you experience severe hypoglycemic reactions or are unable to control your condition, you should contact your doctor to be sure that there are no other underlying conditions such as:Other forms of hypoglycemia
Diabetes
Side effects of medications
Hormone or enzyme deficiencies
Tumors

