 Before booking your travel homestay, you will want to have a good idea of who your hosts are and precisely who will be living in the house or on the property with you. Email your hosts or message them through your booking agent and ask:


Who are the people who live in the house?
How old are they?
What languages do they speak?
Will there be other boarders in the house or on the property?
Who, exactly, will be there during my stay?

, The last thing you want to encounter on your excursion are accommodations that are not what you expected. Before you book your travel homestay, email your host or send them a secure message through your booking agency or site. Questions you should ask include:


What type of shower is in the home?
Does the shower have hot water?
Where is the toilet located?
What type of heat does the home have?
Does the home have air conditioning?
Does the home have fans?
Are there animals on the property?

, Before you solidify your travel plans, you will want to ask important questions about where you will be sleeping. Getting a better picture of sleeping arrangements can help you decide if a particular homestay is a good fit for you. If possible, request your hosts send you photographs. Email your hosts and ask:


What type of room will I be sleeping in?
Will I be sharing the room or will it be private?
Whom will I be sharing a room with?
What type of bed will I be sleeping on?
Do I need to bring my own bedding?
Is there a secure place in the room for my belongings?

, Before you decide on a travel homestay, take the time to ask your hosts important questions about the meals you will be eating while staying with them. This is especially important if you have special needs, such as food allergies or dietary restrictions. Email your host family and ask:


Are meals included in the homestay?
Can specific dietary needs be accommodated?

, While you are residing at your travel homestay, it is important to identify ahead of time what your access to communication via phone and/or the Internet will be. Do not assume that there will be Wi-Fi on site simply because your host is using the Internet to book your homestay. Contact your host and ask:


Is there Internet access in the home?
Will I have access to a phone in the home?
If I won’t have access to phone or Internet in the home, where is the nearest place I can access each and how would I get there from the home?

, It’s important to know how close your potential travel homestay is to transportation. Contact your host and ask specific questions about where the homestay is located in relation to bus, train, and air transport. Questions to ask include:


How close in the nearest bus stop?
How far away from the home is the airport?
Do taxis come near the residence?
How long does it take to walk to the train or bus station?

, After you book your travel homestay, make sure you stay in communication with your host. This is especially important in the weeks and days leading up to your arrival. You will want to make sure you have a way on contacting your host once you arrive at your travel destination in case any issues arise.

