 This step quickly narrows down your potential targets to models within your price range. More expensive vacuums have more features and feature newer batteries but there are lesser known brands that are cheaper and will work as well but they'll lack certain features so for the sake of meeting the budget you'll need to find a middle ground as you narrow down the list.;
, Find out the important features of each model you're looking at. Consider the weight, charging time, run time, type of filter, warranty, type of battery and whether it can be removed or not (this affects the long-term viability of the product - vacuums with integrated batteries have less service life than those with removable batteries) and unique features that it may have.
 Different models include stick versions or handheld. You have know exactly which part of the house your using this for - are you using it on your stairs, upholstery, chairs, ceiling? If you're gonna use it primarily on floors - get a stick vac so you don't stain your back bending over. If you're using it on other areas like your chairs, sofas or other though to reach spots - consider a handheld vacuum. There are hybrids available right now in the market like the Dyson DC44 or the Electrolux Ergorapido that convert from a stick to a handheld.
 The type of floor whether it is carpet, hardwood, tiled, linoleum, etc. If you have thick carpet, you'll probably need an upright because cordless vacs don't have enough pulling power to pick up dirt trapped underneath it.
 This plays a major part in selecting the type of vacuum attachment that comes along with a vacuum. If you're using it primarily to clean pet hair then you need something with a beater bar or brush roll, whatever you call it to pick up pet hair shed by your pets on upholstery and carpet. Supposed want something more robust that you can use as a shop vacuum - get something with an attachment that has large nozzle so you can pick up larger debris. If you're cleaning mostly dust, then get something that has brushes on its attachments to be able to better clean up statically charged dust that tends to stick on surfaces.
 You can test it in there and buy it online where it usually is cheaper.
 You may get a replacement if something is wrong. Take note that all appliances will have a percentage of their products that have some sort of defect - so its better to find it earlier than late.

