 Are you primarily concerned with establishing or maintaining a regular exercise routine, becoming healthier overall, or losing weight? Are you training to run a marathon next year or dreaming of becoming an Olympic athlete one day? Whatever your goal is, look for an audio book written with this or a similar goal in mind.


You probably have several goals. Choose the most important one, or the smallest goal working towards a larger, long-term one, like doing cardio every day as one step towards making your heart healthier.
Start researching the internet for titles related to your interests. Check out user reviews to be sure the book is helpful.;
, Motivation comes in many forms and methods, and choosing one is an individual decision. Even two people with the goal of losing 20 lbs, for example, may have differing reasons why they want to do this. You will likely end up with a list of several books about losing weight, for example, that all seem relevant and get great reviews. Compare how each author approaches the subject and decide which would motivate you the easiest.


In the past, have you felt psyched to go out and exercise after reading personal weight loss success stories in magazines or internet blogs? Drop Dead Healthy: One Man’s Humble Quest for Bodily Perfection, by A.J. Jacobs, might be an interesting choice.Does learning nutritional facts and human physiology make you want to eat healthier and exercise more? Spark: The Revolutionary New Science of Exercise and the Brain, written by psychiatrist John J. Ratey, might be your first book.Use past personal successes, even if in other non-health-related areas of your life, to lead you to the title you think will be most helpful.
 Listening to them describe how they stayed motivated and pushed through roadblocks to reach their dreams while you are physically challenging yourself will help keep your motivations for working out as your foremost thought.Associating their success with your own potential will also urge you to work out harder and longer than you typically do.

What I Talk About When I Talk About Running, by Haruki Murakami, is a great choice for running, whether just starting out or training for that marathon.
 Get double the payout by turning listening to an audio book into a reward, as well as motivation. Create rules for yourself, such as you can only listen to it while you walk on the treadmill.If the gym is a bit of a drive, let yourself listen to it during the car ride also.


Suspenseful novels or period dramas work great as incentives to exercise daily because you will be waiting for the chance to find out what happens next.
If you have a favorite book you read over and over, find an audio version read by a famous actor you like, or a voice actor mimicking the character’s tone and accent.

