 For some people, an abortion is a significant life event, and coping can be hard.Identify any rituals, traditions, or ceremonies you wish to engage in.
Know your triggers and how to deal with triggers if they should arise. For example, if seeing other pregnant people is a trigger for thinking negatively about the abortion, then identify a positive way of coping with this situation. For example, you could take a deep breath and say to yourself, “Everyone has a choice. Others may choose to carry their pregnancies to term. I may someday want to do the same.”

, If you feel loss, acknowledge it. Feelings of regret, sadness, or guilt may occur after an abortion.Avoiding these negative feelings is not a positive way of coping.If this is a loss of self, try making a list of the things you like and the things that make you unique.
If it's a loss of the pregnancy, work on communicating with the entity that you feel loss for.
Some people find it helpful to do remembrance activities.
Recognize that no feeling is too small. Take every single one into account. It is not always necessary to feel only happiness about having a baby, nor only sadness about an abortion.
 It may be common to place blame upon people that you feel were partly responsible for you becoming pregnant or leading you to make the decision that you did.


Use visualization and guided imagery. Close your eyes and imagine a big spotlight in the middle of a forest clearing. One by one, call these people into the spotlight and confront them about how you feel. If you hurt, if you are grateful, if you feel betrayed, tell them that. If you are hurt or upset, tell them that you want the piece back that they took from you. Feel that piece filling a part of you, then thank them and let them go.
 It may be helpful for you to track your feelings as time progresses and may help you gain perspective on how you were feeling and why you made the choice you did.


Write down your thoughts about terminating the pregnancy. Do you have fears or worries?
Write down your feelings about the abortion and how you can cope with them.
 Support is crucial to every stage of the process of terminating a pregnancy. Many abortion centers also offer offer post-abortion counseling, or can refer you to a good counselor.Visit Exhale for support and the Exhale hotline.
If you feel no regret, you can visit www.imnotsorry.net.
If you are having troubles, there is a wonderful community of girls going through the same thing that can help you, enlighten you, and guide you on the path of healing in a truly nonjudgmental and loving way at www.passboards.org
If you need someone to, whether your feelings are good or bad, rely on these resources, as they are non-judgmental and supportive: 1-866-4-EXHALE or www.yourbackline.org.
 Forgiveness is important in moving on and having peace. Forgive others and yourself, whether this be with your deity, your partner, or your family. Forgiveness might not be easy, but it's not impossible.


Seek forgiveness from others if you think that will help you.
Remind yourself that you can forgive yourself because you are only human.
Know that you can forgive your family because they probably feel like they were helping you make the wisest decision.
Forgive the person who provided the sperm, if you can.

