 Many people spend a significant amount of time in the virtual world of computers and in the social media space focused solely on a celebrity. This can make it difficult to develop a set of healthy social skills to participate in real social interaction.


Studies have shown that people who learn social skills experience positive effects in social-emotional development and behavior.
 Some people work best abruptly stopping all activities, (cold turkey) and others need to gradually reduce their exposure. Whichever you decide, you will need to have a strategy in place to increase your chances of achieving your goal.


A study in the British Journal of Health Psychology found that people who state their intention about achieving their goal far exceed control groups who do not.Pick a day to start. Giving yourself a deadline will help you focus your efforts.
Make sure you have supportive family and friends in place.
Get rid of the items that remind you of your obsession. This may involve boxing items and giving them away, or storing them in an attic or garage. This will help you ceremoniously condense and “put away” your thoughts and feelings and set you on a new path. In this way, you are also removing potential triggers.
If you slip up and find yourself back in the thick of the obsession, make some adjustments in the areas that were difficult and start again. You are allowed.
, It is possible for you to find people who will meet your needs that are willing and able to form real relationships with you. There are hundreds of opportunities to help others, and everyone knows you feel good when you do. If you want to cope better with the stress of trying to make personal change, then serve others., Life is meant to be fully experienced. Limiting yourself to only the on-line world won’t allow you to build the authentic life you desire and deserve.In all probability you will create and enjoy your incredible life without the help of a celebrity. They are probably too busy, and so are you.

