 To make a meal that will yield several servings, first gather one pound of ground beef, ⅔ of a cup of bread crumbs, ¼ of a cup of ketchup, one teaspoon each of salt and pepper, one tablespoon of dried onion, one beaten egg, two strips of thin bacon, and barbecue sauce. Combine everything but the bacon and sauce in a mixing bowl and fashion into a loaf about as long as a dollar bill.After pre-heating, cooking the loaf for 20 minutes at 350ºF (177ºC). Remove the basket with the meatloaf still in it.
Cut the bacon into shorter strips and position them on top of the meatloaf. Brush barbecue sauce onto each and place everything back in the air fryer for 15 more minutes.
Ensure the meatloaf is finished before turning off the air fryer. If not, cook for five more minutes at a time until the meatloaf is fully cooked.
 For four servings, gather 16 pieces of peeled and deveined tiger shrimp and 16 slices of thinly sliced bacon. With the bacon at air temp, wrap each slice around its own piece of shrimp. Start at the head of the shrimp and wrap towards the tail. Refrigerate your beautiful meat sculptures for 20 minutes. Preheat your air fryer to 390°F (199°C) and cook your bacon-wrapped shrimp for 5-7 minutes.Allow your creations to cool and drain excess fluid on a paper towel before serving.
 For six servings, gather a pound of sharp cheddar, a pound of thinly sliced bacon, 4 tablespoons olive oil, 1 cup all-purpose flour, 2 beaten eggs, and 1 cup breadcrumbs. Cut the cheese into six portions and wrap each in two slices of bacon. The bacon should fully enclose the cheese.Place your creations in the freezer for five minutes to firm them up, but take care not to forget about them.
Preheat the air fryer to 390°F (199°C). Meanwhile, mix the breadcrumbs with the oil until even blended. Dip each cheesy bacon block into flour, then eggs, then the breadcrumb mixture, pressing to ensure adhesion.
Double dip, if you so desire, into the eggs and then the breadcrumbs. This will help prevent the cheese from escaping.
Cook the croquettes in the air fryer for 7-8 minutes or until they begin to brown.

