 She will be able to identify areas where you need more practice or better technique. Inquire with your female friend about makeup, the kinds of clothing that might be flattering to your body type, posture, and feminine mannerisms, like how women walk.;
, Likely, you will not have a wardrobe of female clothing available to you in your size. You'll need to purchase clothing that is flattering to your frame in a feminine way. A secondhand store is a good place to shop for affordable women's clothing. You should also consider purchasing:


A basic makeup kit
A panty girdle
A skirt (knee-length or longer)
A wig or hair extensions
Breast forms & bra
Heeled shoes
Perfume
Pantyhose/tights, You can do this by perusing websites and magazines marketed to the female age group you wish to impersonate. Add these tidbits to whatever comes naturally to you while in your female persona, and you're likely to have a winning combination! Remember, the subjects teenage girls are concerned with will be different from those of middle aged women.


Try to talk to a female friend who is around the age you will be impersonating and ask her where you should direct your research.
It's usually safe to talk about likes and dislikes.By focusing on your new female friends, you'll likely come across as genuinely interested, and this will also take pressure off you while you adjust to a more feminine communication style.
Compliments will also serve to ease you into your new social group, something like, "You have a stunning sense of style! Where did you get that bracelet?", Though these may seem simple, a lifetime of spreading your legs as a man while sitting down might make this habit hard to break when you're wearing a dress disguised as a woman. You may have to limber up before going out in public and crossing your legs, but you should try to:


Allow your hips to sway
Shorten your stride
Rotate your shoulders while walking
Keep your knees close together
Keep your elbows in
Move with fluidity and grace, Linguistic analysis has shown that women tend to use polite language and formal expressions more frequently than men. Soften direct expressions like, "I can't hear you," with polite expressions like, "I'm sorry," or "Pardon me." A lack of social grace can ruin even the best disguise when impersonating the female gender.
 Especially if you are younger, you may not need to change your voice at all, and some people have voices that could naturally be mistaken for either gender. Avoid pitching your voice too high; oftentimes a husky tone will mask the masculine aspects of your voice more credibly.
 Before you can go out, you'll need a name to complete your female identity. It can be helpful to choose a name based off your own name, as this will be more familiar to you.


You might change John to Joanne, Tim to Tammy, or Alex to Alexa. If you are wearing your disguise to school, you should also come up with a backstory for your female identity.
One plausible backstory you might use at school: "My family had to come here for my dad's work. We might have to stay a while, so my parents wanted me to come to school so I don't fall behind."

