 Before you jump into reinventing yourself, you need to slow down, reflect, and spend some time writing down your thoughts. Ask yourself why you want to reinvent yourself and what you want your future to look like. Make a list of all the things you want to change, and all the ways that you can begin to do so.Write down the big changes you want to make. Maybe you want to lose a considerable amount of weight; maybe you want to learn to be generous; maybe you want to go from working on Wall Street to being a scuba diving instructor. Whatever big changes you want to make, write them down, and make a list of how you can go about accomplishing those goals.
Write down the small changes, too. Though reinventing yourself takes big leaps, Rome wasn't built in a day, and the new you won't be, either. Make a list of small things that can slowly help you build up to your new life. This could be learning to meditate in the morning, volunteering in your community for just an hour a week, or eating more fruits and vegetables every day.;
, Once you've written down the changes that will give you a new future, write down a reasonable goal for a time when you can say, "Yeah, I accomplished this thing." It could be months, or even a year or more away. But once you pick a date, you'll be closer to your goal. You can make goal dates for the small stuff; for example, you could say, "I will read three new books by the end of the month." Making a plan is a part of the commitment.


Write your goal dates into your calendar, just like you would with any other commitment.
 If you want to get closer to reinventing yourself, then you need to stay positive and motivated throughout this journey, even if you're not feeling energetic or hopeful on a particular day. Staying mentally strong means winning half the battle to becoming a better person. Here are some ways to motivate yourself:Surround yourself with images that remind you of your vision for your future. If your plan is to devote yourself to gardening full-time and to expand your property, then surround yourself with potted plans and images of beautiful gardens.
Write about your goals in a journal. Take at least 10 minutes out of your day to write about how close you are to achieving your goals, and chronicling your process as you make the big changes. You'll feel more confident about your goals once you reflect.
Write down at least three reasons why you want to reinvent yourself on an index card. Carry it around with you at all times so that you can pull it out and stay pumped in a moment of weakness.
 Reinventing yourself will be much easier if your loved ones, coworkers, or any other people in your life know about your decision. Sit down with all of the important people in your life and tell them about the change you want to make, and ask for their support during this period of adjustment. They should understand that you're serious about changing and should help motivate and encourage you as you go through this process.


If you're active on social media, share with your online community as well. The more people who know about your plans, the more indebted you'll feel to making this serious commitment.
Make sure your loved ones take you seriously. They shouldn't try to draw you in to the "old you" that you want to shed.

