 You'll need to comply with your city's zoning requirements, so check with the local Zoning Department before you sign a lease. If you're having trouble finding a good location, see if you can take over an old pawn shop that meets location and zoning requirements.For example, in many areas a pawn shop must be a certain distance from schools.
When you find a potential location, sit in your car for a few hours and analyze the foot traffic in the neighborhood. Is it near public transportation or highways? Is there enough parking? Are competitors and other shops nearby? Being near the competition can help attract the right customers if you believe your products and services will be superior.You will want to also analyze the demographics of the area. Does the income level match the type of clientele you hope to attract? Your local librarian or commercial real estate broker can help provide this information.
Once you find a location purchase insurance policies for general liability and fire insurance.
 These should include the sum, interest rate and duration of a loan, as well as what the procedure is in the event an item is damaged or lost. Define what will happen if the loan is not paid back by the due date., At a minimum you will need shelving, lockable display cases, a cash register and a computer. It is especially important to install a good security system with armed response, meaning the police will be immediately notified if the alarm goes off.
 You will want to have items to sell in addition to those that customers bring in. Shop at local flea markets and go to auctions, estate and garage sales, or look through classifieds in your local newspaper and on Craig's List.
 Place ads online at such sites as Craig's List, Indeed and Monster.com. Choose those who have retail or banking experience, an outgoing personality, an ability to make repairs, and good references. Make sure to run a background check on each potential employee before hiring.Your local police department can run the background checks for you.
 Develop a website using templates you can find online for free, or use a service like WordPress that starts at about $70.Develop a Facebook page for your business and update it frequently featuring new items you have for sale. Post ads in your local newspaper especially after you first open.


Consider having a grand opening with door prizes or discount coupons. Advertise the opening in newspapers, radio stations, Facebook, signage at bus stops and on your website.

