 You need to first determine if the staple is still embedded in the wound and if any blood vessels, nerves or tendons were damaged by the staple.This will help you determine if you will need a tetanus shot.


A tetanus shot might be needed if you received your last tetanus shot over 10 years ago, or if the staple was dirty or possibly dirty and you received your last tetanus shot over five years ago., If the bleeding is severe, you will notice any of the following: blood is pumping from the wound, or the bleeding does not stop or slow down when applying pressure. You may also be bleeding so profusely that the blood is soaking through one bandage after another.If this is the case, call emergency services for assistance.
 Be sure to seek medical treatment within an hour. With moderate bleeding, the bleeding slows or stops with pressure but starts again once pressure is no longer applied. The blood might also soak through a few bandages, but the bleeding isn't fast or out of control. You need to call an ambulance if you or someone else cannot safely drive you to the doctor or hospital, or if heavy traffic will delay your treatment., You should seek medical treatment within one hour. With mild bleeding, the bleeding either stops by itself or when you apply pressure. The bleeding may also stop or slow down to an ooze or trickle after applying pressure for 15 minutes.The bleeding can ooze or trickle for as long as 45 minutes.You should call for an ambulance if you or someone else cannot safely drive you to receive medical treatment, or if heavy traffic will delay your travels.
 Chances are that your injury will only get worse, so you need to contact your doctor or seek medical treatment within one hour.


If the pain makes it unsafe for you or someone else to drive, call an ambulance.
 Seek medical help if you have moderate pain lasting for longer than eight hours, and you’ve been injected with a high pressure item containing substances such as oil or paint., Seek medical help if you have mild pain lasting for longer than eight hours, and you’ve been injected with a high-pressure item containing substances such as oil or paint.