 A biting gnat has four razor-sharp blades in its mouth which tear your skin, leaving a small open wound. Clean on and around the affected area with mild soap and water. Use a washcloth or paper towel to remove any excess moisture., Gnats can carry bacteria from things like rotten food, so you should swab the area thoroughly with a cotton ball. Tape the cotton ball to the wound to allow the antiseptic to soak into the bite.Common topical antiseptics include alcohol, iodine, and hydrogen peroxide

, Vinegar is a popular natural home remedy used to relieve swelling, pain, and redness in wasp and bee stings. It may help reduce the pain and itch of gnat bites, as well. Soak a cotton ball in the vinegar and apply it to the affected area until it feels better.
 This ointment is available over-the-counter and it has both antibacterial and pain relieving properties. Apply some to your gnat bites for relief., Aspirin reduces inflammation, and it may help reduce the swelling and itching of your bite. Crush an aspirin pill with the back of a spoon, and mix it with a small amount of water to make a paste. Rub the paste onto the affected area., Commercial anti-itch creams like Cortizone-10 contain hydrocortisone, a chemical agent that temporarily relieves itching. Most such creams also contain ingredients like aloe, to soothe and moisturize the skin.
 If there is swelling in the area, ice cubes or an ice pack will help reduce the swelling. Apply the ice to your skin and hold it in place until the swelling goes down., Cold water can help reduce the itching and swelling of bug bites. If you have multiple bites, taking a cool shower for ten minutes or so may make you feel better., Scratching certain types of stings and bites can spread venom through your skin, causing a more pain and itching. Scratching also opens the wound, which can lead to infection., If you see pus forming in the bite, this is a sign of bacterial infection. See a doctor as soon as possible., In rare cases, insect bites can cause a severe allergic reaction that can be dangerous or even fatal. If you have known insect allergies, or if you experience symptoms of anaphylactic shock, seek medical treatment immediately.Swelling of the throat, tongue, or mouth.
Difficulty swallowing or talking.
Shortness of breath, wheezing, or difficulty catching your breath.
Itching around the eyes, lips, ears, throat or roof of your mouth.
Flushing (a hot, red sensation of the skin).
Stomach cramps or nausea.
Weakness or dizziness.
Collapsing or passing out.

