 Make sure that they are approximately A6 size (half of an A5 piece of paper). Don't try to save money by getting paper, as you can see through it, which allows you to unwittingly cheat. It must be lightweight card.;
, Colored cards work best, so you can categorize your flash cards. Plus, they're easier to look at and study from.
 For example, write "SCIENCE" in block letters. Write the test name smaller in the card's margin (or the top). For example, "Trimester 1 final exam." This becomes the top of the pile card that tells you which set of flashcards you're using.
 On one side of the card, write a very brief cue, key word or phrase, or possible exam question. For example "Solar system planets (in order of closest to sun)".
 On the other side, write "Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune".
 You could color code them for different subjects - for example, have all blue cards for biology, and pink cards for physics.


If you want to categorize the cards by color, you could write each category's questions on a different color than the answer card. For example, blue cards could be multiple choice questions and pink could be written response. Or, pink is questions about fractions and blue is graphing questions.
 If you are reviewing for an essay-based exam, make the information on the back side of the cards more complex, so that you can see the word (for example, "Romeo") and be able to recall several points showing his love for Juliet, several points showing the complexity of his character, advantages and disadvantages of Shakespeare's portrayal of him, what the moral is, etc.
 Or, randomly stack them, anyway you like. It can be helpful to put all the questions in each category together. Put the title card at the top of the pile before putting a rubber band around them all for safe keeping.
 Surprise! You've already been studying. By writing down the questions and answers on your flashcards, you've studied already. But you will need to study some more by using the cards to test yourself.


Read all the questions and answers either silently or aloud. Next, read the questions and try to answer them, then check your answers. Finally, ask a parent, sibling or friend to quiz you. And repeat!

, When you have made multiple cards, it's time to test yourself. Here's how you do it:


Pick up the first card and read the keywords/phrase.
Try to recall as much of the information as you can.
Flip over the card and see if you got the answer(s) right.
If you're happy you got the information right, put that card on the 'right' pile. If you got the information wrong or incomplete, put it on the 'wrong' pile.
 When you've gone through all the cards, go back to the 'wrong' pile, and repeat the process. Keep going through the 'wrong' pile until you get the information right, and there are no cards left in the 'wrong' pile.
 Then go through the whole lot again for good measure.

