 Skin is much more flexible when it is moisturized, allowing it to move and slide freely across your face without damage. This sort of damage will compound itself over your lifetime, leading to wrinkles, if you don't take proper care of your skin now.


Use lukewarm water, not cold or hot, to protect your skin;
, Use your fingers to work the wash into your face. Get around the eyes and forehead as well, using the tips of your fingers to work up a nice, gentle lather.
 Don't rub or scrub with a towel, as this will irritate your skin and lead to redness. Your wash has removed a lot of the dead skin, oil, and dirt, so scrubbing now is just hurting the new, younger skin underneath.
 Firm, flexible skin is the enemy of wrinkles. Masks are a way to soak your skin in collagen (a naturally occurring human protein) as well as essential anti-oxidants, vitamins and minerals. Let the mask rest for 15 minutes to absorb into your skin.








Some modern masks come in pre-soaked pads, which you can simply stick to your face instead of mixing up and painting on a traditional wet mask.
When done, pat in any remaining mask essence (sold with the pads) lightly onto your face.
 Most of these are very concentrated, so you only need a pea-sized amount. Focus on your outer eyes, forehead, chin, and around your mouth. Pat the cream onto your face instead of rubbing it on.









If you have some extra cream, don't forget about your neck -- this is one of the wrinkle spots many people forget.
 Crows feet, the wrinkles right around the eyes, are the most common and quickest wrinkles you'll develop. Using some eye concentrate around the eyes targets these wrinkles specifically.









Make sure you get a cream that is paraben-free, as these chemicals may hurt your skin over time., Your body skin needs protection too, and many of the same principles used to prevent wrinkles on your face can be applied to your body, too. A daily full-body moisturizing, focusing on frequently exposed areas like the arms, legs, and upper chest, will help fight body wrinkles.









Look for moisturizing creams that aren't oil-based, which can leave you feeling greasy.
Again, search for natural, paraben-free products for the best results.

