 Smaller bags or containers allow you to portion out snacks so you can be sure you're not eating more than you should. With a larger container that contains several servings, you could end up mindlessly eating the whole thing.Keep all of your snacks in a large tote or basket so everything remains contained in your car.
You can buy a set of plastic containers with a variety of sizes at relatively low cost at most discount or kitchen stores. Hard-sided containers often work better than bags because they keep food from getting crushed or damaged.
 Particularly if you're going on a longer road trip, a cooler will enable you to bring a greater variety of healthy snacks and whole foods, so you won't be tempted by roadside diners and convenience store fare.You can get "disposable" coolers relatively cheaply if you don't anticipate using it after you get back home from your trip. You also can find coolers that collapse when not in use, if you're concerned about storage.
If space is at a premium, consider getting a smaller lunch-bag sized insulated bag, and just use it for the food that absolutely must stay cold. Put ice packs inside to increase the cooling power.
 Salad dressings may drip all over the place, and can easily spill if you roll over a pothole or speed bump. Anything you want to use as a dip should be thick enough that you can turn the container sideways without it running out.Peanut butter and hummus work well as dips that won't drip or spill on bumpy roads.
You also might consider using a cup that fits in your cup holder for a dip, if you have something that's thinner that you still want to bring.
 If you spread a few tablespoons of thicker dip along the bottom of a plastic container, you can pack in vegetables or crackers on top. Then you don't have to balance two containers while driving or riding on a bumpy road.For example, you might make a munchie tray by spreading hummus or peanut butter on the bottom of a plastic storage container, then topping it with baby carrots, cherry tomatoes, cucumber slices, and celery sticks., You may not care if your car smells like apricots for miles, but having a car that reeks of garlic for days may be a different story. Save the onions for meals at home, and pack whole foods with no assembly required to minimize damage to your car's interior.The same can be said for particularly juicy fruits or sticky foods. Particularly if you also have children in the car, don't pack anything for a snack that you wouldn't want on your upholstery.
Things can be difficult to do in a car that are relatively simple to do anywhere else. Depending on the road conditions, just spreading cheese on a cracker can be a difficult proposition. Stick to things you can prepare ahead of time, and that can be eaten using only one hand.
If you're planning to stop for a picnic, you may want to pack some more complicated fare – but keep it out of reach for snacking purposes while the car's in motion.
 Pack your foods carefully in lidded containers that can double as receptacles for any litter. Once you reach your destination, you can rinse the containers out and use them again.In most cases, going on a long road trip means an equally long trip back home. Reusable containers generally mean less waste, and also mean you won't have to purchase additional supplies for your trip back.

