 Experienced cleaners know how to clean different types of surfaces, how to use both chemical and conventional products, and how to efficiently and quickly clean different spaces. This knowledge will help you when you start a housekeeping business.;
,


Households may have more varying demands in regards to cleaning, depending on the type of household and the services they require. Accounts can vary from light cleaning for business professionals who are never home to weekly cleaning for families with young children and daily housekeeping for seniors.
Corporate clients typically require housekeeping businesses to clean before or after normal work hours. As they want the least amount of disruption to their business day, they generally prefer housekeeping services to clean when all the regular staff has left for the day.
 Include how much money you need to invest and what you will invest it in, who and where your market is, whether you'll hire employees, what your marketing plan is, the costs of an accountant and taxes, and your projected income for the first year. Also determine what services you'll offer and which services you won't offer. Defining the types of services you offer is important for two reasons: first, setting clear boundaries will prohibit clients from asking more of you than agreed, and second, when it comes to cleaning hazardous materials, you need additional licensing.
 You can apply for a business loan from your bank or talk to private investors.
 Apply for an EIN (employer's identification number) if you plan on hiring employees.
 It's best to go to a business lawyer to have one drafted so the lawyer can explain all of the different clauses and you know exactly what you're agreeing to.
 In the event that a client sues you, your insurance will protect you. It's also a good idea to get bonded to prove to clients that you are trustworthy and are covered in the event that items are damaged, destroyed, or stolen.
 Decide whether to offer discounts to clients who request your services multiple times a week or month.
 You'll need to travel from client to client and bring all of your cleaning equipment with you, so make sure you have plenty of room.
 You'll need brooms, mops, industrial vacuums, cloths, rubbish bags, as well as detergents for different types of surfaces. Be sure to get both conventional and eco-friendly products so you can cater to each client's preference.
 Include the option for clients to request a copy of your police report if they want more peace of mind. Be very clear about the types of services you offer and don't offer to avoid confusion.
,