 A balanced diet filled with plenty of healthy nutrients will help you to grow strong and healthy and reach your full height. That means staying away from the cakes, sodas, and pizzas and reaching for the salads, whole grains, and fish. If you're having trouble motivating yourself to eat these foods, search for different recipes and look for combinations of food that you find appealing.


To get a clear view of what equals a healthy balanced diet that includes protein, fruit, vegetables, grains and dairy, look at the USDA MyPlate website.;
, Proteins are the building blocks for the things that help you grow tall and strong, your bones, muscles and cartilage.So eating a good amount of foods from the protein foods group is important if you want to maximize your potential height. The recommended amount varies by age, gender and how much exercise you get.


Girls aged 9-18 are recommended the equivalent of 5 ounces daily.
Boys aged 9-13 are recommended the equivalent of 5 ounces daily.
Boys aged 14-18 are recommended 6.5 equivalent ounces daily.Protein foods include lean meats, poultry, fish, eggs, nuts, and seeds.



Foods rich in vitamin D include oily fish, mushrooms, and fortified cereals., Although the studies are far from conclusive, the scientific evidence may point to a possible connection between zinc deficiencies and stunted growth.That means get your zinc or risk the possibility of stunting your growth. Some foods that are good sources of zinc include:


Seafood, especially shellfish.
Lamb.
Spinach., Again, there is little direct evidence between calcium and getting taller, but calcium is an essential ingredient in helping you grow strong bones which are important for growth.. Most of your calcium will come from dairy products. It is recommended that boys and girls aged 9-18 should consume the equivalent of three cups of calcium-rich dairy foods a day.Dairy products that are high in fat are not recommended.
Cream, cream cheese, and butter are dairy foods that have little calcium.
Alternatives to dairy products for your calcium include tinned fish, leafy greens, soy products, and calcium-fortified juices, cereals and bread., As well as avoiding too much fatty and salty food, there are reports that some generally healthy foods might have a negative impact on your height. You should have a balanced diet, and these are not hard facts, but consider lowering your intake of soy products, tomatoes, and broad beans.It is more important to have a healthy and balanced diet than not eating these three things.
 You can top your intake with basic multivitamins you can buy at the store. You could also focus in on vitamin D and zinc by purchasing vitamin tablets just for these two important elements. Cod liver oil tablets are also easy to find and are an excellent source of vitamin D and great for your bones and joints.Other more concentrated and potentially harmful supplements, including Ipriforne and Glucosamine, are reported to promote growth..
Before considering one of these supplements always talk to your Doctor.
 You may come across some supplements that claim to be able to make you taller miraculously. Remember, if your plates have fused you are not going to gain inches. Some products may claim to be or contain human growth hormone (HGH) which stimulates growth. You should be very careful with this, as HGH cannot be taken as a pill and it should only ever be administered by a doctor.