 If you have friends, colleagues, or classmates with agents, ask them to pass along your information. Give them copies of your headshots, resume, and reel to pass along to their reps.
If you don't have friends or colleagues with agents, find a local community of actors and get to know them. They can help you get your reel and headshots to the right person.
You will also need a recommendation to get an agent, so it is key to have someone put in a good word for you who is familiar or has professional relationship with a particular agent.;
, Even if it volunteer or low paying, or part of your school activities. You might get noticed by an agent. Take every opportunity to act as it comes along. Whether it's a play, a student film, a documentary, a commercial etc. Anything like this can get your work seen and out there!
If you are talented, word will get out that you have special qualities that might be desirable in the industry.
Agents and mangers go to plays and watch videos that are recommended to them. You might be the next person to get discovered through even a minor project.
Any of these opportunities provide you with a way to hone your craft. Any experience can be helpful.
 Facebook, Twitter, and Youtube can give you amazing exposure through friend and business networks. Be very careful when approaching an agent over social media.
Don't be overzealous or seem desperate. This can turn off a potential business relationship.
A good rule of thumb is to think about what you put on social media for this potential agent to see. If you wouldn't want them to hear it or see it in person, you shouldn't post it.
The best way to engage with an agent over Facebook or Twitter is to participate in conversation by showing common interests and showing them your content.
If they don't respond to you, don't continue to berate them with audition tapes or headshots. This can sour your relationship with other agents, as these people have very close business networks.
 Agents sometimes hold these to find new talent. Keep in mind that these are highly competitive.
You will want to stand out from the crowd. Don't be shy but be careful you don't appear as too arrogant or odd.
Make sure you look professional and unique. First impressions are key in the film and theater industry.
 Once you've made a contact and you get to know an agent, it is best to set up a formal meeting. While you might have a unique look and be confident in your appearance, your resume and reel won't make themselves.
Show up prepared to discuss your experiences and interests.
Your job now is to convince the agent that you are worth their valuable time. You have to let your work show.
Don't show up at a meeting expecting an agent to pluck you out of obscurity if you don't have the experience to back it up.
 An agent or manager will help find auditions or castings for you.If you hire an agent, after getting your job you have to pay them a percentage of your salary.
Hiring an agent or manager doesn't mean you are guaranteed to get work.
Your agent will refer you to auditions that you are suited for and recommend you to directors. This is not a guarantee you will get a part or job.

