


Is it to keep fit or to clean your home?
Would you rather walk your dog or go on a fishing trip or shop for shoes?
Perhaps your priority should be to organize your home office to increase your productivity or go about the important business of managing your home effectively.
What about watering the plants? They need your attention on a regular basis to grow so you may want to have a calendar to know when to water, and when the seasons are coming and going.
What about taking medications? Medications must be taken regularly to be effective and creating a routine time, method, and place to take them makes things a lot easier.;
, Whatever you decide you need to do, you will likely find that a routine has such a positive effect on your life that you'll want to have a routine for everything! So get to it and establish a routine!

, Once you have decided what you want as a routine, ask yourself, when you can I fit this into my day?


Realize that many routine things can sometimes be done in less than half an hour? This is because they become routine to you, so planning and executing them becomes natural and not such a chore.
You can likely do almost any routine thing in 30 minutes or less once the routine is established. This is hardly any time at all, even on a busy, busy day.
 If possible, try to get the same thing done, at the same time of every day. Habits become routine, so develop good habits. As an example, do things like walking the dog for half an hour or more everyday after dinner instead of whenever you find the time. You may never find that time and the dog needs the exercise.
 Decide what needs to be done daily, weekly, biweekly, monthly, yearly, etc. and purchase a calendar if you need one. This will help you to begin managing your time more wisely. A written, scheduled routine will be a lot easier to insert into the day-to-day or weekly things that need to be done.
 Choose the time and single day (or a few) days of the week for chores or hobbies and try to stick to your plan, or if you can't, simply rearrange the time with the calendar to make chores and pleasurable activities available to you.


If you don't have a pet, set aside some time to do exercising. Keep your body fit and clean by taking steps to fit these activities into your own routines.
 Don't let necessary chores of the day take away from the pleasures of life.
 Timeliness in regards to medications is paramount to good health and productivity, like having a routine.



If you shop online then it will help if you plan computer time to shop on-line. Remember that you may not be the only one that needs to use the computer, so being more routine about computer use will create a more pleasant and healthy atmosphere with those around you.
 This is key—the key, really, to maintaining a routine in your life.


If you do your routine every day, then each day you do it is just one more step closer to obtaining a better, and much less stressful life.

