 Nobody likes a girl who's really mean and prissy and seems to not know what the words sympathy and kindness mean. Work on seeing the real beauty in people and things. Admit that you're not perfect and that nobody will ever be. try not to think of someone negatively. Only think of someone negatively if you have a VERY good reason and even then try to think of their good qualities or, if you can't think of very many good qualities about that person, try using pity instead of hate. For example, if someone is very mean, think, "Wow, something bad must have happened to them for them to be like this," instead of "I hate them. They're always so mean to me." Also, always treat people with respect and kindness even if you don't think that they deserve it.;
, Being confident can make a great difference in your life and personality. It makes you look and feel happier. People can tell when you're confident and when you are not confident. If you like someone, get to know them, talk to them, and, if you want to, ask them out. If you're going into a job interview and the manager/boss immediately says, "I don't think you can do this job," or "This is no resume. What makes you think you can do this job?" disagree with them and tell them that you CAN do the job (it might not sound like a good plan, but it can land you the job.) Take criticism with respect. If someone tries to insult you, don't listen to them and be the bigger person by not causing a scene and ignoring the insult. Be social and don't care what others think of you. Oh, and at parties, don't be afraid to dance.
 Do this for yourself as well as others. Take daily showers, wash your hair, brush your teeth, floss, brush your hair, use deodorant, don't wear dirty clothing, and wear light perfume. Taking care of yourself using good hygiene boosts self esteem and overall image.
 Wash your hair every other day. If you wash it everyday you will, at best, get flaky hair. make sure to use shampoo and conditioner suited for your hair type. Brush your hair out and, if you want, style it cutely. Just don't use hair products using heat (hair dryer, curling iron, straightener, etc) every day. Healthy hair will make anyone look better.


Be careful when considering chemical alterations to your hair (colouring, perms, chemical straightening, etc.) If you constantly shove colour into your hair or perm it, you run the risk of frying your hair.






Style and cut your hair in a way that flatters your face. Ask a stylist or fashion-forward friend for help if you need it.
 Express your inner style and people will appreciate it. It doesn't matter what you wear, as long as it fits, is clean, is not too tight, and doesn't show an insane amount of skin.


Some great stores to shop at are Forever 21, DEB, Wet Seal, Pac Sun, Walmart, Target, and Factory Connection. Thrift stores and consignment shops can also be great places to find a deal on fashionable clothes.
 Get your homework in on time, study, and pay attention in school while remembering to take notes. Ask your teacher any questions you may have; you'll never know what you'll learn or who will benefit. Pay extra attention to classes that you struggle in.


If something doesn't make sense to you, don't hesitate to get your friends (or a tutor) together for a study session! You can have fun and learn at the same time.
 Don't make your mother cook dinner all alone. Even offering to do the dishes afterwards is help enough. Make a deal with your dad, you'll mow half the yard and so will he. If your parents give you money for chores, accept it graciously and don't nag them for a raise. If you don't get an allowance for doing chores, don't ask for any! Maybe your parents are going through a tough time for money or they're saving up for something big that you don't know about. If you want money, get a part-time job instead. Your parent's respect and love is the most crucial thing that you, or any teen, can have to thrive.
 No matter where you live, take the time to learn how to drive as soon as you can. You'll regret having to beg your friends or parents for rides to the mall or work if you don't.
 Work hard and show up on time. Be polite to customers and other co-workers. Save the money you earn to buy important things like a car or money for college or university.
 For some, this may be easier said than done. If you're one of these types, do some research into your favourite drug or drink, and the long-term effects. Unless you want to end up in jail with major health conditions, drugs are not the choice. If you really need it, go into rehab and/or go to an alcoholics or drug addict therapy group.
 Life can get stressful. Every now and then, slow down and relax. Read your favourite book, have a long talk with a friend, or paint your nails. If you have the money, buy yourself some clothes at the mall or get a facial at the spa or at home. Do something that relaxes you and you'll feel ten times better.

