 The cold will reduce the swelling and make it less likely to rupture the skin. It will also make smaller, less red, and less obvious.


You can use an ice pack or package of frozen vegetables wrapped in a towel. Apply the ice for five minutes and then give your skin a chance to warm up. You should see improvement.
 This will be beneficial in helping it heal if it does break the skin.Tea tree oil must be diluted before it can be applied to your skin. For acne, dilute it in water so that the mixture contains 5% tea tree oil and 95% water. Wash the area with a clean wash cloth, being careful not to get in your eyes, nose, or mouth. After 15–20 minutes, rinse it off.
Tea tree oil is not good for people who have sensitive skin. It can cause contact dermatitis and rosacea., Similar to the tea tree oil, it will kill bacteria in case the pimple breaks through the skin. It will keep your skin dry to prevent the buildup of natural oils. There are several options and you can pick based on what you have available in the house: lemon juice, lime juice, or apple cider vinegar.


Make a 1:3 dilution and wash the area with it. Do not get it in your nose or eyes. If you get it in your eyes it will hurt — flush your eyes with water immediately.
 Exfoliating or using harsh substances on your skin may make your acne look and feel worse. The following are not recommended:Exfoliants
Astringents
Alcohol-based substances that will dry your skin

, Your skin will absorb potassium and vitamins A, C, and E. The healthier your skin is, the better it will fight the infection in the pore.


Peel and mash up a half a cucumber. You can leave the seeds in. Dab the liquid onto the pimples and give it at least 15 minutes to be absorbed into your skin. Then wash the area with clean water.
It may be sticky so avoid getting dirty or dusty while you have the mask on.
 Stress causes physiological and hormonal changes in your body, including increased sweating. Managing stress may help prevent pimples that are under your skin from becoming full-blown outbreaks with whitehead and blackheads. Try exercising several times a week. When you exercise your body releases endorphins, which are your natural painkillers. They help reduce anxiety, improve your mood, and help you relax. The Mayo Clinic recommends at least 75 minutes of exercise per week. This can be walking, biking, hiking, playing sports, or doing physically active chores like raking leaves or shoveling snow.Try relaxation techniques. Different methods work for different people; however, popular methods include: meditation, yoga, tai chi, visualizing calming images, progressively relaxing different muscle groups in your body, or listening to soothing music.Get enough sleep. The amount needed varies from person to person, but most people need about 8 hours each night. Teenagers may need several hours more.
 What brings on pimples will vary from person to person, but common problem foods are dairy products, sugar, and carbohydrate-rich foods.Contrary to widely held beliefs, research does not support there being a link between fatty foods and pimples.To be safe, you may want to avoid chocolate. The evidence is unclear, but most chocolate products also contain a lot of sugar, which may trigger pimples. , Prescription medications are stronger and should produce results. It may take one to two months before you really see a difference. Options include:Topical retinoids (Avita, Retin-A, Differin, and others) to reduce the formation of plugs in your pores or antibiotics to prevent skin infections. If your acne is very severe, your doctor may recommend isotretinoin (Accutane). Follow your doctor’s recommendations and the manufactuer’s instructions when using them.
Oral antibiotics to kill bacteria, reduce inflammation, and facilitate healing.
Oral contraceptives (Ortho Tri-Cyclen, Estrostep, Yaz) which contain estrogen and progestin may be prescribed for women and girls. This is usually reserved for severe, treatment-resistant acne.
Your doctor may also recommend other treatments such as injections into the pimple, extractions, chemical peels, microdermabrasion, or light or laser treatments to help treat and prevent pimples.

