 Keep a calendar or notebook where you write out your daily schedule. This schedule should include when the care recipient needs medication, food, baths, doctor visits, exercise, or other care. By writing out this schedule, you can maintain a consistent routine that makes things easier for both you and the care recipient.


You may want to encourage the care recipient to go to bed at the same time every night. To do this, set up a ritual at night, such as giving them warm milk or turning on soothing music, that lets them know it is time to go to bed.Schedule doctor visits for a time that is convenient to you. Make appointments early so that you can choose a time that is easy for you., If the care recipient is a close family member who lives separately from you, you may want to suggest that they move in with you so that you can more easily provide care.You should start the conversation. You can say, “Mom, I think it is time that we discuss your living situation. I think it would be easier for you if you would move in with me.”
Some older adults may be hesitant to move in with someone, as they may feel like they will be losing their independence. You can tell them, “You will still be independent around the house, but if there is an emergency, I will be there to help you.”

, To help balance your work schedule with your caregiving duties, you should speak to your boss to let them know about your situation. They may be willing to offer you a more flexible schedule, or they may be more forgiving when you come late or leave early at work due to an emergency.You might say, "As you may know, I have recently become a caregiver for my adult son. This is a big responsibility. I was wondering if there are any resources available here for caregivers. I want to make sure that I satisfy both my work obligations and my duties at home."
You might ask, "Is there any way I could work at home for a few days a week?" or "Can I leave early on Thursdays to take my husband to physical therapy?"
In some states, you can be protected from job discrimination if you are a caregiver., As a caregiver, you may have to make important medical decisions for the recipient. In order to do this, you may need to establish a legal relationship between you and the recipient. Contact a lawyer who can help the recipient and you prepare the proper legal documents.


If the care recipient is still capable of making their own decisions, they may want to establish an advanced health care directive. This will inform their doctor what type of health care they want, in case they become incapacitated.
If your family member is no longer capable of making their own decisions, you may want to establish power of attorney for health care over them. You might also want to establish power of attorney over their finances so that you can use their money to assist with the cost of healthcare.
You should remind the care recipient to set up a will, so that their property can be divided as they wish after their death.