 Restate your opinion in a sentence at the end of each paragraph. Don't use the same sentence word for word, but restating your first sentence at the end of the paragraph can have the effect of making your essay sound considered, professional and well-thought through, in addition to making it longer. However, it can also irritate a details-oriented marker who notes the habit being repeated throughout. Use at your own risk!

, Use as few contractions as possible. Instead of "it's" use "it is". In academic writing, this has the benefit of making your paper sound more formal. If you're in high school, it will provide good practice for upper level papers, where you're not allowed to use contractions anyway, so it's good training.
 You should always spell out the numbers below ten anyway (instead of using 1, 2, 3 etc). As this is a requirement in formal writing, not only will it make your essay a little longer, it will also make your essay look a little better.
 Instead of saying "we went swimming" try using "my brother, my sister and I went swimming". Be careful here, though, as this has the tendency to make your essay very wordy very quickly and it may detract from the quality and readability if overused

, Instead of just giving a snippet, include the entire quotation before you proceed to explain it. Be sure to find a way to connect it back to your original thesis, though, as not doing so will have the reader commenting on the left field addition.
 Instead of saying "This painting is red", say "This magnificent artwork is full of vibrant warm colors such as red, brown and mahogany". In addition to lengthening your essay, you may give off the impression that you're truly passionate about the topic, which is doubly helpful! As with other method, don't overuse this one; you don't want the paper to sound too verbose or embellished.


Use longer words in place of shorter words.
If you're having trouble thinking of ways to make your words longer, you can use your computer's synonym tool to find a longer word to lengthen the line.
, Conclusions don't have to be limited to one paragraph. A good technique for squeezing out another half a page or a page, depending on the length of the rest of the paper, is to add a conclusion paragraph that simply summarizes the rest of the paper. Then, add another conclusion that draws on the summary and makes a final point about your thesis.


For more ideas about padding out your actual content, see How to BS your way through a college paper.

