 Twitter is a place where you can brand yourself with a message and create a particular impression of style. Think about what impression do you want to make, what message you have to say, or what cause you want to support. Jot down a few notes to brainstorm the impression you are going for. For example:


Fun loving, spontaneous and/or vibrant
Classy, elegant and/or well put together
Peaceful, welcoming and/or spiritual
Edgy, fast paced and/or geared towards sports/racing
Business like, clean, and well balanced ;
, Go through your photos on your device or find a cool, free image online. If you are going to have a website create your Twitter header, you can use one of their photos. See the below part on using a website.


Go to Twitter’s free header image gallery, and select an image that is already set to the correct size specifications. To download, click on the picture you like. In the right corner, click on the download icon. If you are content with an image alone, upload the image to your Twitter profile.
 Google “edit photos”, and you will see a selection of online websites that will help you to adjust your image. And once you have your image, you will need to change it's size (in pixels) so that it will correctly fit on Twitter. Twitter header specifications are 1500x500 pixels. Login to the website, and edit your photo. Resize it so that it fits the correct 1500x500 specifications.
 Adding text to your image can help your header stand out on Twitter. Text will make your Twitter header a platform. You can put up a message about something about you or what you support. It can also function as a kind of brand for your business.


Search through quote websites until you find a quote that suits your purpose.
Search for a quote that defines where you are in life right now or that communicates something you find important or really funny.
 Think about which shapes might help you stylize your header. Shapes can help give your header balance, or they can give you more room to be artistic.


You can use Photoshop or an online website to add the shape to your Twitter header. Use part two, putting it together, to learn about how to use these websites.
 This can be quick and easy. There are some websites that boast that they can make headers in thirty seconds.


Some websites have pre made headers for free. There are highly stylized and more professional looking headers you can download from these websites. However, some of the headers cost a dollar.
Before you upload an image, you may need to make sure your image is to the specifications Twitter requires (1500x500). However, some websites can adjust the size of your image so that you don’t have to upload an image of the correct size.
These websites have different features to help you stylize your header. You can change the size and font of your text. Some websites will allow you to choose from a variety of background images. Additionally, some websites will allow you to choose filters that will change your background image to black and white or make the image blurry.
 You can use these websites to create a more complex header. If you use this website option, it will probably take a little longer to create your header.


These website will allow you to upload an image and fit it to size, use tools to create a banner with lots of text features. You can also use shapes, colors, and filters much like Photoshop to create your header.
Try these websites if you have experience with graphic design or have more time to figure out its functions.
 If you already have some experience using Photoshop, this is a great option. With Photoshop you have access to more tools and options for graphic design.


If you are new to graphic design, follow a Youtube tutorial to make a Twitter banner. If you are going to use Photoshop to make a Twitter banner, there are a couple low production value tutorial videos to help you get started.
 If you do not have one, create a Twitter account. Go to Twitter.com, and type in your credentials. It is fast and easy to create an account if you do not already have one.
 Click on your profile picture on the left.
 This is on the right hand side of your profile. It is under your profile header.
 Under the icon, it says Add a header. Next click on Upload photo.
 Your image may be saved in your downloads folder. This will be the header you created in part two.
 Make your image larger or smaller depending on how it fits in the frame. You can also move your image left and right or up and down.


If your header doesn’t fit the frame correctly, go back into the website or application you used to create your header, and fix your image. You may need to choose a smaller font or reposition the shapes, so it looks good on your Twitter profile.
 Once you like the way your header fits on your Twitter page, go ahead and save your changes.


If you do not like how it looks on your page, click Edit profile, and re-upload your picture. Then click Change your header profile. You can upload a new photo or remove it. Simply go through the same steps to upload your image again.
Feel free to make another Twitter header. You can do so every couple of months, or whenever you feel the desire to change up your Twitter style.

