 A flat lawn with short grass is best for croquet, but if none is available, you may play croquet on any lawn. Vegetation or high grass may stop the croquet balls and make the game harder to play. While there are many variations of croquet played all around the world, this version is more commonly played in the United States.
 If you have a large, flat lawn with short, evenly mowed grass, you could measure a full size American (9 hoop) court with the short side equal to 50 feet (15.2m).However, for inexperienced players or less than perfect lawns, a smaller size is recommended. Try 30 ft. (9.1m), 25 ft. (7.6m), or any other measurement that fits.


Not that the long side will be twice as long as this measurement. You may want to pick a smaller size in order to fit the playing field on your lawn.
 Place a rock, stake, or flag on either end of this line. If you have string, tie it between the two markers or lay it on the ground to create a boundary.
 The croquet playing field is rectangular, and in the nine hoop version the long side is twice as long as the short side. Starting from one boundary marker, walk at a right angle to the first line while measuring with the tape measure. Once you reach a distance twice as long as the short side, stop.


For a full size 9-hoop garden croquet lawn, your final measurements will be 50 ft x 100 ft (15.2m x 30.4m).
Other possible measurements include 30 ft x 60 ft (9.1m x 18.2m), or 25 ft x 50 ft (7.6m x 15.2m).
 As before, use a flag, stick or other object to mark the corner of this boundary at the end of the line you just measured. If you have a string, stretch it between this marker and the last one you put down.
 From the end of the long line, turn at a right angle and create another short side parallel to the first one. Place the fourth boundary marker to create the last corner. Stretch a string between this boundary marker and the two nearest markers. If the rectangle doesn't look even, you may move one of the boundary markers to make the sides parallel.
 One way to locate the center of the field is to stretch two strings across the field diagonally, each one between opposite diagonal corners. At the location where the strings cross, drive the two prongs of the hoop firmly into the ground to create an arch. The opening should face toward the short ends of the field.


Alternatively, measure the center points of one short side and one long side, then have two people walk at right angles from each point. The point where their paths cross is the center of the field.
 One of the shorter sides of the field will be called the "north" end, and the opposite short side will be called the "south" end. It does not matter where actual compass north is; this is just terminology to make the court easy to describe.


The longer sides are the "west" and "east" sides, as if you were looking at a map with the "north" end of the field at the top.
The players will be starting on the "south" side of the court. However, the players move back and forth across the entire court, so even if the ground is sloped it won't make much difference which end is which.
 If you are using a full size field (50ft x 100ft, or 15.2m x 30.4m) and want to use precise measurements, measure out 32 ft (9.75m) with a tape measure.Otherwise, scale down this measurement to the same proportion as your field's side, or simply walk approximately 3/5 of the distance to the north end while counting your paces. Walk in a straight line, parallel with the long sides of the field.


The 9 hoop game has several variant setups with the hoops at different distances from the center hoop. The general shape of the setup is more important than the exact numbers involved.
 Once you've measured the correct distance, or walked approximately 3/5 of the way between the center and the north side, put a hoop down. As with all the hoops you'll be putting down, the opening should be facing the "north" and "south" ends of the field.
 The next hoop will be exactly opposite the last one. Return to the center hoop and walk an equal distance south, approximately 3/5 of the way to the south side of the field.


If you are counting your paces instead of using a tape measure, use the same number of paces you did to locate the previous hoop.
 Continue walking south 6 feet (1.8m) for a full size field, 3 ft (0.9m) for a half size field, or simply estimate a reasonable distance by walking four paces. Place the hoop here, with the opening of the arch facing the shorter ends of the field as always.
 Walk an additional four paces, 6 ft. (1.8m), or whichever measurement you used in the last step. Place a stake here, not a hoop. If your croquet set did not come with stakes, use a large, noticeable stick or flag planted upright in the ground.
 Return to the stake closest to the north end of the field. Place a second hoop and then a stake a few paces further north of it, in a line with the center hoop and with the southern line of hoops and stakes. Use the same distance between hoops and stakes that you did on the southern end of the field.


Walking from the north end of the field southward, you should cross a stake, two hoops, a long distance, the center hoop, a long distance, two hoops, and a stake.
 At the center stake, face the line of two hoops and a stake you just put down, then turn 45ยบ to the left and walk toward the long "east" side of the field. Stop when the center stake and the nearest southern hoop are at equal distances from you, and you are a few paces from the eastern edge of the field. Place a new hoop at this location.


On a full size field, this hoop will be 6 feet (1.8m) from the eastern edge of the field.
 Return to the center hoop and find the location of the final three hoops by walking southwest, northwest, and northeast at a 45ยบ angle. Try to walk at the same angle and for the same distance each time. You should end up with four hoops in a square pattern, each corner near a western or eastern side of the field.

