 Look on the internet for those ezines that would appeal to your potential customers. Keep a running list of any ezines that appear popular but also affordable. Avoid ezines that have a reputation as spammers.
 There are two related types of ezines: ad sheets and content papers. Ad sheets are composed almost entirely of ads with free and paid options available. The content that they do contain is often recycled. Content papers utilize more feature articles with a goal of teaching something to a particular audience.


The ads in content papers are limited to certain sections of the page. You can choose from the top, middle, bottom, and various sizes. Ad sheets are designed with more uniform ads, so size choice is limited., The premium spaces for ads are those that appear first and those that sit at the top of the page. An ezine can describe its ads in several ways, but most usually have higher price points for these premium locations. By switching to a less desirable location on the page, you can cut advertising costs.In newspapers, those ads that appear above the fold are generally the most expensive. Some ezines will use the term "above the fold" to mean the most visible and costly ads.
“Solo ads” are the most expensive because they are single-advertisement ezines sent out to subscribers. As they cost more money, you need to make sure you are confident of results.
 If you are trying to limit expenses, look for ezines that have a smaller number of subscribers. This is especially the case if a more focused ezine targets the same audience that you are interested in. For example, if you are selling custom flavored honey, an ezine catering to foodies is probably a good fit.


Be aware of the interest and activity level of the subscribers. An ezine with 2,000 engaged readers may yield better results for you than an ezine with 10,000 disinterested ones.
 Ask your friends, family, colleagues, and customers about the ezines that they read and enjoy. If they know about your business, they may be able to offer even more targeted suggestions. Ask about the quality of the publication. How frequently does it appear? Are there frequent typos and errors?

, Subscribe to five to ten ezines that you are considering using for advertising. Give yourself a set number of weeks to read the ezines on your list. This will let you get to know them from a reader’s perspective. Pay attention to the quality of the ads contained in each one. Ask yourself, “Will my ad stand out or just blend in?”