 If you want to impress people with your worldliness, be prepared to show that you’ve done amazing, exciting, once-in-a-lifetime things. As you travel or interact with people in your area, seek out new and interesting things to do. Stock up on stories you’ll be able to drop in conversations and impress people with. For instance:


Don’t just tell people you’ve visited Tuscany. Tell them about the time you met some locals in a bar in Florence who invited you to hop a train to Naples, climb Mt. Vesuvius, pick grapes from a centuries-old vineyard, and sample wine on a sunlit terrace.
Seize the opportunity to be an extra in a film. While you might have to stand in line for hours in the cold waiting to be called up, it will be worth it when you can brag about appearing in the film, and taking a selfie with Hollywood’s biggest star.
 Maybe you have a special skill, like vocal chops or the ability to play all of Beethoven’s piano concertos. Maybe you know everything there is to know about modern art, or tech startups. Make sure to mention this to others whenever you can, or show them off in some way, like performing at a community event. The more exclusive and elite your talent or expertise is, the more others will be impressed by your worldliness.


There’s a fine line between seeming worldly and bragging. It’s fine to show off your talents, but don’t do it in an obnoxious way.
If someone strikes up a conversation about music with you, don’t just blurt out right away that you know how to play all of Beethoven’s piano concertos. Wait for a natural point in the conversation. If they ask about your repertoire, you can say something like “Actually, I’m quite familiar with Beethoven’s works…”

, If your goal is to convince people that you are worldly, you need to share your life. Make sure to casually drop information about your experiences into conversations. For example, if someone mentions that they’ve always wanted to go to Europe, you could follow up with something like “Oh, when I lived in Spain for a year, I loved the convenience of European railways. I was able to visit so many places.”


If you are careful, you will be able to imply that you’ve had exciting, enviable experiences -- even if you haven’t actually -- without really lying. Drop places or peoples’ names into conversation as though you’ve been there or know them, even if you don’t. For instance, you might say something like “All the big stars in Hollywood go to Republique for brunch.”
Be cautious if someone calls you ought or asks for more information. If a friend asks “Oh, so you’ve been to Republique? Who did you see there?” you have the choice of either trying to invent a story about seeing Brad Pitt there, or just admitting “No, but I’ve read about it.”

, Talk slowly, avoid filling what you say with words like “um” and “uh,” and think about what you want to say before you speak. This will project confidence and convince others that you know what you are talking about.