 You know you're not going to be a digital nomad forever. Before you start saving for retirement, you need to have a good idea what country you will live in when you do retire, so you can maintain your savings in that currency.If possible, you also want to set up your savings and investment accounts in that country, so they'll be easier to access once you do retire.
Most digital nomads plan on retiring in their home country. Don't choose another country unless you are certain you'll be able to immigrate there when you're ready to retire and settle down.
 You want to have an emergency fund separate from your retirement savings. Look at your budget and determine how much your expenses will be, on average, for at least three months.This money will protect you and enable you to survive as a digital nomad if, for example, you lose a contract or have a hard time finding work in one location.
You also may want to include sufficient money for a plane ticket, so if you get into a difficult situation somewhere you can quickly bail out and return to your home country or somewhere else where you feel safe.
Keep this money in a basic savings account so it will earn interest, but you can access it quickly if you need to do so.
 While life as a digital nomad may seem carefree and simple, your finances typically will be anything but simple. Look for a licensed or certified financial planner who has experience working with digital nomads.You don't necessarily have to keep a financial planner on retainer long-term, but it's a good idea to at least consult someone when you're setting up your savings and investment accounts.
Ask the financial planner about sound investment strategies, and put the framework for your savings and investments in place. You also want to ask about tax strategies.
 Having too many financial accounts can be difficult to keep up with when you're traveling, especially if you have accounts scattered across several different countries. While this sometimes can be unavoidable for digital nomads, you want to try to have as few accounts as possible.For example, if you settle in one country for a longer period of time and take a day job, you may need to open a local bank account. When you move on somewhere else, close that account.
Try to have a specific purpose for each account you have. For example, you might have a retirement savings account, a checking account for daily expenses, and a basic savings account for your emergency fund.
 When you're traveling, it can be relatively easy to rack up significant fines and fees, as well as facing significant tax consequences, if you're not careful. Work with a professional financial advisor to build a sound strategy.You typically will need at least one credit card, but try to pick one that has the best rewards for you as you're traveling, as well as the strongest purchase protection. Choose a card that doesn't have an annual fee. If you have any credit cards that do have annual fees, you may want to close those accounts before you start traveling to avoid those fees.
Check with your bank or financial advisor to choose the retirement fund or investment vehicle that has the most favorable tax status in the country where you plan to retire. You also may want to review tax penalties for early withdrawals, in the event of a significant emergency situation.
Carefully review the tax laws in your home country regarding money earned in other countries, or speak to a tax expert. Make sure you're not going to end up paying any fines or penalties for not filing taxes appropriately.

