 State schools for the blind usually do not charge for their services. They are funded by the state department of education and paid for by the local education agency in your area. Look for state schools in your area that cater to blind and visually impaired students. These schools have teachers who are trained in academic and nonacademic subjects with instruction designed for blind and visually impaired students.If there is not a school for the blind in your state, you may be able to attend a school for the blind in a neighboring state. Contact your local education agency for more information on schools for the blind in your state.;
, There are also private schools for the blind that accept students for a fee. The fee goes to the local school district to help fund the school. These private schools will often have smaller class sizes and offer hands on instruction for students.Some private schools for the blind also offer services for families who are raising blind or visually impaired children.
 Do your research and find out more about the classes offered at the school for the blind or visually impaired. Most schools will offer fully-accessible educational, social, and recreational activities with your peers. You can also learn in a comfortable, supportive environment and have access to visual impairment services.Most schools for the blind will follow the Expanded Core Curriculum, which will have vision or disability specific skills added. You will learn how to use Braille to read and write, how to move independently and safely in an environment on your own, and how to use specialized computer equipment for the blind and visually impaired.
 If you decide to attend a state school, the cost of attending is often covered by the state. If you want to attend a private school for the blind, you will likely have to pay a fee. There are many financial supports and scholarships for the blind or visually impaired that you can apply for. Do some research and look for financial aid if you need it before you apply for schools.


If you are looking into getting a post-secondary education as a blind or visually impaired student in the U.S., make sure you look for scholarship opportunities through the National Federation of the Blind and The American Council of the Blind.