 Feeling comfortable with a doctor is an important step to being open and honest about your life, symptoms, and conditions. If you don't feel comfortable talking to your doctor, you may feel the urge to lie.Ask friends, family members, and co-workers for recommendations. They can give you names of doctors in your area they like and have had good experiences with.
If you are moving or need a specialist, ask your current doctor for a referral.
When you visit your new doctor, you should feel like the doctor treats you with respect. The doctor should encourage you to ask questions and listen to them. Your doctor should also listen to what you have to say in an attentive manner that makes you feel comfortable.
You should find a doctor who explains things so you can understand what is going on and is open to you asking questions.
Think about your doctor after your first visit. Decide if your doctor made you feel comfortable, spent adequate time with you, and let you ask questions.
 You may want to bring a close friend or family member to the doctor’s visit with you. This may be helpful if there is a language barrier between the patient and doctor, or a cultural barrier that may present problems.For patients with dementia, a close friend or family member may be helpful in discussing symptoms, medication, and other concerns in addition to ensuring the doctor gets honest, complete updates.
Family members or close friends may also be able to provide information about the patient’s personality, traits, and symptoms.
 When you go to the doctor, you should discuss cultural and religious concerns that may influence treatment options. Don’t be afraid to speak up and work with your doctor to find a solution that aligns with your values and beliefs.If you suspect your belief system may make some treatment options impossible, make sure to discuss this with your doctor.
For example, some religions and cultures would be opposed to having animal thyroid hormones because they are made out of pig products.
 Sometimes, your doctor needs to know important things that have happened in your life. This includes traumas and major life events. If your doctor asks how your life is going, make sure to respond honestly about anything that might be affecting you.You should discuss major stressors, like divorces and deaths of loved ones. You may also want to tell your doctor if you have lost your job or recently made a big move.
Your doctor may be looking for signs of depression, reasons for heart distress, or reasons for certain deficiencies, like vitamin D.
 Often, patients are hesitant to speak up to physicians. Physicians are human beings who have bad days, get stressed, and can be overwhelmed by busy and full patient loads. If you feel your visit isn’t going well or your doctor is rushing you too much, speak up and tell your physician.The doctor’s first priority is you and your health. Doctors want to do a good job for their patients and provide the best care. Letting a doctor know you are uncomfortable or feel uneasy about the visit may help you receive better care.
 Just because you go see one doctor doesn't mean you have to go see that same doctor for the rest of your life. You have the power to change doctors, get a second opinion, or find a different practice.After your visit, you should evaluate your visit honestly. Do you think you received the proper care and attention? Did the doctor rush through your visit? Did the doctor listen to you? Did the doctor treat you with respect?
If you felt uncomfortable with your doctor and found yourself not wanting to be honest, you should switch doctors so you can find someone you do feel comfortable with.

