 Send out invites in the shape of tents and make them green! Make sure the date, time and place are very clear!;
, There are loads of fun games you can play at a camp out! In the day have water-fights, sleeping bag races, dance to some banging tunes, play celebrity 20 questions, the chocolate game (where you have 20 seconds to throw on some funny clothes-underpants etc. and run to a tray with a knife and fork and some chocolate - you have to try to cut a square and eat it within the time limit!), have a barbecue or play sardines. When it gets dark, play flashlight tag, ghost in the graveyard, roast marshmallows, sip hot cocoa and play dares! Other games you can play is 'I have never' which involves having all the lights out -and someone saying, for example: 'I have never...farted in public'. If you have, then you have to cough. This will make everyone giggle! Another idea, go into groups or pairs, and give each group or pair a toilet paper roll each - play mummies! You could race or have a fashion show!

, If you're going to have a barbecue, why not cook it on a campfire! Barbecues are excellent camping food, so this would really set the scene! For dessert , yummy treats like cookies and brownies are very tasty and fun to make! Breakfast can be really simple, like cereal, toast, fresh juice. Or if you're a bit ambitious, go for pancakes, or a fry up! Also, if you're serving tea quite late, serve up some dips to keep everyone going!

, Decorations can play a huge part in your camp out. They don't need to be big and expensive, but if you use some of these ideas, they could really set the scene. Why not try collecting empty glass jam jars and placing little candles in them. Arrange them around your garden and light them when its dark! This will really give your garden that magical look! Also, make your own bunting by cutting old, or cheap fabric into triangles (or any other shape) and stapling it to some string. A few banners here and there look festive and balloons are a must have. Why not cut out a flower shape and write all your guests names on the shape, then sellotape the shape to the ceiling of your tent!

, As well, your guests will feel more relaxed and willing to participate in your mad games! If you are a very shy person, try to practice simple things like opening a door to your guest and welcoming them in, in front of a mirror - it may sound silly, but it'll work. When your guests arrive, at least seem happy to see them, give them a hug (or do your handshake?!) and compliment their outfit, or their hair, or their tan (if they've been on holiday). Take their bags and thank the folks for bringing them. (It's probably best to keep most of the guests belongings inside, so you don't have to worry about people losing things, or belongings getting wet or mucky). Offer light food and a scrummy drink, like a smoothie or milkshake. These simple things will make your party so much more enjoyable!

, Sure, have a plan, but don't treat it like a school day and make sure everything on your list is done by the minute! If you feel your guests look bored or uncomfortable, play an icebreaker game or some music to relax even the shyest of guests!

