 Once you’ve told your friends about your drug addiction, you’ll presumably want to ask for their support in your recovery. Help might come in a variety of ways, from encouraging you and watching out for your wellbeing to helping you get to support meetings and other things. Friends may also be able to help you find some sort of treatment, if you’ve not yet started.Make sure that the friends you ask to support you are sober. Friends who use drugs will not be able to help you.
You might say something along the lines of “I really need help to get better. Can I count on your support during this time?” You might also ask for specific help, i.e. “Can you help me find a treatment center?” or “Can you help watch my daughter while I try to get clean?”

, Just because you’re telling friends about your addiction doesn’t mean that you have to share everything. In fact, you might spend some time thinking about what aspects of your addiction you’re comfortable sharing with each friend and what ones you’re not. Planning this conversation can make you seem less defensive or cagey.Be firm and unapologetic if you don’t want to share. It’s perfectly OK to respond to a question by saying, “I’d rather not talk about that just now.”

, Telling your friends about your drug addiction is part of taking control and showing your desire to recover. You will have to demonstrate that you want to get clean and start treatment, so be ready to tell them about your plan and how they can help you.If you’re talking to loved one, chances are that you’ve already accepted your addiction and thought about the future. Tell your friends how you envision getting help, be it a stint in rehab and detox, attending sobriety support groups, or a mix of approaches.
A plan will help you to keep the discussion on track and avoid getting derailed by the emotions that this sort of talk can elicit, from you and your friends. Think of it as a “blueprint.” It will communicate to your friends that you’re serious, even if you don’t have all the details sorted out just yet., Your friends and loved ones might not really know how to offer support or help. Say so if you haven’t already, and be specific about what you need. This can help you start to build a strong social support network.Say clearly if you want help friends to help you find a rehab program, give moral and emotional support, or perhaps help to take care of your children while you focus on recovery.
You might say something like “I’m afraid of making that first appointment, because it seems like admitting I’m a failure. Can you help me do it?” or “It’s been a struggle and I just might need a hug some days.”

, Expect your friends to have lots of questions and also to show a range of emotions, from surprise and confusion to anger, resentment, and hurt. Try to be patient and mindful. Above all else, remember that your friends care and ultimately want what’s best for you – i.e. your recovery.Resist the urge to get defensive if your friends become angry. Try to diffuse anger by saying that you’re not asking them to support you in your addiction, only to support you in recovery.
Keep in mind that friends who also use drugs may try to talk you out of getting help. You will have to stay firm in your decision if this happens. You may also need to tell any friends who use that you will not be able to spend time around them if they are high.
 Think before you disclose your addiction about what kind of questions your friends are most likely to ask you. This will help you answer as best as possible. For instance, your friends might ask how long you’ve been addicted, how it started, or why you waited so long to get treatment.Expect to talk about what drives your addiction, as well, such as the people, places, behavior, and attitudes that contribute to it. This is important information for your friends, as it can keep them from enabling the addiction.

