 The best way to help your friend is to gain a better understanding of what they are going through. Sit down and gently bring up the topic about your friend's mental health. Ask questions to learn more about what they might need.


You might say, "You haven't seemed like yourself lately. Is everything okay?" Stick to what you have observed and avoid making assumptions. You may bring in other people’s observations if needed. This may also be a good time to ask, “Have you thought about going to talk to somebody about that?”
This offers a great benchmark for bringing up the subject later when you have done some research or looked up possible counselors.;
, After you have gotten some cursory information about what kind of problems they might be experiencing, research the person’s symptoms and the type of treatment that may benefit them. This way, when you suggest they seek help, you know exactly what type of treatment to talk about.


Also, providing a possible name to what your friend is experiencing may give them a sense of hope that they can get better.
Print out the symptoms of the condition you believe your friend may be suffering from and let them see. Having this type of evidence may convince them that they need help., No matter how much you do to plan out the conversation, it may not go the way you want. Your friend may become angry with you and not want to see you again. However, you are doing the right thing by trying to help, no matter how they may see it at the time.


Go into the conversation knowing full well that your friend may deny that anything is wrong with them, yell at you, ask you to leave, and threaten to end your friendship. Walking in with the worst-case scenario already in your head may better prepare you for it, if it happens.If your friend does this, you may have no choice but to give them space to come to terms with their issues on their own. Although it's okay to show your concern and recommend them to seek help. You can't force them. Keep in mind that you may encounter some pushback at first and it might take several conversations before they come around.
 Talking to your friend about their mental health is typically something that should be done one-on-one. Attempting to have the conversation during a loud and busy event probably won’t go over well, as your friend won’t be able to give their full attention to you and what you’re saying. Instead, choose a time and place where your friend feels comfortable and will be able to understand your message.


If possible, avoid having the talk when your friend is going through a difficult or stressful time. Attempting to persuade them when they are in distress will usually end in failure. Try to find a time when you think they’ll be more receptive and responsive to your concern., Despite your best efforts, you have to accept that you can't force your friend to get help. Bring up the subject and tell them you are worried, but know that you cannot dictate whether your friend gets help or not.


Keep the lines of communication open and let your friend know that they can talk to you any time if they change their mind.
 If you think your friend won’t take your word alone, ask for support from other friends and loved ones. Or, if you think your friend will be more likely to listen to someone else, then consider having that person talk to them instead of you. Having more than just your opinion may make your case more substantial and they may take the talk more seriously. You may also want to ask a professional to sit in on the conversation to help steer it the proper way.


When asking for support, you could say, “I’m concerned about our friend and I know they value your opinion and trust you. I was hoping you could talk to them about getting help with me. I think if you share your concern for them, they’ll take it more seriously.”Again, keep in mind that your friend may not feel comfortable with you involving others. Only do this if you believe your friend is in danger of hurting themselves or someone else. For minor problems, be willing to back off if your friend clearly doesn't want your help.

