 If your boots aren’t especially dirty, you can usually clean them easily with a damp cloth. To prevent dirtiness from building up on your boots and causing longer cleaning times, do this after each time you use your boots.To increase the dirt fighting potential of your damp cloth, mix 1 tsp (5 ml) of dish soap with a ¼ gallon (1 L) of water. Douse your rag in this, and wipe down the boots.
Wipe your boots from the top to the bottom. This way, you’re less likely to cause dirt and grime to drip onto already cleaned parts of the boots.;
, Take your boots to a suitable area in your yard and spray them thoroughly with water from a hose. It may take some time before the dirtiness loosens and comes off. After most of the dirtiness has been removed, wipe away any that remains with a damp cloth.








If you do not have a suitable place in your yard to do this, or if you do not have a yard, wash your boots in your bathtub or shower instead.
For mud that just doesn’t want to come off, combine 1 tsp (5 ml) of baking soda with ½ cup (237 ml) of warm water. Rub this onto the stubborn mud, wait 15 to 30 minutes, then rinse the solution and the mud free., Use caution when using a brush on your boots. Stiff bristle brushes, especially, can do damage to the boots or cause them to discolor. Use a soft bristle scrub brush to prevent damage. Avoid using a brush on the upper parts of the brush.









Use moderate to light pressure when scrubbing. Failing to do so can cause premature wear on the rubber.
Use an old toothbrush to get into the small grooves on the soles of your boots., Over time, your rubber boots may have become scuffed, creating unsightly discoloration. Apply some oil, like olive oil, to a soft cloth. Rub the cloth on the scuff marks in a circular fashion to erase these.









If the rag-oil technique didn’t work on your scuff marks, try a normal gum eraser, like the kind you use for pencils. Apply this gently to scuff marks to make them disappear., Air drying is the best way to dry rubber boots. Wipe away the moisture from cleaning them as best you can with a clean, dry rag. Then insert wads of newspaper into each boot. Wait a few hours, then remove the wet newspaper from the boots. If the boots are still wet, repeat this process.


Newspaper will not only absorb moisture in your boots, it will also help them keep their shape., If you need your boots for another excursion shortly after you’ve cleaned them, wipe away the water as best you can with a dry rag. Then aim a hair dryer set to “low” at the inside of each boot until they are dry., Combine 1 tsp (5 ml) of dishwashing liquid with about a ¼ of a gallon (1 L) of hot water in a bucket. Agitate this with your hand or a stirring utensil to distribute the soap throughout the water. 







, Douse a clean rag in your cleaning solution. Use this to thoroughly wipe the inside of each boot. Do this several times, rinsing your rag regularly in the solution throughout the process. After that, use a wet, clean rag to wipe away the soap.
 Take a spray bottle and fill it half with white vinegar and half with water. Liberally spray this solution on the inside of the boot. The acid in the vinegar should kill the bacteria and organisms causing the bad odor.
 You can protect the outer surface of your boots and add shine to them with an automotive tire protectant. These can be found at most general retailers, in the automotive section of big box stores, and at automotive stores.









Apply tire protectant to your boots every six months to achieve the best results., Direct sunlight will cause the rubber of your boots to break down. When you’re not wearing your boots, store them in a paper bag to shield them from the light.


If you plan on drying your boots outside, do so in a place that doesn’t receive direct sunlight., In humid or hot weather, your boots may develop white marks or a similar film, which is often called “blooming.” This is caused by compounds in the rubber rising to the surface. This is completely natural and will not harm your boots. Remove this by using:









A rag with a few drops of olive oil to wipe down your boots. Use a circular motion while wiping, and the marks should disappear.
Specially designed rubber boot shining products or a boot buffer. These can be found at most general retailers and shoe stores.