 Whether you’re adopting an 8-week-old puppy or bringing home an older dog from a result shelter, you need to be prepared before the dog arrives.Visit a local pet-supply store, and ask the clerk what they recommend that you purchase for the type and age of dog you’re bringing home. Plan on purchasing:


Water bowl, food bowl, and a bag of dog food or puppy food.
A leash and collar.
A soft blanket or bed that your dog can claim as their own.
Stain remover and carpet or tile cleaners.
Bones and/or synthetic chew toys.
A dog kennel or cage to keep the animal in when you leave the house.
 Regardless of a dog’s age, it will be stressed and confused the first time it’s brought into a new place, such as your house or apartment. Rather than giving your dog run of the house immediately, it helps to introduce them to each new room slowly.Walk your dog through the house to give them time to adjust—this will lead them to trust you and grow in loyalty.


Similarly, if other people or pets live with you, introduce your new dog to them one at a time.This will increase the dog’s trust for, and loyalty to, each family member.
 If you’re adopting a puppy, you’ll need to make sure that fragile, valuable, or easily damaged items are out of reach.Decide ahead of time when you’ll feed the puppy—puppies need to be fed three to four times a day, and these meals should come at regular intervals. Finally, show your puppy an outside area where it can go to the bathroom, and give it plenty of positive affection.If you already own a dog, you’ll need to give the two dogs—whether puppies or older dogs—time to get familiar with each other. Hold one of the dogs on a leash, and have a friend hold the other dog on a leash. Let the two dogs smell each other, while praising and petting them both. Keep the dogs in a controlled environment, such as a fenced backyard, as they begin to play together., If you’re bringing home a dog that has been mistreated or abused, you’ll need to exercise extra patience when bringing the dog home. Help your dog move beyond their abusive past by giving them a private, safe space—a crate or a kennel—that they can retreat to when they please.Avoid putting the dog in stressful situations or playing too aggressively, as the dog may take this as a sign of abuse and become afraid or aggressive.


Also give the dog plenty of time in a low-stress environment to acclimate to other people in your house or apartment.
 Dogs feel comfortable with routines, and will be more affectionate and loyal towards you if you maintain a daily routine for the dog.Feed your dog at regular times. Whether you feed your dog once or twice a day, make sure to do it at the same time daily. For example, you could feed your dog shortly before leaving for work, and again shortly before you eat your own dinner.
Take your dog for daily walk. This is especially important if you live in an urban area without a large backyard. Walking your dog at a consistent time—say 6:00 in the evening—will help your dog establish a routine, and also keep your dog from experiencing boredom.

