 Almost every major gas station offers gift cards.To decide which station’s card you want to buy, ensure that the person you’re buying the card for has a gas station of the corresponding card nearby. For instance, if you buy the card for your son who moved away, you might not know what gas stations he has nearby. Use an online map system like MapQuest to look up gas stations near him.


If you aren’t trying to make a big surprise of the gas gift card, you could just ask the person you’re buying the card for what gas station they usually go to.
The major players such as Exxon and Shell are great choices as are 7-11, QuikTrip and RaceTrac convenience stores. Just check to be sure they are in the right area.
All gas stations are basically the same. The only “wrong” choice is buying a card for a gas station that is inaccessible to the person you’re buying the card for.
A child headed to college will be using one of the stations around their college. Know which gas station they prefer when choosing what card to buy.;
, Some gas stations offer special savings when you use a gift card. For example, Walmart offers a savings of $0.03 per gallon off the price of gas per gallon when you use their gift card at the gas pump.Look for similar deals that give you a little extra mileage for your money when deciding which card to buy.
 For instance, if you have a gift exchange at your workplace, or want to distribute a little something extra to a departing employee, student, or client. Of course, giving a gas gift card isn’t limited to these situations. Since gas gift cards are useful for anyone who drives, you could also give a gas gift card to a friend or close family member.


Family members who are making a long drive to visit you might appreciate a gas card as a going-away gift.
Gas gift cards make great stocking stuffers.
You could tuck a gas gift card inside a birthday card.
 Gas gift cards usually come in predetermined amounts. Multiples of $5 and $10 are common. For instance, you might find gas gift cards available in amounts like $25, $50, $75, and so on.Decide how much you want to spend on gas gift cards before making your purchase.


If you are unable to find the exact amount you want, buy more than one gas gift card. For instance, if you want to give your friend $35 in gas gift cards, you might need to buy a $10 and a $25 gas gift card.
It’s usually better to buy a card with a value of at least $25. Not only is a full tank of gas rarely less than $25, but values of less than that often require a surcharge of $0.25 or $0.50.