 This pattern is easy to adjust, so it's a good one to do with yarn left over from other projects or found inexpensively at garage sales or thrift stores.

The scarf in these photos was made of cream colored, mercerized cotton thread found in a thrift store. No weight or thickness is given on the label, but any comfortable weight will do.




 The hook is small to go with small thread.

This scarf used a size 00 hook. Use any hook that works well with the size of yarn or thread you choose.
Remember that smaller hooks and smaller yarns will require more stitches to get to a scarf of the same size.;
,,,





 The first eyelet.

This produces the first eyelet that will serve as the foundation of the scarf.
,





 The second eyelet.

This produces the second eyelet.
 Chain three and double crochet in the third chain from the hook.

This row of eyelets will run along the middle of the scarf, so make the row of eyelets almost as long as you want the scarf to be. The finished length will be just a bit longer, by the width of however many rows you crochet and any fringes or tassels you add at the end.
The scarf in the top photo has 66 eyelets and is about 4 feet (120cm) long. The rest of the photos in the article are of a shorter sample to show how the piece is worked.
 This chain will start the first round and counts as the first double crochet in the first shell., Note that you are not crocheting into a stitch at all, but around them, into the middle of the eyelet.





 The first "shell".

This forms the first "shell" and starts the first round. The first shell of each round is chain 3, double-crochet two.
 This produces a space between adjacent shells., This produces the second shell.

This eyelet will eventually have a total of three shells because it is the one on the end, but start with only two now and work the third at the end of the round.
Do not chain three to start additional shells; only do that for the first shell of a new round.
 Double crochet three stitches in each eyelet, then chain one to get to the next eyelet.,,,, This completes the first round., This counts as the first double crochet in the first shell., This completes the first shell for the second round. This is a corner, so it will eventually have a second shell, but it will be the last shell in this round.,, All corner spaces will have two shells and all edge and end openings will have one shell., Chain one and join to the top of the first shell with a slip stitch., The scarf shown has five full rounds, but the number of rounds depends on the yarn, the hook, the crocheter and the desired width., This step is optional, but it does help to give a finished, even look to the outside edge.,,