 One of the easiest ways to meet new girls is by hanging out with your existing friends and building relationships with their friends.When you get together for social situations, encourage your friends to bring their female friends along.

You can ask your friends to introduce you to their friends before the social gathering if you're nervous.
 Talk to girls in your classes and make it a point to try to group up with them for class assignments. If you are out of school or don't go to school, sign up for a class at a local community center in a subject that interests you. Start by talking about class oriented things before moving onto more personal conversation.Say something like, "Jeez, this homework is the most intense stuff ever. Are you getting it?"

, Meeting girls at work will give you something common to talk about and will be less stressful than introducing yourself to a stranger. Go out of your way to talk to the girls at work that you like. Once you build up a friendship, ask them if they would want to chill outside of work.Talk about work by saying something like, "Seriously? Three double shifts this week! Don't you wish that the scheduling was a little more organized?"
Ask her to hang out by saying something like, "Yo, I think you're really chill. Would you want to hang outside of work sometime?"
Or you could get more specific and say something like, "What are you doing this Friday? Want to go to happy hour with me?"

, A bookstore is a great place to meet new girls and gives you a good topic to strike up an initial conversation. If you see a girl checking out a book you enjoyed, introduce yourself and strike up a conversation about the book.You can say something like, "The second book in that series is one of my favorites. Are you a fan of Bukowski?"

, If you feel intimidated by the bar or club, bring along a couple of your friends. Try to make eye contact with girls that you see at the bar and walk up and introduce yourself to them.If you want to talk to the girl, make sure you go to a bar or club that isn't too loud.
You can say something like, "Hey I saw you on the other side of the bar. My name's Gerald, what's your name?"
Or you could say "Your sneakers are really cool, are they the new Air Max Goraths? I was thinking about getting a pair of them myself."

