 Schools in some areas put out school supply lists, and typically they offer a guide to what is important to purchase. It is often a good guide, and sticking to it avoids getting sidetracked into buying unnecessary things, and possibly not even get the right things at all.


Schools which offer school supply lists will typically mail out school supply lists, but these are also easy to misplace. If so, try to contact the school (school staff will usually be onsite the week before school starts) or look at their official website. Many schools now provide a downloadable list straight from their website.
Some schools actually prefer that students do not bring in outside school supplies. For example, your child's kindergarten teacher may not want just one child to have access to sparkly crayons.
Consider whether this is a list of requirements or just suggestions. Some schools make suggestions on school supplies, but it is not actually required. Other schools or classes really do require students to bring in certain items. If you are unsure, contact the school.
Consult retail store school supply lists with skepticism. Retail stores are there to sell you things, and sometime offer lists suggesting what students at different ages need. While not necessarily a bad guide, they are also not trying to save you money, either.
Sometimes there is a general list, and sometimes a list specific to your particular child's teacher or class. For instance, the school may suggest binders, but your child's teacher requests a set of yellow, red, and blue folders.
An art class may suggest buying a certain set of art supplies. For example, a digital photography class may suggest a type of digital camera plus a certain a type of software package for a computer at home.
Decide in advance how you will respond to requests for extra items from your children. Back-to-school shopping is a prime time for whining and begging. You could allow one extra item only, or tell your child that any items outside the required list are to be paid for out of your child's own money.
Can you shop solo? Some children are very particular about back-to-school shopping, and love the ritual. However, many others could care less. If your student is happy to let you do the decision-making, consider doing the shopping by yourself; you may be able to avoid impulse buying--bringing children along tends to increase impulse buys. You may also be able to shop quicker, or more slowly and thoughtfully, or at more stores to take advantage of sales.;
, Knowing in advance how much you can afford on supplies will keep everyone's minds focused on the limits to spending.


Try withdrawing only that amount of cash budgeting for back-to-school shopping. This often helps adults and children alike be more aware of how much is being spent--credit or debit purchases tend to be harder to keep track of. Have your children involved in this process so that they can understand the process of budgeting.
Another possibility is giving your student a "mini budget" for a particular item or type of item. How much will depend on the child's age and ability. For instance, giving your 1st grade student $3 to choose washable markers. This can help kids learn about how to work within a budget, make decisions, and responsibility., Have your child help you find the best prices in catalogs and online. This can be a source of responsible fun for each child to find the best coupon or deal on their needed items, as well as serve as an unstructured lesson in financial responsibility. Things to keep in mind include:


Some stores have a "loss leader" category. These are items are sold at a loss in order to lure you into the store, hoping you will shop further there. Of course, you are not under any obligation to buy anything else, so you can take advantage of the store in this way. If you shop for the items on special on a weekly basis, over a period of several weeks, you can accumulate many of the items on the list at a sale price. You may end up repeatedly going to the store, however.
Note that specialist stationery stores can sometimes be the most expensive place to source your supplies. If you need something specific and/or high quality, that may well be the place to go. However, for most school supplies you do not need the highest quality.
Shop around to compare prices and ask for discounts if you have seen items cheaper at another store. Many stores offer price matching; however, don't expect full-service stores to match discounter prices, and don't expect discount store employees to offer personalized service. To save money, you should expect to provide your own "customer service."
Look for upcoming tax-free shopping days to add to your discount. Tax free sales days or weekends can provide big discounts where offered. (This is more common in the United States and Canada.)
As well as cutting out catalog coupons, print out downloadable coupons or deals that you can only get online. The effort to search through relevant sites is well worth it, as you will find coupons that can be printed, cut out and taken along to the store for discounts.
 This sounds like a lot of work (and it can be) but this can often be done while shopping for other items throughout the summer.


Avoid paying for name-brand things when you do not need to. Generics and store brands are usually for many items, such as pens, pencils, erasers, and the like.
But skimping on certain items will cost more in the long run. For example, a cheaply made backpack will likely fall apart by winter break. Investing in a high quality brand may save a lot of money in the long run. For items such as these, make sure that what you get is good enough to use and sturdy enough to last.
 Use your group buying power to purchase school supplies in bulk at reduced cost. Split the supplies up between you. This is extremely helpful if the children are in the same class. It may also eliminate the whine, "But all my friends get this or that (expensive) thing." when the reality, everyone will have the same brand thing.


This is especially helpful if a parent has a membership at a store like Costco, where buying in bulk can save a lot of money.
In rural or remote areas, this may also be a wise approach. It may save money for all the parents to go in on one large order, and have it shipped to your location.
 Parents are generally expected to buy school supplies such as backpacks, sneakers, lunch boxes, and binders. But sometimes, too much may be passed off as expenses for parents to foot the bill. Sometimes, this can put parents in an awkward position, especially low-income ones. This could be a concern to bring up with with the principal, the teachers, the school board, the PTA, or perhaps other parents in your child's classroom or school.


Note that for outside activities the school does not have to provide equipment and materials. For example, your daughter may need to purchase her own lacrosse equipment. Your twins may have to rent or buy tubas to join marching band. The senior trip to the national capitol will be unlikely to be free.
Teachers may not appreciate how the well-meaning lesson or field trip affects parents financially. Other parents may also be silently suffering trying to figure out how to pay for an expensive field trip, outing, or materials for a lesson. But be polite, honest, and try to assume the best. Being confrontational and angry is likely to sour the relationship between you and the teacher.
Talk to your student's teacher about field trip costs. Teachers try very hard to make sure no child cannot go to a field trip due to a family's income.
Brainstorm ways to bring costs down. For instance, perhaps a bake sale, car wash, or other school fundraiser to defray costs for the class trip.
 If a laptop is required, this is a big expense item. You can reduce the purchase costs by purchasing a reconditioned laptop from a reliable supplier, looking at older models on special, or using a hand-me-down model from another family member who no longer needs it. Try to avoid borrowing a laptop in case it gets damaged or lost, and consider insuring it.


Make use of the tax-free sales days when purchasing laptops, desktops, flash drives, and other electronic items for school. You can save thousands.Think about trading in old equipment for new or reconditioned. This can be really useful for sports or music gear. Ask your local sports or music store if they have such a system in place, or if they know of a club or other place that can help. Or check out trading bulletins or online sites for other options.
 There are some other supply sources that you might not have considered that are worth checking out:


Try your local thrift store or charity shop. Rummage through the supplies that they do have. Backpacks are a commonly donated item in many thrift stores. Many stores will also have rulers, pencils, pens, calculators, organizers, alarm clocks, and other common household items. These stores also might have furniture such as desks and office chairs. If you let them know you are looking for school supplies, and are a regular customer they might be able to keep some back for you.
Look through online auctions. This includes sites like eBay. People sell all sort of items, from glue sticks, to gym shoes, to computers. Do not forget to check the craft section for things like scissors, glue, and bulk items being cleared out. As with all online auctions, be sure to factor in any shipping.
 The first week or so of school usually does not actually need that much equipment. By waiting, you may be able to buy these ones until the stores start to move their back-to-school stock into the clearance bins at discounted prices. Very often, the first week students do not need most of the supplies requested. If you can find out which supplies will not be needed until later in the school year, you can put off buying until then.


Many stores will start reducing stock as early as a week after school has gone back, so you might not have long to wait.
However, by waiting, you risk stores selling out of product or simply not having the style or type you want.
Also, you child might be unhappy to have to put off getting supplies. Some students really love the thrill of getting back to school items. For some kids, not having new school supplies might make him or her feel left out, marginalized, or to look like "the poor kid". 