 In the pitcher of a blender, combine 1 cup (237 ml) of chicken stock with 1 15 ounce (28 g) can of whole peeled tomatoes in juice. Puree the mixture until it is completely smooth, and then set aside.If you have a hand blender, you can puree the stock and tomatoes in a bowl or pot.;
, Add 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of canola oil to a 4 quart (3.7 L) saucepan. Turn the burner to medium-high, and allow the oil to heat until it’s hot or starts to shimmer, which should take approximately 3 to 5 minutes.You can substitute vegetable oil for the canola oil if you prefer.
 Once the oil is hot, mix in 2 serrano chiles that have been cut in half lengthwise and seeded, 2 cloves of minced garlic, and half a small white onion that’s been minced. Cook the mixture on medium-high until it’s soft, which should take approximately 4 minutes.Make sure to wash your hands after handling the serrano chiles because the oils from the skin of the chiles can irritate your skin and eyes., When the chiles, garlic, and onion are soft, stir 2 cups (370 g) of long-grain white rice into the pan. Allow it to cook until the rice grains become golden brown, which should take approximately 6 minutes.Stir the rice occasionally while it’s cooking to ensure that it doesn’t burn.
 When the rice has turned golden brown, add the tomato and broth mixture, 1 cup (150 g) of frozen peas that have been thawed, and kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste to the pan. Mix well so all of the ingredients are well blended.You can also add a couple of carrots that have been peeled and cut into cubes to the rice if you desire.
 Lower the burner’s heat to low, and allow the mixture to cook until the rice becomes tender and all of the liquid has been absorbed. It usually takes approximately 15 minutes for the rice to fully cook.Be sure to cover the pan while the rice is cooking for the final time. That traps the steam, which helps cook the rice.
 Once the rice is finished cooking, remove the pan from the heat and use a fork to gently fluff the rice. Next, transfer it to a serving dish and serve alongside your favorite Mexican main dish.