 However, the confidence and sophisticated demeanor cannot be brushed aside as those economic fears take hold. Use those fears to further climb the social ladder, network to more friends and business contacts and develop a better, more positive outlook to your life.;
, But when it comes to things like cars, furniture, etc., only buy what fits your budget so you can pay for it with cash. Just make sure it looks nice. For example, consider buying a used Jetta rather than buying new VW.



Shop at stores like: Marshalls, TJ Maxx, Filene's Basement, Target, Forever21, H&M, Express, etc. These stores not only carry good name brand clothes, shoes and accessories, but they have great prices.
Girls- Wear heels whenever possible. You can wear them to the mall or when you're just running errands.
Hygiene. Keep your hair free of greasy roots, grown out dark roots, frizz and childish styles and accessories. Always smell good! Perfume, cologne, musks, body sprays- all good for smelling amazing.
Get thin and healthy- What celeb or wealthy person is overweight and unhealthy? Obesity is something that should be changed anyway, but to help you feel better about yourself, lose the weight you need to. (if you are thin than just enjoy staying that way)
Get a job. Nothing looks worse then being jobless. If you are young, like 15 years old- get a work permit. Make some savings, learn work ethic. Network while you do - you'll meet a lot of people just from working!

,


Girls- Make up, keep it classy and sexy. Smoky eyes for a formal night, and use lite bronzer, eye liner, mascara, lip balm, and cover-up. Natural make up is best for the workplace. Get glamorous when you need to!

, Have nice hair, a great smile, and an amazing personality. Be fashionable, intelligent, and cultured.
 Give off an air of 'rich' and a proud feeling showing the hard work it took to get you here. Look at your blessings and accomplishments and let that be your brilliance when out and about.



Check out blogs like and other fashion forward writers...keep Vogue nearby, 'steal' styles from the wealthy. Look at Carrie Bradshaw, Blake Lively, Jennifer Aniston, Kate Moss. Find a store that 'caters' to your inner diva - everyone has one! H&M is great because all the clothes you would ever need are found right there. Even down to sneakers, bras/panties, coats, etc.
Avoid mainstream stores like: American Eagle, Abercrombie & Fitch, Aero, Hollister, and Gap.
As well as avoid mainstream styles, no sweats (especially not ones that say 'PINK'), no UGGs, and no leggings. Nothing that isn't classy and mature looking.
 Save up, don't spend huge amounts of money on anything. Give yourself an allowance and stick to it. Shopping is fine, esp if you need a new wardrobe or you are severely outdated, just don't do it every day. Go to college, get certificates when possible, get degrees, make money and get a name for yourself.
 Be cultured.
 Tell yourself that you are a success and deserve to be deemed a wealthy individual.
 Network into the right circles. Live like you are an episode of Gossip Girl, get the scoop on the great parties, clubs, hotspots and become aquaintences/friends with some people inside. Get numbers. Be a socialite.
