 This is a freeware program that supports virtually any video format and can easily burn DVDs that are playable on any DVD player.You can download it for free from http://winxdvd.com/dvd-author/. The installer does not contain any adware.;
, You will be greeted with the main menu window.
 This will launch the tool that will allow you to select any video file to convert and burn to a blank DVD-R.



Change the filetype settings to "All Files" if your video file can't be found. This may be necessary to add .mkv files.
 If you're adding episodes from a TV show, you can likely fit several onto the DVD. The free space remaining will be displayed at the bottom of the WinX DVD Author window.


Once clips have been added, you can change the order by right-clicking on a clip and selecting "Move Up" or "Move Down".
 If you want to add subtitles to the video, click the "Subtitle" button next to the clip in the list. You will then be able to choose the subtitle file that you want to use.
 This will allow you to adjust a few settings before proceeding.


Change the "DVD Language" menu to English, or your preferred language. Note that this will not affect the audio or any subtitles.
Select your DVD type. Most blank DVD-Rs are DVD5, which is a single-layer 4.37 GB disc. DVD9 discs are dual-layer 7.95 GB discs

, If you are adding video files that aren't supported natively, such as .mkv, they will be converted before you move on. This will likely take a little while to complete.
 After the conversion process is complete, the menu creation tool will appear. You can choose from a variety of presets, or you can add your own background images and create your own button layouts. You can create a title menu, which is the main DVD menu, as well as chapter menus. This is especially useful for a DVD with multiple episodes.


Make sure when creating button layouts to not place any buttons along the edge of the menu. Sometimes the edges will get cut off by some DVD players or TVs, resulting in hidden buttons.
Once you're done setting up your menu, click the ">>"" button to set your burning options.
 Make sure your blank DVD-R was inserted before opening this window, or the correct options won't be available.


Set the "Write Speed" low, between 2X and 4X. While a higher write speed means a faster burning process, it can lead to problems with reading the disc, especially in older players. A lower write speed will help ensure that your DVD works everywhere.
You can change your encoder settings for higher quality-which will result in a longer conversion time, or lower quality which will result in a quicker conversion time.
DVD-R discs are the best format for burning video discs. DVD-RW discs allow re-burning, but they don't work in all DVD players.
 Any files that aren't .vob will now be converted before burning based on the quality settings you chose.


This process may take a while, especially if you are burning full-length movies.

