 The days will grow colder as the fall season gets underway, and you may eventually end up using your furnace. It would be a good idea to ensure that it is in working order before the cold weather settles in. Change out the filter for a new one, and clean out any dust or debris. Check the furnace for any signs of damage—this includes things like cracks, strange noises, or strange smells.


Consider having a professional furnace technician inspect your furnace and gas lines (if you have a gas furnace).
Plan on changing your furnace's filter every 30 to 90 days. This will help your furnace last longer.If you can't replace your filter right away, clean it with a soft brush and a vacuum.;
, A humidifier will not only keep the bone-dry air at bay, but it will also prevent wood from cracking. Check the pads or plates on your humidifier, and clean them using laundry detergent. Scrape off any mineral deposits using steel wool or a wire brush., Malfunctioning and poorly-maintained gas equipment can not only be a fire hazard, but they can also release poisonous gases into the air in your home. You should have a professional inspect your gas heaters and stoves. There are also a few things you can do on your own. Start by shutting off the heater or stove completely, then:Check the exhaust vents and air-shutter openings for dust.
Vacuum the exhaust vents and air-shutter openings.
Clean the burner to ensure that it is dust and lint free.
 Check your stove for any cracks, holes, loose joints, or signs of corrosion. If you spot any damage, hire a professional to repair them. You should also clean the stove, and replace te pipe if necessary. A clean, well-maintained stove will give you a warm, bright fire.Make sure that the stove is resting on a heat-safe surface, and that there is nothing flammable close by.
If you have children or pets, consider fencing the stove off when it is burning.
 There is nothing like a warm, cozy fire, a toasty stove, or a fragrant candle on a cold, autumn night. Unfortunately, with all of these warm, cozy comforts comes an increased risk of fire. You should prepare your home and family for the possibility of a fire by doing the following:Make sure that there is a smoke and carbon monoxide detector on every floor of your home.
Test if the detectors are working by pressing the test button, and change out the batteries, if needed.
Have a multi-task fire extinguisher (it should have an A-B-C rating on the label) in an easily-accessible spot. Instruct your family members on how to use the fire extinguisher.
Check all existing fire extinguishers for damage, including dents, scratches, and corrosion. If the extinguisher is over 6 years old, get a new one.
Clear spaces around fireplaces, heaters, furnaces, and stoves. You will be using these more often as the weather gets colder, so you won't want anything flammable close to them.
 Teach your family on what to do in the event of a fire, and agree on a safe meeting place in the event of an emergency. Instruct your family members on how to properly handle stoves, heaters, and fire extinguishers. It would be a good idea to teach them to practice common sense regarding open flames—such as never leaving burning candles, fireplaces, or stoves unattended. Lastly, make sure that all possible escape routes aren't blocked, including windows.
 The last thing you'd want is to get a leak, especially once winter rolls around with its heavy storms and snows. You might also want to take a peak in the gutters. If you spot any large amounts of grit, the protective coating on your roof might be wearing off., If the rain gutters are blocked, they might overflow. Any overflowing water can cause water damage to your home, including the foundation and basement. Take out your ladder, and clear out any leaves, branches, or debris from the gutter.When you are done, consider covering your gutters with mesh guards to keep the leaves and debris out and the water flowing., As the year comes to a close, the weather will get colder. If your windows aren't sealed properly, your home could lose lots of heat, causing your gas and heating bills to spike! If you have a lot of windows and not a lot of time and money, focus on the biggest windows, such as patio doors or bay windows. Here are some more tips on insulating your windows and doors:Place a polyurethane sheet over your windows. It is often referred to as an "insulation kit," and it will help keep the warm air in and the cold air out.
Check for any gaps in the caulk around your windows. If you find any gaps, fill them in with some caulk.
Check your door's weather stripper by closing it on a sheet of paper. If the paper moves about easily, the weather stripper needs to be replaced.
Check your windows and doors for tightness by holding a candle close to them. If the candle flickers, there might be a leak.
 It would be best to have this done professionally, as they usually know what to look for. If you seldom use your fireplace, however, shine a flashlight into the flue, and look for any deposits. If you find any that are ⅛-inch (0.32-centimeter) thick (or thicker), call in a professional chimney sweep. Here are some other things you should look out for:Check the flute for creosote buildup to prevent fires. This is essential if you have a wood-burning stove or fireplace.
Check the flue for any blockages, especially if you don't have a chimney cap. Birds love to build nests on top of chimneys!
Check the damper. It is a metal plate that opens and closes the flue above the firebox. It should open and close smoothly and easily
Check the chimney for any overall signs of damage. This includes the flue cap and any loose or broken joints.
 If you have any trees on your property, take a look at the branches, and take note of any that seem frail, weak, or dry. This included branches that never revived during the spring and summer.Focus on the branches that hang over your home, garden shed, etc.
 Because of how damp and cool autumn gets, you don't have to worry about droughts or evaporation caused by the heat and sun. This makes it a great chance to aerate and seed your lawn. Be sure to aerate your lawn first, then plant the seeds.If you don't want to do this, plan on using some winter fertilizer instead. This will keep your lawn healthy throughout the winter.
 On a similar note, you would also want to blow out any water that might be left in your sprinklers. If you don't know how to do this, consider getting it done professionally., If any water gets into those pipes and it freezes, the pipes could burst, and cause significant damage to your home. Start by closing all shut-off valves on your home's exterior faucets. Next, open the exterior faucets, and let any leftover water drain out.If your faucets don't have shut-off valves, they are not freeze-proof. You should get some Styrofoam faucet covers from your local home improvement store., Look for any cracks that are more than ⅛-inch (0.32-centimeter) wide. If any water gets into those cracks and it freezes, it will expand and make the cracks even bigger. This could potentially damage your sidewalk or driveway. Fill in these cracks with some cement.In addition to your driveway, you should also check your sidewalk and steps.
If you have a lot of cracks, or very big ones, hire a professional.
 This includes things like shovels, snow blowers, and stashes of ground salt. You want everything to be in working order before the first snow fall. If you wait until it starts to snow, and your shovel is broken, you may have a tough time getting out of the house in order to buy a new shovel.Consider winterizing your lawn mower by draining the gas tank and disconnecting the spark tank.At the same time, consider checking your rakes and leaf blowers, and having them out and ready for the season's first snow.

