 There are a wide variety of Christmas trees and include fir, pine, spruce, cypress, and cedar.These trees thrive in different climates and look different from one another. Think about where your tree forest will be located and choose a tree that can thrive in that climate.


Balsam firs are a popular Christmas tree species that grow in the northern United States and Canada, in Hardiness Zones 3–5 or states like Minnesota, North Dakota, and Montana.Virginia Pines are Christmas trees that grow in hotter climates such as states like Alabama and Georgia.The Eastern Red Cedar and Deodar Cedar are trees that are traditionally grown in warmer climates.;
, The best place to start a Christmas tree forest is on a flat plot of land. Find a piece of land that is large enough to accommodate the number of Christmas trees that you want to grow. The land's slope should not exceed 10% because it's not good for tree growth.


Trees should be spaced at least five feet apart.
With one acre of land, you'd be able to plant 1,500 trees., Soil quality is also a crucial factor in determining the quality of land that you choose. While different types of Christmas trees will require different nitrogen, phosphorus, and mineral levels, most Christmas trees thrive in well-drained mossy loam.The pH levels of the soil is also an important aspect in planting your Christmas tree forest. Conduct a soil analysis with a local university or cooperative or find soil surveys conducted by the Natural Resources and Conservation Services by visiting their website, nrcs.usda.gov.A pH of 6.0 is recommended for Christmas trees like the Norway spruce, Fraser fir, Canaan fir, Scotch pine, and white pine.
For Douglas fir, blue spruce, and concolor fir the ideal soil pH is 6.5.Conducting a soil test every three years is recommended.
 Farming and zoning restrictions exist in many counties, states, and cities. Before dedicating your free land to growing a tree forest, contact your local state's forest service or state department of agriculture and consult with them about what forms and licenses you'll need before you can start your Christmas tree farm.The primary issues with growing a tree farm include the handling of chemicals and disposal of waste., Remove excess weeds or debris from the plot of land that you plan on using for your tree. You can use an herbicide to eliminate existing weeds and prevent future weeds from growing. Use a mechanical or manual spade or till to remove the dead plants from your land. If your soil doesn't contain the right minerals, nutrients, or pH level, get soil amendments such as sphagnum or organic material to help promote tree growth in your soil.If your soil has a low pH, you can add lime or potassium carbonate to raise it.If your soil is lacking nitrogen, you can add fertilizer to the soil to increase nitrogen levels.Herbicides typically used for Christmas tree farms include photosynthesis inhibitors, root inhibitors, and cellulose biosynthesis inhibitors.Check the label to make sure that the herbicide that you use will not hurt the trees you are trying to grow.

