 For both your PC or Mac, go to Spotify’s website using your web browser.


The “Download” button is found on the upper right hand corner of the webpage, just left of the “Log In” button.;
, Once on the download page you will have the option to sign up with Facebook, or sign up using your email address.


If you already have an account, there’s an option at the bottom of the page to log in. Just scroll down to the bottom of the page to log in.
Once clicking the “Log in” option, you’ll have the option to log in with either your Facebook account or email.



Once Spotify is downloaded, run the installer and follow the prompts to install Spotify on your computer.
 Open the App Store if you’re using an iOS device, or the Google Play Store if you’re on Android.


Search for Spotify in your app store and then click to install it.
 You will be asked to log in to your account when the application starts up.


Once Spotify has started up you will have the option to log in using either Facebook or with your email and password.
You will also have the option to check the “Remember Me” button so you don’t have to log in every time you start Spotify.



If for some reason Spotify isn’t connecting to the network you will see a bar at the top of your screen prompting you to restart Spotify.
Close out the application and check to make sure that your computer is connected to the network. Once you are connected, open Spotify again.
 Once you have opened Spotify on your mobile device, you will have to log in using either Facebook or your email.


Ensure that you have logged in the same way on both your computer and mobile device.
For example: If you logged in with Facebook on your computer, then log in with Facebook on your mobile device as well.
 Scroll down on the left side of the “Devices” list in the application until you find your device.
 You can select the playlists you want to save to your phone by toggling on the “Available Offline” option.If your phone isn’t showing up on your desktop application, make sure that your phone isn’t asleep and that the Spotify is open both on your phone and your computer.
Make sure your computer and phone are connected to the same wifi.
You may have to log out and/or restart your devices to get your phone to show up.
 If it is, quit the application before continuing with syncing your iPod.
 When you connect your iPod, it may launch iTunes automatically. If this happens, wait for iTunes to load and then close the application out again.
 You will find your device on the left hand side of your Spotify application where you can find your playlists.
 Clicking this will transfer your Spotify music to your device.


Note that when syncing your iPod with Spotify for the first time, the current music, movies, audiobooks, and TV shows will be erased. Make sure to back up these files before syncing.
Alternatively, if you would like to select only certain playlists to sync to your iPod, select the “Manually choose playlist to sync” option from the devices page.

