 Fouls in water polo are a mixture of basketball and hockey rules, and they range from minor fouls to "brutality" fouls that cause a permanent ejection from the game. Each foul is detailed, along with the referee's reaction and signal, below:



Ordinary Fouls: Referee blows the whistle once and points in the direction the team is attacking towards. Restart is a free throw from the location of the foul. Two whistles indicate that the offense, not the defense, caused the foul.Exclusions (Major Fouls): Referee blows the whistle twice quickly, then one long blast. They spin their arms to indicate a player must leave, and the fouling player must swim to the edge of the pool for 20 seconds, and play starts with a free throw.

Penalty Fouls: Referee blows the whistle three times, like above, then raises 5 fingers above his/her head. The fouler leaves the field and play starts with a free shot on the 5-meter line for the fouled team., These are also called minor fouls. Ordinary fouls are not counted or used against players, and the clock does not stop after they are called. They are by far the most common fouls in water polo, and include:


Touching the ball with two hands
Touching the bottom of the pool
Holding the ball underwater to prevent stealing
Impeding, or getting in the way of players who don't have the ball to prevent them from moving.
Letting the shot clock expire
Throwing a ball outside of the pool., These are also called major fouls and are for more serious and aggressive conduct. Once called, the fouling player must immediately swim to a designated zone in front of their bench, usually the halfway line. After 20 seconds or a goal is scored, whichever is first, they can swim back in and resume play. Exclusions fouls are for:


Pulling, holding, or sinking players without the ball.
Splashing water in a player's face
Blocking a shot with two arms
Kicking or hitting another player violently.
Disrespecting the game or referee (swearing, leaving the pool and getting back in, spitting)

, The foul must be within the 5-meter line, as well as preventing a "probable goal." Any foul, if it takes away a probable goal, can be a penalty foul. Your team gets the ball at the 5-meter line against the goalie, and play resumes after the shot.


Very violent fouls, called "brutality," can result in a penalty shot regardless of where in the pool the foul was committed.
Most penalty fouls are called when a defender fouls a shooting player from behind.
The goalie must be completely within the goal for the shot, not in front of it., These are for excessive or violent fouls, like kicking, striking, or extreme language or unsportsmanlike conduct. You must leave for the remainder of the game, and your team will play a man down for four minutes.


If a penalty foul is called for a brutality, the team who was fouled gets the ball back at the half line after shooting, even if they scored.
A strike that is determined as deliberate is the most common brutality called., If you receive three exclusion calls against you, you are out for the remainder of the game. Unless the final foul was considered a brutality, your team may substitute another player in your place when you leave.


Your team still has to play with the 20-second exclusion -- you can substitute after this period is over., Again, this is similar to soccer. If the referee thinks you're better off keeping the ball, such as being fouled right after you make a good pass, they can say "advantage" to acknowledge the foul but keep your team's offensive momentum.


In general, overly violent or dangerous fouls are called immediately even if there is an advantage.