 Will power and optimism during a recovery are almost as important as doctor's care. Your commitment to the exercises will have a direct correlation to the swiftness and completeness of your recovery.
 If you have to go to your session straight from work, then keep spare exercise clothing in your bag or car. This type of clothing allows you the full range of motion in your exercises and keeps your regular clothes clear of analgesic creams or massage oils.
 Although this is a general rule, it is even more important when you are healing from an injury. Stay hydrated throughout the day and bring a water bottle to your session.
 Your physical therapist may allow you to warm up before the session, on a machine or by stretching. This also makes certain that you are never late, because you will be charged for the session from the moment your appointment time arrives.


Make sure to be 15 minutes early for your first appointment. You will need to fill out insurance and health forms. Bring a list of your medications and other current treatments.
 Pain and injury are different for everyone, so you must make it clear whether you want to return to work, get rid of pain, walk without weight supports or run a marathon. Tell the physical therapist how many sessions you can afford, so the plan can be adjusted for what you will do during your sessions and what you can continue at home.


Remember that this may need to be adjusted on the future, based on your progress. In most cases, the harder you work doing prescribed exercises at home, the fewer office sessions you will need to have.
 They should establish what and when you should be doing each exercise, so that you are clear about your "homework." Ask the physical therapist to show you each exercise as well as having you do repetitions in the office.
 Mistakes can be made if you do not communicate properly about your pain levels. The physical therapist can also tell you what pain is natural to the healing process and what is unnatural, allowing the exercises to be adjusted.
 This provides consistency, familiarity and a greater chance that you will be able to accomplish your goals.
 You must be proactive about your treatment. If you don't understand why you are doing something or how you should do something, you are more likely to refrain from the exercise and fail to progress.
 Make sure you tell your therapist any new pain or problems, as well as your positive progress. They will usually write this on your chart to ensure you won't have complications from the regime.
 You must use this valuable time to focus on health and your body. You may need to learn to recognize your body's warning signs, which is hard to do when you are distracted.

