 Aftershave is a product specifically designed to care for skin after you’ve finished shaving. There are two kinds of aftershave: aftershave splash and aftershave balm.Aftershave splash is a scented, alcohol based astringent. Aftershave balm is a hydrating lotion with a more mild scent. Experiment with a variety of aftershave brands and products to find one that soothes your razor burn.


Aftershaves with vitamin E, provitamin B5, and chamomile are especially good for razor burn.
Shea butter and birchwood are also ingredients you should look for in an aftershave product that is effective against razor burn.
 There are a variety of moisturizing lotions that can effectively get rid of razor burn fast. The best lotions for razor burn will contain glycolic acid, which encourages healing in razor-burned skin. Lotions containing alcohol, salicylic acid, or both are also useful, but could dry out your skin. If you have sensitive skin, check the ingredients label on your lotion to ensure it contains glycolic acid instead.
 Rub a thin layer of petroleum jelly across the razor-burned area. Your skin will absorb it, so you don’t need to wipe or rinse it off. After about two hours, apply another layer. Continue until your razor burn has subsided.
 Take two or three aspirin tablets and crush them in a small bowl. To crush them, you could use the flat bottom of a cup or a wide spoon. Add a few drops of water to the bowl and mix the contents with a fork to make a creamy paste. Four to five drops of water is usually sufficient, but add more if necessary. Rub the paste on the bumps and wait ten minutes. Rinse with lukewarm water. Apply this treatment twice per day until the bumps heal.


If you are pregnant, allergic to aspirin, have a bleeding disorder such as hemophilia, or have a history of intestinal bleeding, do not use aspirin. Additionally, do not use aspirin while nursing or taking blood thinners.
 Hydrocortisone is a topical medication that reduces itching, swelling, and redness of irritated skin. It can help calm itchy areas and speed up healing time.


Don’t apply hydrocortisone cream for more than three days at a time.
Avoid applying it to open cuts.

