 From an at-ease position, snap into the position that will start off the Haka. Stand with your feet wide apart, more than shoulder-width apart. Squat down so that your thighs are about 45 degrees in relation to the ground. Hold your arms in front of your body, one above the other, parallel to the ground., , Jerk your left knee up while at the same time bringing your left arm up in front of you. Your right arm will come down to your side. Keep your fists strong.
 Raise your left knee up and then drop your body down onto your left knee while crossing your arms in front of you. Put your left arm downward with your right hand on your left forearm. Rest your left fist on the ground.
 Bring your left arm at a 90 degree angle upward in front of you. Cross your other arm to touch the elbow of the left arm. Slap your left arm with your right hand to the beat 3 times.
 Slap your left forearm with your right hand again and move your left hand back down to the ground.
 Move your body up in a smooth motion to a standing position. Plant your feet wider than shoulder-width apart. Continue beating your arms with the left arm at a 90 degree angle.
 Raise both arms up to the sides of your body and reach your arms upwards. On the beat, slap your chest with your arms. Then return them to the sides of your body, reaching upwards.
 The main sequence puts many of these motions together. Shout the group’s chant sequence during this part.


Rest your hands on your hips with your elbows pointing out.
On the beat, raise your hands up to the sky and draw them downward swiftly. Slap your thighs with both palms one time.
Bring your left arm at a 90 degree angle upward in front of you. Cross your other arm to touch the elbow of the left arm. Slap your left arm with your right hand to the beat. Switch arms and slap your right arm with your left hand.
Bring both arms straight out in front of your body, palms down.
 Some Hakas finish with the tongue protruding as far as possible, while others just finish with the hands on the hips. Shout “Hi!” as ferociously as possible.


Sometimes, the Haka is finished with a throat-slitting motion.
 Search online for performances of the Haka and watch some of these videos. This will give you a good idea of different versions of the dance, how it is used in sporting competitions, group-building events, and cultural events.

