 Your subject line should describe the email’s content. At the same time, you want to grab the reader’s attention without coming off as potential spam. For example, when advertising a sale in your online store, aim for something that reads like, “Sale on All Stock – this Weekend Only!”Again, avoid commonly used spam phrases: “Earn Cash!” “Make Money Now!” “Urgent” or dollar symbols will get your emails deleted. Service providers may also flag them as spam.
Keep the subject line short and to the point. Inboxes typically only show about 60 characters of an email’s subject line; mobile phones only show about 30 characters. It is important to reduce your message to as few words as possible, perhaps six to eight. The shorter the better.
 Recipients will decide in one or two seconds whether to open your email. If they open it, you may only have one or two seconds more to draw them in with your pitch. Front-load information. If you are pitching a special offer – 50% off all your wool pajama stock – say so immediately: “Half off all woolen pajama models – but for a limited time!” If you put this crucial sentence in the last paragraph, your reader probably won’t bother., Active voice is when the subject of a sentence is the main agent of the verb – to quote a fast food company, “I’m loving it” rather than “It’s being loved by me.” An active voice spices up your writing. It is more direct and more engaging and also uses less words, saving space and keeping the advertisement to the point.For example, instead of saying “the results can be seen here,” try the active “see the results here.” Instead of “This product is made by X company," say “X company makes this product.”

, You want to create a sense of urgency without going overboard. Readers will be more inclined to act if you stress that the offer is time-sensitive. For instance, you might inform them that your sales offer is only good if they clink on the link within 48 hours.


At the same time, readers should not feel as if you’re badgering them. Do not bark orders – “Buy now! Don’t delay! Act fast!” – but instead develop a friendly, positive tone, e.g., “We are offering you this opportunity for a limited time only. Call within 48 hours to reserve your order!”

, Studies show that most people only glance at emails. Since they won’t read every word, you’ll want to get your point across in as few words as possible. Keep the ad short and make it as readable as you can. For example, use sub-headings, bullet points, or numbered lists to make the text more scannable.Also, write the email using easy-to-read fonts and common formats. If your email is too hard to read, recipients will probably press delete without reviewing the offer or sales copy in full. Favor Arial, Tahoma, or Times New Roman in a size such as 8-point font, which is not overly large or too small.
Use proper grammar, spelling, and capitalization techniques at all times.
 Add your address, telephone number, or email address so that your recipients can contact you if they have further questions or if they need assistance with your products or services. You might also link to your website and social networking profiles. Give recipients a variety of ways to get in touch.
 It’s understandable to want to use images to create a visually appealing ad. However, use caution. Many email providers like Gmail, Apple Mail, and Outlook Express automatically block images in HTML-formatted messages and many users opt to disable them in their mail preferences.It could be that your readers will not end up seeing them.


Another problem is with spam. Embedding images in your emails may well cause them to get flagged as spam. In this case, your message will end up being blocked or diverted to a spam folder.