 Going for a walk and getting some fresh air can do wonders for a headache, particularly if it's caused by stress or staring at a screen for too long. Go somewhere quiet, breathe deeply and let your mind wander. Your headache will be forgotten about in no time.


Get as close to nature as possible. A quiet country road or a secluded, sandy beach is ideal - but if you're stuck in the city, a nearby park will do.
Pick up the pace and settle into a brisk jog, if you like. Studies have shown that aerobic exercise can help lessen the intensity of pain, and regular exercise can help reduce the frequency of headaches.;
, Try using an ice pack to ease the throbbing in your head, by placing it on your forehead, temples, or the back of your neck. The cooling effect of the ice pack will help to relax muscles and relieve pain., Headaches that are brought on by stress or tension can often be easily alleviated by just allowing yourself to relax. A hot bath scented with soothing essential oils can work wonders, but even a quick shower can help to wash away the stresses of the day.
 Use your thumb and index fingers to gently apply pressure to the part of your head that's aching - whether it's your temples, forehead, crown of the head or base of the skull. Use a steady rotating motion, combined with light pressure. Do this for 10 to 15 seconds, or longer if necessary.If they're feeling generous, you can ask a partner, friend or family member to massage your head, neck or back, or treat yourself by having a professional massage.
 Force yourself to take a nap and your headache might just miraculously disappear by the time you wake up. Find a quiet room, close the curtains and lie down on a soft surface. Close your eyes and focus on letting go of the tension in you shoulders, neck and back. Clear your mind, focus on your breathing and try to drift off into a peaceful sleep.
 Headaches are often caused by hunger. Try eating a small, healthy meal, then wait for up to half an hour for the pain to subside.


Try to eat meals at the same time everyday to avoid headaches - don't significantly delay or skip meals.
Remember to eat slowly - you don't want to end up with a tummy ache as well as a headache!

