 Are you having a pirate-themed party? A Christmas party? A black and white party? Whatever it is, start thinking about your goodie bag in terms of your party's theme. How does it fit in with the rest of your shindig?


Think about when you're planning on giving out your goodie bag. If it's toward the end, you could include things that will remind your guests of the good time they had. Or you could leave room in the bag for them to insert a few things from the party that they enjoyed (crafts, candies, decorations, etc.).;
, If the recipients are 10 year old boys, you probably don't want to fill those bags up with inkwell pens and small bottles of Courvoisier. And if your audience is a group of middle-aged women, you're not gonna be giving them bags full of beef jerky and Pokémon cards (and hopefully not having a jerky-themed, Pokémon party). What would your audience enjoy?


The younger your audience, the more you should shy away from things that will be messed with for 5 seconds, broken, and then shoved in a drawer. You'd be better off with mostly candies or things that can actually be used, like pens or hair barrettes.
 If you are inviting 10 people, you can afford to splash out more than if you are inviting 30. These goodie bags are out of the kindness of your heart, so don't feel pressure to break the bank on them. How much money would you like to spend? Once you pick that number (and stick to it!), the contents will fall into place.


A few dollars per bag is plenty. You want to aim for a number of filler items and just a few tokens that have actual value.
 Most goodie bags contain food or candy and tiny knick-knacks such as small toys, pencils, and stickers -- probably 3 to 5 of each. For example, if you were going with the pirate theme, you could include a shop-bought eye patch, some fake gold pirate's booty, and some themed sweets. You could even make homemade ones to save on the expense and make it even more personal.


You could also use tissue paper or pretty cellophane grass (the basket filler stuff) to give your bags some volume. Not all of it has to be gifts!
Throw in some tootsie rolls, mints, tiny chocolates, or other pre-wrapped candies you can buy in bulk to add to the goodie bag while cutting down on your expenses.
Visit your local dollar store to get to stuffing your bags on the cheap!

, Adults will be content with a basic gift bag, but children may prefer a more sophisticated bag with splotches of color or with themed designs. Anything from a cellophane gift bag to ironed tissue paper tied with a ribbon will look perfect.


Consider adding ribbon, string, or a bow to add more flair to your bag -- or to add a way to tie on a tag where you can write the recipient's name. The more personalized it is, the more your guest will be touched!

