 There's a huge correlation between mental health and bodily health, so maintaining your body's health and exercising it, will help you maintain your mental health and improve your memory.Walk every day for about 30 minutes. It's a gentle way to get some exercise (and you can do some exploring too!). The benefits of exercise on your mental health will last for a long time.
It's not just walking, there are lots of different ways to exercise and have fun! Try doing yoga, or put on some music and dance.
 Working the mind can help prevent memory loss and can help improve your overall memory. Things that work your brain are the things that make you tired after you've done them, and make you need to take a break. These include: solving math problems, learning to knit, reading dense material.Change things up. You want your brain to keep from getting complacent, so keep learning and trying new things. This will force your brain to keep from going stagnant and will help improve your memory.For example: You could learn a new word everyday, or learn about your countries history. These improve memory and make you more intelligent.
You can also memorize a poem every couple of weeks. It makes for a good (if nerdy) party trick and it will help improve your memory. So get memorizing Beowulf!

, Sleep is incredibly important to improving and maintaining your memory. It's why you shouldn't stay up all night studying for a big test, but do a chunk of studying in the afternoon and then get enough sleep that your brain can process all the information you just shoved into it.


Try to get at least 8 hours of sleep every night, so that your brain can go through all the important stages of sleep and you feel well-rested.
Shut down any electronic devices at least 30 minutes before you go to bed, so that you give your brain time to calm down and prepare for sleep. This means all electronic devices: phone, computer, kindle, etc.
 Saying things aloud that you're trying to remember will help you remember them. If you tend to forget things like whether you've turned the oven off, when you do turn the oven off say out loud "I turned the oven off." You'll find that later you'll be better able to remember that you turned the oven off.


Repeat a person's name after you've been introduced to them (although do it in a natural manner). Say "Hi Anna, it's great to meet you." This will solidify the connection between the person and their name so it's easier for you to recall later.
You can also do this to remember dates and times and places. For example, if you're invited to something repeat the invitation back to the person who gave it, like "The Blue Mouse Theater at 6? I can't wait!"

, Of course, even with work, you're not going to be Sherlock Holmes, but training your observational skills will help you a lot in remembering things (people, faces, names, where you put your car keys). It takes to time to build this skill, but it's well worth it in the long run.


Practice this skill by looking closely at a scene (you can do this anywhere: your home, on the bus, at work) and, closing your eyes, trying to recall as many details about the scene as you can.
You can also do this with a photograph, as long as it's an unfamiliar one. Look at it for a for a second or two and then flip it over. try to recall as many of the details as you can remember. Repeat the exercise with a different photograph.
 There are foods that can help boost your memory in the long term. You should be eating them anyway as a part of a healthy diet, but you should definitely be eating them if you want to keep and maintain your memory. You want to go for foods that containing antioxidants (like broccoli, blueberries, or spinach), as well as those with Omega-3 fatty acid (like salmon or almonds).Try to eat 5-6 small meals during the day, instead of three big meals. This will help you avoid dips in blood sugar, which make your brain not function as well. Make sure that you're eating healthy foods.

