 You can't write engaging, enjoyable content if you're not engaged with your trip. The best writing comes out of experience, but you can't get that experience if you're always holed up on your computer or looking through a camera lens. Set aside time for writing, but move on to other things when that time is over.


Oftentimes, writing is best at the very end of the day, right before bed, or right when you wake up. You'll be able to reflect on the day you just had, then move on to the next one., This is the fine line of travel writing. While all of it is going to be personal (you did experience it, after all) your writing can't be so personal that it reads like a journal. You need to find ways to tackle the subjects that will illuminate or enlighten your readers. Find ways to put the viewer next to you on your adventures, making them feel like they are traveling too. For example:


Dedicate posts to describing cultural differences, like a post on food, a post on public transportation, a post on morning rituals, etc.
Dive deeply into one specific area, like a neighborhood, restaurant, friend you've met, or hidden location.
Teach your readers how to do something, like how to plan their own trip, how to dress like a native, how to order at a restaurant, etc.
 The more you write, the better you will get it. Even better, frequently updated sites will appear more often in search engines, and viewers are likely to keep coming back if they can be sure there will be new content waiting for them.


Make a deadline for yourself, such as a new post every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. Your viewers will know when to check in and you will be more likely to stick to a regular writing schedule., While you want to stay on your general theme, mixing up your posts here and there is a great way to keep your readers, and yourself, interested. If you normally write essays, post a funny personal story or a photo collage. If you're mostly focusing on food and recipes, take a day and go into a market or grocery store, or interview a cook about their method of cooking. The best part is that expanding your horizons like this will make the actual travel more enjoyable, as you'll peer into unexpected corners and cultures. Some other ideas include:


Throw in a personal essay, explaining who you are to readers and your thoughts, once in a while.
Teach your reader a new skill you've picked up.
Ask a friend or new acquaintance their thoughts on your own culture.
 Even if you're not a great photographer, a few pictures in every article captures people's imaginations and makes them likely to stop and read. A page filled with nothing but words is intimidating, but the same content with 2-3 pictures mixed in seems much more appealing.


Take some video of great events or post a link to a song you heard. Engage the reader as much as possible so that they feel like they're on your trip with you.
Link out to new music you find to expand your readers boundaries.
 If you're a writer, send out tweets with your thoughts and links to the blogs. If you're a photographer, there is no better way to get exposure and practice than Instagram. And if you want friends and family to read, tap into your pre-made network of friends on Facebook. All blogging platforms allow you to link the posts with a little button on the right or left side (or found on the "Settings" page), which means the site will automatically post things to social media for you every time you post a blog post. Social media is your friend, and it is the best way to get your work out there., Offer to write content for them and link back to your own site. If your content is interesting enough, then you will build a fan base naturally. You might also get travel tips from others that have been there, and get ideas for new posts or topics to tackle. The best way to learn to write is to read, so pick up a few of your favorite travel blogs and start reading.


A lot of great travel writing these days takes place in papers and magazines, like The New York Times Travel Sections, Sunset Magazine, Outdoor Magazine, and National Geographic. Go online and look up if they have covered your location for ideas on where to go and what to see.