 Part of the TOEIC requires listening to three questions, then responding to the questions quickly. Have your language tutor or conversation partner devise a series of questions regarding everyday situations, then, without knowing the questions ahead of time, answer them.For instance, your conversation partner might ask, “Where did you go on your most recent vacation?” or “What is your favorite school subject and why?”
The time limit for these questions varies from just 15-30 seconds, so answer the questions immediately and succinctly.;
, Part of the speaking portion of the TOEIC involves reading a brief passage, then conversing with a partner about what you read. Have your language tutor or a partner draft several such documents so you can hone your language comprehension and summarization abilities.For instance, you might read a flyer advertising a new film. The flyer might contain information about the show time, the director, the stars of the film, and a brief plot summary. Your conversation partner can then ask you about these details, and you can respond appropriately.
 One of the exercises you’ll be faced with during the TOEIC is listening to a brief statement by someone with a problem. For instance, you might hear a voicemail message left by someone with a flat tire, or someone who has been locked out of their home. You will have to listen carefully to this problem in order to identify it.After listening to the problem, you’ll have to offer an appropriate response. Try several of these problem-solving exercises by first listening to a language partner’s problem, then suggesting a solution.
For instance, using the above example of someone who was locked out of their home, you might reply, “I would call them back and tell them to sit tight. Then I would bring my set of keys to them so they could get inside.”

, Part of the speaking portion of the TOEIC involves expressing an opinion on a current event or other social issue. Practice phrases like “I like public libraries because…” and “I think universal health coverage is a bad policy because…” Familiarize yourself with the vocabulary used to discuss issues that affect society, including taxes, voting rights, and climate change. This will enable you to proffer an intelligent response when faced with these opinion-based questions., Spend additional time with your language tutor in freeform conversation. Engage in question-and-answer sessions similar to those you might encounter in the TOEIC speaking test, but ask questions of your own, as well. The more you practice using English, the more confident you’ll be when it comes time to taking the speaking portion of the TOEIC.Role-playing with your language tutor is of great help in perfecting your English. Act out a situation in which you or your language partner is the owner of a pet store, a star athlete, or a traveler speaking with hotel staff.
Aim to converse smoothly and keep your answers direct.
Always encourage your language tutor to correct your pronunciation when necessary.

