 Pick up your chopsticks, holding one chopstick in each hand. Press forward on one stick while pulling the stick closer to you backwards. Your chopsticks should break apart down the middle. Also, make sure to lower the sticks to your knees before breaking them to avoid hitting any dishes on the table., There are sometimes splinters near where the chopsticks broke. If you notice any splinters on your chopsticks, gently rub the chopsticks together a few times to remove them.








However, when using nicer wooden chopsticks, especially non-disposable ones, avoid rubbing them together., Contrary to popular belief, you are not supposed to break off the wood block at the end of your chopsticks. The wood does not break off easily and can cause your chopsticks to splinter and even break. Do not touch the wood block at the end of your chopsticks after breaking them apart.
 Wooden chopsticks are held and used in the same fashion as any other type of chopstick. Hold the first chopstick with the tips of your index and middle finger. Use the tip of your thumb to keep the chopstick balanced in a straight line across your hand.








Don't worry if you don't get it right immediately. It takes some practice to correctly balance chopsticks.
 Your second chopstick should be placed below the first one. Place it between your thumb and palm, moving your thumb inward towards the palm to firmly hold the chopstick in place. This chopstick does not move when you eat.








Again, do not sweat it if it's hard at first. It does take a little practice.
 Once you're holding your chopsticks correctly, make sure you can maneuver them correctly. Only the top chopstick should move and you should only use your index and middle finger to move it. Your thumb should remain still.








It can take some practice to use chopsticks correctly. Give yourself time to practice the basic motions before handling food. Strive to be aware of your thumb and to keep it still. This will allow you to have better control of the chopsticks.
If you're used to using a different type of chopstick, like ceramic chopsticks, it may take awhile to adjust to the new texture.
 Using chopsticks is simple once you have the basic motions down. You simply move the upper chopstick with your index and middle finger to separate the chopsticks. Then, grab food between the upper and lower chopstick and bring it to your plate or mouth.








While this seems simple, do not get frustrated if it takes time to master. Using chopsticks can be tricky at first, especially if you've always used forks and spoons in the past. Give yourself time to get used to the movement.
 In most Asian countries, rice can be pushed into your mouth with chopsticks. When eating rice, hold the bowl face level. Hold your chopsticks side by side and gently push the rice into your mouth.








However, this is not considered appropriate in Korean culture, so do not do this when eating in a Korean restaurant.
 When picking up food with your chopsticks, make sure the ends do not cross over one another and make an "X". This will make it very difficult to pick up food. If your chopsticks cross at the ends, you're gripping your food too tightly. Let go of the food and try to grab it again more gently., While it seems like an easy solution if you're having trouble grasping food, never use a chopstick to impale food and bring it to your mouth. As this is not what chopsticks are designed for, food can easily slip off if you use chopsticks like this. It is also generally considered bad manners., In some Buddhist cultures, rice is offered to someone's spirit at a shrine after death. When rice is offered to a spirit, chopsticks are left sitting upright in rice. In general, avoid placing chopsticks upright in rice, as this could potentially be seen as insulting to Buddhist cultures.








Not everyone who uses chopsticks practices Buddhism, but it's always best to err on the side of caution, especially if you're eating in a restaurant where the culture is unfamiliar to you.
 Chopsticks crossed on a bowl or plate are sometimes used in funeral rituals in Asian cultures. While not all Asian cultures practice such rituals, it's a good idea to avoid crossing your chopsticks just in case. If you're not eating, set your chopsticks side by side near your plate instead of leaving them crossed on the plate.
 It is generally considered unsanitary to wash your chopsticks in your drinks or your soup after using them. If your chopsticks are dirty, wipe them off with a napkin or get a clean pair instead of contaminating soup or water with food particles.
 Some Buddhist funeral rites involve passing the bones of the deceased from chopstick to chopstick after cremation. Therefore, it's generally considered a faux pas to pass food between chopsticks as this can be a reminder of death and funerals.







