 There is a reason why people say breakfast is the most important meal of the day: your body fasted all night and reduces hunger throughout the day. Reports show that skipping breakfast leads to more snack breaks in the afternoon.Nighttime eating syndrome (NES), a disorder associated with overnight eating and waking at night to eat, is clinically recognized as an eating disorder. Eating breakfast every day reduces the chance of experiencing this disorder.Studies also show that skipping breakfast leads to weight gain, hypertension, insulin resistance, and elevated fasting lipid concentrations.
Skipping meals has the same impact as skipping breakfast. Although people believe skipping a meal will help with weight loss, the exact opposite is true. It will lead to more snacking and greater weight gain.
 There's nothing wrong with an afternoon snack, just make sure it is a fruit, vegetable, or lean protein like chicken breast or fish. These healthy snacks will control hunger until dinner and they have added value: vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients that is good for your body.Avoid sugary products and drinks because they will not satisfy your hunger and you will most likely continue snacking throughout the day.
If you want fat, eat healthy fats that will decrease the consumption of sugars and avoid overeating in the late afternoon.
 Mindful eating techniques are used to prevent overeating. The way it works is to concentrate on every step of eating one piece of food, which makes you conscious of portion size and slows down the race to finish your meal.The purpose of mindful eating is to not engage in other activities like watching television or playing on the computer while you are eating. These distractions interfere with your ability to realize how much you are eating.
An example would be eating a raisin or other dried fruit that you can hold, feel its texture, see its color, smell, and taste it. As you eat the raisin, follow the same procedure as you swallow it. By eating the raisin, you have experienced the wide-range of senses in a mindful manner, taking note of how meaningful the exercise is.
Try to spend at least twenty minutes per meal to chew and swallow your food so that you chew and digest it completely.
 How many meals you eat on a daily basis depends on your fitness goals, lifestyle, and manageability. There are benefits for eating a few meals a day and for up to eight meals per day. The key is to find a nutrition system that optimizes your health.Eating more frequently, like six to eight meals per day, does not provide significant increase to your metabolism or to fat loss. For example, if you eat three meals a day at 1,000 kcals each and six meals at 500 kcals each, they both equal 3,000 kcals. In short, energy levels remain the same and, therefore, several meals a day does not provide additional benefits to controlling appetite.
Eat more frequently when you trying to add muscle and strength to your body or if you are a diabetic. Eat less frequently when concentrating on fat loss or if you have a busy lifestyle.
The best approach is to eat when you are hungry and stop when you are satisfied.

