 Many successful people engage in some type of spiritual practice in the morning, either meditation or prayer. Take some time for this type of devotion – it can help you to clear your mind for the busy day to come and be able to focus calmly on what is most important.There are many ways to meditate. Some people simply breathe deeply and focus on their breath going in and out. Others use guided meditation recordings or videos, which are widely available for purchase or online. In a guided meditation, there is usually relaxing music and a voice that talks you through breathing and mind-clearing or focusing thoughts., Morning exercise is a great way to fill your mind and body with energy for a great day ahead. People who exercise in the morning are most likely to keep up their exercise routine than people who exercise at other times of day. And morning exercise is a great way to prevent stress and anxiety, and to lower your blood pressure.Take some time to stretch your body. Stretching can lower blood pressure, decrease inflammation in your body, and even promote weight loss. Try a morning yoga routine or some simple stretching exercises.Lay out your workout clothes the night before. Or, if you exercise in comfy casual clothes, you can even try wearing them as your pajamas. Jump straight out of bed and onto the treadmill using this strategy.Sign up for a fitness class with a friend to keep yourself accountable. If you register and pay for a fitness class in advance, and have a friend expecting you to show up, you may be more likely to stick with the morning exercise that will help you make a great start.
 There’s plenty of advice out there about the best things to eat for breakfast. Some swear by green smoothies (fruit and kale or spinach are common ingredients).Others believe in a high-protein breakfast. Find out what’s best for you and remember that your body and mind need food in the morning to fuel a productive day.A healthy breakfast includes whole grains, lean protein, low-fat dairy products, and fruits and vegetables., Morning is a great time to connect with those you care about. If you live with a partner and children, try to build in quality time with them before you dive into your paid or school work. If you live alone, you can make morning a time to connect by phone or online chat with friends or family, or even to write personal messages to those you care about.Use your commute to stay connected with friends and family, by writing to them while you ride the subway or talking to them hands-free while you drive or walk to work.
 Some of the most successful people in the world use morning as an opportunity to write down the things they are grateful for each morning. You might be grateful for people, places, or opportunities. Take some time in the morning to write down three things that you are grateful for so that you start the day in a positive frame of mind.Carry a small notebook to write your gratitude lists in, or save your lists on your phone. Going back over your previous expressions of gratitude can be a very positive experience, so keep track of the many things you have been grateful for.

