 One of the fastest ways to get sick is to interact with a sick person, or go out in public, without washing your hands before touching your face. There are lots of germs everywhere, so it's important to wash your hands with warm water and soap often. Keep hand sanitizer with you to help disinfect your hands on the go or when you’re busy.Tell your kids to wash their hands regularly, especially when around someone who has a cold and before touching babies.
 There are several things you can do to keep your home clean. Disinfect things that get dirty or come into contact with germs that could lead to congestion. Wear a filtering mask when cleaning to avoid inhaling dust or harmful free radicals. Regularly clean telephones, TV remotes, and computer keyboards with non-toxic disinfectant wipes and sprays. When you travel, clean phones and remotes in your hotel room.Try to change and wash your bed linens at least every week. Allergens such as dust and bacteria can accumulate on your sheets over time, irritating your nose and throat. These make it more likely for you to catch a cold.
 Use a tissue when you sneeze or cough to avoid spreading germs through the air. This also prevents letting other bacteria or viruses into your lungs when you inhale.If you don’t have a tissue on hand, sneeze or cough into your elbow rather than cupping your hands over your face, to avoid spreading germs to your hands.
 The germs that cause viral and bacterial infections are contagious. Sharing foods, drinking glasses or bottles, and utensils with a person who has a cold or cough can quickly cause you to catch the infection too. Use separate, clean utensils when drinking or having meals. Avoid touching public drinking fountains with your mouth as well.If you have children that go to school, remind your children to use their own bottles and utensils.
 Reducing your exposure to allergens may also help make it easier for you to fight off a cold. Allergens irritate your sinuses, cause congestion and difficulty breathing, and aggravate the throat. Flower pollen, dust and mold are some of the most common allergens. Other common allergens include:Hazardous fumes, cigarette and secondhand smoke
Certain foods such as shellfish, shrimp, fish, eggs, milk, peanuts, wheat, and soy
Pet allergies caused by shedding from cats, dogs, hamsters, mice or rabbits.
Insect stings such as bee or wasp stings
Certain medications, especially penicillin or penicillin-based antibiotics
Latex or other substances you wear or touch, such as chemicals and dyes in fabrics

