 Use any flat surface item, for example cardboard or a small wood piece. Cover the surface with peanut butter. Spread or scatter birdseed onto the peanut butter and leave it somewhere in your yard.

This can be a nutrient packed aid for birds over-wintering in your garden.
Read Make peanut butter pine cones for birds for more details.;
, Peanut butter can be made easily and inexpensively make in your own kitchen; it doesn't require a lot of ingredients and it'll provide a healthier alternative to the commercial, store-bought kind, as it's free from preservatives.

Read Make Peanut Butter to learn how to make it.
 There are lots of delicious things to bake with peanut butter. Here are some suggestions:


Make peanut butter cookies.

Make chocolate peanut butter crispies.

Make peanut butter bars.

Make peanut butter cup cupcakes.

Make peanut butter patties.

Make peanut butter chocolate oatmeal bars.

Make peanut brittle.

Make peanut butter star cookies.

Make peanut butter balls.
 Provided your kids are fine with peanut butter, this is a fun dough that's edible too!

Read How to Make Edible Peanut Butter Play Dough for details.
 Make a show out of it and video record the kids dancing and singing to the video.

Send a copy of the video to your kids' grandparents along with either a recipe for something delicious made from peanut butter, or from something you've freshly baked using peanut butter.
 While it's hard to believe, there are several foods that you may be consuming that you never thought had peanut butter in them. Peanut butter can be found in cake, cookies, jam, ice cream, oatmeal, brownies, pretzels, peanut brittle, cereals, and sandwiches. It can also be found in dog biscuits.

Look for gourmet peanut butter varieties. Chocolate peanut butter is delicious!

, Peanut butter is excellent for removing chewing gum or tree sap from hair, fabric, and other materials.

Read How to Get Gum Out Of Your Hair for more details.
 The vitamins E and H (Biotin) in peanut butter can help to improve your dog's coat, dog skin, and nail strength.However, it is better to make your own and avoid feeding your dog high salt levels in commercial brands. Also, don't feed it to overweight dogs, as it is calorie-laden.

Use little dollops of peanut butter to help your dogs swallow their pills.

Warning: Some dogs may be allergic to peanut butter. Make sure your dog won't have allergic reactions before feeding him or her the peanut butter.
Some people are amused by the mess dogs make when fed peanut butter because they can't get it off their mouths easily. This can be upsetting for the dog, so only feed it small amounts at a time.

