 Some people are more prone to developing varicose veins than others. Knowing the risk factors for developing varicose veins will help you choose healthy lifestyle habits. If you have several risk factors, it’s a good idea to consult with your doctor about how to manage your risk.



Age. Age is a significant factor in whether you may develop varicose veins. Aging causes your veins to lose some of their elasticity. The valves inside your veins stop functioning as efficiently. This can cause varicose veins to develop.Biological sex. Women are more likely to develop varicose veins. This may be because of the hormonal changes female bodies usually experience, such as menopause and pregnancy.Genetics. If a member of your immediate family has varicose veins, you may be at greater risk for developing them as well.If you were born with weaker vein valves, you are at higher risk of developing varicose veins.

Obesity. Being overweight can put a lot of extra pressure on your veins. This can lead to developing varicose veins.Lack of movement. If you stand or sit still for long stretches of time, you may be at greater risk for developing varicose veins. Staying in position for too long puts extra pressure on your veins to pump blood to your heart.Leg trauma. If you have had previous trauma or injuries, such as blood clots, you are at higher risk for developing varicose veins.;
, Excess weight will put undue pressure on your legs and circulatory system. If you are overweight, losing weight will reduce this pressure, thereby reducing your risk of varicose veins., Avoid foods with high calorie and low nutrition content. Eat a diet that’s high in fiber. Some studies suggest a relationship between low-fiber diets and the development of varicose veins.Diets high in fiber also help lower your cholesterol and may reduce blood pressure.Avoid added salt when possible. Reducing your salt intake can help reduce swelling in varicose veins. It may also reduce your body’s water retention., Walking and jogging improve circulation in the legs, and proper circulation helps ward off the development and worsening of varicose veins. Exercise also reduces overall high blood pressure and strengthens your entire circulatory system.


Running is also helpful in preventing the appearance of varicose veins. It improves circulation in your legs., Smoking contributes to many health problems. Studies have shown that the high blood pressure associated with smoking also helps cause varicose veins. Smoking is also associated with “lower limb venous insufficiency,” where blood does not flow properly and pools into the legs., Long-term use of birth control pills containing high levels of estrogen and progesterone may increase your risk of developing varicose veins. Hormone replacement therapy may have similar effects. Talk with your doctor about the best option for you.


Prolonged use of estrogen and progesterone may weaken the valves in your veins and alter circulation in your legs.Birth control that uses lower doses of estrogen is less likely to result in varicose veins or blood clots., In fair-complexioned people, excessive sun exposure can cause spider veins. Exposure to the sun also poses risks such as the possibility of developing skin cancer.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends that you always wear sunscreen when outdoors. Stay out of the sun during midday, when the sun is highest.