 Although this isn't mandatory, it will make the learning process much shorter, as well as improve your piping much quicker than without an instructor. Spend time talking to other pipers and finding out where they learned. You might be surprised how many pipers are in your area. Ask around at music stores, or try an online forum like Bob Dunsire's website. Sometimes it will be either impossible to find a local teacher, or to know if that teacher is a quality instructor. You can supplement your knowledge and inform yourself by using paid internet services such as Jori Chisolm's, John Cairn's, or Robert Pinkman's. Other free websites will help you know if what you are being told is accurate and to form an opinion. These include Teach Yourself Bagpipes and Scottish Piper. It is NOT advised to attempt to learn all by yourself, or from the internet, unless those methods are a supplement to learning from an instructor. Teachers can be found via The Bagpipe Teachers list (and the free sites also contain lists to teachers).;
, The Great Highland Bagpipe is a complex instrument, and you don't learn on a set of bagpipes. You begin learning on a practice chanter. Poor quality chanters (Pakistani made mostly) are very inexpensive, but sound awful, and are very frustrating for a beginner to learn on. When you look for a practice chanter, you will be faced with many choices including, but not limited to long vs. short, regular holes vs. countersunk holes, wood or plastic. Many of these choices are effectively cosmetic differences, however beginners generally have an easier time on a long chanter with countersunk holes. Gibson Bagpipes makes a fine long chanter that many a would be piper have learned on. Ask your instructor for advice.
 There are many pipe bands around the world, but there are also ceilidh bands that feature a single piper with other instruments. Try listening to a few of these bands to get a feel for what different styles sound like: Pipe bands - Simon Fraser University Pipe Band, Alberta Caledonia Pipe Band, Shotts & Dykehead, Field Marshal Montgomery Pipe Band, Boghall & Bathgate, etc. Ceilidh Bands - Wicked Tinkers, Peatbog Fairies, Seven Nations, Rogues of Scotland (Later Scottish Rogues, and then something else after that, but the writer has forgotten what.), etc. Solo Piping, including Piobaireachd - the Classical music of the bagpipe - Martyn Bennett, Gordon Duncan, Jack Lee, Stuart Liddell, Richard Kean etc. Many punk rock bands also incorporate bagpipes into their music. This is known as Celtic punk, and the playing style is usually fast and upbeat. Examples of bands who use bagpipes are The Real McKenzies, Dropkick Murphys and Flatfoot 56. If you want to play this style, be prepared to practice a lot as it is very challenging.
 Start with learning the scales. Scales might not be fun, but on a bagpipe, it is necessary to learn to be able to play the scales without "catching" or "crossing" noises before moving on. After Scales one learns grace notes, and finally the other embellishments. These can be very complex movements that require quite a lot of skill and timing in order to perform properly.
 Don't give up. When you fail to make a clear D throw for the three thousandth time, don't throw your practice chanter across the room in frustration. Just set it down to give your fingers and head a rest, and come back when you feel refreshed and ready to try again. The Great Highland Bagpipe is an extraordinarily difficult instrument to master. Be patient.
 After you have learned enough to be able to play all the common embellishments well on a practice chanter, you will want to decide if you are ready to actually move into playing the pipes for real. It is both costly and time consuming.
 Ask around, and more importantly - listen to other pipers play. If you hear a set of pipes that sounds particularly good, ask the player what make his pipes are. Most pipers are quite open to discussing their set up.
 Find people to play with, other beginners to practice with, and enjoy yourself!

