 You can use Bluetooth to wirelessly connect a variety of accessories to your iPad. Supported accessories include Bluetooth keyboards, hands-free headsets (iPad 2 and later), wireless speakers, and Bluetooth remotes.You cannot use Bluetooth to transfer files between iOS or Android devices.;
, Bluetooth is disabled by default to conserve battery.
 Your iPad will begin searching for devices.
 In order to connect most devices via Bluetooth, the device needs to be set to be discoverable.


For many devices, you will need to press and hold the Power or Connect button until the light on the accessory flashes a certain number of times.
Your device must be compatible with the iPad in order to connect. The iPad can only connect to headsets (iPad 2 and later), speakers, keyboards, and remotes. It cannot connect directly to other iOS devices, computers, or smartphones via Bluetooth.
 Make sure that the device is within range of the iPad (around 30 feet/10 meters maximum).
 If you don't know the PIN, the most common Bluetooth PINs are 0000, 1111, and 1234.


Check your accessory's documentation or look it up online for exact instructions for pairing it.
 The pairing process may take a few moments. Your iPad and the device will now connect automatically if they are both on and in the same vicinity.


If you're having difficulty pairing your accessory, click here.
 When you receive a FaceTime call, answer it using your Bluetooth headset's Answer button to use the device during the call. Answering through the app will use the iPad's speaker and mic.All outgoing FaceTime calls automatically route through your connected Bluetooth device.
 If you have connected Bluetooth speakers or have connected your iPad to your car stereo, any music that you play will automatically be routed through the Bluetooth device.
 If you don't want your device to be paired to the iPad anymore, you can unpair it by opening the Settings menu and tapping Bluetooth. Tap ⓘ and then tap "Forget this Device".


Bluetooth devices can only be paired to one host at a time, so you will need to unpair when you want to use it on another device.
 Bluetooth will put extra strain on your battery, so you can prolong your battery life by turning it off when it's not in use.
 Bluetooth has an effective range of about 30 feet. If your device is farther from your iPad than that, it may not be able to connect.
 Sometimes iPads just get a little stubborn if they've been on for too long. Try resetting your device to see if the problem gets solved.
 Open the Bluetooth menu, tap the device that isn't connecting, and then tap "Forget this Device". Restart the pairing process. You will need to enter the PIN again if required.
 Sometimes updating your system software will fix issues with your Bluetooth devices. Try updating to the latest version available.