 Tanning is the process of cells in your skin protecting you from harmful UVA and UVB rays that come from the sun, not simply a pretty glow you get in the summer time.


UVA and UVB rays are a type of radiation linked to cancer. Prolonged exposure can greatly increase the likelihood of cancerous cells growing in your skin.
A tan works as a shield from radiation. Imagine thousands of tiny umbrellas in your skin; they open more the more they are exposed to the sun, which in turn makes your skin look darker.
A tan does not cause cancer but is rather the visible evidence that damage to your skin cells has already occurred. ;
, Going into the sun without using sunscreen greatly increases your risk for cancer.


Sunblock is a product that uses titanium dioxide and zinc oxide to completely block out UV rays from the sun. This means you will get no tan while wearing it.
Sunscreen is a product that allows some UV rays to penetrate to the skins surface, which gives you the ability to get a slight tan.
Sun Protection Factor (SPF) refers to the amount of UV radiation that can saturate your sun protection to reach your skin. For example SPF 30 means that 1/30th of the sun’s UV rays are in contact with your skin.
Use an SPF no lower than SPF 30.
Use a shot's glass worth of sunscreen or sunblock on your entire body, concentrating on the areas most in contact with the sun (shoulders, nose and face, arms, back).
Sunscreen and sunblock must be reapplied every two hours, or after entering water., UV radiation is at it’s highest between 10:00 AM and 2:00 PM, so be extra cautious during these times. Try to tan in increments to minimize damage; one hour a day is a safe amount of time.
 Tanning oils contain certain chemicals that intensify UV rays, which darkens your skin faster.


The purpose of a tanning oil is not to block out sun like sunscreen, but to concentrate the radiation from the sun to expedite the “shielding” process of your skin.
Only use tanning oils which offer some sun protection; SPF 15 or higher is best.
Like sunscreen, coat your entire body in tanning oil and reapply often to ensure an adequate amount of protection.

