 As mentioned, you are never too far away from one, but here are a few tips to spot them. They will normally have a sign saying "Metro" or a big, yellow "M" on them. There are some stations (Like Miromesnil) whose entrances are within a building. So if you swear you cannot see one, look at the nearby buildings- the station could be hiding in them.;
, Find a place to sit down inside the station and look at a map on the wall or, if you have one, a pocket map. Decide where you want to go, and try to locate the appropriate stop on the map. Check what line it is on, then locate your current position and see what direction (what is the last station) you will need to follow.
 A carnet is a bundle of 10 tickets. You can also buy tickets by 20. Consider the following packages:


The "Navigo Decouverte" is a contactless card that allows you to travel by Metro, Bus, RER and Tramway in a selected set of zones of Paris and the Ile de France for at least three days.
Paris Visite is a card that will get you entry to museums too (not the Eiffel Tower, before you ask).
A Carte Mobilis will get you a day's ride on Metro, Bus and RER.



If you have a ticket, insert it in the slot in front of the machine and it will instantly pop out on top of it. Get it back as you proceed through the machine and store it in your pocket.
If you have a Navigo card, briefly present it about half an inch above the purple area of the machine as you proceed, a sound and a green arrow will notify you that you can go through.
 There will be signs showing the number and color of the line, and the terminus where it stops (the Direction). Make sure you get the correct Terminus direction. For example, if you want to get to the Arc de Triomphe on line 1 (Yellow), look for a sign saying "Direction La Défense". This means that the train is heading in the direction of La Défense, and will pass through and stop at all the stations on the way.


If you are in a big station like Nation, Châtelet, Gare de Lyon, Montparnasse etc, you may walk through a lot of intersections, corridors and stairs, that is okay, just make sure to carefully follow the signs, for example, if you have to take Line 1 in the direction of La Défense, in a big station, you may at first see a sign like , follow it. later one, it will clarify to , and then, just before the two corridors to the platforms split, you will choose the one indicated by a sign entitled with all the stations to it listed underneath. (Just make sure your station is in the list).
 Once on the platform, locate the overhead sign near the middle on the platform which must wear the number and color of the line along with the Terminus. Check if you are on the right platform and see how long you have to wait before the train comes (first set of 2 digits, typically 00 to 04 minutes). Keep an eye out for people too close to you, and wait for the train. When the train arrives, keep behind the white line. Let people leave the train first, and then you can get on it.


On most lines, you have to open the doors of the train if no-one else does. You either have to push a button or pull up the handle.
 The ability to sit down on the Metro is determined by the time which you go on it. So if you go on at around 8am or 5pm, you will probably be standing up. When crowded, do not be tempted to sit on the fold down seats. You will be making a nuisance of yourself. You can check on the line maps above each door how many stations are left before yours. On some lines, the map has a yellow light for each station, the light is off for passed or closed stations, lit for the remaining ones, and blinking for the next or current one.
 If you are approaching the train when the buzzer goes off, do not follow suit to others. Stay on the platform and wait for the next train.
 While traveling on the train, keep an eye out for the stops you stop at, and try to predict when your stop comes. If you want to remain unnoticed, do not make eye contact with anyone. Do not whistle or talk loudly.
 #*There will be maps of the area nearby with the location of the sorties nearby.


If you are in a big station, find the map "Plan du Quartier" ("District Map") on the platform and locate which exit ("Sortie") you want. In regular stations, a street name will do the trick, but it big stations with up to 15 different exits, you may need to remember the exit number as you may come across signs like: . Follow the blue "SORTIE" signs. As you come closer to the exit, it will have the street or place name instead of a number, though.

