 When someone is rude to you, you have only a few options. You can ignore the rudeness, confront the person calmly, or lose your temper. Depending on the situation, overlooking the rudeness or confronting the person in a calm way can both be kind gestures. Losing your temper is never kind or beneficial.While it may feel empowering to shout at someone, you actually lose control of yourself and the situation when you respond emotionally. You should always stay calm and weigh your options before responding.
For example, if someone says something rude about how you’ve cut your hair, you might want to lash back with insults. This will only fuel the rude behavior. Instead, remain calm and say something like “I can tell it isn’t your style, but I really like the new look.”;
, Deep breathing techniques help to calm the mind and the body. When you feel that someone is being rude to you, it is natural to take it personally and be offended. This causes an emotional reaction within you. Making an effort to take several deep breaths before responding will allow you to calm down and decide how you want to respond instead of reacting emotionally.For example, if your sibling makes a joke to the family at your expense, take a few deep breaths before you chime in. Even though this might upset you a little, it likely isn’t worth turning the family dinner into a shouting match.
 People often believe that they are somehow responsible for the actions and behaviors of others. This kind of thought is destructive and should be avoided. This kind of thought puts the blame for the other person’s rude behavior on you. Instead, you should realize that the other person’s behavior is a culmination of their personality and life experiences.If you are rude to the other person, it can illicit a rude response. In this case, being more polite might help the situation.
 Avoid judging the other person. If you attribute their rudeness to a flawed personality or see them in an unkind light, it will be hard to show them compassion. Instead, remind yourself that this person is a person and disarm their rudeness with kindness. Some ideas are:Ask them how their day is going.
Give them food, coffee, or gum.
Offer to help them finish a task or resolve an issue.

