 To get started, we need to create a new program, download Picture Collage Maker Pro on the desktop, open it and click Continue Trail. Then a blank page will come to your sight. Here you could resize the page that you want your finished photo collage to be.;
, There are many calendar templates to choose from on the left Template pane of the collage, open and browse through the calendar templates, you will need to choose one you want to use, double click or drag it to apply it into full play.
 Once you have added calendar, you will need to click Photo on the left window to add some photos to enrich the collage, Click the Photo button on the left of the collage screen to open the photo pane, choose your photos from your computer and add the target photos into the collage edit area, you can also move and rotate the picture to where and what looks better.
 Now you are ready to edit the calendar. To begin with, you will need to click Add on the window menu, and then click Add Calendar on the dropdown menu. In the popup calendar edit window, the program allows you to customize any element of the calendar, including show option, language, font, font color, background. Here you might choose show year, show month, show week header and show week numbers. There are some languages for you to select, choose any one you like, and you can also change the font and font color to look at the best effect. Anymore, the background of calendar can be filled with transparent, color and image, go with what feels like.
, Open Mask pane, you can see the list of masks in the left part of collage window, select the mask and double click to apply it to the photo.
 Open frame pane, you can see the list of frames in the left part of collage window, select the frame and double click to apply it to the photo.
 Open clip art pane, here comes a large number of clip art, choose any of it and add it to the collage.
 On the top toolbar, there is an Add button, click it and choose Add Text, write down your personalized words. The words can be resized, rotated and moved.
 Once you've finished designing your photo calendar, it's time to print, click File on the top menu to have a Print view. You can print it as a calendar card to send to your friend or as wall calendars or as desk calendars putting on the desk. That's all, you have done it successfully.
 What’s more, you can make a Christmas card, Birthday card, scrapbook, photo book, calendar by using this program.

