 Let him roam around on you, on your bed, or in a hamster-proof area. Exercise may help work out the boredom that your hamster might be feeling.


An exercise ball is an excellent way for your hamster to get exercise every day, while also protecting him from potential household hazards. Just be sure to supervise your hamster while he's in his ball. To avoid overheating, never let your hamster roam in his ball in direct sunlight, and limit time in the ball to 15 minute intervals.Make sure you've hamster-proofed the area in which your hamster will be playing. Remove any electrical cords so he does not chew on them. Keep the area enclosed, either by closing the door to a small room or by setting up "walls" around your hamster's play area.If you're worried about your hamster getting into something he shouldn't, consider using a hamster ball. This will allow your pet to roam freely, while still be safely protected from potential hazards in your home.
Consider giving your hamster a wheel to run on. Hamster wheels are a great way for hamsters to get exercise and work out extra energy. Avoid wire-frame wheels, as these could potentially injure your hamster.;
, Hamsters are very social animals and need to spend some time with their human(s) on a regular basis. Giving your hamster one-on-one attention, like holding him outside of his cage or letting him run around in your lap, is important for his emotional wellbeing and may be a factor in preventing attention-seeking behavior in the first place.Use a scoop or a small box, held in front of your hamster, to remove him from his enclosure. Reaching into the cage might make your hamster feel that his space is being invaded.Let your hamster crawl around on top of you while you lie on the floor. Hamsters love to explore, and once your hamster has developed a trust in you as his owner, he'll want to climb on and around you.
 Hamsters are nocturnal, which means they sleep during the day and are awake and active at night. Waking your hamster up during the day, whether to play with him or to clean his cage, may cause him irritation. Interrupting his natural sleep schedule could lead to further undesirable behavior., It's possible that your hamster is bored with his surroundings and longs for more room to play in his enclosure. If this is the case, your pet might benefit from having a bigger cage.As a general rule, a dwarf hamster needs at least one cubic foot of space. With each additional hamster in the cage, you'll need at least an additional 0.5 cubic feet of space.