 Hydrogen peroxide has antiseptic and antiviral properties that can help reduce inflammation and fight away the viral infection causing the cold sore.Soak a cotton ball or cotton swab in one teaspoon of hydrogen peroxide and hold it directly over the cold sore for five minutes. Rinse your face gently with cold water afterwards, and throw away the used cotton ball.
Make sure not to ingest the hydrogen peroxide as you apply it.;
, Protect your cold sore by covering it with medicated petroleum jelly, such as Vaseline, after it has drained. This will help keep the sore moist and prevent your skin from cracking, essentially providing a protective seal over the sore as it heals.Do not use your fingers to apply the jelly, as you can spread the virus to your fingertips. Instead use a cotton ball or swab to apply the jelly as needed until the sore heals.
If you do not have any petroleum jelly on hand, you could use a little honey. Honey has antiviral and antibacterial properties that can protect the cold sore against additional threats while also fighting the underlying virus.Apply a little honey using a cotton swab and cover the site of the cold sore completely.
 Hold an ice cube or ice pack directly on the cold sore for a few minutes to reduce inflammation and numb pain. If you're using an ice cube, consider wrapping in a towel for your own comfort. Press the icy surface to the cold sore until the cold has numbed the pain and remove it shortly after. Do not leave on for extended periods of time. Repeat this procedure once every one to three hours.Note that you should only do this when the cold sore is new. If the cold sore has already broken open, ice could actually hinder the healing process by slowing down blood flow (with its corresponding healing properties) to the lesion.
 Echinacea tea is believed to strengthen the immune system, thereby assisting your body's natural immune response as it fights the cold sore. Steep 1 bag of Echinacea tea in one cup (250 ml) freshly boiled water for 10 minutes. Drink when ready. Drink this tea once a day until the cold sore clears.You could also take 300 mg of echinacea supplements up to four times a day to boost your immunity.
Do not give echinacea to your child without consulting your doctor or a pediatrician first.
People with autoimmune diseases, diabetes, tuberculosis, connective tissue disorders, multiple sclerosis, liver disorders, HIV or AIDS should use echinacea with caution.
People allergic to plants in the daisy family may also be allergic to echinacea.
 Research widely supports the use of lemon balm as a remedy for reducing redness and inflammation in cold sores while also decreasing the risk of recurrent infections. Lemon balm is also used to help treat insomnia, anxiety and indigestion. Lemon balm contains eugenol which calms muscle spasms, relaxes tissues and kills bacteria. Essential oils made from lemon balm leaves contain plant chemicals called terpenes which may also play a role in the herb's relaxing and antiviral effects. Lemon balm is available as a dietary supplement, topical cream, tincture, and herbal tea at most nutrition and herbal medicine stores.Apply lemon balm ointment to the area affected with cold sores up to three times a day. Alternatively, make lemon balm tea by steeping a ¼ teaspoon of dried lemon balm in one cup of warm water (80–85ºC) for three to five minutes. Strain and drink immediately without adding any sweetener. Additionally, you can put 1 teaspoon of lemon balm tea on a cotton ball and apply to your cold sore.
Topical application of lemon balm cream is considered safe for children. You should speak with your healthcare provider or a pediatrician to determine the recommended usage for your child or infant.
 Certain natural oils and extracts have antiseptic properties, and when applied directly to the cold sore, can combat the virus causing it. Others have astringent properties, so they can dry the area out and prevent infection from setting in and worsening the sore.Peppermint oil can target viruses that escape from the site of infection, making it useful against cold sores.Dip a cotton swab in peppermint oil and apply the oil to your cold sore. Do this twice a day until the sore clears.
Witch hazel oil is an astringent and an antiseptic. Soak a cotton swab in one teaspoon (5 ml) of witch hazel and apply it directly to the cold sore. Do not rinse it off. Apply this cure once or twice a day.
Real vanilla extract is alcohol-based and makes it difficult for the virus to survive. Soak a cotton swab in 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) of vanilla extract and press it directly on the sore, holding it in place for a minute or two. Do this up to four times a day.
Both tea tree oil and garlic oil can help the healing process by keeping cold sores soft. A soft cold sore is less likely to split open. Dab a little of either oil directly onto the cold sore once or twice a day.
 Research suggests that applying a topical cream made of 23mg/g each of rhubarb extract and sage extract is as effective as prescription medications in healing cold sores.Look for this at natural health stores. Simply squeeze a pea-sized amount of the ointment onto a cotton swab or cotton ball and apply to the cold sore.


Ask your doctor if rhubarb and sage are safe for infants and children under 5 years before use.
 Glycyrrhizic acid, which is found in licorice root, is the key ingredient here. It has anti-inflammatory and anti-viral properties and can help relieve symptoms and stop the production of the virus.Combine one tablespoon (15 ml) of licorice root powder or extract with 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) water or two teaspoons (10 ml) of petroleum jelly. Dab this cream onto the cold sore, covering it completely, and let it sit for several hours or even overnight, ideally.
Another option is to mix the licorice root powder with petroleum jelly, which has its own healing properties. In this case, start by mixing one teaspoon of the petroleum jelly with the licorice root. Then, add more petroleum until to get the consistency you want.
 Both cold milk and cold yogurt are believed to have some usefulness against cold sores. Milk contains antibodies that can fight off viruses, and lysine, which can fight arginine, a certain amino acid that can cause cold sore outbreaks. Soak a cotton ball in one tablespoon (15 ml) of cold milk and apply it directly to the cold sore for a couple of minutes.The probiotics in yogurt can help fight the herpes virus causing the cold sore. Dab a little plain yogurt directly onto the cold sore, or eat two to three cups of non-fat yogurt daily during an outbreak., Aloe vera can soothe the pain of a cold sore (among many other skin irritations) and fight the bacteria threatening to infect the sore and worsen your condition. It can also help speed up the healing process.Apply 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) aloe vera gel directly to the cold sore using a cotton swab. Let it stay on. The best gel is the one right from the plant, which is easy to find and lasts for a long time. Break off a fleshy leaf and apply the gel right to your cold sore.
If you can't find an aloe plant, buy a good quality and 100% natural aloe vera gel at a pharmacy or other drug store.

