 If you notice that your German shepherd has any mobility issues, take him to the vet. You want to find out if it is due to hip dysplasia or another related issue., One of the first things your vet will do is watch the way your dog moves. The vet will watch him walk and run, and also examine how the dog copes with stairs. This will help the vet to see which leg is most painful and how badly affected it is.
 One of the things your vet may need is a health history. This will include the dog’s overall health, when the symptoms started, and any past injuries.The vet may also ask for breeding information to find any genetic connections.
 The vet will perform a physical examination. The exam includes testing your dog's nerve reflexes by turning the paw upside down and pinching the toes. This helps to ascertain that the problem is physical with the joints rather than neurological with the nerves.The vet will then carefully manipulate the legs, flexing and extending each joint to test if the movement is normal or restricted. This also helps to confirm which areas are tender or sore.
Your vet may also draw blood and take a urine sample.
 Based on the exam, the vet may suggest taking radiographs of the dog's hip joints. This is best done under anesthetic because to take meaningful x-rays means putting the dog's legs in positions which would be too painful for the conscious dog.While the dog is anesthetized and relaxed, the vet can perform special tests that involve testing the amount of movement out of the joint to see if it is within normal limits or not. A joint which moves out of joint a significant amount is going to be more painful, because the bones are constantly banging against each other.
One problem with diagnosing hip dysplasia is that the radiographs need to be interpreted in light of the clinical signs, such as lameness, and the amount of the discomfort the dog is in.
 Hip dysplasia is a painful condition, so your vet will prescribe pain relief for long term use. Typically this is a medication from the nonsteroidal antiinflammatory (NSAID) family.Your vet may recommend physical therapy for the joints, and exercises good for hip dysplasia, like swimming.
If the problem is severe, there are a number of surgical procedures which can be done. These range from a femoral head excisions, where the femoral head is removed so it no longer bangs against the acetabulum, to a total hip replacement.