 Pomegranates require lots of direct sunlight. While they were originally cultivated in modern day Iran, they can be grown in most climates. If your backyard has a lot of shading from larger trees, consider planting the pomegranate plant in a community garden with more sunlight.


Track the location for a few months before planting to ensure it receives the best of the sunlight.
Keep in mind that the plant can grow to be 12 feet (3.66 meters) in height.
If you live in a colder state, consider using a specific variety of pomegranate from Salavatski or Kazakhe. These are better equipped for the colder winters. The Salavatski pomegranate has been recorded to withstand a winter reaching -6 degrees Fahrenheit.;
, A great way to prepare a gardening space in the off seasons is to plant cover crops. These include a variety of different plants that balance the nutrients of the soil before planting. Pomegranates thrive best with high pH levels and alkaline rich soil.


You can reach this type of soil by adding sulfur, sawdust, conifer needles, or oak leaves.Try some of the common cover crops like hairy vetch, medium red clover, or cereal grains.Always test your soil’s pH level before adding more acidity. Pomegranates like a pH level around 7.5-8.0.
 The seeds from pomegranates germinate easily and should be started indoors before planting outside. If you are growing for ornamental purposes, a seed will work. However, if you are growing to produce fruit, you may want to consider purchasing a hybrid tree from a nursery or getting cuttings from a tree you know produces good fruit.


Visit a farmers market or an organic grocery store.
 Cut open your pomegranate and remove the pulp encasing the seed. Wipe down your seed and allow it to dry for about three days. This prevents the seeds from molding.


Plant the seed indoors around mid-winter ¼” deep in lightweight potting soil.
Keep the seedling in a warm sunny location indoors.
Keep the soil moist, checking regularly if the soil is moist with your hands.