 A Lucky Egg is a held item that will boost Gabite's experience gain by 50%. You have a small chance of finding Lucky Eggs on wild Chanseys, or wild Happiny in some games. Have Gabite hold the Lucky Egg while you're leveling it up., Share. This item allows Gabite to gain experience even when it's not in battle. Whenever the Pokémon that is holding the Exp. Share gains experience, Gabite will gain some as well (as long as they're both in your party)., The best way to gain experience for Gabite is to simply use it in battle as much as possible. You'll get more experience for fighting tougher enemies., If you're trying to power-level your Gabite, you'll do it most efficiently if you're fighting high-level enemies that are weak to its attacks. This will let you mow through more enemies in less time, gaining lots of experience.

Gabite has a lot of Ground moves which are highly effective against Electric, Fire, Poison, Rock, and Steel Pokemon.
Gabite's Dragon moves are effective against most other types, making them powerful moves to use when leveling. Avoid fighting Steel and Fairy Pokemon, as Dragon attacks are weak or completely useless against them.
 Giving a Gabite a Rare Candy will raise it one level immediately. This can be useful for getting the last level before evolving., Gabites received via trade will gain 1.5x the regular experience, which will significantly boost your evolution speed. If you can get a Gabite from another country or language, it will gain 1.7x the normal amount of experience.You can't trade a Gabite to someone and then have them trade it back. The Gabite must have been caught on a different system.
 The Everstone will prevent Gabite from evolving when it reaches the right level. Make sure Gabite isn't holding one., Use the steps in the previous method to raise Gabite to Level 48. Once it reaches this level, it will attempt to evolve into Garchomp., You may want to prevent Gabite from evolving until after it learns Dragon Rush at level 49. It will take Garchomp until Level 55 to learn this move.To cancel an evolution, press and hold B while the Gabite is evolving. This will cancel the evolution and prevent it from turning into Garchomp.
Once the Gabite reaches Level 49, it will learn Dragon Rush and then try to evolve again. You can now let it safely evolve, as there are no more moves that Gabite will learn, and Dragon Rush is a very powerful move to have for your new Garchomp that it normally wouldn't learn for another seven levels.

