 It is greatly encouraged and advised to observe and to read carefully the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy provided by Twitter. The documents protect both the makers and the Twitter users. The document contains the discouragement of the improper use of Twitter and other inappropriate contents like violence. Furthermore, the document forbids the underage use of the application and it also provides other basic violation.;
, Twitter has become the milieu of people for their thoughts and opinions. People nowadays use social media such as Twitter as an avenue to bully and undermine other people. Remember to be cautious with your use of words and be aware that what you say in person is different when it is in social media because of its lack of context.  You and other Twitter users have different cultural backgrounds thus you are exposed to a spectrum of different perspectives. Imagine putting yourself in the shoes of others. Ultimately, think before you click.
 People talk a lot about their Freedom of Expression, their right to express their opinions freely without hindrances but we barely talk about Social Responsibility. Social responsibility is a duty every individual has to perform so as to maintain a balance between the economy and the ecosystems, in other words we have to understand that whatever we post online has a corresponding effect to our followers and whoever we are talking to. Twitter is not an avenue for you to rant and rant and rant so as other social networking sites. We need to remember that the millions of users around the world can see whatever you post online, especially when you have a public profile.
 Twitter is the pioneer medium in introducing and popularizing the use of # (hashtags) wherein its purpose was to consolidate and unify users who talk a particular topic under the said hashtag. But because of the multitude of Twitter users, the real purpose of hashtag was forgotten. Remember, never bombard your tweets with hashtags that does not even relate to your tweet. Not all your tweets are in need of hashtags. At the same time do not confuse a hashtag with a tweet. You can tweet a hashtag, but never hashtag your tweets. #IYKWIM

, You are able to engage and interact with people from different backgrounds and cultures from around the world on Twitter, you can make friends and even find the love of your life, all of these just by clicking the follow button. But also, you can make false relationships, be used and be fooled. For example, people can use your profile information to be able to use your identity. People can also use this connection into deceiving you into information without accuracy.   Be mindful to know the person who you are following and who you want to follow before clicking that follow button.
 Always remember that Twitter is social media. And always give emphasis on the word “social” thus social media users such as those in Twitter should possess proper social etiquette. Before you post anything, always remember that you should be tactful. It is okay to shout out your feelings and grudges in Twitter but put in the right context and at the right time. Never also forget that your words define your personality in social media, so your tweets, per se, are ugly and tacky it’s like covering yourself in something tacky as well in a very wide social setting. Also, avoid making Twitter as your daily diary. It is okay to tweets something for a number of times but filter very personal information.

