 Use Norton Ghost or Acronis True Image to create a complete image of your entire hard disk. The image will be the same size as the all of the content of the disk, so it could be quite large. Save this image to an external hard drive or another installed hard disk.
 After making a complete image of the disk, remove it from your computer. Be careful when removing the disk so as not to damage any of the delicate components.
 Install the removed hard drive into a computer that works. Make sure that when you install the drive, you are installing it as a secondary or slave drive.
 This program will allow you to run a number of different tests on hard drives. The test you want is the "Write+Read" test, which will overwrite the disk and then read back the written sectors, looking for bad areas on the disk.


Make sure that you have the correct disk selected!

, After the test is complete, use a tool such as Paragon Hard Disk or the built-in Windows Disk Manager to reformat the drive so that you can copy files to it. Restart the computer after the drive has been formatted.
 The computer you installed the original drive onto should have its own drive as well as the one you installed. To ensure that the hard drive is working correctly, you will be testing a file running from both hard drives.


First, open a video file from the original disk on the second computer (the one with the operating system). The video playback should be smooth and without errors.
Copy the same video onto the freshly-formatted disk that you installed from the first computer. Playback this video and check for any distortion. If the video is corrupted or distorted, then your drive is a "zombie" drive, and will always corrupt data when it is used.
 If your disk is in fact a zombie drive, then you'll need to replace it. Once you've obtained a new disk of equal or greater size than the original, you can use Norton or Arcronis to copy your disk image back onto the disk. You can then install the disk back into your computer and use it as you normally would.

