 Legendary samurai like Minamoto no Tametomo, Tokugawa Ieyasu, and others earned their reputation as powerful, fearless, and cunning fighters through many years of excellence on the battlefield.However, this excellence never came at the expense of a samurai's honor. Samurai never sully their reputation (or, more importantly, the reputation of the people they are loyal to) by using their great power for cowardly, selfish, or shameful reasons. Below are just a few examples of when and when not to fight.



Good reasons for a samurai to fight:
Protecting innocents from danger
Trying to prevent a dangerous situation from occurring
Defending the honor of a friend or family member

Bad reasons for a samurai to fight:
Beating people up for their money
Defeating someone else to make yourself feel better
Picking fights over petty grudges and slights

, To be able to fight like a samurai, you must start by reaching for the raw materials of strength and endurance. Samurai cannot fight to defend their loved ones if they are too weak or out of shape to offer much of a challenge. Ideally, samurai should practice excellent physical fitness habits, exercising at least several times per week to build muscle strength and cardiovascular endurance. In addition, samurai should closely monitor their diet and work towards a lean but powerful physique.


For a comprehensive fitness guide, see How to Exercise. Here, you'll find tips on aerobic exercise, strength-building routines, and much more.
For dieting tips, see How to Diet. In general, aspiring samurai will want to eat a diet that is rich in protein, whole grains, and healthy fats while maintaining a calorie intake that will put them on course for a lean physique.
 An ideal samurai didn't need weapons to fight — he would be willing and able to fight armed and armored enemies with his bare hands if needed. Learning a martial art will make you a formidable opponent even when unarmed. In addition, the inner strength and self-discipline that you'll develop from striving for excellence in your fighting style will serve you well in difficult and dangerous situations.


Traditionally, samurai were expected to learn a form of the martial art today known as jiu jitsu as part of their training.This fighting style emphasized throws, grapples, and pins, which allowed samurai to effectively defeat armored opponents against whom punches and kicks wouldn't be effective.
Today, in addition to jiu jitsu, a wide range of martial arts from a variety of cultures around the world are available to those who want to learn them. These include:
Boxing
Kickboxing
Taekwondo
Krav maga
Judo

, Samurai were proficient killers with a wide variety of weapons. These include the naginata, a long poleaxe or spear, the bow, and the famous katana sword. While these weapons may be ineffective (or at the very least impractical) in most modern settings, you may still want to learn how to use them for ceremonial or traditional purposes.


A good resource for those looking to find out more about the naginata is the U.S. Naginata Federation website.This site has information about various naginata fighting styles as well as a directory of links to the webpages of various regional naginata associations.
The Japanese art of archery is called Kyudo. A good place to start learning about Kyudo is at the website of the International Kyudo Federation.Here, you'll find information on equipment, techniques, upcoming events and seminars, and more.
Unfortunately, in most Western countries, it's much easier to find organizations dedicated to European sword fighting than it is to find katana-centered organizations. Various regional organizations are your best bet here for those in the U.S. and Canada, try starting with the Classic Katana Owners of North America website.
 The modern battlefield is a very different one than the warriors of feudal Japan were familiar with the prevalence of firearms, artillery, air power, and many more modern inventions, a samurai's traditional weapons aren't often effective today. However, a modern-day samurai can still adopt the devotion and focus of samurais from the past when learning to fight with modern-day weapons.


The topic of how to fight in the modern world is unfortunately too broad for the scope of this article. However, when it comes to guns, it's important to be clear that you should not buy or start carrying a gun until you are absolutely sure that you can use and store it safely (and have the required legal certification to do so.) See How to Handle a Firearm Safely for more information.
Serious about learning how to fight in the modern age? Try joining your country's armed services or national guard. Here, you'll learn up-to-date tactics for how to function effectively in modern battlefield situations, including how to use and maintain firearms.
 The most respected samurai warriors were said to fight as if they were already dead that is, they fought fearlessly because it truly did not make a difference to them whether they lived or died in battle. Today, it's not considered wise or honorable to have little regard for your own life. However, you can still apply the spirit of this samurai principle by fighting without fear of the consequences you may suffer. In other words, when you fight, try not to worry about the danger to yourself or the likelihood of failure. Instead, focus totally on your goal: victory.


This, of course, only applies when fighting for honorable purposes. This advice is not meant to encourage aspiring samurais to have no regard for the law or the fundamental principles of common decency.

