 The United States closely monitors who enters the country and for what reason. Although there are many reasons to validly enter the United States, there are also common violations of U.S. immigration laws:


Sham marriages. Some U.S. citizens accept money or other favors in order to marry someone. The person they marry then qualifies for a green card. This type of scheme is illegal. In some situations, the U.S. citizen may be innocent but have been tricked by a foreign national into the marriage.Illegal entry. Some people might walk across the border or sneak through a port of entry without permission. This is illegal entry and can be reported.
Overstaying a visa. Many people are in the country illegally by overstaying their visa. In other words, they had a legal reason to enter the country but they didn’t leave when they were supposed to. Sometimes, students and people in the U.S. for business purposes overstay their visas. You can report this violation.
 If you want to report immigration violations, then you can contact the Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) unit, which is part of ICE, at 1-866-347-2423.

The federal government is charged with investigating and punishing immigration violations., You can make a report anonymously and should consider whether you want to.For example, you should consider the following, which will impact whether you report anonymously:


Do you fear the immigrant? If so, then you might want to remain anonymous.
Do you have additional helpful information? If so, you might want to give your name so that ICE can follow up with you.
Are you willing to testify in court? If so, then you should not report anonymously. Instead, give your name and contact information.
 You should call the phone number and provide ICE with helpful information so that they can locate and arrest the illegal alien. You will be asked for the following information:names of the illegal aliens
locations of the illegal aliens, including home and work addresses
any other specific information that you have

