 Band rehearsals can be held for several reasons, most notably as "jam sessions," in-depth practices, or dress rehearsals.


A jam session is a relatively unstructured type of rehearsal. Rather than trying to address imperfections in the music, the band will play through a lot of material - often material that is either familiar or improvised. Jam sessions allow the band members to develop their overall sound, get more comfortable playing with each other, and have fun.
An in-depth practice session is much more structured. This type of rehearsal involves spending lots of time on relatively little material - perhaps a single piece or even a few troublesome phrases within a piece. The goal is to fine-tune the music from both a technical and lyrical perspective.
A dress rehearsal is a session held shortly before a performance. These serve primarily to warm the band up and keep the music familiar in their heads. Dress rehearsals should not be used to introduce new pieces or changes.;
, Depending on the type of rehearsal being held, you may want to distribute some materials in advance. If an in-depth practice is scheduled, make sure the band members have copies of the musical score and an audio recording if possible. You should also consider distributing a copy of the rehearsal schedule detailing how the time will be spent.
 The overall meeting time should be known by all band members well in advance. Short rehearsals can leave little time for anything but warming up, while excessively long rehearsals can lead to fatigue and distraction. A good starting point is a 3-hour rehearsal with a short break every hour.


As the rehearsal leader, make sure you know how the time will be spent. Plan time for the band's warm-up, and know how much time you want to spend on each piece or section. You can make changes to this schedule as needed during the rehearsal.
Make sure to include time for band members to set up. Drum sets take time to set up, for instance. String instruments ideally need time to adjust to the temperature and humidity of the room in order to stay in tune. Consider opening the rehearsal space for an hour or so before the practice begins.
 Strive to begin practicing right on time with a group warm-up. Use the schedule as a guide, but make sure to attune yourself to the band's needs. Allocate extra time to sections that need work, while spending less time on better-sounding sections. If you are also acting as a lead performer, make sure to take control of each song's direction. The band should respond to cues from the lead performer, not the other way around.
 When the rehearsal is over, make sure all the band members know when the next rehearsal is and what the band's goals are for the time in between. Each player should have a good idea of what needs to be practiced at home and what to expect in the next group rehearsal.

