 This can be done by either a.) turning off aging in the game options b.) or setting the age timeframe as long as you can (also in the game options).
 adults sims in your household as you can. They will all be able to work full-time jobs to help your family become rich. If you are getting them into your household through creation, decide which careers they will be working in beforehand (business and medical are suggested), and then try to give them as many traits that will help them with the job you have in mind for them as you can.
 If you like buying your sims houses pre-built, then use the freerealestate cheat by doing CTR+SHIFT+C and typing in freerealestate as you're on the screen which is asking you to move in your sims. If you like building houses on lots, then after you buy the lot, just build the things they need to survive, some things to help them in their careers and nothing else. You can go pretty far with this: to know just how far, take a look at the photo.


For living daily life inexpensively, check the tips.
 This is really not so hard, since in the Sims 3, there is always an opening in the career of your choice. If it doesn't show up online or in the newspaper, just go to the site of the career to get the job.
 This may seem pretty obvious to you, but let me elaborate on this a bit more. If you work for hours during the day, and then do nothing to help your career in the evening, you won't get too far. You will succeed somewhat, but only with super long periods of hard work, which could be sped up by some experience in the required skills or relationships for that career.You should keep them helping their work constantly, especially for the ones you won't keep (This'll be explained soon.)

, You can move them out for free by selecting one of your non-favorite sims, using the option on their cellphone that says "Move", having the other not wanted sims move out with them, selecting the option that's labeled "kick out", and finalizing the decision by clicking on the check mark.
 Moving out of the place your sims will be living in currently, and then moving to a mansion may be what you want to do. Then, enjoy how good it feels to have worked so hard for your riches!

