 Generally, MS occurs in adults between the ages of 20 and 40, though the first symptoms can appear as early as 15 years old. The disease affects twice as many women as men. Though MS is not hereditary, some people are genetically predisposed to the disease. Children who have parents with multiple sclerosis have a 3% to 4% chance of developing the disorder. Recent studies show MS may be caused by a combination of genetic and environmental factors that trigger an autoimmune response in a person who is predisposed to the disease. This can then cause the person’s body to attack its own cells.Recent medical research on MS has been making great strides, and today there are treatments that can slow the progression of the disease and reduce the duration, severity, and number of MS attacks. Other treatments are currently being developed and much scientific research has been put into enhancing the quality of life for people with MS and into finding a cure for the disease.;
, There are four common forms, or courses, of MS and your partner’s level of care will depend on the course of MS they have. Multiple sclerosis is an unpredictable and progressive disease so your partner’s course may change or shift from the time they are diagnosed by their doctor. The four more common forms, or courses, of MS are:Relapsing-remitting: This is the most common form of MS. It is a cyclical form of the disease, in which the person experiences attacks (also known as relapses or flare-ups), followed by recovery periods or remission periods.
Primary-progressive: In this form, the disease progresses from no recovery periods or a few recovery periods, with only temporary or minor improvements. The progression of the disease may be fast or slow over a period of many years.
Secondary-progressive: This form is similar to the relapse-remitting form. After several years, the disease may become progressive, with very few remissions or relapses.
Progressive-relapsing: In this course, the disease progresses soon after the diagnosis and the person will experience acute attacks. It is a relatively rare form of MS.
 Once your doctor identifies your partner’s course of MS, ask them about common symptoms of the disease as a whole. The more information you have about your partner’s daily life with MS, the more you can support your partner and be a good caregiver to them.One of the major symptoms of MS is extreme fatigue. Fatigue caused by multiple sclerosis requires a longer rest period than ordinary fatigue. MS fatigue is different from common sources of fatigue, such as from hard work, depression, tension, or weak muscle tone. Other symptoms of MS — like a reduced or lost sensation in the limbs, numbness, cognitive problems (like memory loss and lack of concentration), as well as physical and mental pain —can further aggravate this fatigue.
Your partner may also experience impaired balance and dizziness. They may be at risk of falling or losing their balance when standing, which will be worsened further by fatigue.
Your partner may have bladder dysfunction, which can cause them to wake up during the night or have difficulty going out for fear of being unable to control their bladder. Bladder dysfunction can also lead to urinary tract infections, which can further limit their mobility and ability to socialize. Up to 75% of patients suffer from bladder dysfunction and some suffer from bowel dysfunction as well.
As the disease progress, your partner may have difficulty walking. They may experience muscle weakness, balance issues, coordination issues, or fatigue and pain when standing or moving. Spasticity is also a problem in patients with MS — this is the tension or stiffness of muscles that are held in the flexed position.
Eye movement abnormalities are a hallmark of the disease. This includes difficulty with gaze, nystagmus, and abnormalities in eye movements. Nystagmus is the rapid, involuntary movement of the eye. This can lead to double vision in patients with MS. Some patients even suffer from vision loss due to optic neuritis, an inflammation of the optic nerve.
If your partner is a woman, she may experience hormonal issues due to disruptions in her menstrual cycle. This could then affect her mood and lead to depression or anxiety.
 In addition to the physical symptoms of MS, your partner may experience symptoms that affect their cognitive abilities and their mood.Your partner may experience cognitive issues, like memory problems — specifically short-term memory failure. Cognitive issues can be exacerbated by fatigue or depression, so it is important to manage these issues. Depression may be more common in patients with MS than in other patients with chronic medical problems.
Many people with MS also struggle with depression, triggered by fatigue and exhaustion. Your partner may experience mood changes, anxiety, or stress due to the disease. They may also have a loss of appetite, weight loss or weight gain, and insomnia or lack of sleep.
 Depending on your partner’s form of MS, you may need to prepare your home for at home care for them. This may mean installing support systems like handrails and guardrails throughout your home, as well as wheelchair-accessible ramps and areas.You may also need to use a shower stool to help your partner bathe. Talk to your doctor about other physical adjustments you can make to your home to make it easier for your partner to get around. Your doctor can also refer you to an occupational therapist who can do a home walk through and recommend adjustments like widening doorways, installing guardrails and ramps, and making renovations to the kitchen or the bedroom., Hiring an occupational therapist (OT) to visit once a week, or for bi-monthly sessions, can provide you with strategies to help your partner adjust to cognitive issues like memory loss. The OT can also give you methods to prevent your partner’s mobility issues for getting worse and techniques for helping your partner get around.The OT may recommend that your partner adapt a consistent daily routine and use calendars or other time markers to help with memory issues.
 Daily care of your partner may require giving injections and medications, cooking for both of you, cleaning the living space, helping your partner bathe and helping your partner to get around. This amount of responsibility can be daunting and overwhelming, especially in the face of a progressive disease. Create a daily schedule for you and your partner to give your days a sense of routine and balance.This may mean eating and cleaning at the same time every day or giving injections and medications within a certain time period. As your partner’s support, a care schedule can also allow you to provide excellent care for your partner and not succumb to stress or anxiety in the process.
If there are other members in your household who can help you, delegate certain tasks to each person. Someone may be responsible for household tasks like cleaning, shopping, cooking, laundry, and transportation. Or you may share care-related tasks like dressing, bathing, eating, exercising, taking medication, and going to doctor visits. It’s important to also make time for recreational activities, like exercise, entertaining and socializing with your partner, and private time apart from your partner.
 As your partner’s caregiver, you will need to accept that the traditional roles in your relationship are going to shift. Most partners will be more than willing to be supportive and nurturing to their partners, but caregiving should never shift into self-pity or total self-sacrifice. Being a good caregiver does not mean sacrificing all your needs and desires for the sake of your partner’s illness. This can lead to an imbalanced relationship that lacks boundaries and is too interdependent.Both women and men who act as caregivers to their partners face the same daily responsibilities and challenges. But female caregivers may feel more comfortable in a supporting role than male caregivers, as caregiving is traditionally viewed as a more feminine role. Research has shown that male caregivers have difficulty discussing their own personal struggles with their partner’s disease and repress their emotions. They also are more hesitant about asking for help or using the resources available to caregivers.
Female caregivers are also more likely to neglect their own health for the sake of their ailing partner and do not take enough independent time to themselves. They can suffer from emotional and physical stress due to taking on too much of their partner’s care.
 Though you may want to shelter your partner from your own personal struggles, avoid staying silent or holding in your emotions. Be honest and practice open communication with your partner. This will show that you respect your partner and are committed to maintaining your partner-to-partner relationship. Your relationship with your partner will evolve as a result of the disease and you will both need to adapt to this reality. Rather than let the disease drive you both apart, or relegate you both into the role of caregiver and ailing patient, focus on sharing the struggles of living with this disease together.Many partners who act as a caregivers may wonder “Why doesn’t anybody ask how I am?” It can be difficult to give so much of your time and energy to your partner and you may start to feel invisible or unrecognized. Don’t be afraid to talk to your partner about your feelings of being ignored or forgotten. You may feel guilty for expressing these emotions but this guilt can lead to resentment, which can have a negative impact on your relationship with your partner.
 Research shows that at least 80% of women with MS struggle with their sex lives, from low sex drive to painful genital sensations to an inability to orgasm. Men with MS can also suffer from erectile difficulties, ejaculation issues, and a reduced libido. Start a conversation about sexual issues with your partner and approach these issues with openness and honesty. There are drugs and treatments available that can help you both with sexual issues, as well as information or advice from your partner’s doctor or from a sex therapist. Sexual dysfunction due to MS can be broken into three types:Primary sexual effects: These are related to neurological changes caused by MS. This can lead to a loss of sex drive, decrease genital sensation, and an inability to orgasm.
Secondary sexual effects: These occur as a result of other symptoms of MS, like bowel or bladder issues, fatigue, muscle spasms, tremors, or difficulty concentrating.
Tertiary sexual effects: These are related to the psychological impact of the disease, from changes in self-esteem or body image to depression and mood swings.
 A big risk for caregivers is burning out due to overwhelming responsibilities and challenges day in and day out. It’s important to set aside time for yourself to do activities or hobbies you enjoy doing. Make arrangements for someone to stay home and care for your partner at least one hour a week to allow you time to yourself. Keeping yourself happy and fulfilled through other things outside of your caregiving responsibilities will allow you to also remain fulfilled when taking care of your partner., There are many organizations that offer different levels of support for caregivers, including support groups. Look for an MS caregiver support group in your area or online. You can also ask your doctor for any known support groups in your area.


Joining a support group will help you get advice and guidance from others who understand what you are going through and who are going through it with you.
A list of care partner support organizations can be found here.
 To get more information on MS, as well as strategies to provide great care for your partner with MS, consider enrolling in a caregiver course. These courses are geared toward partners and family members who are encountering MS for the first time and are working to support someone they love who has MS., As MS is an unpredictable and progressive disease, you may find the responsibilities of taking care of your partner beyond your capabilities or expertise. Most individuals with MS require full-time care and you may not be in a position mentally, emotionally, or financially to devote yourself fully to your partner’s needs. Talk to your partner’s doctor or an occupational therapist about hiring a professional caregiver for your partner.Professional caregiving may be covered by your healthcare provider, and there may be funding available to help you pay for the cost of a caregiver. Talk to your healthcare provider or your local MS chapter for more information.

