 In order to do your grooming at home, you’ll need to buy some shampoo that is specially formulated for use on canines. Don’t ever use human shampoo on your dog.You can purchase canine shampoo that focuses on different issues too – like flea prevention, sensitive skin, brittle coats, or puppy formulas.
You can buy dog shampoo at most pet stores, veterinary offices, grocery stores, and even at online retailers.;
, One of the most important items you will need to purchase to maintain most grooming styles at home is a hair clipper. Dog clippers have more teeth than human hair clippers, so they are better suited to cutting a dog’s thicker coat. You can find a variety of options for clippers at any pet store.Remember that not all dogs should have their coats trimmed. Some breeds, like Border Collies, have double coats that keep them cool in the summer and warm in the winter. These coats should not be cut with hair trimmers as they may not be as effective and full when they grow back.
When purchasing your clippers, you’ll be able to choose between corded and cordless options. A cordless clipper will give you a greater range of movement, but they may have less power than the corded varieties.
 Purchase some nail trimming clippers to use in cutting your dog’s nails. You should also buy some styptic powder (or another kind of clotting powder) to use in case you accidentally cut the nails too short and they bleed. There are several different styles of trimmers you can purchase, depending on what your dog’s specific needs are. The different types of trimmers include:Guillotine-style clippers. These are the easiest kind to use and are especially effective for small breeds.
Pliers-style clippers. There are usually better for larger breeds of dogs.
Scissors-style clippers. These are best for longer nails that have not been trimmed in a while.
 In order to keep your dog’s coat clean and free of pesky matted or knotted hair, you should brush or comb your dog’s coat regularly. Buy a brush intended for use on dogs and use it at least once every two days.This is important for dogs with all types of coats. Even shorthaired dogs can benefit from regular brushing.
There are many different types of dog brushes. The most common type is a curry brush that typically has rubber (sometimes plastic) teeth. These are good for dogs that shed a great deal.
For dogs that shed an enormous amount (like German Shepherds), you may want to invest in a shedding blade. This is a rounded metal blade with dull teeth on it that is used to remove dead hair still embedded in the dog’s thick coat. It is considered a type of brush as it does not actually cut the hair.
 Once you have the proper tools, find a spot to do the grooming in your home that will be comfortable for you and your dog. Try to elevate your pet to protect your back. But make sure you find a place in your house where you can minimize the mess – like the bathroom or outside in the garage.A small breed can be placed on top of a washer or dryer or even a counter, if you place a rubber mat down to give them secure footing. Look for a "sink mat" in your local drugstore.
 Armed with the correct tools and a good grooming spot, grab your dog and get to work. Make this a fun, pleasant experience for both of you by talking to your dog, petting it, and praising it.You can even use treats to show your dog that you appreciate its behavior when it acts correctly. If your dog is being very good during the grooming process, give it a treat as a positive reward.
 Before you bathe your dog, give it a good once over with the dog brush. Shorthaired dogs often shed more than the longhaired breeds. With a firm hand, brush against the grain of the hair growth. This will get under the hair and remove more of the dead stuff. Be sure to praise your dog and keep it fun.If your dog has a long, thick coat, it is easier to do the brushing in sections. Lift the top layer and secure with hair clips or clothespins to keep out of your way so you can begin brushing underneath.
With gentle pressure, place your free hand against the dog's skin where the hair is attached. This helps relieve any pulling on the skin from mats or snags you might run in to. Brush in a downward motion.
When it seems the brush is going through the coat smoothly, repeat with a comb and move on to the next section.
With a large dog, it may be better to tackle a different section each day in order to keep it fun.
If you plan on bathing your dog, never bathe first. Always brush out mats or "undercoat" before getting your pet wet. If you don't, the water tends to "set" the extra coat, making mats and tangles even more difficult to remove later.
 Use the dog shampoo to give your dog a bath and get its coat nice and clean. Depending on the size of your dog, you can use a bathtub or shower, a hose outside, or even the kitchen sink to bathe your dog.Rinse your dog with water to get its coat nice and damp, then lather in the dog shampoo. Rinse your dog’s coat thoroughly to get all of the soap out.
Then towel dry your dog to get rid of any excess water.
You can either let your dog air dry at this point or use a hair dryer if your dog will tolerate the noise. Make sure to use the cool setting on the blow dryer.
 To cut your dog’s nails, hold the nail clippers in the palm of your hand and use your fingers to manipulate the moveable pieces that control the trimming. Bring the clippers to the dog’s paw from the underneath side (never clip from above) and put the nail into the hole in the clippers. Squeeze the clippers quickly so that they make a swift cut. Do this to each nail.Be sure to only cut the white part of the nail, not the pink part that contains live tissue.
Keep an anti-coagulant powder on hand in case you do cut one too short. Cornstarch or flour will also do the trick.
This can be a tricky skill to master, but it can help in avoiding a myriad of problems. Nails that get too long and begin to curl are not only uncomfortable for your dog, but can snag on rugs, blankets, etc.
They can also get torn off and infected or make it difficult, or even painful, for your dog to walk properly.
 Talk to your groomer about which grooming tools are the ones best suited for your pet's coat. The long, thick coat of a Collie demands a totally different brush than the Labrador. Many breeds require more than one style of brush to do the complete job.Your groomer can also recommend other ways that you can help maintain the groomed effect in between professional grooming sessions.
 If your dog is prone to aggressive behavior or lashes out while being groomed because it is scared, you need to make sure you take steps to prevent yourself from being hurt. These measures will also help keep your dog safe.Consider wearing a pair of bite-proof gloves to protect your hands from your dog’s teeth.
You could also put a muzzle on your dog to keep it from biting or snapping at you during grooming.
Consider restraining your dog so it doesn’t fall and hurt itself. You could use its leash to keep it upright and stationary.
 Since dental problems can be traumatic for dogs – even requiring anesthesia to fix relatively minor issues – it’s important to maintain dental health. This will help your dog’s teeth to remain bright, white, and shiny to add to the freshly groomed look.Give your dog chew toys that are intended for dental care. These treats will help protect your dog’s teeth and gums over time.
Additionally, choose to give your dog dry dog food  instead of wet. The process of chewing the hard kibbles helps cleanse your dog’s teeth every time it eats.
You can also try brushing your dog’s teeth with a double-headed toothbrush and toothpaste specifically formulated for dogs. Do not use human toothpaste as it contains fluoride, which can be toxic for dogs.
Have your veterinarian inspect your dog’s teeth at their yearly vet checkup. Your vet may recommend some other type of dental care for your pup.

