 The purser can punch a hole in your sail and sign card, much easier than trying to carry the card around in a wallet/purse/pocket. This is especially great for kids (5+), because they are less likely lose their card.


Note: go to the purser and request that your younger kids do not have any signing privileges just in case the card gets lost and someone tries to use it. Also if you can find those small flat watertight containers, that helps for shore excursions so you don't have to bring a purse/wallet.;
, You can pack everyone's clothes separately (tops, bottoms, underwear, swimsuits, dressy items). This way when you get those weird, awkward, small shelves (like on Norwegian), you can shove 2 or 3 bags in each (the lowest ones can go to the youngest kids) and you can save your drawer space for other junk items like hairbrushes, itineraries/those daily sheets, sunscreen, etc. that needs to be contained. This makes packing a snap, keeps your clothes clean and most of all, helps you find where your clothes are without digging!

, Everyone's dirty laundry goes in it and it makes keeping your dirty clothes separate and contained; the room is small enough! Leave it in the bathroom under the sink. Later on in the week, when they offer the laundry special, you can easily sort the clean clothes back into the compression bags which makes packing and unpacking (when you get home) a breeze.
 You're likely to have tons of things to plug in: cell phones, Game Boy charger, portable DVD player, etc.


A nightlight is essential, especially if you have an interior cabinet and little kids. It gets pitch black in the interior rooms and you cannot see a thing with the lights out. Also, it makes the kids feel better in case they wake up during the night.
 Make your own drinks, and fill it with ice and water and it stays cold during those shore excursions.
 You might be on vacation and want no time constraints, but with kids, it helps you make it to dinner, shows, and classes, but most importantly, when you need to go and pick up the kids!

, If you are super neat, use antibacterial wipes (especially in winter, to wipe down the door handles, phone and bathroom). With current airline restrictions, they might have to go in your checked luggage. Keep them in zip lock bags and you can use those bags on the trip.
 It keeps the kids busy while traveling and while you're dressing for dinner. You can also use it as a CD player.
 Note this only works if both people actually turn them on (batteries help too!). If you forget, some cruise ships have them for rent approx. $50 for a week.
 Things will go wrong, and the only way you'll get through the week is if you all keep smiling!

