 Paint and primer can give off toxic fumes that are dangerous to your health, so you should only paint and prime in areas with good airflow. Remove any unused equipment, tools, and cords, as these can be spattered with paint or become tripping hazards as you work.


Paint on a level, sturdy surface, like a work bench. An outdoor work surface can be made by putting a flat board between two sawhorses on level ground.
For the easiest cleanup and to prevent primer or paint from spreading to unintended surfaces, lay down a drop cloth to completely cover the floor surrounding your work area.;
, Lay your goal board on your work surface. To ensure the best application of primer and paint, a smooth exterior for your goal board will be best. Use a medium grit sandpaper (60 - 100 rating) to remove burrs, splinters, and rough patches in the wood.Sand until the wood is completely even and smooth.After you are finished sanding, take a rag dampened with water and wipe away any dust or sawdust, then allow the wood to dry completely.
To prevent missing spots when sanding, it helps to work methodically. For example, you might work from the front of the board to the back, from top to bottom., When priming, it's best to use many thin coats as opposed to a few thick coats. Mix the primer according to its directions, take a clean paintbrush, and dip the brush in the primer. Wipe excess primer onto the inside lip of its can, then:


Prime the wood from top to bottom, using long, even, overlapping strokes. This will prevent drips from forming and ensure even coverage.
Pay close attention to edges and joints in the board. These spots can often be difficult to prime.
Allow enough drying time between coats. Different brands of primer will have different recommended drying times, so be sure to check your primer's label for this information., Much like primer, many thin layers of paint will yield a better looking and more durable paint job.Mix your paint according to its directions, dip a clean brush into it, wipe excess on the inside lip of the can, and then:


Paint your board from top to bottom. Long, even, overlapping strokes will provide better coverage and prevent drips from forming.
Target edges, cracks, and joints in your board, as these can be easily missed, leaving a gap in your paint.
Wait the recommended time on your paint's label instructions before applying the next coat. Continue in this fashion until it has three to five coats., Using painter's tape or a stencil, you can create original designs on top of your base layer of paint. However, to prevent your tape from pulling paint free of the board, you should allow at least a few days for the paint to harden.Using painters tape, you can cover areas of your board and then repaint it with a different color. When the paint dries, remove the tape gently. Where you have taped, the base color will remain.