 Just set everything aside for a moment.


The first thing you need to understand is exactly why you are stopping when you need to be working. The answer is simple: you are giving your brain a break. If you are stressing out over what needs to be done, then chances are you are not able to comprehend exactly what the schoolbook is telling you to do, and why and/or where you need to be doing it. If you are getting overly frustrated with your schoolwork and desperately want to stop, yet feel pressured to keep going, you need to listen to what you really want to do, and stop.;
, Chances are there are things that are bothering you and keeping you from concentrating on your work, so try to clear your mind of everything you don't need to complete what you are doing in class/for homework.
 This will calm you down. All you should think about while doing this is your breathing. In... out... in... out... in... out.
 If you do not feel calm enough, keep clearing your mind and breathing deep. Do not do anything to distract yourself like doodling, letting your mind wander, or observing what is going on around you. Though it may seem a little strange not doing these things that most people assume will help you get back to doing your work, the truth is these things will distract you and make you not want to return to doing your work. They distract you a little too much.
 This may be the hardest part as it requires you to continue doing what got you confused, nervous, or frustrated in the first place. If even the thought of continuing throws you into a frenzy, you may want to speak to the school counselor, teacher, nurse, or parent depending on your situation. If what you are supposed to be doing in your lesson is confusing or frustrating you, it's probably time to look back over the instructions in your schoolbook.
 Try to identify just what is upsetting, confusing, or frustrating you.


Remember: It's hard for anyone to admit that they don't understand something almost everyone else does. Just try to remember that no one except yourself has to know that you aren't able to easily comprehend your lesson.
Decide on what is bothering you about the instructions. Is it something you feel you have not learned enough about to proceed with? Do you feel you need more information? Are there words you do not understand? Does it seem like there's too much work to be finished?
What to do if you feel there's too much work to be finished. This one is easy. It's kind of like tricking yourself into believing that there is not at all very much to be done. At this point, it is important to keep reminding yourself that looking ahead is a very bad habit for those who are easily stressed, angered or confused by their schoolwork. "Take it as it comes" is a very important saying to go by if you are suffering from any of these problems.
 Complete the first one, then uncover another, until you finish them.,, A lot of people have problems with school-related anxiety. If you are one of these people, it is extremely important that you take as many breaks as you need to and breath deep often. If you have school-related anxiety, little distractions that are not normally helpful and can distract you too much can help you monumentally. Things like:

Squeezing a stress ball
Thinking about something pleasant for a bit
Allowing your mind to wander temporarily
Gripping anything soft or squishy
Chewing a very small amount of gum if it is allowed
Doodling small things on scratch paper can help with the anxiety.






For those who deal with anxiety, covering up the problems you do not have to deal with yet is also a very ideal solution.
 This is a common problem that can be easily worked past/around. Deep breathing and clearing your minds are vital tools to overcoming pressure. Again, you have to just stop, and forget about that time limit. There is nothing more important right now that you. Think of it like that. You can't complete your work if you aren't given the tools and time to do it.


Yet again, covering the problems you do not yet need to work with will definitely help, as will the tips listed above for those dealing with anxiety.
 People who are angered or frustrated by their schoolwork are often thinking things like "Who cares if I know this?" or "When this class is over, I am going to be so happy." and generally have a negative or defensive demeanor. For this type of person, it will always be a good idea to have a stress ball on hand to relieve some tension.


If you suffer from anger issues/frustration issues during school, you may also have general anger management problems. Seeing your school counselor or a therapist may be a good idea in this case.
Trying to pin your problems on someone else is never a good idea, no matter how frustrated you are.
If you think it might help, try covering up your problems you do not have to deal with.
try to learn to accept the fact that school exists and that you are actually lucky to be receiving an education which will help you plan out your future and have a decent income to support your life after you are on your own and completely responsible for your own actions.
Getting into a fight, be it verbal or physical, is never a good idea. It will not help your attitude towards schoolwork improve.
Clearing your mind and trying to calm yourself down with deep breathing is a very good idea for someone who has these problems.
 This is something difficult to do for many people. It may be tempting to skip school or something like this, but it is never a good idea. Learning to approach school with a good attitude is something that will definitely help you with your emotions inside or outside of the classroom, whether you go to public school or private, even if you're homeschooled. Emotions are something you can't try to push aside. You have to welcome them with open arms and say "Hello, there, emotions! Welcome, welcome!" and just do what you have to, accepting the emotions rather than being upset by their presence.

