 Strain water through a bandana, shirt, or coffee filters to remove visible debris. Let the water sit for at least a few minutes, so the remaining particles settle on the bottom, then pour into another container. If at all possible, boil this water to kill pathogens before drinking. The steps below will teach you to make a more effective filter, but unless you brought along your own charcoal, the process can take several hours.
 Charcoal makes an excellent water filter, and is in fact the material used to filter water in many manufactured filters. You can make your own charcoal in the wild if you are able to build a fire. Built a hot wood fire and let it burn out completely. Cover it with dirt and ashes, and wait at least a few hours before digging it up again. Once it has completely cooled, break up the charred wood into tiny pieces, or even into dust.You've now created your own charcoal.


While not as effective as store-bought "activated charcoal," which is not feasible to produce in the wilderness, homemade charcoal should be plenty effective in a filter., You'll need a "top container," with a small hole in the bottom for filtering, and a "bottom container" to catch the filtered water. Here are a few options:


If you have access to a plastic bottle, you can cut it in half and use each half as a container. Poke a hole in the cap to use as a filtration hole.
Alternatively, use two buckets will also work, one with a hole cut into the bottom.
In a survival situation with little equipment, search for a hollow plant such as bamboo or a fallen log.
 Stretch the fabric over the base of the top container. Use enough cloth to completely cover the base, or the charcoal could be washed through.
 Pack the charcoal dust and pieces as tightly as possible over the cloth. For the filter to be effective, all water must drip slowly through the charcoal. If the water runs easily through your filter, you'll need to try again and tightly pack more charcoal into it. You should end up with a thick, tightly packed layer – up to half the container's depth, if you are using a water bottle as your filter., If you can spare a second layer of cloth, cover the charcoal tightly to prevent is being stirred up when you pour water into the container. Whether or not you add the cloth, of small pebbles and/or sand are recommended to catch larger debris and keep the charcoal in place.


Grass and leaves can also be used, as long as you know they are not poisonous species.
 Place the top container on top of the bottom container, with the pebbles on top and the charcoal on the bottom. Pour water into the top container and watch it drip slowly through the filter, into the bottom container.
 You'll often need to filter water two or three times before all the particles are removed.
 The filtering will remove many toxins and odors, but bacteria often bypass the filtering process. Boil the water if possible for additional safety.
 The top layer of sand will contain microbes and other contaminants that are unsafe to drink. After using the water filter a few times, remove the top layer of sand and replace it with clean sand.

