 Before diving in, you must lay out a plan of action for your workflow. By using a spreadsheet creator, such as Google Sheets, you can keep your To Do List organized and accessible.;
, Tap the green spreadsheet icon either in your home screen or app drawer labelled “Sheets.” This will bring you to the Google Sheets main screen.
 Tap the + icon in the lower-right corner to create a new sheet. It will be blank and have “Untitled spreadsheet” as its title.


You can rename the sheet by pressing the back key once to go back to the list of sheets, and tapping the three-dot menu icon in the lower right corner of the sheet’s tile. Tap “Rename,” and key in the name you wish the To-Do List to have.
 This list will contain all the activities you plan to complete during your work hours. The first column should contain the activities. The second column will be for markers; after finishing an activity, place an X on this column to mark it as finished.


It is important to budget how many pomodoros (25-minute work intervals) you must dedicate to an activity, so you are assured that you have just enough time to complete it.
Beside every activity, place the type of activity before the activity’s name, followed by a colon (:). For instance, “Write: How to Be More Productive with Pomodroid” as the first activity, and then “Refine: How to Be More Productive with Pomodroid” as the second activity. This way, you have time to create content for the piece while you have a dedicated pomodoro for making sure the article has top-notch quality.
 Tap the red tomato-shaped kitchen timer icon either in your home screen or in the app drawer. This will launch Pomodroid and take you to its main screen.
 Once you are ready to begin working, tap the “Start” button at the lower left corner of the screen. The counter above the button will start while displaying the time remaining. Work uninterrupted until the times finishes.


When you find yourself distracted, you will have to stop the timer by tapping the “Pause” button right beside the “Start” button. Then you must begin the activity over again. This may sound a bit extreme, but it helps to keep you focused because the stakes are higher when you let yourself become distracted after long minutes of working. To restart the timer, tap the restart icon at the right side of the “Pause” button.
To keep yourself from getting distracted, only have tabs open that are for work. Log off your social network, lock the office door, and have a strict Do Not Disturb policy at home or at work.
The app will only count pomodoros as complete whenever the timer has reached its limit.
 After each pomodoro (25 minutes), you get a 5-minute break by default. Use this time to stretch, walk around the office, or get some snacks. It is also advisable to gather snacks before starting the work day so you do not waste time getting them during your precious break times.


Be strict about stopping work. When the time runs out, stop everything. If you have not finished the activity, then use as many pomodoros it takes to finish it.
Make sure to keep track of your break times, as it is easy to lose track of time.
 After your break, resume working on the activity using another pomodoro, if you haven’t finished it yet.
 This is important in order to record your productivity when you make your progress report.
 Use Google Sheets, or the spreadsheet composer of your choice, to create another spreadsheet and title it “Progress Report.”

, Name the top cell of the first six columns: Date, Time, Type, Activity, Pomodoros, and Notes.
 The date column is for the date of the recording, Time is for time started, Type is for the kind of activity, Activity is for the description of the activity, Pomodoros is for how many pomodoros it took for you to complete the activity, and Notes for additional info regarding the activity.


It helps to have the inventory open as you work so you can quickly key in the data when you finish with each activity, or each pomodoro.
 After a few days of using the technique, you should begin to see improvements in how quickly you work, as well as the free time you generate from strictly using your time to work.


Mastering the technique should yield faster and more efficient work, as well as shortening the planning phase of each day since you will be able to accurately gauge how many pomodoros it takes to perform an activity, especially recurring activities.

