 The state of Nevada does not require couples to be residents of Nevada to marry in the state. But, marriage licenses issued in Nevada must be used within the state of Nevada. Certain restrictions do apply, such as:Age: If you are 16 or 17 years old, you must have one parent or legal guardian present. A notarized written permission slip is also accepted. But it must be written in English and must state the name, birth date, age of the minor child, as well as the relationship of the person giving consent. If you are under 16, marriage can only be authorized by court order when the request has been filed by either a parent or legal guardian.
Family relationship: Nevada does not grant marriage licenses to ancestors and their descendants, such as parents and children, grandparents and grandchildren, siblings, or aunts/uncles and their nieces/nephews. Second cousins or first cousins may marry in the state of Nevada.
Relationship status: If you were previously married, your divorce must be final. You will need to provide the date (month, year) of your divorce and the location (city, state) where you were divorced. Nevada does not do proxy marriages so both people must be present. However, Nevada’s county clerk office is prohibited from issuing a new Marriage License to couples currently married, so you do not need a new marriage license to renew your vows with your partner.
Same-sex marriage: As of 2014, same-sex couples can legally marry in Nevada. The state of Nevada also recognizes same-sex marriages from other states and countries. You may apply for a marriage license even if you already have a domestic partnership or civil union. The application procedures are the same as for heterosexual couples.;
, Each person must have at least one of the following documents when applying for a marriage license. You will also need to provide your Social Security Number.Valid picture ID, such as a valid driver’s license or a valid identification card from the DMV.
A valid passport.
A Resident Alien card.
A military ID.
A certified or original birth certificate. If you have a foreign birth certificate, it must be translated into English and notarized.
If you are a refugee and do not have a birth certificate, you must get a signed and sealed record of your name, birth date, birthplace, and parents’ names from your sponsoring agency.
If the document is in a foreign language, you must provide a certified translation into English along with the original. A certified translation will be signed, dated, and contain a statement that attests the accuracy of the translation.
 If either you or your partner were previously married, you must provide information about those marriages on the application. You must state whether the former spouse is living and whether the marriage ended in divorce, annulment, or death.If you are divorced, you must be able to give your previous spouse’s full legal name, the date the divorce was finalized, and the city, state, and country that issued the divorce.
You may also be required to show a certified copy of the divorce decree or other dissolution document.
 If you want to change your legal surname after marriage, the easiest way to do this is to indicate it on your application for the marriage license. Once your marriage is completed, the name on the license application becomes your legal surname.Keep in mind getting a marriage license with your new name does not mean your name is automatically changed. You and your partner must choose your legal surnames.
You can use an online marriage name change kit to change your names., The easiest and fastest way to get a marriage license is to fill out the application online. To access the Online Marriage License Pre-Application form, click here: http://www.clarkcountynv.gov/depts/clerk/pages/preapp.aspx.


Because you are applying for a legal document, make sure the name you input matches exactly with the name on the government issued ID you will be using to pick up the license.Fill out the document very carefully to make sure you do not make any spelling errors or miss any required information on the form.
Once you have completed the form online, click submit. You will need to bring your reference number and required identification for both parties to the express window at the main Marriage Bureau in Las Vegas (201 E. Clark Avenue, Las Vegas, NV 89101, Northwest corner of 3rd Street and Clark) or to a Marriage Services clerk in one of the outlying locations in Nevada.Both people getting married must appear in person at the Marriage Bureau to obtain the marriage license., If you aren’t able to fill out a pre-application online, you can fill out an application in person at the county clerk’s office. Both parties must appear in person to apply for a marriage license.


A representative cannot apply for a marriage license on your behalf, even if the person has been granted a Power of Attorney. You cannot use a notarized marriage license affidavit to substitute for your personal appearance at the office.
 Most county clerk offices only accept cash or check. You will have to pay $35-$65 for the marriage license, depending on the county.In Las Vegas, the cost is $60 and the licensing bureau only accepts cash.The license is good for one year and can be used anywhere in the state of Nevada.
 Once you get your marriage license, you have 60 calendar days to complete the marriage ceremony. The counting period begins one day after the license is issued.


Military personnel may have up to 180 days to get married.
 Once you get your marriage license, you must wait a minimum of 24 hours before you can have a marriage ceremony. So, if you were issued your license at 10:48 AM, you could not marry until 10:48 AM the following day. But if you must get married before the waiting period, for example, your spouse may be deployed to the military, you may apply for a judicial waiver.


You must request a waiver from the county clerk’s office when you obtain your marriage license. A judge will give the waiver order.
 Any ordained or licensed clergymen who have obtained a certificate of permissions to perform marriages and justices of the peace can perform weddings in Nevada.All ministers, religious officials, and Notaries Public who wish to perform marriage ceremonies in Nevada must obtain a Certificate of Authority to Solemnize Marriages from the County Clerk. You can check that the officiant has this certificate before proceeding with the marriage ceremony.The state of Nevada has created a database of all marriage officiants in the state that you can access and search for free., Both spouses, a witness, and an eligible officiant must all sign the license for it to be valid. There should be two copies made of the original, signed, and witnessed license.One copy of the license goes to the County Clerk's office for recording. It is Nevada State law that within 10 days after you have had a marriage ceremony performed, the minister must deliver the original marriage certificate to the recorder’s office for official recording.The other copy of the license is yours. You can use your copy to change your legal surname once you are married, if you wish.

