 The first time you cite the Bible in a paper using MLA style, you will need to list the name of the translation first, then the Bible reference. Include a comma between the two.


For example, " 'In the same way, let your good deeds shine out for all to see, so that everyone will praise your heavenly father' (New Living Translation, Matt. 5.16).";
, The second time you quote a passage from the same translation, you only need to give the scripture reference.


For example: (Matt. 5.16).
 When citing the books of the Bible, make sure to use the correct abbreviations, as outlined in the MLA handbook.


For example, Genesis is written as "Gen.", Leviticus is written as "Lev.", and 1 Corinthians is written as "1 Cor."

, While some writing manuals offer flexibility in using a period or colon, MLA format requires a period. Double-check your paper to make sure you catch all Bible references.


For example, rather than using the customary colon to separate the chapter and verse (5:15), MLA uses a period (5.5).
 When referring to common versions of the Bible, or specific books, there is no need to italicize, underline or place in quotation marks. For example: "The King James Version of the Bible was originally published in 1611."


However, the titles of individually published editions should be italicized. For example: "The NIV Study Bible includes an introduction to each book of the Bible.", With MLA, you will also need to reference the Bible you used on your "Works Cited" page. The reference should include: the translation and/or version of the Bible you used, the author's or editor's name, the publication information and whether it was a print copy or accessed online. A number of examples are provided below:



The New Oxford Annotated Bible. Ed. Michael D. Coogan. New York: Oxford University Press, 2007. Print.

This is a fairly standard MLA Bible reference, with the name of the Bible in Italics, followed by the name of the editor.


Peterson, Eugene H. The Message: The Bible in Contemporary Language. Colorado Springs: NavPress, 2002. Print.

This reference is slightly different, as this edition has an author rather than an editor. In this instance the name of the author comes before the name of the Bible.



English Standard Version. Bible Gateway. Web. 25 Oct. 2012.

This is an example of a reference from an online version of the Bible.