 This means you should acknowledge the customer with eye contact. Say "hello" and smile.;
, The customer might not understand why they have had to wait. A simple apology reassures them that you're trying your best. "Sorry for your wait" is simple to say. Most customers show their appreciation with a smile.
 Some customers automatically say "no" as they assume you're looking for more money, even if it is a multi-buy saving which you are telling them about. This doesn't mean that the other customers who are looking for more items or bargains are not interest. You won't know unless you ask.
 Some customers automatically say "yes" but again, if you don't ask you won't know. It is all apart of good customer service. Some customers may not have found staff in the departments and you are the last chance for added sales!

, Some stores have additional charges in place for carrier bags, if this is the case please make sure you let the customer know of the extra cost. If not, always make sure you are offering a bag and not assuming the customer needs one. Some customers bring their own reusable bags shopping with them but won't really use them unless they have to. Offering a bag could save your company money & the planet!

, This question is not always needed as some customers are already prepared with their debit cards, credit cards or cash. If you do have the option of asking, it is always considerate to.
 You might think that this is a repeat question of, "Did you find everything you were looking for?" but it's not! The till point is usually surrounded by gift items and gift cards/vouchers. Your customer may also want something from a catalogue or directory which your company own. You can make the order for them.
 A simple, "Thank you" works magic. Remember, the customer hasn't woken up today to annoy you. They have entered your store to look for something that they have now purchased. Each purchase can increase your stores overall sales which could mean bonus on top of your wage. Be thankful.
 It is just as important as your greeting. Not doing so could come across rude and it is something so simple to save a complaint.
 "Next, please".

