 It works because bubbles and foam created from boiling water are filled with steam. If the bubble touches something that has a temperature below 100°C, the steam will condense (change back into a liquid) and break the surface of the bubble.
 Everyone's been there: they're trying to cook the ultimate Thanksgiving dinner, but have to keep running across the room to look at the cook book and end up burning the food. To avoid that, simply clip the book into the pants hanger, and hang it from any open cupboard handle.
 Wring the paper towels out slightly, so the water does not drip all over your freezer. Leave the drinks there for fifteen minutes, and by then, it will be ice-cold. Good if you are using a bottle, or have no ice in the freezer.
 With the batter stored safely, you not only provide a mess-free counter, but can use it later without having to go through all the trouble of covering a bowl, then cleaning the drips from the counter and range. Use a funnel to get the pancake batter into the small opening. Bonus life hack: make the funnel from a bottle!

, These small muffin bakers will keep condiments separated from each other, so no gross mustard-relish mayonnaise messes will occur. It also makes for an easy cleanup.
 Not only is this method quicker and more efficient, it keeps all the extra strawberry you usually cut off intact. Start from the bottom, and push up until the stem pops out.
 Place half a lemon in between the two sides. Pull down on the sides usually meant for picking up meat. This will get almost all the juice out of a lemon. Clean fully afterwards.
 The flexible string is thin enough to cut. Hold it tightly with two hands, and pull it through. This uses the same principle as using a wire to cut clay.
 Cut the top off any water bottle, or juice bottle. Next, pull the top of the bag through the loop made from the top of the water bottle you've just cut. Fold the bag over the top of the bottle, then screw on the lid to make an airtight seal.
 It helps your mind to think there's more food, and limits what you can pile on.
 The water will come near to boiling, softening the noodles and allowing you to cook them. Cook them the normal time you would in a pan. Do not cook sauce in the coffee maker, however. This also works for hot dogs.
 Don't have a coaster on hand? A plain lid can do wonders! Just place your drink on top and you've got a neat coaster. Make sure to clean before using.
 This helps keep the pizza crust from becoming soft and dry. If desired, add a tiny bit of oil.
 This will prevent the milk from splashing all over the table and turning into a mess.
 Crack the egg, and squeeze the bottle slightly. Place the opening over the yolk, and the yolk will suddenly be sucked in.

