 This is the key blade you got from Auron. It boosts reaction command attacks. It’s perfect for this battle as you'll be relying on the "Jump" reaction command to get through Xaldin's defense.;
, You can also use this for a boost on Sora's keyblade damage or Ultimo Weapon (MP Hostage ) for faster MP charge.
 It equips you with 25% damage reduction, including physical damage.
 It equips you with damage reduction, including physical damage.
 Add up to 3 points to Sora's strength and MP Haste.
 Xaldin is nasty. He has a lot of lances and defenses in his arsenal, and he won’t think twice about using them on you. Being forewarned will work in your favor. Know how he wields each weapon so you can block it and even inflict damage.
 When Xaldin creates and deals you a cannon ball made of wind, easily block it with Guard or Reflega.
 When Xaldin dashes and pierces you with this lance, block it with Guard or Reflega.
 Xaldin will spin around and slice the air with his lance. Block it with Guard or Reflega.
 This makes him invulnerable so you'll have to use the reaction command (∆) "Jump" to break this and damage Xaldin.


You can also summon Stitch as his attack will stun Xaldin when he’s hit at the right moment.
Stitch can be a good asset in this battle, as Stitch not only causes constant attacks (although the damage is low), but also keep Xaldin stuck in the air and give you HP recovery balls.
 Xaldin will continuously drop down from the sky, piercing you with his lance. He will eventually send his lances to circle over you and do a stronger Lance Dive. Easily dodge the first few Lance Dives by double-jumping, and then gliding around the area. The last strike can only be blocked with Reflega.
 Xaldin will teleport around the arena. This skill is usually used to move around, but he will attack if you're near enough. Should he attack, block him with Guard (□) or Reflega.
 As a desperate measure, Xaldin will release a barrage of lance attacks before riding his lances into the background. He will then create a large whirlwind to sweep across the arena. As soon as he starts attacking, press □ and wait for him to fly over to the background. Run to one side of the area and cast Reflega when the whirlwind gets close.
 He will be highly intimidating at first. His attacks are quick, he has a huge range, and he deals a large amount of damage. However, he becomes easier to deal with once you've memorized his pattern.
 Because of Xaldin's huge range, it's not advised that you use Dodge Roll, especially against Wind Cannon. It is a homing type of attack and will chase Sora until it hits.
 All Xaldin’s attacks, except the whirlwind from his Desperation Attack, is block able with Guard.
 The "Jump" reaction command is a bit special. It isn't a cinematic reaction command. Rather, it's similar to the Lancer Nobody's reaction command where you store it and use it as an attack command.


The “Jump” reaction command can only be stacked a maximum of 9 times.
 Xaldin will immediately use Wind Cannon three consecutive times. If you're able to get close to him, do it! Wind Cannon, when blocked at close range, will make Xaldin fall, and you'll be able to spam-collect the "Jump" reaction command.
 Do so until you get some “Jump” commands. When you do, keep spamming it on Xaldin and following it up with an Air Combo once it runs out.
 This is to avoid having Xaldin land a hit on you. Land a few feet away from Xaldin, and wait for him to attack. Block it with Guard when he does, and repeat your combo.
 Remember that Xaldin will always keep his Wind Guard casted, so don't even bother to attack him. Just keep blocking and stacking on "Jump" reaction commands to break his Wind Guard.
 Keep blocking and stacking until you cleave 10 to 11 bars off his health. He will then move to a stronger and more furious set of attacks.
 Do so as soon as Xaldin leaps into the air and disappears using Lance Dive. Keep going around the arena until you see his lances swirling around Sora. As soon as you see it happen, land immediately. Don't worry, those lances won't hit you.
 Xaldin will do one more Lance Dive on you. If you do it correctly, you'll have a chance to attack him with a full combo.
 Depending on how much damage you do, Xaldin may go into desperation mode. If he does use his Desperation Attack, leap and glide around the arena to avoid his ground combo, then land on one side of the arena once he goes into the background. From here, there are 3 ways to avoid getting hit by the Wind Cannon:


Double-jump and glide on the opposite side of the bridge. This means that if he's on the right side, stay on the left side and glide all the way to the other side.
Stay on one side, and take advantage of Quick Run's invincibility frames.
Use Reflega three times as soon as the wind gets close.
 Keep doing so until Xaldin falls. You don't have to worry about landing a finishing strike on Xaldin; the "Jump" reaction command counts as a finisher and can deal a finishing blow on him.

