 If that means quitting your day job and moving into a tiny studio apartment filled with paints, do that. Bohemians hold the creation of art above all other pursuits. But, use good judgement. Don't go quitting your job if you have no other means of financial stability.;
, that you like. Do the following without shame. What you like and don't is part of your individual personality, why hide that? Bohemianism is all about rejecting conventions if they go against what personally inspires you.
 If you have grown up with a certain belief system (religion, political view, etc.) ask yourself why you believe this. Do you really believe this or is it just a habit?

, If there is an aspect you admire, incorporate it into your own life. This is called 'shop cart views'. You don't have to agree with everything from a particular ideology.
 This may not naturally be your forte but everybody has some creativity. Art, music, writing, etc. whatever works. Don't worry if you aren't a prodigy in your chosen artistic outlet. Every master started somewhere and nobody has to see your genius if you don't want them to. What one person calls smears of paint another calls art, so it's all what you think.
 Ask yourself: what are they really asking of you, what are their motives, reasons, is there any value in their request? The answer to these should tell you whether you should even pay attention. However, with authority figures, you should always be respectful and use logic when you are questioning them.
 Also remember that if something goes wrong, don't stress and freak out. Just let it flow and calmly try to solve the problem. Try to live without regrets, and if you are thinking that you really have to do something like reaching out to a person, do it!


Take time for yourself. Pick flowers, keep a journal, go for walks, garden, etc. Have some alone time, just you and the world.
 The Bohemian style is as much about comfort as self-expression. Generally, clothing should not be tight and the fabrics used must allow your skin to "breathe". Your clothes should be moulded to your lifestyle, not vice versa: in other words, do not wear anything that hinders movement and that you find to be uncomfortable. The only exception to this rule is evening dress.


Wear what you want! Bohemians don't care about popularity or style: they care about expressing themselves. So wear what makes you feel good.
 Fabric is the single most important element of Bohemian clothing. Choose natural materials such as cotton, gauze, wool and leather. Coarse furs, such as raccoon fur, are beautiful additions to a Bohemian look. However, a detail in synthetics or patent leather can add an interesting dash of irony and originality to an outfit.
 Bohemian dressers enjoy decoration. Look for embroidered pieces--especially peasant blouses--fringing and beading. Do not be afraid to pile on the jewellery. Keep in mind, however, how each piece relates to the others; is each piece strictly necessary? If jewellery is not your thing, fresh flowers are lovely accessories. If you want piercings or tattoos -- go for it. But with tattoos, don't rush too much into getting one because it will be with you for the rest of your life.
 The movement of a bohemian outfit--especially a Bohemian dress--should be fluid and graceful. There should be a sense of freedom. Also take time to note how you 'sound': what noise does your jewellery make when you move?

, However, while these most certainly add a gypsy air, a simpler Bohemian look can be achieved by using dramatic one-tone items. It is the cut and fabric that, above all, create a Bohemian feel.
 Bohemian style does not mean over-doing it. As with any other styles, edit your look ruthlessly. Never wear any piece that is not perfectly necessary to the look you are trying to project. Often the most successful Bohemian styles are, in their way, the cleanest and most simple.
 Do not let anyone, not even me, dictate your own personal dress code. If your style means being Bohemian one day and Minimalist the next--do it! Only be true to yourself and unafraid of expressing what is inside you. It is that element of sincerity that makes the Bohemian look so delightful.

