 This can be a rather lengthy crafts project, but it is inexpensive to make.

Use regular printer paper and fold it like an accordion. Along the folds, draw hearts and cut them out so you have a bunch of heart-shaped little "cards" that open.



 


On the outside, write "I love..." on each heart. On the inside, write one trait you love about your partner, or one activity you love to do with them (for example: I love... holding hands with you). If you are particularly creative and you have enough cash to invest in a few colored pencils or markers, color the front of the hearts in different shades of pink and red.






Either scatter the hearts in your partner's apartment, hide them in places they usually go (next to their toothbrush, next to the coffee maker, etc.), or use sticky tape to attach them to their bedroom door or other place they will notice them.





;
, Choose a nice picture of the two of you and print it out on photo paper. Many drugstores offer that service, it won't break the bank. Buy a plain wooden picture frame and decorate it with markers, nail polish, glitter, little hearts cut out of napkins, or glued on feathers from a craft store. Place the photo in it and give it to your partner as a memento of a lovely occasion spent together.
 If you can afford buying special paper, a card or colored pens, that could make it more personal. If you're crafty, you could even make a card yourself and write a poem or a few lines in it. You could reflect on your relationship so far, or speak of your hopes for the future, or how little things they do or say make you feel., If you feel yourself enough talented and of course you have been playing some kind of musical instrument, write a melody and a song for her! Such gift is not so easy to present and it is not available for everyone but just imagine how impressed she will be. If you are patient and original she will never forget this day and your efforts will be appreciated., This sounds quite difficult, but it can be rather simple. There are several recipes out there to make fudge from as few as 3 ingredients (chocolate chips, condensed milk, and vanilla extract), or chocolate truffles with dark chocolate (melted) mixed with a mashed avocado, rolled in cocoa powder, for example. Search for simple recipes and see what you can accomplish., Depending on the ingredients you choose, this can be expensive, but it doesn't have to be. It can be something as simple as spaghetti with marinara sauce and garlic bread as the main course and brownies with vanilla ice cream for dessert. The most expensive part about that would be Parmesan cheese. Pair it with your favourite beverages, play "That's Amore" on YouTube, and you have your own candle-light dinner for two. You could even buy a large pack of tea lights and arrange them in a heart shape. Light them right before your partner arrives.
 These options can be combined with dinner or the chocolates, or the poem, if you like. If it is possible for you to go to an area together where the stars are visible (away from city lights), go there together (maybe after dinner) and hold hands while looking into the night sky. Bring blankets to stay warm. You could take this opportunity to recite your poem, or simply talk about your feelings. If you think your partner would appreciate a dance, play a song you like and dance in a room large enough. Modern cell phones allow you to put on music wherever you want. If that's not an option, stay reasonably close to your computer and turn on music on youtube.com or an online radio station. If you're in a remote area and have a car, you could even combine the stargazing and the dance, find a song on your car stereo, and dance with your partner outside., Look through the window, if the day seems to be windy then grab your old kite (bet you have one in garage) otherwise you can refresh old skills by building the new one. We all are kids deep inside. So let this Valentine’s Day to be full of fun.