 Once you have the date, guest list and venue confirmed, it’s time to send out invitations. Invitations can be sent out in a number of different ways: you can make or buy physical invitations, invite people online using e-mail or Facebook or call the people you’re inviting directly.Send out invitations roughly four weeks before the date of the party.
Make sure to ask people to RSVP by a certain date so you can get an accurate headcount.
Remind people that this is a surprise. You don’t want someone accidentally ruining the party.
Make a note on the invite for people to park away from the venue. You don’t want a bunch of cars ruining the surprise., The menu for the party will depend on the size of the guest list and the party’s venue. Some venues insist that you use their food and beverages, whereas others will allow you to cater or hire someone else to cater your event.If you are planning a party at home or at a venue that allows outside food, make a list of what you want to cook or order.
Consider having a potluck. This will take some of the pressure off you to cater the entire party. Plus, people like being able to contribute something to the event.
Plan the menu and order any catering you might need four weeks before the party.
Decide if you are going to order a cake or make one on your own. A homemade cake can be more sentimental, but it may take more time. If you're already busy planning a party, ordering a cake may make more sense.
 Party decorations are a chance for you to really get creative and have fun. Try to make the decorations personal to your mom and her interests – if she loves gardening, plan to incorporate a lot of flowers into your décor.If you want to keep the decorations simple, plan for balloons, streamers and possibly a banner of some kind.
If you’re holding the party outside, make sure to decorate with things that won’t get blown around.
 As the party is for your mother, see if you can think of sentimental decorations. Your mother may appreciate decorations that show her how much you appreciate her as a mother.Photos are a big plus for a party for your mother. Hang up photographs that showcase her role in the family. Go through old photo albums and find pictures from big vacations, milestones, and events in your family's history.
If you're tech-savvy, go through old movies and photographs you have on a computer. You can create a short movie to play in the background including photos and videos of your mother.
Find decorations that speak to your mom's interests. For example, if your mom is an avid horseback rider, consider having little horse figurines lining the tables and having horse-themed tablecloths.

