 This may occur when you start talking to him about an uncomfortable topic. If you are talking to your spouse about something he is lying about, he may start to panic. Occasionally the lying spouse may actually slow down his blink rate going into the lie and speed it up afterwards.Blinking frequently can be a reflex in this case.
For example, you might ask your spouse, “Did you send the plane ticket to my mother for the holidays?” Perhaps he is lying about having a good relationship with your mother and didn’t send the ticket. So an increase in blinking during the conversation may occur.;
, If your spouse avoids or overly tries to make eye contact then she may be lying about your current topic of discussion. A liar may avoid eye contact, but she may also try to overcompensate for lying by establishing eye contact for too long. Use the eye contact behavior as a gauge in conjunction with the other behaviors.You may ask your spouse, “Did you lose my high school trophy?” She could lie and say no while avoiding your gaze, but also stare you down while denying it.
 A sudden increase in scratching by your spouse during a conversation can indicate lying. This is sometimes an indication of heightened nervousness. The scratching may occur anywhere on the body.For example, you may ask your spouse “Are you going out drinking again?” He may scratch his head and deny this.
 This is a common indicator of lying. Your spouse may fidget in place, shift her feet, touch her face, or rub objects around her. She may also become suddenly very still.For example you may ask her, “Did you go to the casino with your paycheck again?” And she may shift in their seat while denying it.
Another example may be you asking your spouse, “Do you want to meet me for dinner tonight?” And she agrees, but doesn't mean it—meanwhile she is fondling some jewelry on her person while answering you.
If your spouse is concentrating on her lie, this takes more energy and focus than telling the truth, which may cause movement to cease or be suppressed., If your spouse is swallowing in gulps or drinking a lot he may be lying. Changes in saliva production can be a biological response to lying. The saliva change can be an over-production which will result in excessive swallowing or gulping. The change can be an under-production, which would result in more drinking.An example might be you asking your spouse “So, another late night at work with the new boss?” He may swallow hard when denying it or take a sudden drink of water.
 Instead, watch for clusters of these signs. If she is fidgeting and avoiding eye contact, and you pick up some verbal cues as well, that is a better indication of dishonesty than only one of the behaviors.