;
,,,, Do this by selecting File>Open from the Control panel, which is located at the top of your workspace.


If you do not have an existing document, create a new document by selecting File>New>Document and specifying the settings for your new document.
 If you are working in a new document, import the item to which you want to add a border.


To import a graphic element, such as a photo or logo, select File>Place from your Control panel. In the window that opens, navigate to the graphic element you wish to import. Double click the file name. Move your cursor to the graphic element's desired location and click your mouse to place it. Size your newly imported item using the Selection tool from your Tools palette.
To import text, create a text box using the Text tool that is located in your Tools palette. Select File>Place and navigate to the file containing the text you wish to import. Double click the file name. Use the Selection tool, which is located in your Tools palette, to size your text frame as needed. If you import a large amount of text, you may need to add additional text boxes on additional pages. Format the text you have imported by highlighting it with your Text tool and making your font and font size selections in the Character palette.
 If this is not located at the right-hand side of your workspace, add it by selecting it from the Window menu of your control panel. From the Swatches panel you can adjust your border's color by clicking the Stroke icon in the upper right-hand corner of the panel and selecting your desired border color.


To add a new color to your Swatches panel, select New Color Swatch from the Swatches panel's menu. Select the color library from which you would like to import a color. Select the color or colors you would like to import and click Add.
 If this is not already located at the right-hand side of your workspace, select Window>Stroke from your Control panel. From here you can adjust the weight (thickness) and style (dashed, dotted, striped, etc.) of your border, as well as corner options.


To add a decorative effect to your border's corner, select Object>Corner Options from your Control panel. From the Effect menu, select the corner effect you would like to add.
