 According to seasoned managers, a passion for music, a genre and/or a band will be the drive to get you into management. Go to live shows and decide the type of music that you would like to promote.;
, As a music manager, you will need to be an advocate for the band, a negotiator on contracts and an authority on your band's music. Foster a social nature that helps you to network and market music.
 Music managers should also develop their business sensibilities, through classes, associate's degree programs or bachelor's degree programs with a focus on business administration. Music managers earn their money from a percentage of profits, so they must be good at business to succeed.


Consider looking for a bachelor's degree program that includes music management. Some musicians get bachelor's degrees in fine arts with an emphasis on music management. Other schools offer bachelor's of music management or bachelor's degree in music industry management. Visit The National Association of Schools of Music (NASM) website to see what programs are listed for music business management.
 Read Billboard, Rolling Stone, Variety, Pollstar and read blogs and books written by current and former managers. After a few months to a year of reading industry news, you should be fluent enough to begin making music industry contacts.
 You may need to move to New York, Atlanta, Los Angeles, Nashville, Seattle or another large city in order to increase your chances of getting a job. Some labels and talent agencies filter their employees through "work experience" internships.
 Alternatively, you can find a mentor manager. Spend 1 to 2 years in close contact with music managers to learn how they book venues, tours, recording contracts and endorsements.


If you want to find a mentor, you may need to volunteer your time for the mentor to agree sharing expertise. You may also be able to suggest a small stipend.
 If you believe in the artist, it will easier to help them navigate through the music business. Start by managing a local band's tour, local gigs or new album.


Part of being an artist manager is to learn how to manage the people in a band. You will need to motivate an artist to do things that will help their career, even if they are not fond of the task. Artist managers have excellent interpersonal skills, and they occasionally act as a voice of authority.
 Most musicians have a personal attachment to their art. You will find more success researching the right audience than trying to lead the music in a different direction.
 You will need to learn to juggle many different tasks, so hire employees as you are able to oversee more groups. However, you may choose to always remain a hands-on manager, instead of creating a talent agency or moving up in a music company.


Ultimately, starting a music management career may depend upon your success with the first few acts. If you are able to help them make money and rise to success, you are likely to be offered more contracts or a larger cut of the profits.

