 During this time, discuss the definition of abstinence for your religion/practice.


Don't be shy about asking for advice and clarification about your beliefs and understanding. It's important to understand the rules and their reasoning clearly.
Make sure you understand when abstinence can end, and under what circumstances.
 It can be difficult to accept someone else's dictates regarding your behavior.
 If you have particular difficulty with any of the requirements of abstinence as dictated by your religious beliefs, make a note of them and see if they resolve in time or get worse.


Bring your difficulties to your religious/spiritual leader and ask for advice and support. Repeat as necessary.
 Hopefully your partner is on the same page with you, but if not, expect to have several long conversations.


It's possible that you and/or your partner will want to break-up as a result of the decision to become abstinent. Try to be understanding, and remember that now you will have room in your life for someone willing to be abstinent with you.
If your partner is on the same page about practicing abstinence, great! But remember that everyone is different and they may still have difficulties. Request that they discuss their difficulties with you and with their religious/spiritual leader.
If your partner is not on the same page and doesn't want to be, consider reformulating the terms of the relationship. Remember, every person is free to choose their own path, and that involves making their own decisions about their sexuality.
If your partner is having difficulty with being abstinent in the relationship but wants to continue, ask them to accompany you to a meeting with your religious leader, so that their concerns and ideas can be heard and addressed.
 Sex is defined differently for different religions and spiritual practices, so however it is defined by yours, follow it! If you think there is the possibility that you will have unprotected sex, use a condom and inform yourself about the risk of pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases. 