 When choosing a dog for a senior citizen it is important to discuss what he or she wants in a dog. This pet is for someone else, so their wishes should be central to any choice that you make.


Discuss what the person's ideal dog looks like, what they think they can do physically in relation to dog care, and if they have any reservations or concerns about getting a dog.
Adopting a dog is a big decision that comes with a lot of responsibilities. This means that you should make sure that the senior citizen is excited and ready to care for a dog. Getting a dog as a surprise for a senior citizen is not a good idea.;
, You need to consider the senior citizen's physical strength and agility when picking out a dog for them. A senior citizen that is active and mobile can probably handle a dog that needs daily walks and play time and is relatively large. However, if the senior citizen does not have a lot of strength and cannot walk very far, you will need to find a dog that will not overwhelm them physically and can get its exercise inside the house.Having realistic expectations of what the senior citizen can and can't do for a dog is very important. Getting a dog that requires too much physical activity for them will set them up for trouble.
If the senior citizen has severe medical issues or is at risk for falls, then getting a dog for them may not be the best idea. The dog may put them at an increased risk of falls or injury due to minor scratches from playing with the pet.
 When trying to choose a dog you should also take cost into consideration. If the senior citizen has a limited income and doesn't want to spend very much money on the dog and dog care, then a smaller dog might be a good option.The lower cost of a small dog is due to the fact that a smaller dog costs less to feed. Over its lifetime, feeding a small dog versus a large dog can save you thousands of dollars.
However, the cost of grooming can increase the cost of a small dog tremendously.
Keep in mind that regardless of size, every dog will need routine veterinary care such as immunizations, blood tests, preventative medications such as heartworm tablets, dental care (especially for small dogs), and possibly even emergency treatment.
 Whatever living situation the senior citizen is in, they can probably have a dog. For example, a little dog that is content in a small space will be good for a senior citizen living in a small apartment, while a large, energetic dog will not.


If the senior citizen is living in a care facility, such as assisted living, there are usually rules about whether pets are allowed or not. In many cases, there are restrictions limiting the size of dogs allowed in the facility.
 Although it is not pleasant to think about, it is possible that the dog will outlive their senior citizen owner. If this happens, make sure there is a plan in place for who will care for the dog so that the dog does not end up homeless or being cared for by someone who does not want a dog.

For example, is there a family member or close friend who is willing and able to care for the dog if the person passes away? Making these arrangements can offer the senior citizen dog owner some peace of mind about the well-being of their dog after they are gone.

