 You’re paying a variety of fees for a company to run your 401(k) plan, and these fees eat into your returns. Accordingly, you should review your fees to see that they are reasonable. Fees are particularly high for small business employees, because small plans are expensive to run.Compare your fees to the industry average using BrightScope’s ratings directory.If you’re paying too much, then you might want to move your 401(k).
If you’re an ex-employee, then you might be charged higher fees than current employees, and you could save by rolling your 401(k) into an IRA., You might be able to convince your employer to switch the broker they work with, which can lower your fees.Show HR your research showing how much you are paying in fees and point them in the direction of brokers whose fees are lower.
 Generally, a 401(k) offers limited options for investing. The average 401(k) offers only 20 funds. An IRA, by contrast, is like a brokerage account, so you have more investment options.Decide whether this is important to you.
 You might be able to rollover a 401(k) if you left the job. In that situation, you can rollover the funds to an IRA.You might also be able to roll them over into a new 401(k), but you should check with the plan administrator.


There are many advantages to rolling over your 401(k). You can take advantage of the lower fees and greater investment options. Also, it will be easier to keep track of paperwork by combining retirement accounts.
 You can rollover into an existing IRA or open one. Shop around so that the IRA has low fees and the invest options that you want. To transfer the funds, you should contact your 401(k) plan administrator and give them the details about your IRA. Ask for a “direct rollover.”


Always get a direct rollover so that the money never touches your hands and you don’t have to worry about taxes.Consider whether a traditional IRA or a Roth IRA is right for you. For example, any contributions to a traditional IRA are eligible for an immediate tax deduction, and you’ll pay taxes when you withdraw. A traditional IRA is great if you’re in a higher tax bracket now than you anticipate at retirement. However, with a Roth IRA, you pay taxes on your contributions and receive distributions tax-free. A Roth IRA is ideal if you anticipate being in a higher income bracket at retirement.