 Talk to others who own German Shepherds. Visit area dog parks, dog shows, and other places in your area where people gather with their dogs. Ask if they bought their dog from a breeder and if they were happy with the experience.


Check the American German Shepherd Rescue Association and the American Kennel Club websites for German shepherd breeder referrals nationwide.
 It is a good idea to visit several breeders before deciding which you want to buy your puppy from.
 You want to determine how knowledgeable they are about the German shepherd breed and how well they take care of their dogs.


Look for breeders who participate with their dogs in activities that demonstrate the dogs' abilities. Such activities include Schutzhund, the working breed test for German Shepherds, and dog shows.
 Avoid breeders who keep the dogs in cages away from people and have multiple litters at the same time. These puppies often do not receive the early stimulation necessary for development.
 This includes certification that the dogs do not carry a predisposition for hip or elbow dysplasia, eye disorders, cardiac disease, or Von Willebrand's disease (or VWD).
 Although some breeders do sell puppies on the Internet, you should always visit the breeder in person and see the puppy before deciding to buy it.


If a litter is not currently available, ask if you can visit with a breeder's adult dogs. Notice the adult dogs' physical appearance. The size, build and coloring of the breeding pair is a good indication of how future puppies will look. An adult male German shepherd should stand 24 to 26 inches (60 to 66 cm) at the top of his shoulder blades. A female should stand 22 to 24 inches (55 to 60 cm). If you like what you see and feel comfortable with the breeder, request to be contacted when a litter is being offered for sale.
Observe the way the available puppies and the grown dogs interact with each other and people. German Shepherds should have an even temperament. They should display fearlessness and self-confidence, but not aggression or hostility.
Pay attention to the cleanliness of the area where the dogs are kept. The dogs' space should be free or feces and urine, and fresh water should be available.

