 A good way to make your parents go out is buying tickets for the cinema or a concert and telling them that these were the only tickets left. In this way, they won't force you to come with them. Tell them also that they have cost you very much money, so that they will be sensitized and won't refuse your suggestion.;
, You should search on the internet or in the newspaper for an upcoming festival or celebration in your town. If you find something interesting, tell your parents about it, while using such phrases: "I'm sure you will love it!" and "Haven't you always wanted to go to something like this?" or "Aw, I'll be sad if you miss it..." while making a puppy face. They may find it hard to resist.
 Let them know about your unique traits, so that they will compliment you. After that, they are more likely to do what you ask them to.
 Try to make it clear that they are barely alone with each other and that they need to spend some constructive time in two. Moreover, a trick which is very very effective is to tell them that seeing them go out together makes you happy and satisfied. They will instantly understand and go out.
 For example, spray the house with egg perfume or something similar that they can't stand the smell of. If they insist on staying home though, tell them that they could go out and that you could make the situation right. (Just open all windows for a long time!).
 Never try to say something like "Ooh, will you go out at last?" Never hurt or curse them. Calling someone hurtful names only worsens the situations, and as a result, your parents will never let you stay home alone.
 It could contain a poem like this: "My parents never go out, I do not know if they love each other, my parents never leave me alone, what if they hate one another?" and add a "frowning face" emoticon.
 For example, you could say loudly: "Ugh, I have so much work to do! Why is everyone here shouting like that? Could you please be very silent so I can concentrate?" They should get the message.
 If nothing works, tell them directly that you want to be alone and that they should go out. But remember: don't swear or hurt!

,