 Communication is vital to any relationship, but it's even more important when you're taking it slow. You and your partner need to be able to clearly and respectfully discuss the boundaries of the relationship. In other words, you need to be able to have calm discussions about what you're comfortable doing and what you're not comfortable doing. When there are disagreements about this crucial topic, you and your partner need to be able to listen to each others' concerns.


When it's possible to compromise on a disagreement, try to do so. However, when it's not possible to compromise without taking the relationship to a level you're uncomfortable with, don't be afraid to stand your ground.
 Taking a relationship slow may seem "old-fashioned" to some, but this isn't an excuse to have old-fashioned ideas about controlling your partner's behavior. Since you trust your partner to respect your pace for the relationship, trust your partner when s/he isn't with you. Don't try to restrict your partner's time with friends, family, or other people who are important to him or her. Give your partner enough space to have some alone time when s/he wants it. Remember that respect is a two-way street.
 Being in a relationship should make you feel good (most of the time). If you find yourself frequently stressing out about whether or not you should take things to the next level, relax. These changes should happen naturally after you've decided that you're ready and you have discussed them with your partner. They aren't "checkboxes" to mark off as quickly as possible on the way to a "real" relationship.


You also shouldn't let your partner do this. If you suspect that s/he is unhappy with how slowly the relationship is progressing, have a serious conversation about it. It's best to address these problems head-on rather than pretending that they do not exist.
 Just because you're taking things slow doesn't mean your relationship has to be boring. Keep things exciting by learning how to flirt and putting your knowledge into practice. With a little effort, your relationship can be a source of great passion, even if you're waiting to get intimate. See our article on flirting for lots of specific ideas.

