 Show others that you are responsible by taking care of what you have a responsibility over.

If you have a pet, take care of it very well. Give it lots of attention.



 


Do chores without being asked. You know what's expected of it, so just do it before you're asked to and you'll quickly be viewed as responsible.






Keep your room clean and don't make a mess. Your parents will love you for this!






Do the right thing, even when no-one is looking.;
, Remember that's it's okay to not know but it's not okay to not try.


Do your homework properly and on time. Don't expect family members to nag you to get it done.
Pay attention to your teacher when in class. It might surprise you but it's a shortcut to learning, as what you hear will stick with you just as much as what you read. But you need to be attentive to hear it!
Take care to not be distracted. While it's great to have friends, don't let them break your attention during class.
Be punctual, be prepared and be ready to learn for each lesson.
Read widely to help you learn well.
 Brush your teeth twice a day, brush your hair and wash your body. Keep your clothes clean too.
 Choose how to fit things into your day around the things you have to do, like school, homework and dinner times, allowing you plenty of time to do the fun things you enjoy the most.
 Say please and thank you. Say sorry if you hurt someone's feelings or accidentally bump them or hurt them. Tell people how grateful you are when they help you. Be kind––it's the ultimate cool.

Treat others the way you want to be treated.
Have good thoughts toward others. Good thoughts help you to come across as a happy and trustworthy person.
 Make friends with people that you care about and who care about you Have fun with them, spend time together and share confidences., In all that you do, give all of yourself to it. You don't need to come first place but you do need to give your all, so that you can tell others you tried your best.

Turn your mistakes into something beautiful; you always learn something that helps you to become a stronger, better equipped human being. Mistakes are an opportunity to learn.

