 If your child is upset with a grade, coach your child how to talk to their teacher. This can also help if your child doesn’t make the team. Instead of asking the teacher or coach what went wrong, let your kid know that they can do it on their own.Validate their experience, yet encourage them to seek answers on their own.


Say, “I know you’re upset and confused about not making the team. Go to the coach and ask what happened and how you can improve for next time. I know you can do it.”
Teach your child to speak up when something is wrong. If your child is getting picked on or notices another kid getting picked on, tell them to say something. Try, “It’s not okay to be mean to people” or, “If you don’t stop, I’m going to tell an adult.”

, Find ways to teach your kids manners in the moment. For example, have a rule of no cell phones at the dinner table, or to excuse yourself if you need to take a phone call.Your children look to you in how to treat others, so treat those in your life with respect. Apologize when you hurt someone’s feelings and avoid interacting with people in a rude way. Your children can begin to pick up on your example.


Treat those you interact with on a daily basis with respect. This includes the grocery store clerk, delivery person, and the restaurant server.
 When you go to the ATM, make it clear that the machine dispenses money that you’ve earned and doesn’t give out money. Involve your children when you pay bills for your home, helping them understand that things like heat and lights cost money and need to be paid for regularly.Help your child set up a basic budget or savings plan to get the things they want.


Arrange for your children to complete chores and get money weekly. This can help them to learn how to save up for things they want.
For more information, check out How to Teach Your Child About Budgeting.
 As children get older, show them how to ride the train, bus, make a flight, or get a cab. Some people feel fearful with the crowds or knowing when to get off the bus or train. Take some trips with your child to show how to do it. Instill feelings of confidence in their ability to navigate on their own and get places quickly and economically.From a young age, take your child on public transportation. Once they’re older, they can do it on their own and feel confident in their skills.
Build their navigation skills by creating treasure maps and having them look for buried treasure. Allow your child to co-pilot in your car and learn how to follow directions.

