 Plastic sheeting comes in different thicknesses and sizes.It also comes in black or clear. The most commonly used thickness is 6 mil, although hardware stores also sell plastic in 4, 3, and 2 mil thicknesses. Some people have complained about traditional vinyl mattress covers tearing and ripping and since the hardware store plastic is very tough it should last for a long time. Plastic sheeting is measured in thousandths of an inch or "mils". The higher the mil, the thicker and more durable the plastic is. 6 mil plastic would be the best choice for this purpose because when the person shifts positions in bed and moves around it causes a certain amount of wear and tear on the plastic and since 6 mil plastic is thicker, it should last longer than thinner plastic. The only drawback of using this material for bedwetting protection is that it makes a "crinkling"(i.e. rustling) sound when the person moves around in bed. The crackling sound can be minimized, however, by covering the plastic with fitted mattress pads as described below. The advantages of using 6 mil plastic is that since it is thicker it is more durable and will be less likely to tear.;
,, Cut the plastic so that it covers the mattress from the top of the mattress to the bottom. Also, make sure the plastic is long enough on both the left and right sides so that in touches the floor, that way you can tuck it under the bed which prevents the plastic from coming loose or bunching up. Do not cover the corners of the mattress with the plastic sheet because when you put the mattress pads and fitted sheet over the plastic it has a tendency to slip off the bed.
, Run your hand over the fitted top sheet to see how much crinkling noise the plastic makes. If you feel the child, teenager, or incontinent adult can sleep on the bed with just one pad covering the plastic then just use one of the fitted mattress pads. Ask them if the crinkling noise bothers them and if they say that it does, tell them that you'll place another fitted mattress pad over the plastic to lessen the sound. You can buy mattress pads for around $20.00. There are two types of mattress pads-waterproof and non waterproof. You can buy a quilted waterproof mattress pad for added protection, but it's not really necessary since you have plastic over the box spring.
, Even though this type of plastic is very durable it's still a good idea to check it once in a while just to be on the safe side. If you notice any holes or rips,there are two things you can do. You can either use some type of waterproof tape to put over the hole or tear, or you can replace the plastic with another piece. Hardware stores such as Lowes and Home Depot should have waterproof duct tape(or other types of tape) for this purpose. Make sure the tape is waterproof or when the person wets at night they'll pee through the plastic, ruining the box spring. This is another advantage of having a roll of plastic for this purpose - you can just cut off another sheet to put over the bed or you can repair the plastic, whereas if a vinyl mattress cover rips you have to go back to the store to purchase another one or you have to go online to buy another one. Alternatively, you can cut off several sheets of plastic from the roll and alternate using the different sheets. For instance you can cut off 4 sheets to use during the month. At the end of the first week you can put the second plastic sheet on, at the end of the second week you can put the third sheet on, etc. Rotating the plastic sheets will reduce the wear and tear of any one of the sheets.
 If they can't get used to it you can always purchase vinyl sheeting from fabric stores such as Jo Anne Fabrics. This option is discussed in the next step.
 Vinyl is a type of plastic. Jo Anne Fabrics sells vinyl sheeting in different thicknesses. The vinyl comes in both clear and frosted clear. I've used the 12 gauge frosted clear vinyl as a bedwetting sheet and so far it's worked really well. This plastic also makes a crinkling sound so you'll also have to cover this to muffle the rustling sound. The wikiHow article Purchase Vinyl Sheeting from a Fabric Store to Manage Bedwetting discusses this in greater detail

, For information about the different types diapers available for older children and teenagers with bedwetting problems see the wikiHow articles Choose Pin on Cloth Diapers for Older Children and Teenagers With Bedwetting Problems and Choose Bedwetting Diapers for an Older Child or Teenager If they're embarrassed about wearing diapers the wikiHow article Encourage Older Children and Teenagers to Wear Diapers for Bedwetting offers a number of methods for encouraging them to wear overnight diapers as well as ways to make them feel less ashamed about it.

If the person finds the cloth diapers and plastic pants too uncomfortable to wear during the warmer times of year, such as spring and summer, switch to disposables during that time. The plastic sheeting is not meant to be the primary form of protection, it's meant to be used as a fail safe in case the urine leaks through the diapers. If the moisture leaks through the diapers you'll have to wash both the fitted mattress cover and the mattress pads. You'll also need to wipe the plastic sheet off and hang it up to dry. You can use a clothesline for this purpose.

