 Jack up car and securely block for safe undercarriage work.Starting on the top of the 5.0, disconnect electrical plugs for EFI, drain and remove Radiator, jack and secure transmission, remove engine mount bolts, remove bell housing bolts including starter.;
, Depending on the amount of miles the sale of this engine may pay for some or all of the aftermarket parts needed.
, You can find the EFI set up at any auto wrecker, it is usually found in a 1ton Ford Van, or 1/2ton f-150. If You go with the carb, Jegs, Summit, Ebay, and other internet sites and stores handle these parts. Be diligent, as there are a lot of parts out there but some are only for 5.0 and some only 351w.
 It will already have the EFI intake. You will be able to use the 5.0 Motor Mounts, exhaust headers (stock manifolds from the 5.0 are to restrictive) if your engine has the stock 351w exhaust manifolds, you would be better off buying headers as they add 10-15extra HP.
 Either buy the Ford Racing 351w Kit, or find a 1987-91 oil pan out of a Thunderbird and order a pick up tube, and dipstick.


28oz external Balanced Flywheel and matching Harmonic Balancer(This is very important **The 5.0 flywheel WILL NOT WORK!it is a 50oz!)
FRP 351w Swap Oil Pan Kit
1"3/8 Tube Headers or Long tube 351w Headers,
351w Mustang Fox Engine Mounts (solid lowering mounts)
Aluminum 4brl Manifold (custom)
HEI 351w Distributor, Accel  8mm yellow wires

The 351w will sit 1"1/2 Higher so a hood scoop may be needed.
 Line the trans and the engine up, make sure not to force it together as the pilot bearing is small and breakable,

, Not all things will work, at this point you would've either set up a pulley system so the alt and steering pump should be already installed. Don't install engine until you figure out your belt system. For example, you can go old school with double V belts but a complete auto wrecker base should have come with a complete set up if not this could trouble you at completion.
 If you went with the EFI it will be a little challenging hooking up the EFI but should be a snap together as Ford used the same injector plugs on all engine. Distributor should plug into stock distributor harness, but if you go with the HEI dist, a hot wire to the ignition will have to be made.
 Top up fluids, check ground wires, check clamps and bolts for tightness,

