 Place the clay pot in a large bucket and cover it with water. Allow the unglazed clay to soak in the water for at least one hour, leaving it there overnight for best results.Thoroughly saturated terra cotta clay is easier to drill through. Water acts as both a lubricant and a cooling agent, which makes it easier for the drill bit to work its way through without causing damage to the clay or overheating.
When you are ready to drill through the clay pot, remove it from the water and allow any excess puddles of water to drip off the surface you'll be drilling through.;
, Carbide masonry drill bits should drill through unglazed, natural clay pots without much difficulty or damage.


The drill bit size and number of drill bits you'll need will vary based on the size of the hole you want to create. If you want to create a simple drainage hole, you'll probably want at least one 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) masonry drill bit.
To minimize the risk of cracking the pot, it's best if you use multiple drill bits when creating holes larger than 1/4 inch (6.35 mm). Start with a 1/8 inch (3.175 mm) drill bit and gradually work your way up in size until you reach the final desired hole diameter.
 Place at least one strip of painter's tape or masking tape directly over the spot you plan to drill through.


The tape can help prevent the drill bit from slipping as you work through the surface of the pot. It is not always necessary with soft, unglazed clay, but it can still help.
Multiple layers of tape will work even better than a single layer. This provides even greater traction and may help ensure that the tape will stick on the pot, even in spite of the moisture.
 If you're working with multiple drill bit sizes, start with the 1/8 inch (3.175 mm) bit.


If you only plan to use a single size, attach that drill bit to the drill now.Use a cordless drill with variable speed for the greatest amount of control.
 Bring the drill bit to the center of the spot you wish to drill through and turn on the drill. Work the drill through that spot at a slow, steady pace, applying as little pressure as possible.


Essentially, the only pressure you apply should be to help keep the drill steady. Allow the drill to do the work of actually drilling through the pot.
Working too quickly or with too much pressure could cause the pot to crack apart.
If you are drilling through a surface that is thicker than 1/4 inch (6.35 mm), you may want to pause and clean the debris away from the hole as you work. Doing so can help keep the drill bit cooler.Peel the tape away after drilling your initial hole. You may even pause to peel the tape away as soon as you first break through the surface, but doing so is not strictly necessary.
You shouldn't have a problem with the drill overheating if the pot has been well saturated, but if the drill bit does begin to smoke, you will need to dip the pot back into water for a few minutes to cool down the surface.
If you have a cordless, battery operated drill, you may even be able to touch the tip of the bit to water to help cool it, as well. Do not do this if you're using an electric cord drill, though.
 After drilling a small hole through the pot, change your drill bit for one that is 1/8 inch (3.175 mm) larger. Drill into the center of your previous hole using this new bit.


In this manner, you can slowly enlarge the hole while putting less strain on the clay.
Work as you did before, applying light pressure and drilling slowly.
Continue working through your various drill bit sizes in similar intervals until you reach the final desired size.
 Use a damp rag to clean off any dust and debris from the surface of the pot.


Inspect the pot to make sure that there are no deep cracks or chips.
This step completes the process.

