 Over time, fur can become damaged due to age, pests, or wear-and-tear. Look over the entire coat carefully, but pay special attention to the hems, zipper, neckline, and sleeve lines, which all are more likely to come in contact with skin oils, personal care products, dirt, and grime.Before dismissing a piece that has minor damage, think about your needs, the cost, and what you’re willing to pay.


For example, a bargain-priced coat at an estate sale may be worth a buy even if it has a few hard-to-spot bald spots or small ink stain.
 Fur is usually soft and plush, but an older coat may have matted or coarse spots, which cannot be repaired. Decide before you buy a damaged coat if it’s something you’re okay with.Run your hands over the entire fur, including the edges.
Double check areas that will get a lot of exposure, like the back of the coat.
If you find damage, consider putting the coat on to see how easily the damage is to spot while you’re wearing it.
 The pelt is the skin that the fur is attached to. Overtime, it can start to break down or the seams can pull apart, especially if the previous owner(s) didn’t take care of the coat. This damage can result in holes in the coat. Before you buy a vintage piece, make sure that the pelt is still in good condition.Look at the seams of the coat.
Gently part the fur in various spots to look at the pelt underneath.
Look inside the coat to see if you can see part of the pelt due to either a damaged lining or an unlined coat.
Check if it has a French hem, which means that the fur and the lining will not be sewn shut at the bottom of the fur. This will allow you to get a good look at the pelt., You don’t want to get your new coat home only to find that it reeks of mothballs or mold. Give the coat a sniff, and try to have a friend smell it as well so that have someone else’s opinion to consider.


If the smell is minor, you can get rid of it by sealing the coat in a container with activated charcoal or kitty litter, both of which absorb bad odors. You can also try spritzing the coat with white vinegar, which will deactivate the odor. The vinegar smell will evaporate afterwards. If you choose to use vinegar, try it in an out-of-the-way location first., If your coat has an inner lining that is damaged, this can usually be repaired. You can also handle light odors. On the other hand, matted patches of fur and bald spots will be there to stay. Think carefully about what is acceptable to you before you make the purchase.If you are a DIY fashionista, you may be able to get creative with a damaged coat, so consider your sewing skills before dismissing a piece.
 Many vintage buyers choose mink coats because they’re both well known and common, making them an easier find at a lower price point. Rabbit and fox furs can also be great choices for a quality vintage fur.


If you have a bit more money to invest, you can look for furs that are no longer made, such as an ocelot fur. These pieces are rare, so if you can afford them they are a real statement piece., Make sure that the size, style, and color look great on you and capture the image you’re going for. Even if a piece is in great condition and at the right price point, it doesn’t make sense to buy it if if doesn’t look right on you. Bring a friend for a second opinion, and consider having someone take photos of you from different angles.