 The Cornell Method of note taking involves organizing information into three sections. Dividing your note sheets makes it easier to write down and to retain information for when you take a test. You may want to use a marker to draw the lines that divide your page to make them easier to see while note taking.Draw one horizontal line across your page five lines from the bottom.
Draw one horizontal line across the top line of the page.
Draw a vertical line connecting the two about two inches from the left margin.
 When reviewing your notes, it will be easier to identify the sections you want to focus on if you write large, bold titles at the top of each page. The title section should be written across the top line you drew, and include the name of the class you’re taking notes in, the date, and the topic you are covering in class that day. Some examples of a title section would read:Algebra 1 – 6/4/2016 - Two-variable Linear Equations
Geometry – 8/1/2015 – Transversals
Calculus – 10/10/2014 – Chain Rule

, During the class, take short hand notes by copying main points your teacher writes on the board or writing important things your teacher says. Try to use abbreviations where possible to reduce how much you have to write, and leave a blank space between each new idea. This is also where you will copy down or work on math problems. Try to keep each topic and the math equations they involve together in your notes. Leave the other boxes blank during class.Keep your notes brief and simple. Only write as much as you need to in order to remember the main points.
All of your note taking in class will be within that large box on the page.
 After class, sit down and go over your notes again while the information is still fresh in your mind. As you read through them, identify the main ideas, points, dates or topics in your notes and list them in the left column you created with the vertical line.Try to list the main points in the left column alongside where the notes relating to them are in the box on the right.
If you need to, draw lines connecting the main points to the notes relating to them.
 Below the bottom horizontal line, summarize the material you took notes on above. Use your notes, as well as the main points you wrote on the left to help you.Writing a summary of the information on each page will help you to recall the content in the future.
You can read the summaries to help you find specific topics in your notes, or as a study aid.
 When you complete the summary of your main points, look back over your notes and make sure you didn’t leave anything out. Your notes should have main topics, important terms, and formulas in the left hand box, your in-class notes in the right, and a summary of the material covered on the bottom of the page.The left hand box might say things like, “Linear Equations,” as well as an example such as “ax+b=0.”
The right hand box would contain all of the notes you took in class, including any equations you solved.
The summary box at the bottom may say something along the lines of, “ax+b=0 is considered the standard form, and not all equations will start as such. The variable could be X, but may be indicated as a different letter.”

