 Hypoglycemia, or low blood sugar, occurs when your blood sugar drops below the normal level. An individual will typically begin to feel the symptoms of hypoglycemia when their blood glucose drops below 70 mg/dL. Low blood sugar occurs almost exclusively in diabetics in response to insulin therapy along with insufficient caloric intake, excessive dosages of insulin, or the exertion of energy without sufficient caloric intake (such as if you were to run a 10k but didn't account for that by having snacks).Other rare causes include a tumor in the pancreas that produces excess insulin (insulinoma) and reactive hypoglycemia, which occurs when blood sugar drops after eating a meal or specific food.Hypoglycemia can be a side effect of some medications used to treat diabetes, including insulin and pills (such as glipizide and glyburide) that are taken to increase insulin production. Certain combinations of medications (like glipizide and metformin or glyburide and metformin) can also cause hypoglycemia.This is why it is vital that you disclose all medications, vitamins, and supplements (including herbal remedies) you're taking to your doctor.
 There are a number of physical and mental symptoms that you can identify as signs that your blood sugar is low, including:Shakiness
Dizziness
Weakness
Mental confusion (e.g., uncertain of the date, year, etc.)
Altered level of consciousness, poor concentration, or drowsiness
Diaphoresis or a “cold sweat”
Coma (Note: Severe disorientation and coma do not occur until your blood glucose level reaches around 45mg/dL)

, Test your blood sugar at least once daily (when you wake up and before eating anything). Follow the above recommendations to exercise regularly and eat meals and snacks throughout the day. Take care to bring snacks with you while you're out as a precaution.In addition, If you have diabetes, or are prone to bouts of hypoglycemia, describe your symptoms to your friends, family, and a trusted co-worker so that they can help you if you experience a rapid or severe drop in blood sugar. In the case of young children, school staff should be instructed on how to recognize and treat a child's hypoglycemia symptoms.Consider carrying a form of diabetes identification, like a medical identification necklace or bracelet or a card in your wallet, so that people can know that you have diabetes in an emergency situation.
Be careful when driving because hypoglycemia symptoms can make driving extremely dangerous. When driving long distances, check your blood sugar levels frequently (especially before getting behind the wheel) and snack as needed to maintain a blood glucose level of at least 70 mg/dL., Notify your healthcare provider if you are having persistent episodes of hypoglycemia (more than a few times a week) so that they can adjust your medication dosages accordingly.It is important to bring your blood glucose log, so your doctor can figure out when your insulin is peaking and glucose level is falling, so that he can time the use of the correct type of insulin (regular, intermediate or long-acting). Dosing at the correct times of the day, as determined by your log, can help ensure that you do not have any subsequent episodes of hypoglycemia.

