 You should always show a great attitude towards your family, teachers, friends, and everyone you meet. Even if you disagree with someone's views or behaviors, you can show respect by refraining from judgement or ill treatment. Accepting different viewpoints shows your maturity. You should present yourself to everyone in a dignified and elegant way that will help you receive the respect from others that you give to them. Here are some methods you can practice:Always say "please" and "thank you".
Never talk negatively about someone to others.
Treat others how you want to be treated.
 It is important to remember that nobody is perfect, and there will be times that you make mistakes, have regret, and find yourself in an "oops" moment. Making mistakes is part of being human. Instead of being overly critical of yourself, or bashing yourself to others, reflect on your mistakes, learn from them, and move on. Being critical of yourself should not be a part of your daily routine. If you say bad things about yourself to others, than you open the door for others to say bad things as well.
 Values are the guidelines that keep you grounded and prevent you from making poor decisions. They also feed into your reputation and are one way that other people develop an opinion about your character. They take a lifetime to build, but they can be damaged in a brief moment of poor decision making.


Listen to your parents, grandparents, or any person who is older and wiser than you when they offer up advice and insight on life. They can teach you how to avoid bad situations and make the best choices for your life.
Each time you are presented with peer pressure, or find yourself in a difficult decision making moment, remember your values. Do not allow yourself to be tempted with bad decisions that you will be sure to regret later.
 When trying to get as close to perfect as possible, a major component is acting responsible and being able to handle any situation that comes your way. This does not mean that you can't let go, and have fun, but you should also not make a fool out of yourself. Here are some tips to help you practice maturity:Do not complain or whine if something does not go your way. Remember that life is not always fair, and you have to roll with the punches.
Know what your responsibility are at home, at school, and to your friends and family. Mature people recognize their responsibilities and do their best to live up to them. This means helping out at home, being kind to your friends, and trying your best at school.
 Having intelligence is a part of being well-rounded. Focus in class, practice good study habits, set up a schedule for homework, and try to take a genuine interest in all of the knowledge your are lucky enough to learn.


Give your best self to school everyday even when the going gets tough. Although you can't achieve absolute perfection, you can certainly try with iron will and a smile.
Remember to be grateful to have the opportunity to learn. It may be difficult to learn that one subject, or be draining constantly studying, but knowledge is power, and it will take you far in life.
 A girl that is as close to perfect as someone can get is a girl that holds great confidence. Other people will see your high self-esteem and think that you must have your life altogether. Here are some great tips to help you act confidently:


Hold your shoulders back and your head held high. Your body language says a lot about you, and having strong body language communicates that you are capable and in-charge.Smile and laugh as much as you can. Smiling is a great way to show you are comfortable in your own skin and glad to be alive, and laughing will spread joy to all those around you. People will be envious of your sense of humor.Be optimistic by always looking at the bright side of all situations.
 Even if you are as close to perfect as a person can be, bragging is not attractive. It is okay to feel proud of your accomplishments, but try not to flaunt your successes in everyone's face. This can come across as rude, tacky, and disrespectful. Feel free to accept praise, and do not hide the things you work hard for, but do so with gratitude and appreciation.


For example, if you score the most points during a basketball game, it is okay to feel good about it, and accept compliments from other people. However, do not go around telling everyone about that you won the game for the team. This would be an example of bragging.
Give compliments to others instead of competing with them. When you notice someone's success or hard work, let that person know with a sincere compliment. This will display your good character, and it will show that you're not intimidated by the success of others.

