 The subject of a sentence is the person, place, thing or idea that is doing the action. To begin your sentence, choose who or what will be doing the suggesting.


People are the most likely types of nouns to suggest something, as they frequently convey thoughts or ideas through language. Choose a person's name to use in an example sentence using the word suggest, such as "Sally".
But what other kinds of nouns work with the verb suggest? Sometimes, things can be suggestive. For instance, “evidence” is often used in coordination with “suggest,” as in, “The evidence suggests the dog ate his homework.”
Other nouns might not work as well; for instance, you might have a hard time making a sentence with “drinking glass” as the subject and “suggest” as the verb, as it’s difficult for a glass to suggest something (though not impossible).;
, After you have chosen the subject of your sentence, it's time to add the verb "suggest". In general, a verb is a word that expresses an action, feeling or a state of being. You will need to conjugate the word "suggest" depending on the subject.


In our example, the subject "Sally" is a third person singular noun. The third person singular form of “suggest” is “suggests,” so your sentence will read “Sally suggests.”
If the subject of your sentence was in first person singular, such as "I", you would use the first person singular form of the verb, which is simply "suggest". In this example, your sentence would read "I suggest".
 The direct object of a sentence is the thing that the verb is being done to. It can be a noun, pronoun, phrase or clause. In relation to the verb "suggest", the direct object is the thing that is being suggested.


To find the direct object of your example sentence, ask yourself what Sally is suggesting? If you can answer that question, you've found your direct object. For instance, maybe Sally is suggesting ice cream for dessert.
In this case, “ice cream” is the noun that becomes the direct object. Add this direct object to the end of the sentence, after the verb "suggests“. This forms the sentence: "Sally suggests ice cream for dessert.”

, Sometimes, the direct object is a bit more complicated, when a verb phrase or clause acts as a noun.


For instance, if Sally suggested going to eat ice cream, the sentence would sound like this one: “Sally suggests we go eat ice cream.”
In this case, the direct object is the whole clause, “we go eat ice cream” because Sally is suggesting that whole idea; therefore, the whole idea is acting as one noun. This makes it a direct object. 