 There, you'll be given the option to sign in, or to sign up with Windows Live and a Hotmail address. If you already have a Windows Live account, all you need to do is sign in, using the fields on the right. If you do not have a Windows Live account, click on the Sign Up button, circled below.;
, This is where you'll decide what your email address will be, as well as entering personal and security information.
 Fill in how you would like to sign in. This is the easy part: name, birthday, and gender. Note: this information doesn't have to be factual. However, if you do choose to use false information, write it down somewhere so that you'll remember it.



Create your account name. Enter in a unique name in the Microsoft account name field, and make sure @hotmail.com is selected. Note: you can use an existing email address if you like, but for our example we'll stick to a Hotmail address.

Create a password. Use at least 8 characters, case sensitive. Numbers are recommended for greatest security. To create a strong password, use all 16 characters and include at least one capitalized letter, as well as one number.
 In case you lose your password, you must enter in at least two methods of contact, including phone and alternate email.


You can also select a security question from the options below. Note the answer must be at least 5 characters.
 Pick any country from Afghanistan to Monaco to Zimbabwe, and your zip/postal code.
 Perhaps they're taking the threat of Androids seriously, or maybe Microsoft is just keeping spam at bay. Either way, they ask you to enter one of those garbled Captcha lines before you can accept the user agreements and get your account.
 At the bottom of the page, there are two blue links to Microsoft's terms of service and privacy policy documents. You don't have to read these to set up an account, but you do have to agree to them. Click "I agree" at the bottom of the page to complete the process.
 Visit the Hotmail website again to log into the email account you just created.

