 Recipes with even amounts of ingredients typically are the easiest to reduce if you only want to cook enough for a single meal for yourself. If the ingredient measurements are easily divisible by two or three, you can easily reduce the recipe.For example, if you're halving a recipe that calls for two eggs, you would use one egg. Halving a recipe would be more difficult if the recipe called for three eggs. Though it could still be done, you may want to explore another option or just make the whole recipe and freeze the excess if you don't trust your math skills.
If your recipe calls for a single can or package of something, you may want to measure the food in the container before dividing it, rather than just going by sight. You can save the portion you don't use by freezing it and use it later.
 Don't let complex divisions stop you from reducing a recipe – especially if it's one you really like. Memorize equivalencies for common ingredient measures so you can reduce the recipe appropriately.For example, there are 16 tablespoons in a cup and three teaspoons in one tablespoon. So if you're cutting a recipe into thirds that calls for a quarter-cup of something, you would use one tablespoon and one teaspoon.
The University of Nebraska-Lincoln's Institute of Agriculture and Natural Resources has a PDF table with handy measurements to use when making either one-half or one-third of a recipe. You can look at that table or download and print it at http://food.unl.edu/reducing-size-recipes-0.
Dividing whole foods can be a little more difficult. For example, suppose you want to make half of a recipe that calls for one egg. There's no good way to divide an egg in half. However, you can crack the egg in a separate dish, whip it together with a fork, and then use two tablespoons of it. Save the rest in the fridge and use it for an omelet or scrambled eggs tomorrow.
 With herbs and spices, sometimes a pinch is too much and the small amounts the recipe calls for are virtually impossible to divide. When this happens, add just a tap from the container and taste-test frequently until you get the right balance.Even if you have a total amount, consider that a target. Add gradually and taste frequently until you reach a balance that works for you. It may be less – or even more – than what the recipe calls for.
This is generally a good idea even if you're not reducing a recipe. Seasonings in recipes are more suggestive than they are required ingredients. Feel free to experiment with a recipe and make it the way you like it.
 If you're halving a recipe that calls for a specific size of pan, you want to use a correspondingly smaller pan. Baking it in the larger pan can result in the food burning or not cooking evenly.For example, if you're halving a recipe that calls for a 9 x 2 x 13-inch pan, use an 8 x 2-inch square pan or a 9 x 2-inch round pan.
Overall, you want to focus on having the food be approximately the same depth as it would be in the pan the recipe calls for.
If you're using a glass pan and the recipe calls for a metal pan, reduce the temperature of the oven by 25 degrees Fahrenheit.
 Just because you halve a recipe doesn't necessarily mean you should cut the time it takes to cook in half too. However, smaller quantities typically will be done five to ten minutes sooner than the full amount would have been.Don't leave your food unattended. Set a timer and check it about 10 minutes before the time given on the recipe, and then again at five minutes.
For example, if the recipe calls for a casserole to bake for 20 minutes, check it after 10 minutes and then again after 15 minutes. If it isn't done after 15 minutes, continue checking it every minute.
A food thermometer is a good investment, particularly if you're cooking meats, so you can know for sure when your food is cooked properly.
 Whenever you reduce a recipe, there will be things that you need to adjust to make it come out right. If you write down what you did and make notes as to whether it worked, you can replicate it later.Notes on what doesn't work can be just as valuable as notes on what did – if not more so. Write down carefully what you did and how it didn't work so that you won't repeat the same mistake.
Remember that a lot of cooking is experimentation. If you don't get it right the first time, you can adjust your tactics and get it right the next time around. Your notes will help you.

