 You can find recipes online for gluten-free trail mixes. You can also take a basic recipe and substitute your favorite nuts and seeds to make a sweet snack all your own.For example, you can heat a teaspoon (about 4.9 milliliters) of butter and a quarter-cup of honey until melted, then add in your favorite nuts and seeds. Cook this for about eight minutes on the stove top until the nuts are golden. Then stir in raisins and spread the mix on a baking sheet to cool.
Some snack mixes are baked in the oven, while for others you simply shake the ingredients together in a closed container or zipped bag.
When toasting nuts, watch them very carefully, as they will burn quickly.
Once you've made a full batch, you can separate it out into single servings so it's easier to munch on or carry with you to work or school.;
, Most flour is wheat-based and contains gluten. However, you can find gluten-free flour in most large grocery stores or specialty health-food stores. Check in the refrigerated or freezer aisles.Avoid simply using a regular recipe and substituting gluten-free flour for refined flour. Your treats may be excessively dry and crumble apart. Instead, follow recipes that were created specifically for gluten-free flour, which will include other ingredients designed to keep your gluten-free cakes and cookies soft and moist.
Keep in mind that gluten-free flour is made without preservatives, which means it is perishable. Any cookies or cakes you make using gluten-free flour must be refrigerated.
Cookies and cakes made with gluten-free flour also tend to dry out more quickly, so make sure you store the uneaten portion in an airtight container in the refrigerator.
 When you hear the word "brittle," you may think of the sticky candy made with chocolate, sugar, and butter. However, using coconut butter and coconut oil with coconut sugar makes a similar sweet snack that's gluten-free.To make your own coconut butter brittle, you'll need to melt a cup (about 236.5 milliliters) of coconut butter and a tablespoon (about 14.8 milliliters) of coconut oil in a double broiler.
Once the coconut butter and coconut oil have melted, add three tablespoons (about 44.3 milliliters) of coconut sugar. Make sure you mix in the sugar well until everything is blended together.
Transfer your mixture to a baking sheet and smooth it out. You can add nuts, seeds, or dried cranberries throughout the mixture to suit your taste.
When you're done, chill the entire baking sheet in the refrigerator for an hour, then take it out and break it into pieces.
 Many prepackaged candies and other sweets contain wheat, or use gluten as an emulsifier. If you want to buy prepackaged candies rather than making your own, check the ingredients to confirm the product is gluten-free, even if it doesn't seem like something that would normally include wheat products.For example, if you're baking gluten-free chocolate chip cookies, check your bag of chocolate chips. Many chocolate chips are not gluten-free.
Sticky gummy candy and hard candies such as candy canes also often contain gluten, which is used as an emulsifier.
If you're buying puddings or pie fillings, look for soy pudding or gluten-free powdered mixes to which you add water.
Keep in mind that many candy bars and chocolates contain wheat or wheat products.

