 Having diabetes is hard, especially when you are going to school. It can also be difficult when your friends don’t have diabetes; however, that doesn’t mean your life and experiences have to be significantly different than your friends. By keeping up with your diabetes care, you ensure that you don’t have any negative effects and have to miss field trips, after school activities, or hanging out with your friends.Make sure you take care of yourself at school. That includes following your diabetes treatment plan, even if that means you have to eat different foods or at different times than your friends.
If you can't remember when you are supposed to eat a snack or take your medicine, carry a schedule with you. Put it in your notebook, your book bag, or somewhere you can easily get to.
If you have trouble remembering when to eat or take your medication, or you are too young to remember, ask your teacher or your school nurse to help keep you on track. For young children who are unable to carry out their own diabetes management, the 504 plan will outline what the school officials should do throughout the day to manage the child's diabetes.;
, A 504 plan outlines the modifications for you in your classroom. Your 504 allows you certain adjustments based on your diabetes needs, like having to be late for class due to an insulin shot.Your 504 outlines exactly your daily diabetes management plan. It tells the school what they are responsible for doing, like administering your insulin or checking your blood sugar levels. It also details what you are responsible for, like checking your blood sugar or eating snacks.Your 504 may allow you to get up to use the bathroom when you need to. It might also give you permission to go to the nurse’s office during scheduled times throughout the day.
Your 504 might also cover food-related concerns, like allowing you to have a snack in the middle of class or getting adjusted time for lunch.
Your 504 plan will outline accommodations for field trips. The supervising teacher should get your diabetes management plan from the school nurse. As part of your diabetes management plan, your parents, doctors, school nurse, and other school officials should have a plan in place for what you will need to do to manage your diabetes while on a field trip. This includes being able to have a snack, check your blood sugar, take an insulin shot, or take medication.If you have questions about your 504 plan, discuss it with your teachers and your parents.
 For most kids with diabetes, you’ll need the same diabetes supplies at school that you use at school. This includes medications, any supplies, and even food. Don’t forget your supplies because that could cause you to get sick.If you have a medical ID bracelet, make sure to wear that.
 Having diabetes may mean you have to monitor what you eat, but that doesn’t mean you can’t eat good, tasty food. Taking your own lunch from home is safer and better for you than eating at school because you don’t know everything in school food. If you or your parents pack your lunch, you will know you are getting healthy, safe meals.Following your diabetes meal plan is easy when you go to school. You can take the same lunch food and snacks that you eat at home to school with you.
Discuss with your parents what kinds of foods you think will be tasty for you to eat for lunch. Also think about which foods are easy to carry and eat within the amount of time you have.
 It can be hard to have diabetes and go to school. Other kids may not understand you, and they may make fun of you or talk about you; however, this shouldn’t make you feel ashamed. You have nothing to feel ashamed about. Never try to hide your diabetes to try to fit in.You may feel like you can give into peer pressure and eat the same foods your peers are to fit in. You may want to skip going to the nurse’s office so you don’t stand out in class. Don’t do this. Your health comes first, and you risk getting sick if you do this.
 Having diabetes doesn’t mean you can’t play sports, engage in PE, or run around at recess. Getting at least an hour of physical activity is recommended for kids with diabetes.When engaging in physical activity, make sure to have your blood sugar monitoring supplies and blood sugar snacks near your. Also monitor your blood sugar symptoms carefully.Staying physically active can help you control blood sugar.
If you play a sport or participate in PE, make sure your coach knows about your diabetes. They should have a hypoglycemia action plan in case your blood sugar drops during PE or a sports practice or game.
If you are at risk for hypoglycemia, you can still perform the same physical activity, but make sure to monitor yourself carefully while doing it. You should check your blood sugar before and after the activity, and you may need to eat extra snacks before, after, or during the physical activity. You may also need to adjust your insulin if you take it.For smaller children at recess, school officials should keep blood sugar monitoring materials close by, along with glucose snacks. They should be aware of the hypoglycemic action plan in case the child starts showing symptoms.
 You have diabetes, unlike most of the other kids at school. That makes you slightly different, but having diabetes isn’t a big deal. You can still do anything everyone else does; you just have to watch what you eat and your blood a little more closely. Don’t think of yourself as any different, and remember nothing is wrong with you.If someone teases you for having to skip class, eat different, or take medication, explain to them that you have diabetes and what that means. If they continue to bully you, tell an adult.
If you feel upset about having diabetes or feel like you are different than everyone else, talk to someone. Talk to your parents or a school counselor. They might be able to help.

