 In fact, it's easiest to play with a good tone while standing. Make sure your back is straight up and down when you are sitting, and don't slouch! Turn your body at a slight angle so that you don't have to reposition your neck to see the music stand clearly.
 You've probably been told this at least a thousand times, but it can affect your tone if you hold the flute too low. You should hold it about 20° below parallel. When you hold it any lower you collapse your stomach area and cannot take a proper breath or support the tone. If you hold it any higher you will create tension in your right arm., This is related, but not the same thing as correct posture. There are three points of balance when holding up a flute: the chin, left thumb, and the right thumb.

The lip plate should rest in the hollow between your lip and chin, and you should feel a gentle pressure on the lower gums. Your flute should rest just above the lowest knuckle of your left pointer finger, above where the finger meets the hand. The flute should rest on the tip of the right thumb, underneath or slightly behind the flute, between the F and E keys. Your right pinkie finger should then land naturally on the E flat key.Once in this position, it should feel very natural, and the flute should "float", allowing you to produce a resonant sound.
 Take a deep breath starting with your belly, not your chest, before playing. You should see your belly physically expand. Your back should expand too toward the end of a deep breath. If your chest is the first thing to expand, or your shoulders rise upward when you breath, you are not getting as much air as you could. Your lips should also make a triangular gap when blowing.

One way to practice this is to bend forward at the waist, making a 90 degree angle between your legs and torso. Then take a deep breath starting from your belly, feeling your entire belly and back expand before your chest does.
 Think about activating your core and belly muscles to physically "support" the air and produce a strong, steady stream. This will also help you play in tune, which always makes for a better tone and is extremely important when playing with others.


Listen to your tone while blowing into the flute, too. Think about sounding resonant and full. Imagine that you are vibrating the whole length of your flute with your breath.
Shape your lips. Making the hole in your lips smaller can produce a better tone. The air stream is more direct and you do not use as much air. On the other hand, make sure not to make the hole too small, or you can cut off the airflow and get an airy or forced sound.

