 It's important to make a good impression from the first moment they see you. Try to dress in something attractive but modest and comfortable. Do your hair, and apply light makeup if you normally wear it.For a female, an appropriate outfit might be a knee-length or below skirt, or nice jeans with a nice sweater. For a male, a button-down shirt and nice pants might be appropriate. Think about what you might wear to a holiday dinner with your family, and go with a similar look.
Choose a hairdo that gets the hair up and away from your face.;
, Show you are polite. Upon arrival, shake hands, make eye contact, and greet them with a smile on your face. Say, “Hello, it’s so nice to meet you!” and introduce yourself.


Address your boyfriend’s parents by their titles (Mr., Mrs., Dr.) and their surname, unless they have indicated otherwise. You could say, “Mr. and Mrs. Brown, thank you so much for inviting me to your house. Mike has told me so much about you.”
Make sure you are making good eye contact when talking to his parents. It conveys confidence and interest., Smile genuinely and frequently. Don't force your smile, though, or it will look uncomfortable. Try to think of positive things that make you smile, and smile at everyone who speaks to you.


Smiling helps you feel happier and more relaxed, as well as helps you appear reliable and sincere., It can be stressful meeting someone new for the first time, even moreso someone you want to impress! Take deep breaths and try to be yourself. Remember that it will get easier and you will start to feel more comfortable.


Try tensing different parts of your body for 10 seconds and then relaxing them.Breathe deeply into your belly. Breathe through your nose, feel the air fill your abdomen, and exhale through your mouth. Repeat this for a few minutes., This is a good idea especially if they are having you over for dinner. It is a nice way of saying thank you for their hospitality. Ask your boyfriend for suggestions. You might want to consider:Flowers or a small plant
A box of chocolates
A gourmet food item

, Basic manners, such as “please,” “thank you,” and “excuse me,” go a long way. Good manners help people connect with each other and show others you care about them.If you're invited to eat with them, brush up on your table manners before you go. Make sure you put your napkin in your lap, don’t chew with your mouth open, and ask people to pass out-of-reach food instead of trying to get it yourself.
Be sure to say thank you after your meal. For example, “Thanks so much for dinner, Mrs. Flores! That was really good.”

