 Know who is capable of assaulting you and how to exit the area quickly. This will help you see violence before it happens, and give you time to prepare a response should you need one. It will also make any adrenaline work in your favor, rather than causing you to freeze.


Keep your periphery active while your eyes move around. Your periphery is the outer boundary of your vision, the stuff you indirectly see when staring at things. Keep this periphery active. It'll help you anticipate obstacles while you still have time.;
, If you believe that a person or party is intent on attack by the time you decide to exit, attempt to do so without causing them alarm. Attackers are more likely to rush you if they think you are actively fleeing.


Swallow your pride — mild altercations can quickly escalate into serious harm because both parties could not control their egos or did not know their limitations. Going to the hospital with a broken nose might not be worth the "cred" that you get for staying in a losing battle.
 This is the negotiation phase of the fight. Talk to your assailant and try to get him to step down or see the value of making truce. If you've got the gift of gab, here's where you can use it. Keep your guard up while you negotiate.


Say something like: "I'll fight you, but I'd honestly rather not. Let's just calm down and try to fix this like adults."

Or try something like: "I really don't want to hurt you. I have nothing to prove. You can try hitting me if you want, but I wouldn't recommend it."


, Raise your hands up, palms out, at neck level, and angle your body away from the aggressor. This accomplishes three things: it controls the vital distance between you and the aggressor (acting as a "fence"), it covers your head and vital organs, and appears non-aggressive. Always stay moving somewhat, but never backwards.


Protect your face with your hands. Look at a picture of a boxer whose gloves are covering his face; this is where you want your hands, unless you are delivering a punch.
Keep your legs spread apart and your knees slightly bent. This will give you more balance. You don't want your assailant to be able to knock you over.
When you're not talking, keep your mouth closed. A well-placed hit to an open mouth can break your jaw.
 (e.g. "What's the problem? How can I help?") The best way to win a fight is to not let it happen in the first place. "Calm down buddy" and "Take it easy" can increase tension.


Passifying dialogue has several positive effects:

It affords the aggressor non-violent options.
It may lower the aggressor's guard or cause them to underestimate you.
It establishes your position on the fight.
It illicits a choice on the behalf of the aggressor which will buy you time.
 When the adrenaline is really pumping in your assailant, the attack is most likely imminent. Most people will not back down from an attack once their adrenalin has surged, be prepared to be hit no matter what they seem to be doing.


Signs that your assailant's adrenal response is in full force:

Monosyllabic speech or grunting
Excessive swearing
Splaying of the arms
Furrowed eyebrows
Dropping the chin
Face goes white
Baring teeth



, It may sound strange, but it works. Deliver your fiercest war cry in a fit of fury. This serves two purposes. For one, you'll intimidate your assailant if your grunts are really fierce and violent; second, you'll draw more attention to the fight, making it easier to end it.
 To strike you, the aggressor must get past your fence. 95%+ of the time, they will attempt a strike to the head, usually with a right hook. (Most people are right-handed.) If you know that your assailant is left-handed, be on guard for a left hook to the face or body.


Use your fence as a tripwire. If your assailant touches it once, line up for a pre-emptive strike. Strike on the second touch, in a place where they are vulnerable.
Do not wait for your opponent to correct themselves or escalate their attempts. If they even touch you once, brace yourself for counterattack the next time they attempt contact.
 You could very easily break the small bones in your hands, or even collapse your knuckles. Aim for their nose and lips to minimize that risk.
 If they are strong, chances are they can also punch very hard. It can take just one well-placed punch to take someone out.


Dodging is the key. Stay on your toes and dance around like a boxer. If your assailant doesn't know in what direction you'll be going, he'll have a harder time punching you or getting you down on the ground.
After dodging a punch, they will be off guard for a split second. This is the time to hit them. Soft spots are extremely useful. The nose, face, kidneys, temples, and throat are all good places for a punch. This may temporarily incapacitate him (especially the throat, but it could collapse their windpipe). Kicks to the side of the femur are also effective. You can throw him off balance long enough to catch him in the jaw with a punch or kick.
 Unless you fly like a butterfly and sting like a bee, you'll probably be hit at least one or two times during the fight. Knowing how to take a hit will help you last longer and be able to take harder hits.


How to take a hit in the face. Keep your mouth closed, clench your neck and jaw muscle, and move toward the punch. Moving toward the punch (unless it's a straight-on punch) could cause the assailant to mishit, giving you an opportunity to strike back. If you can, try to get your assailant to aim for your hard forehead, which will hurt his hands.
How to take a hit to the body. Tighten your stomach muscles without sucking in lots of air. Try to move around the punch so that it hits you on the sides (obliques) rather than dead on in the stomach or against any organs.
 Fist and hand techniques are the most viable option. Look at the jaw before you strike it. This not only gives you the chance to disable your opponent, but even a strong failed attempt can force an attacker to reconsider further efforts.


If he's leaving his stomach unguarded, try to go for a gut punch in order to knock the wind out of him. If you succeed in knocking the wind out of him, the fight is effectively done.
 A knee drop to the chest is also very effective, but realize that it places you in close proximity to any attacks of theirs. Do not kick to the head, as it is easily fatal.
 If your punching technique is strong enough and you have mentally disarmed the attacker via your dialogue and "fence," he will be knocked out or at very least disorientated. Use this time to escape if you can. If your strike did not have this effect, he will still be caught off-guard. Continue forcing him back with strikes to the chin, jaw and neck, until they are unable or unwilling to fight.

