 Whether it be a sport, arts and crafts, drama, or whatever else it is that interests you, take the time to do this activity every day or week. This will ensure that you are taking some time out to relax and have fun. This has far-reaching good effects. You will be socializing, enjoying your favorite hobby, and feeling a sense of achievement, all of which help combat stress. It will also take your mind off the stress of school, even for just a few hours, which will give you an important stress-free time each day.
 If you have a locker, put up one or two pictures on the door. Get a pencil case and school bag you really like and feel free to decorate them as you wish. Just little things like these may seem silly, but they really do help you to feel more relaxed and at home. They are a way of carving out your own personal space, mental and physical, at school, and having your own space is important in making the place less stressful.
 It's easy to be stressed when you're hungry, so make sure to eat a good lunch, and snack throughout the day if you get hungry. In addition, while pizza and other junk food can taste good, it won't provide you with the nutrients you need to be happy and healthy throughout your day. Opt for a healthy lunch that will keep you going all day - you'll find that this helps reduce your stress levels and has positive effects on your life in general.


Eat lunch with friends in order to have fun, relax, and take your mind of the stressful aspects of school in the middle of each day. This can give you a much-needed break that will keep you going through the end of the day.
 Give yourself little rewards now and then to encourage your hard work. Bring in a nice treat for your lunch, go out with your friends each weekend, have some alone time and read your favorite book or watch your favorite movie each night. Find some small things that you really like to do and do them at the end of each day or week.
 When you get home from school, give yourself a half hour to an hour to just relax. You won't be able to learn anything if you're stressed and grumpy. Do some exercise, meditate, read a book, or go for a walk. This will clear your mind and get you nice and energized before you get started on that homework. When studying for long periods of time, take a 10 minute study break every hour to keep your mind and body focused and fresh throughout your study session.

