 Cut the internal organ meat (tripe, liver, kidney, heart, pancreas) into 1-inch cubes. If you're using goat intestines, carefully slice down the length of the intestines with a sharp knife. Rub down the intestines and innards with lime juice and rinse the innards off with water.Avoid taking care of young children while handling the raw intestines and internal organs. These meats can carry bacteria, so wash and sanitize your hands after handling them.;
, Place the cubed internal organ meat in a large pot. Cover the meat with cold water so that it's covered. Bring the meat to a boil over high heat. Boil the internal organs for 5 full minutes. Drain the internal organs into a colander in your kitchen sink.


Boiling the innards will kill any bacteria. During this time, you should clean and sanitize your kitchen, especially any equipment that came into contact with the raw internal organs.
 Check over the internal organ meat to make sure it's clean. Return the meat to the cooking pot and cover it with fresh cold water. Bring the meat to a boil and continue boiling until it's tender.Depending on what meats you used, it may take several hours before the internal organs are tender. Check the meats every 20 to 30 minutes if you're unsure how long you'll need to boil them.
 Cut the goat tenderloin into 1/2-inch cubes. In another large pot, heat 2 tablespoons of oil over medium-high heat. Add the tenderloin and cook it until it browns on all sides. You'll need to stir it frequently so it doesn't stick and burn. Remove the browned tenderloin to a separate bowl.


You may need sear the tenderloin in batches if you think your pan is too small or the goat would be too crowded.
 The bottom of your pan should still look oily. If not, add another tablespoon of oil to the pan. Peel and thinly slice the fresh ginger, 1 medium onion, and 1 head of garlic. Add this to your pan and cook the aromatics until they're soft and you can smell them. Stir in the pre-cooked internal organs and entrails (intestines, if you're using them).

You'll only need to cook these for a few minutes. Keep an eye on them and stir them occasionally so they don't burn.
 Stir fry the mixture until a little the meat releases a little moisture. Season the papaitan with salt and pepper to your taste. Let it cook for a few minutes over medium-high and add enough water to cover the papaitan.At this point, you can taste the papaitan. Just keep in mind that it will soften a lot after you finish simmering it.
 Add the seared goat tenderloin to the papaitan and continue to simmer the papaitan until the tenderloin is completely cooked and tender. The papaitan should be covered with water and you'll want to cook it for 2 to 3 hours. Continue to taste and season the papaitan, adding more bile for a more bitter taste.Make sure that the papaitan doesn't boil or bubble too much. If it boils, the water will cook out and burn the papaitan on the bottom of the pot.
 Split the chili peppers lengthwise and add them to the papaitan. Pour small amounts of bile into the papaitan, tasting after each addition. Add fish sauce to your liking and taste the papaitan again. When you're ready to serve the dish, garnish it with chopped scallions.For example, try adding 1/8 teaspoon and taste before adding another 1/8 of a teaspoon of bile. This will keep the dish from becoming too bitter.

