 It is important to stay hydrated when you have a cold. Try to drink more liquids than you regularly drink during the day. You can be creative with your drinks to avoid dehydration and fight congestion.Drink water, juice, or a clear broth. You can add lemon or honey to help soothe your throat and loosen congestion. Sipping on warm liquids, such as chicken soup or warm apple juice, could increase mucus flow and relieve blockage.
A saltwater gargle can help relieve a sore or scratchy throat associated with congestion. Add about a quarter to one-half teaspoon of salt into an eight-ounce glass. Make sure the salt is dissolved before gargling.
Try some aromatic or herbal tea to relax your body, soothe your throat, and provide temporary relief to head congestion.
 Some foods have sinus-healing properties. These foods are more likely to help ease your suffering from head congestion than they are going to cure it, but relief from congestion in any form will enable you to function better throughout the day.Pineapples consist of bromelain, a mixture of enzymes that digest protein, which have been used for centuries in South America to reduce inflammation from sinus surgery.Garlic releases the enzyme allicin, which destroys bacteria and viruses, when you crush or chop it. Wait ten minutes after you crush or chop garlic before cooking it.
Omega-3 fatty acids found in fish, nuts, eggs, and flaxseed have anti-inflammatory properties that can help alleviate allergy-related conditions.
 Histamine causes inflammation, runny noses, sneezing, and other symptoms related to head congestion.Citrus fruits are high in vitamin C. Eat lots of oranges, grapefruits, and strawberries to utilize the full effect of antioxidants.
Vegetables such as tomatoes, red and green bell peppers, kale, spinach, broccoli, and brussels sprouts also have lots of vitamin C. Make sure to choose red and green vegetables.
 Dietary polyphenols can effectively block the secretion of mucus while maintaining normal nasal ciliary motion. Polyphenols are the most abundant antioxidant in the human diet.Polyphenols are the main active ingredients in ginger (gingerol); red wine, tea, onions, dark leafy vegetables, and fruits (quercetin); green tea extract (EGCG); and curry extract (curcumin).

