 Any dust or dirt that covers your smoke detector or its internal sensor chamber can set it off when there is no fire. By cleaning the unit every couple of weeks, you may minimize the number of false alarms you experience or avoid them altogether.Make sure to dust or clean not only the outside cover of your unit, but also inside the cover, where dust often accumulates.You can use a dusting brush or vacuum the alarm with the soft brush attachment.If you are in a new home or having construction done, make sure that the electricians use a dust cover to keep the alarm from gathering debris.;
, Insects may get caught in your alarm because they are attracted to the sound or even light that the unit may emit. If the alarm is going off with no smoke or visible fire, check for and for insects on the cover or sensor chamber., If you have an interconnected system of fire alarms, a unit in another part of your home may be triggering connected fire alarms. Keep alarms on separate electrical currents to help prevent them from triggering one another.If your units are connected and there is no way to separate them from a power source, make sure to check for smoke so that you are sure there is no fire.
Power interruptions may also trigger the alarm, especially if you live in an area where utility companies switch the grids., If your smoke alarm is on an AC or AC/DC electrical system, make sure to tighten any loose connections. This can help the unit avoid chirping or going off fully.Loose hot wire connections may occasionally disconnect power, which has the same effect as a power outage.If you are unsure of the wiring, contact an electrician to help you.
 Furnaces and ovens not only produce combustion particles that may trigger the alarm, but they also may smoke because of oil and residue. Installing your fire alarms at least 10 feet from a furnace or oven may minimize the number of false alarms you experience.Furnaces can blow debris in ductwork into your smoke alarm and make it go off.You may notice more false alarms in the fall when you first begin using the furnace after the summer., Areas that experience cold air returns, which suck cold air back into a furnace, are more susceptible to false alarms. Keeping your alarm away from cold air returns may prevent dusty air from blowing through the alarm and keep it from going into alarm mode.Place the alarm at least 10 feet from a cold air return., Places in your home that may have high humidity, such as the bathroom or kitchen, are more susceptible to false alarms. Installing the smoke alarm at least 10 feet from high humidity areas.Install the alarm at least 10 feet from showers, laundry rooms, and kitchen sinks or dishwashers., Places in your home, such as the garage, workroom, or living room may emit exhaust gasses or flames that can trigger an alarm. Avoiding placing your smoke alarm in areas exposed to exhaust gases or open flames may help minimize or prevent false alarms. Note that in some areas heat detectors are required in garages. Contact your local fire department for more information.


Do not locate smoke detectors near a fireplace or other open flame heating systems such as oil & gas furnaces.
 One of the most common causes of false smoke alarms is a weak battery. A chirping noise means that the battery is weak, and needs to be replaced. Replace batteries regularly, such as twice a year, to help prevent false alarms and the annoyance of consistent chirping., Electronic devices can fail at any time, so maintaining and testing them can help ensure proper function. Regular testing can help prevent a fire or damage to your home or family.Press the test button on the smoke detector. It may take a few seconds, but you should hear a loud and ear-piercing siren while the button is depressed.If there is no sound or weak sound, replace your batteries.Ask a family member to go into the farthest room from the alarm to make sure that anyone in the house can hear it.Light a match and blow it out directly under the alarm. After that, place the match in a glass of watch and make sure it’s extinguished. If the alarm doesn’t go off, you may need new batteries, new wiring, or a new unit.