 On the DASH diet, you will be consuming both grains and grain products. You will consume at least 3 servings of whole grains each day, such as brown rice or whole wheat bread. Whole grains are great sources of energy and fiber.If you eat a sandwich with two slices of bread, you would count this as two out of your eight servings for the day. If you have 1 and ½ cups of cereal, that counts as three of your eight servings. Depending on your serving sizes, grains can add up fast!
Try whole wheat pita bread, grits, or oatmeal.
 Fruit consumption is an important part of the DASH diet. Fruits contain important vitamins and minerals that improve your health and cardiovascular function. They are important sources of magnesium, potassium, and fiber.Examples of a serving include 1 medium sized fruit, ¼ cup dried fruit, or ½ cup fresh or frozen fruit counts for one serving.
Apricots, pineapple, melons, strawberries, and grapefruit are all good choices.
 Vegetables are a key part of the DASH diet. They provide fiber, vitamins, and minerals, all of which are an important part of a well-balanced diet. Vegetables are rich in potassium, magnesium, and fiber.A serving of vegetables can be 1 cup of raw vegetables, ½ cup cooked vegetables, or 6 oz. vegetable juice.
Try leafy greens, sweet potatoes, squash, broccoli or carrots for nutrient-dense choices.
 On the DASH diet, you will be consuming only low fat or nonfat dairy products. These foods contain important dietary components including calcium and protein.A serving of dairy is 1 cup of milk, 1 cup of yogurt, or about 1.5 ounces of cheese.
Good dairy choices include skim or 1% milk, nonfat yogurt, and part skim mozzarella cheese.
 Protein is an important part of the DASH diet. You can choose from any number of lean protein sources, including meats like pork, fish, and poultry such as chicken or turkey. Vegetarians can consume protein sources like tofu or tempeh instead of protein sourced from animals.A serving size is 1 ounce of cooked meat, poultry, or fish. That means that if you eat a 4 oz chicken breast, you have had four of your six meat servings for the day.
 On the DASH diet, you will eat a variety of legumes, seeds, and nuts each week. Keep in mind that these guidelines are per week, as opposed to daily. Nuts, seeds, and legumes are rich in energy, protein, and fiber. They also contribute magnesium and potassium to your diet.A serving is 1/3 cup of nuts, 2 tablespoons of nut butter, 2 tablespoons of seeds, or ½ cup cooked legumes.
Good choices include peanuts, walnuts, sunflower seeds, lentils, and kidney beans.
 The DASH diet requires that you limit the amount of fats and oils you eat each day to between 2 and 3 servings. You should aim for healthy sources of fat, like olive oil, and avoid unhealthy fats, such as hydrogenated fats and oils.Examples of servings include one tablespoon of olive oil, 1 tablespoon of low-fat mayonnaise, or 2 tablespoons of light salad dressing.

