 Wear shorts only to the beach or when shopping. Instead of always wearing T-shirts, try wearing men's plaid shirts over jeans or khakis. In more formal circumstances, wear a jacket over your shirt. Dress up in a dress suit once in a while. Go for the business, business casual or/and preppy look. If you're in a university, the preppy look is the best.;
, Wearing clothes too baggy can give the impression of sloppiness, and clothing too tight will just look feminine and embarrassing.
 Most men think that having 2-3 pair of shoes is enough. However, if you have only a pair or two of shoes, they will get worn-off faster and most probably they will look trashy if worn too often. Try to invest in some quality dress shoes, as well as some casual loafers or desert boots. Besides, if you wear a pair of shoes too often, you'll get smelly feet.
 Avoid clothes in colors that are too bright as they tend to be too trendy, and are too ostentatious and zealous to display wealth.
 This one sounds easy, but if you are too lazy, you should struggle with it. Wash daily.
 More and more men are using cosmetics and cleansers these days in order to look good. Don't assume that you will look fine without cleaning the black spots and acne from your skin. Don't assume that just washing your face with soap will make it look good and healthy.
 Joining a golf association or certain upscale clubs is a perfect opportunity to climb the social ladder. Just because they will keep you away from your dream - becoming one of the preppy kids. However, don't be rude and nasty to them, just don't get very close to them.
 Be calm yet out-spoken, and take the time to add new words to your vocabulary. Appearing educated is key.
 Wealthy people tend to be thin and in shape. You will feel better and your clothes will fit better.
 Get contact lenses or sunglasses instead of ordinary ones. After all, you don't want to look nerdy. If your teeth are not in a good condition, go to the dentist. If your nose is too big (either too long, tall or/and wide), consider some plastic surgery.
 It doesn't have to be a Rolex or Tag Heuer, as long as it looks classic and masculine. Try to go for stainless steel or gold if you can afford it. Stay away from watches that are too trendy, such as ones with square faces, or digital watches.
 Even if it's not that posh or expensive, buy a car that looks cool and expensive. A wealthy guy wouldn't want to be seen in a Yaris. Make sure it is clean and well maintained. If you hate driving or can't drive, use Taxis if possible, but avoid public transport at any cost. A vintage Mercedes roadster or a cabriolet is classier than a recent model.
 Most of the time you can find amazing deals on lightly worn designer clothes, jewelry, and even cars for a fraction of the cost, and they will come shipped right to your doorstep.

