 In most states, different state courts handle different types of restraining orders, depending on your relationship to the person you want restrained.For example, if you wanted a domestic violence restraining order, you might have to go to a family court. However, if the person threatening you is not related to you (or you've never had any romantic involvement with him or her), you probably need to go to a different court.Civil restraining orders can protect you against someone with whom you have no pre-existing romantic or familial relationship.Keep in mind that criminal restraining orders aren't issued because you file a petition or request. Rather, a judge issues the order during the course of a criminal proceeding. Once a criminal restraining order expires, it cannot be renewed. In contrast, you can renew a civil restraining order if you still feel the person is a threat., The clerk of court should have a packet of forms that you must fill out completely to get a restraining order against the person.


The specific paperwork you'll need to request a restraining order varies among states and even among individual courts.
You also may be able to find paperwork at a local women's shelter or other non-profit organization. However, these forms may be specific to domestic violence restraining orders, so make sure you're getting the right paperwork for your situation.You also may be able to download forms from the court's website and fill them out directly on your computer.
 You must fill out the forms completely and accurately if you want the court to issue a restraining order.


You must provide identifying information such as your name and address, as well as the name and address of the person you want the court to restrain.
If you don't know all the information about the other person, fill in as much as you do know and leave anything else blank rather than guessing. However, keep in mind that if you don't have an accurate name and address for the person, you won't be able to have them served and your order will not be made permanent.
 Some forms may require you to sign them in the presence of a notary public.


If the packet of forms includes an affidavit, it must be signed in front of a notary so your identity and signature can be validated. This and other forms may have a notary block for the notary to sign and date the document and affix his or her seal.
If you don't know where to find a notary, ask at the courthouse or go to a professional association website such as the National Notary Association, which has a searchable directory available.Keep in mind that you may have to pay a small fee for notary services.
After you've completed and signed all your paperwork, make at least two copies of everything. Some courts may require additional copies – you can find out from the court clerk.
 Once you've completed all the required forms, you must file them with the clerk to obtain a temporary restraining order.In most states you won't be charged a filing fee to file a petition for a restraining order.When you file your initial paperwork, the clerk typically will schedule a hearing and issue a temporary restraining order. This will keep the person away from you until the scheduled hearing., To make your temporary restraining order permanent, the person must have notice that you've asked the court for the order so he or she has the opportunity to contest the order.


You can use the sheriff's department or a private process serving company to have the documents served. Typically you'll be charged a fee for this service, although in some jurisdictions the sheriff's department will waive process serving fees for restraining orders.Keep in mind that the judge won't issue a permanent restraining order without proof that the person has been served and had the opportunity to attend the hearing. Your temporary order will expire on the date of your hearing, and cannot be extended or renewed without an additional hearing., Your temporary restraining order will not be made permanent unless you appear for a hearing in open court.


In court, you can present to the judge any evidence you have of the extortion or the threats the person has made against you. You also should bring copies of the police report, if you filed one.Keep in mind that the person you're asking the court to restrain may appear in court as well, so you might consider taking friends or family members with you if you're concerned for your safety.If the person you want the court to restrain doesn't attend the hearing, the judge typically will grant your permanent restraining order provided you can prove the person presents a threat to you and they had legal notice and knowledge of the hearing and failed to attend.
Assuming the other side does show up, the judge will listen to both of you before making the decision to grant or deny your restraining order.