 A candy bomb is located at the top right corner surrounded by chocolate squares, and will automatically detonate after nine moves if you fail to clear it in time, causing you to lose the level.;
, The single column on the left has a teleporter at the bottom of the column that will dump the licorice blockers and the other candy bomb onto the main playing board. Both candy bombs in level 103 must be detonated within nine moves or fewer in order for you to continue on with gameplay and clear the double jelly squares., If you fail to clear the chocolate from the upper half of the board, the chocolate will block the candy entrance and prevent you from being able to clear the double jellies located at the top right corner., These jelly squares are the most challenging to clear, since these squares only come into contact with one other candy, or jelly square.
 Level 103 doesn’t offer enough moves to allow you to clear the board making traditional three-candy matches.


Make striped candies by matching four same-colored candies in a row. Striped candies will detonate all other candies in the same row or column, depending on the direction in which the stripes are facing.
Make wrapped candies by matching five same-colored candies in an L shape, T shape, or + shape. Wrapped candies act like bombs, and will clear the surrounding eight candies.
Make color bombs by matching five same-colored candies in a row. When detonated, color bombs will destroy all candies of the same color as the candy matched with.
Combine special candies to clear a higher number of candies and jelly squares in one move. For example, striped + wrapped candies will clear three rows and three columns of all surrounding candies and jellies, whereas color bomb + striped will turn all candies of the same color into striped candies that immediately detonate.
 This can improve your odds of making one or more special candies due to having larger board space, and can even result in unexpected matches from cascading candies that help you clear additional double jelly squares.