 Size is a determining factor in how quickly dogs age. You can apply the seven dog years to one human year measurement to small or medium dogs (between 20-40 pounds), but large ones have a tendency to age faster. It is also a good idea to consult a vet for guidance.You can also look for physical signs of aging such as slowness of movement. This will help you to determine if a “young” dog needs senior care. The label “geriatric” is different from senior and refers to older animals with noticeable health concerns.;
, A bed should fit your dog comfortably without being too snug or restricting movement. It is a good rule to measure your dog’s length from rump to nose and then add one foot (30.5 cm) to come up with a bed size. Pay attention to a bed’s weight limits as well, as oversize dogs (over 150 lbs.; 68 kg.) may require a specialty purchase.Also, purchase a bed with an appropriate height as well, if raised. After all, a very small dog may have a great deal of difficulty climbing onto a high raised bed. This can be especially dangerous with a senior dog who may be more prone to falling injuries.
 Caring for a senior dog can get expensive and you’ll want to factor in the cost of a new bed. You generally get what you pay for with dog beds, so you can spend under $10 for a floor cushion model to over $500 for a memory foam luxury raised style. It is a good idea to comparison shop online once you have an idea as to the style that you prefer. Look for specials and member deals at pet stores.If you end up purchasing a cheaper model you might want to add some blankets underneath to make it softer for your dog. Just be careful to set up the bed so as to avoid your dog slipping., Look online for reviews by searching “senior dog beds” and “reviews.” Many sites will show you rankings, price points, photos of the product, and pros/cons lists. Keeping your budget and size parameters in mind, sort through this information to narrow down your bed options even more.Pay particular attention to any reviews describing cleaning or quality issues. With a senior pet the bed will need to be able to withstand a bit of abuse without falling apart., Some online pet companies and brick-and-mortar pet stores will offer extended warranties or guarantees on their dog beds. This is especially the case with beds that are more expensive. Memory foam beds, for example, often come with guarantees and assurances against flattening or lumpiness.Some companies have more gimmicky sounding warranties that are valid nonetheless. For example, one pet bed manufacturer guarantees that your dog bed will last 19 years or more.