 If you're looking for a particular record, hoping for high-quality vinyl, or simply want to browse a well-curated selection, you'll need to go to a record store. However, this is usually not the place to find bargains, as record staff checks and prices each record according to its market value. For the slight added expense, you get more assurance that the records are in good condition, as well as a well-organized, deep collection to browse through instead of random crates.


If you're looking for deals, check the "recently acquired" section. These often haven't been priced yet, and you can usually get them for a cheaper price.
Unsure where the stores are near you? Try out the free app Vinyl District which lists all record sellers in your immediate area., Goodwill, Salvation Army, and other thrift stores often take in large quantities of records. The bad news -- most of them are scratched, obscure, and unwanted. The good news -- anything you find is rarely more than $1-3. Digging through thrift stores rarely turns up a ton of new records, but there is always the chance you'll find a rare, hidden gem for almost nothing.


When digging through thrift stores, understand that the majority of the stuff you'll look through is trash, as most places only get a few high-quality records.
Be especially sure to check the quality of the actual vinyl before buying, as these records tend to be mistreated and especially beat up., These events often bring out collectors and crates of vinyl, some of which is organized, some of which isn't. You can run into hard-core collectors at many events who can help find rare pressings and records, but there are just as many people selling large crates of vinyl with no idea how much any of it is worth. Simply start digging through the crates.


When buying records at these places, be sure to bring cash.
Be ready to bargain to score deals, holding firm if you know what a record is really worth. If you do your research ahead of time or check prices on your phone you can almost always get great prices.
 One of the best ways to kick off a record collection is to buy someone else's collection. Garage sales are great places to find records because most people just want things gone. If you've got a little money to spare, you can even offer to buy the entire collection for a steal. Yes, you'll get a lot of junk, but you can often find 5-10 nice pieces for a fraction of the cost, selling off anything else to a local record store to recoup the costs.
 Buying used records online is a great way to round out your collection and dig out hard-to-find pressings, but it comes with its challenges. Namely, you need to be aware of the vinyl rating system, as this is your best indicator of a record's quality online. That said, you should take some extra precautions:


Only buy from recommended or trusted sellers. Check their history on eBay, Discogs, or whatever record pricing platform you use and make sure they give honest, trustworthy ratings (VG+ or higher) for their records.
Always assume that a record is a grade lower than it is advertised, as most sellers will be generous with their rating.
In general, it isn't advised to by any record online not rated VG+ or higher if you plan to play it regularly.