 Hawaii is a great place for a destination weddings and the locals realize that. Because of that, Hawaii has no regulations on those coming from elsewhere to marry. You need neither be a resident of Hawaii or a citizen of the United States., The legal age of marriage in Hawaii is 18. You can get married prior to that, however, you will need parental consent. Neither you nor your parents need to be residents of Hawaii to get married under the legal age.To get married between the ages of 16 and 17, you will need the written consent of both parents, a legal guardian, or the family court.
To get married at the age of 15, you need the consent of both parents or legal guardian and the written approval of a family judge. Minors cannot get married before the age of 15.
Consent forms can be acquired at the marriage license agent. After being completed, they must be returned to the marriage license agent.
 Same sex couples are welcome to marry in the state of Hawaii. Hawaii also offers the option of civil unions to both same and opposite sex couples. Civil unions, however, have the same legal status as marriages., Hawaii permits the marriage of first cousins and more distant relations. It does not however permit the marriage of siblings, parents, nieces, and aunts., The name of your officiant is required on the Hawaii marriage license application. If you do not have a marriage officiant, call the Hawaii Visitors and Convention Bureau at (808) 924-0266 for a list of persons licensed to perform weddings in Hawaii.Out of state ministers or individuals who do not typically perform marriages can apply for the right to become marriage performers online. Visit the Hawaii Vital Record’s website to apply. The state recommends applications are submitted between two weeks and two months prior to the ceremony., Fill out one for both of the prospective spouses. If it is not possible to enter the application information online, make a copy and print the information in black ink. Include your full names on the application, with no initials.


To apply online visit Hawaii’s Vital Records website. You can also pay in advance online.
Alternatively, you can visit a marriage license agent in person and fill out the application. Be prepared to provide the full name of both spouses and their parents, as well as spouses’ addresses, places of birth, race, education, occupation, sex, and names of prior spouses., When you visit the marriage license agent you will need to have several documents in hand. You need identification that provides proof of age. If you have been married previously, you might need either a divorce decree or death certificate to establish that you can legally marry. You will also need to pay $65., Hawaii offers an online list of marriage license agents. You should call in advance, because many agents only operate by appointment. Even if that is not the case, you should contact to inquire about the agent’s hours and preferred methods of payment.
 Bring the relevant documents and a completed, but unsigned, marriage application to the closest marriage license office. You will both need to sign the document in the presence of the marriage license agent.
 The marriage license will expire within thirty days. Prior to then, you will need a marriage performer to sign it, indicating that the marriage has been performed. There is no waiting period; you can use the license the day of its issuance. Witnesses are not necessary for the ceremony to be legal.