 Mischief does not have to be a large act. Use your situation to create a prank without exerting much effort. Approach any situation as an opportunity to pull a mischievous prank. Act on your spontaneous thoughts as they enter your mind. Look at these examples of how to interact with an everyday situation:


When your teacher steps out of the room, run up and either erase something or write something unusual.
The same thing can be done to your boss. If they step away at lunch, move their pencil cup or rotate their computer in a new position. Do this in small increments each time. Then they are left to wonder at the change.
 Do you have a desire to make strange noises? Pick a moment when there are just 2-3 people in a room. Say something random or just make a silly noise. Pretend you didn't notice anything odd. You could also sing one of your favorite songs at a random time. Pretend you have headphones on, even if you don't. Keep your eyes closed for effect.


Be aware of angering people around you. Try not to annoy somebody on the street. If you’re confronted by someone, apologize and be silent.
 There is nothing more annoying and attention-grabbing. Use duct tape to tape an air horn’s base to a door stopper. Make sure the horn is facing towards the door. When someone enters the room, they’ll be shocked by the sound of the air horn.


If you’re in an office, you can do the same technique, but on an office seat. Use duct tape to tape the base of an air horn to legs of an office chair. When your colleague goes to sit down, they bounce back up with a fright from the air horn.
 You can pull this prank on a family member or on an office colleague. Print off a dozen different photos of the same celebrity. Then tape the pictures to the walls of their room or office.Use a celebrity that this person is annoyed, by like Justin Beaver or Martin Shkreli.


You could even take the prank further by writing out "I love Kanye" or whichever celebrity you plan to use. Write out this phrase several times on multiple sheets of paper.
 This is especially a good prank for the office environment or for a teacher. Take a few things on their desk, like a computer, stapler, textbook or keyboard, and wrap them up. You can use aluminum foil, Christmas wrapping paper or even old newspapers.For an added effect, wrap their entire desk with the same wrapping paper.

