 There is compelling scientific evidence that a plant-based diet, comprised of vegetables, legumes and whole grains is considerably healthier than the typical meat-eater's diet.This shows up in several different metrics that you can mention to make a strong case:



Life expectancy. Studies show that a vegetarian diet is linked to lower death rates and longer life expectancies.Geographical and historical studies have shown that societies with low meat consumption, such as those in the Russian Caucasus or the Hunzakuts of Pakistan, live considerably longer (generally over 80 years old) than societies (such as the Eskimos or the Greenlanders) that have the highest meat consumption in the world.Cancer. There is evidence to suggest that vegetarians have about half the cancer risk of meat-eaters.Red meant and processed meats like hot dogs, ham, sausages or bacon, in particular, have been labeled by the World Health Organization as carcinogenic to humans.Heart disease. Studies have shown that vegetarians have a lower risk of obesity and coronary heart disease.This is often attributed to the fact that vegetarian diets are generally lower in fat than non-vegetarian diets. However, evidence suggests that it is not just consuming less fat that lowers your risk of heart disease but that consuming more vegetables, legumes and whole grains can in itself decrease cholesterol levels, which is a primary indicator for coronary artery disease.;
, A vegetable-based diet can be delicious and nutritious, sufficient even for top athletes who burn a lot of calories and seek to build muscle.Emphasizing the positive aspects of vegetarianism, such as how it might increase well-being, is a good way to convince people rather than making them feel guilty about their choices.


Remind them that eating meat, at least in industrialized, developed countries, is no longer a necessity but an active choice with ethical and environmental consequences.
Acknowledge that eating is an intimate act, laden with social meaning and tied up with deeply-held ideas about pleasure and comfort. Changing habits is not easy, but it can happen. Many people actually report losing their appetite and desire for meat over a period of time.Terms like "conscious" or "compassionate" eating may be more appealing to some people as they emphasize the positive consequences of making certain food choices rather than requiring them to fit into the strict category of being "vegetarian"., Meat is expensive and is generally the highest priced item on grocery bills. A recently published study suggests that vegetarians can save at least $750 per year by avoiding meat.