 Although ticks can crawl under clothes easily, you reduce the risk of tick bites by covering more skin and making it harder for ticks to attach themselves to the skin.Tuck your pants into your socks and tuck your shirt into your pants to keep ticks from getting inside your clothes.
For extra protection, wrap masking tape around where the pant leg cuffs are tucked into your socks to keep them secure from ticks, which are usually at ground level.
 Cover your head with a hat or kerchief to provide additional protection from ticks.Ticks do not drop on you from trees, but they can crawl very effectively.They like to attach around your head or ears because the skin is thinner in these locations and hosts often have trouble reaching or grooming these areas., If you have long hair, it’s a good idea to cover, braid, or tie it so that it is secure and you don’t brush against areas where ticks might be located.You don’t want to give ticks anything else to crawl on.
This also makes it easier to check for ticks.
 Ticks are easier to spot when they land on light colors.Nymphal ticks, or baby ticks, can be as small as a poppy seed, and the lighter your clothes, the easier time you will have locating the tick.
Although you should wear pants and long sleeves to prevent tick exposure, wearing lighter-colored clothing will help you stay cool when it’s warm outside.
 One of the most effective ways to prevent tick bites is to purchase clothes that have already been treated with permethrin, an effective tick repellent that kills ticks on contact.The repellent is odorless and invisible.
Clothing that has been commercially treated is effective after up to 70 washings.
If you are concerned about the risks of applying sprays and chemicals directly to your skin, this is a good alternative option.
You can also purchase permethrin kits to treat your clothes at home, but these applications are not usually as long lasting.
Tick-repellent clothing and kits to treat clothing can be found in sporting goods stores and are also available online from a number of retailers.

