 If you want to lengthen your lashes without mascara for more than just a day, lash extensions are an ideal option. At a salon or other venue that offers beauty services, you can have individual lashes bonded to the tips of your natural lashes with medical-grade adhesive. Lash extensions usually last 4 to 6 weeks.When you’re wearing lash extensions, it’s important to be careful when touching your eyes, such as rubbing them when they’re itchy or washing your face at the end of the night. If you’re too rough, you may loosen the adhesive.
Lash extensions can be fairly costly, so they’re not the best option if you’re on a budget.
Some people experience an allergic reaction to the adhesive used to attach the extensions. Ask the esthetician to a patch test with the adhesive on your skin before applying the extensions.
Getting lash extensions too frequently can lead to breakage for your natural lashes, so it’s best to just get them when you have special events coming up.
 If you’re tired of curling your lashes with an eyelash curler to make them appear longer, you may want to consider an eyelash perm. Just as with traditional hair perms, chemicals are applied to your lashes which are then wrapped around foam rollers to curl them. Your lashes will remain curled for 1 to 3 months.Lash perming must be done by a trained professional.
Because lash perming utilizes chemicals, there is the possibility that your eyes and the skin around them may become irritated afterward. Leaving the perm solution on too long can also cause your lashes to break or fall out. Make sure to visit a reputable salon where the esthetician has experience performing lash perms.
 If you have light colored lashes, they probably look shorter than they actually are. Instead of using mascara, though, you can darken your lashes to help lengthen their appearance by having them tinted with a vegetable-based dye. Visit a trained esthetician to have your lashes tinted, and the results will typically last 4 to 6 weeks.As with any type of lash treatment, there is the possibility of an allergic reaction when you have your lashes tinted. Ask the esthetician to do a patch test on your skin before using the dye to ensure that you aren’t allergic to the dye’s ingredients.
Just as with lash extensions or perms, it’s important to visit a reputable salon with trained professionals to have your lashes tinted.

