 Melatonin is a hormone that plays a role in the body's natural sleep/wake cycle. Most supermarkets and drug stores sell melatonin in pill form. If you're having trouble sleeping at night, consider occasionally taking melatonin.


Melatonin works by making you feel sleepier. It can decrease the amount of time it takes you to fall asleep. It's typically used to treat sleeplessness or mild sleep disorders. You typically take about 5 milligrams of melatonin about half an hour before bed.Melatonin should not be used long-term as it can cause dependency. It may cause side effects like dizziness, daytime sleepiness, and headaches. It can interact with blood thinning medications, diabetes medications, birth control, and medications that suppress the immune system. If you're on any of those types of meds, talk to your doctor before you take melatonin., In addition to melatonin, there are a variety of over-the-counter sleep aids you can use. If you're having consistent trouble sleeping, consider trying some of the following:


Diphenhydramine (Benadryl, Unisom SleepGels) are antihistamines that cause sedation. They can cause side effects like daytime drowsiness, blurred vision, constipation, and urinary retention. Doxylamine succinate (Unisom SleepTabs) is another sedating antihistamine that causes similar side effects.Valerian is plant a supplement sometimes taken to aid with sleep. Studies are conflicted over whether it actually helps with sleep.Talk to your doctor before choosing any over-the-counter sleep meds. You want to make sure such meds are safe for you, given your lifestyle, existing medications, and medical history., If your trouble sleeping doesn't improve with lifestyle changes and over-the-counter meds, talk to your doctor about prescription sleeping pills. These can help you fall asleep faster and have better quality sleep.


Your doctor will probably ask you a series of questions about your sleeping patterns and overall quality of your sleep. They may order certain tests to rule out possible underlying conditions.
Your doctor will make a decision about what type of prescription meds would work for you, given your medical history and any possible condition causing your sleep issues. They will also go over potential side effects of the meds and any lifestyle changes you'll need to make when taking them.
It can take awhile to find the right sleep medication. You might have to experiment with different meds before you find the right type and dose. Insurance companies might not want to cover sleeping medications unless you've been diagnosed with a specific condition, such as insomnia, so your doctor may give you a diagnosis to ensure your meds are covered.