 A great way to keep track of the things you are thankful for is to write them down. Starting a journal or a list can be good method to get you thinking about and focused on all the good in your life. You can also look back at any time to remember all the good things you were thankful for. Try listing the things you are thankful for or writing a daily list to help you practice gratitude.A journal full of things you have been thankful for will be a great visual reminder of all the good in your life.
Feel free to write down anything you are thankful for.
Try to write at least three things you are thankful for each day.
 Being grateful will take work and dedication to make it a habit. The world isn't always a perfect or happy place and life can be quite challenging at times. You might also simply be preoccupied with work or family responsibilities and lose focus on your practice. However, setting your intention to regularly practice gratitude will make it easier for you to see the good in any situation.Try setting your intention to focus on the good in your life when you wake up in the morning.
Regularly expressing gratitude is like trying to make any other behavior a habit and will require your time and practice.
Realize that there is no “end goal” to reach. Simply focus on feeling grateful whenever you can or whenever you think of it.
The more you practice gratitude, the easier it will become.
 Picking a time to focus on the things you are thankful for can help you make your practice a habit. Having a schedule can help keep you on track, allowing you to remember your practice even if your day was hectic or you simply forgot. Try to pick a time of day that works best for you to focus on the things that you're feeling grateful for.


You can try thinking about the things you're grateful for every morning.
Try taking a break around lunch and focus on what you've enjoyed during the morning.
Relax at night and think about all the great things that happened during the day.
 Taking a look at how you feel throughout the day will help you keep your focus on being grateful. There may be moments when you aren't feeling grateful at all and taking note of those moments will help you shift your focus. Try to keep an eye on your feelings, thoughts and emotions to help you stay focused on practicing gratitude.If you aren't feeling grateful, try to think of a few things that you are thankful for.
Getting up, stretching and moving around a bit can all help you change your focus and get back to feeling thankful.
Try to remember a moment that caused you to feel extremely grateful and allow that feeling to return.
 Whenever you notice yourself feeling grateful, try sink into that feeling and really enjoy it. Let the feeling of gratitude wash over you and allow yourself to realize just how fortunate you are in that moment. Try to focus on the feeling so that you can return to it whenever you're thinking about the things you're thankful for.Let yourself enjoy the feeling of gratitude whenever it comes up.
Don't be in a hurry or try to extend the moment of gratitude. Instead, allow yourself to enjoy the feeling as long as it naturally lasts.

