 If you tend to dress like a slob (ex: wrinkled, baggy untucked shirt, baggy pants, dirty sneakers), see what else you have in your wardrobe that may be more presentable. High class girls like boys who dress decently and neatly, but they must also have the ability to sweep them off their feet. Suggestions for clothing may be:


A nice fitting shirt that complements your face, hair, eyes, etc.






A nice fitting pair of pants that doesn't look off (jeans are also another option, but it depends on what kind of girl you're dealing with here)
Combed hair (it doesn't have to look like you spent an hour on it, but messy bed hair may not be appealing to high class girls)
A decent pair of shoes (it doesn't have to be dress shoes, but make sure your shoes aren't scruffy and dirty looking)
The way you dress will depend on the preferences of the high class girl you're trying to win. If she tends to dress more casually, you can be a little more casual. However, if she dresses extravagantly and formally, you may have to lessen the casual look and go more for the formal look (but not too much).;
, High class girls tend to look down on bad words, lazy vocabulary and pretty much any styles of talking that sound dirty, low class and unruly. Listen to how your crush talks and try to talk like she does, but not so much that you sound like an exact replica of her! Pick up words from her here and there, and dust up your vocabulary. Refrain from cursing or doing any bad talk in front of her, and definitely keep away from dirty and/or perverted jokes.


If you plan on telling her jokes, only tell her a couple that you know are uproariously funny to everyone, not just to your friends! Practice telling your jokes to other high class girls to see if they laugh; if they don't, you may have to rethink your jokes before presenting them to your crush!







, Confidence goes a long way. If you appear shy and nervous in front of her, the chances of her being impressed by you will be extremely low. However, if you talk clearly - not too loudly or it will annoy her - and appear confident in who you are, she will be interested and want to know you more. Speak up and don't be afraid of who you are!


Avoid practicing what you're going to say in front of her, as you will sound like you had prepared it. You will also sound mechanical and lifeless, almost like a parrot's words. Your conversations with her should be casual and flowing, not like stiff and resembling an interview!







, High class girls dislike these types of boys. Remember to never try to be extremely cool. High class girls understand that you are not meant to be theirs.
 Start a conversation with a girl who knows your crush, and converse with her about your crush. Tell that girl that you like your crush - she could act as a common friend!


Never go and talk to your crush until that common friend introduces you to her.
 Remember not to have personal talks with her that are direct. Either ask her about her hobbies, her favorite color, try to converse about what you two have in common, and so on. Slowly you will see that you two are sharing a good bond with each other.
 However, make the question casual - ask her in the middle of a comfortable conversation and don't ask for all her personal information at once. Otherwise, she will see you as desperate and perhaps creepy.


Don't forget to give her your email address, phone number, etc.






Avoid asking for her address at this point. She may think you're trying to stalk her.
Don't ask for all this information at once.
If your crush wishes to tell, let her. If not, move onto the next step or wait a while before asking again. However, don't be pushy or whiny!

,, Meet with her or say hi whenever she sees you. Always keep smiling (but not too much or creepily!), preferably when you're with your friends so that it attracts her attention.
 Try to be or talk with other girls a little so that she will become a little jealous. You will notice the change in her.
 Say yes if you have time. Otherwise, politely decline and say, "Maybe another time. I'm busy after school."


If you always accept, it creates an image for the boy next door.
 If she says no, do not get frustrated. Only say, "Okay. Maybe another time?" Always make eye contact with her and do not be shy. Girls don't like to talk to shy boys. You should be confident while asking her so that she is not able to easily say no.
 Tell her that you like her. If she says that she feels the same way, great! Before starting a relationship with her, tell her about your reality and that you are a middle class boy - not a high class boy. If she accepts you the way you are, she really does love you.
 You two can still be friends and she may realize in the future that she does love you. There are plenty of girls out there and the perfect one for you is waiting in the world - you have to let go of your crush for now in order to find her. It will be worth it.
 Don't put yourself down because of this, but don't get cocky either!

