 Try to get products that are made specifically for curly hair. They will contain extra nutrients that curly hair needs to look smooth, soft, and healthy. Here are some other things you should look for:


Moisturizing or hydrating shampoos/conditioners add moisture back into your hair, making it look less frizzy and dry.
Oils and butters, such as avocado oil and shea butter, also add moisture back into your. This will help make it feel soft and smooth.
Protein will help make your hair healthy, shiny, and strong. This will help reduce frizz.;
, Silicones are plastics that are found in many styling products. They can only be removed by sulfates, which are harsh cleaning agents. Sulfates can make curly hair dry and frizzy. Parabens are preservatives, and may be linked to cancer; it is best to avoid them altogether., Alcohol can make curly hair feel dry, and dry hair tends to look frizzy. Hairsprays, gels, and mousses all tend to contain alcohol. Read the ingredient label before purchasing any of these types of products.If something you cannot find anything without alcohol, try to find something where alcohol is towards the end of the ingredient list.
 Curly hair does not produce as many natural oils as other types of hair, so tends to get dry and frizzy easily. Washing your hair every day will remove all of those helpful oils. Instead, try to wash your hair two to three times a week. If you have very dry hair, you may want to reduce that to once a week., There should be hardly any shampoo on the ends of your hair. Shampoo can by drying, and the ends of your hair are the most fragile.
 There should be hardly any conditioner on the roots of your hair. Conditioner weighs your hair down. It may also make the roots more greasy. Let the conditioner sit for two to three minutes, or longer if the label says to.
 Heat can made curly hair frizzy, and the coarse texture of most towels can snag and tear the delicate hairs. Instead, allow your hair to air dry. If you must towel dry it, try blotting it with a microfiber cloth instead. A microfiber cloth is soft, so it won't snag your hair. It is also absorbent, so it will soak up the excess moisture., Heat can damage curly hair and make it frizzy. If you have to blow dry your hair, try attaching a diffuser to your hair dryer. You will disperse the heat and make it less intense. This will prevent tangles and frizz. You can also use a hooded dryer; this works great for kinky or textured hair.Be sure to spray your hair down with a heat protection spray before using a diffuser.
 Doing so will cause the curls to separate and become frizzy. If you need to tame your hair, try combing it with damp fingers, or applying a little bit of hair oil or styling cream. A wide-toothed comb is also safe to use.
 The bristles are spaced far enough so that they won't disrupt the natural curl pattern of your hair. Comb your hair starting from the ends first, and work your way up in small sections. Never comb your hair straight down from the roots to the ends. This will create snags, tangles, and frizz.


If your hair is extra stubborn, try applying some oil, styling cream, or leave-in conditioner first.
 What looks great on your curly-haired friend may not look so good on you. Every curl is different. What haircut will look best on you will depend on how long you want your hair to be, how curly your hair is, and how much effort you are willing to put into your hair when styling her. Here are some tips and ideas:


If you have tight, spiral curls, try to get longer layers.This will help weigh your hair down a little so it doesn't poof up, but it won't disrupt the curl pattern.
If you have long, wavy hair, try getting some long layers. Keep the layers minimal, or your hair may poof out.If you like shorter hairstyles, try a long, shoulder-length bob. Keep it long in the front, and short in the back. This will help define your curls.If you like really short hair, don't be afraid to get a pixie cut! Just make sure that it is shorter on the sides and longer at the top., Both can damage curly hair and make it frizzy. If you have to use a flat iron or curling iron, spray your hair with a heat protection spray first. Adjust your flat iron or curling iron to a lower temperature setting before using it on your hair.Do not go higher than 400°F (205°C) or you will damage your hair., Pour some food-grade oil into a jar. Put the jar in bowl of hot water and wait 2 to 3 minutes until the oil becomes hot. Massage the oil into your hair, then tuck your hair under a shower cap. Wait 30 minutes to 2 hours, then wash the oil out.The oil will help soften and hydrate your hair, making it less frizzy. Here is a list of oils that you can try:Avocado oil is ultra moisturizing, making it perfect for dry and frizzy hair.
Coconut oil not only smells great, but it will make your hair shiny.
Jojoba oil is a light oil, making it ideal for oily hair.
Rice bran oil is full of vitamin E. It makes hair stronger, so it's great on hair that is dry and brittle., Mix 3 tablespoons of vinegar with 3 cups (700 milliliters) of water. After you have finished washing your hair, tilt your head back and pour the vinegar water over your hair. Be sure to get your scalp as well. Rinse the vinegar out using cold water.You can use white vinegar or apple cider vinegar; apple cider vinegar will have a stronger smell, but it is full of nutrients.
The vinegar will help dissolve any buildup from hair product or hard water, and the cold water will help seal the hair cuticle. This will make your hair appear smoother and less frizzy.
 Mix 1 can of coconut milk, 1 avocado, 2 tablespoons or honey, and 2 tablespoons of olive oil in a blender. Once you get a smooth texture, apply the mixture to your hair, then rinse it out.The coconut milk will help moisturize your hair, making it less frizzy.
The avocado will give your hair the protein it needs to be strong and healthy.
The honey will make your hair shiny.
The olive oil will moisturize your hair, making it appear less dry and frizzy.
 Unfortunately, many holding gels and sprays contain alcohol, which can dry out curly hair. If you want to give your hair a little extra hold try some pure aloe vera gel. It will help you get some of that crunchy texture, but it won't dry out your hair., If you do not want to make your own treatments, you can purchase some from a beauty store. Make sure that the product is free of sulfates, silicones, and parabens. Look for ingredients such as butters and oils; they will help hydrate your hair and make it less frizzy. Here are some other things you could look for:


Moisturizing or hydrating creams will make your hair appear less dry.
Smoothing and de-frizzing creams will make your hair appear smoother.
Leave-in conditioners will continue to work on your hair, even after you have stepped out of the shower.
Deep conditioning masks and treatments can be used a few times a month. You apply it to damp hair, then leave your hair under a shower cap for around 20 minutes. Once the time is up, you can rinse your hair and let it dry. This works best after shampooing.
 Both of these fabrics help keep moisture in your hair, which is important for silky, shiny hair. You can also use a silk or satin nightcap instead. Avoid sleeping on pillowcases made from cotton and other fabrics; they can dry your hair out, leading to frizz.The coarse texture of cotton may also create snags and tears, which can also lead to frizz.


If you can't get any silk or satin pillowcases, try braiding your hair before you go to sleep.

