 Before you can find the Shiny Haxorus, you will need to collect all of the Unova Badges and defeat the Champion. You can reach the Pokémon League and the Elite Four at the north end of Victory Road. Road., The other requirement for getting the Shiny Haxorus is the completion of the Unova Pokédex. This means you will need to see every Pokémon on the list. You don't have to capture them all, but you have to have seen all 297 Pokémon in the Pokédex.


The only exception are the four Event Legend Pokémon (Victini, Meloetta, Keldeo, and Genesect), which do not need to be seen in order to unlock Haxorus.
 After you have filled out your Unova Pokédex, Professor Juniper will give you a Permit, which allows you to travel to the Nature Preserve.Professor Juniper can be found in her lab in Nuvema Town, where the player in Pokémon Black and White started the game.
 Before you head out to get Haxorus, you'll want to ensure that your team is ready to capture it. Make sure to have a Pokémon with the False Swipes move; this will allow you to safely lower Haxorus's health without knocking it out, letting you capture it easier. Also ensure that you have plenty of high-level Pokeballs.


Having a Pokémon with Hypnosis/Sleep Powder or Thunder Wave/Stun Spore will make capturing Haxorus much easier.
Haxorus is level 60. At this point in the game, you should have a team that could take care of it without any problem, but the real concern is accidentally knocking it out before you capture it.
 You can either use Fly to get there directly, or reach the City from Route 7. The city is dominated by a large airport.


Enter the main terminal building and talk to the person behind the counter. When you present the Permit, you will be automatically flown to the Nature Preserve.
 Haxorus can be found in the center of the Nature Preserve. When you land, you will start on the left edge of the Preserve. Walk down to the bottom of the screen, past the plane. Walk to the right, and then up through the opening in the trees. After a few moments of walking up through the trees, you will see Haxorus in the center of a clearing., Haxorus only appears once, and only in this area. You will want to save before you fight it in case you accidentally knock it out. This way you can reload your save game and try again.
 Walk up to Haxorus and press the A button. The fight will begin and you will see sparkles on the Haxorus denoting that it is Shiny.


Hit the Haxorus with a few powerful hits to get rid of the majority of its health. Be careful not to KO it!
Once the Haxorus's health is in the red, hit it with False Swipes until it is down to 1 HP. False Swipes will not knock Haxorus out, so you can use it without fear.
Put Haxorus to Sleep or Paralyze it. This will make it much easier to capture.
 Once Haxorus has 1 HP and has been put to sleep or paralyzed, start throwing the best Balls you have at it, such as Ultra Balls. It may take several tries to make the capture.

