 In a dog's world, it is instinctual to greet another dog by coming nose-to-nose with them. This allows them to sniff each other's faces and become acquainted with the other dog's scent. Of course, your nose is a bit higher to reach so it is only natural that your dog will jump up to get closer to your face when greeting you.This can be quite annoying and unnecessary, but fortunately, the habit can be broken.;
, You may think it is sweet when your dog greets you by jumping on you. For the most part, puppies think that when they jump up on someone, they are highly likely to be picked up and cuddled soon after.


It is best to start discouraging this type of greeting behavior as early as possible. You will be excited to see your puppy as well, but if your puppy has this tendency, you can do this by practicing the no touch, no talk, no eye contact rule when greeting your puppy.
Avoid looking or talking to your puppy until she settles down. This, in turn, will send out calming signals to her and will avoid getting her excited or anxious about your arrival.
Puppies tend to learn very quickly, so it will be much easier to train her to greet you in a calm and desirable manner the younger she is.
Although it isn't an issue when she is little, you may be encouraging a bad habit that could be difficult to break later when she becomes an adult. A small, 15 pound Labrador puppy jumping up on you is quite a different story than a full-grown 100 pound Labrador that could knock you over and even injure you or your guests., One way to teach your dog, no matter her age, that jumping up is not an acceptable greeting is to ignore her during this behavior. This involves turning your back to her and not giving her any type of attention, such as physical, vocal, or eye contact.


As soon as your dog is calm and all four paws are on the ground, tell her she is being a good girl and give her a small treat or loving pat on the head.
Try to talk in a calm voice and use calm petting techniques to avoid your dog becoming too excited again. If she returns to her jumping behavior, turn your back again and ignore her.
In the early stages of this training, you may be turning in circles several times, but your dog will soon relate her jumping to your lack of attention and stop.
As with any training, consistency is key. This means that everyone in the household and all guests should be informed that training is in progress and be willing participants. Even the occasional attention given to your dog while she is jumping can encourage her and could result in several steps backwards in your training process.