 Is there a specific cause or location that you feel passionate about helping? Do you love working with children, or do you want to do a broader sort of volunteer work, like helping at a medical clinic? Some potential work you can volunteer for includes:


Teaching.
Building schools, clinics, wells, etc.
Farming.
Social work, such as helping at a refugee camp or urban poverty center.
Clean up/repair, especially after a disaster.;
, Would you, for example, like to help build a school? Would you like to volunteer at a refugee camp? Different workplaces require different skills. If you would like to work as a teacher, you might need to be able to speak the language of the country you are going to (or know some basic phrases). If you want to help at a building site, you would help to have some building or carpentry skills. Remember, you are going over to help -- you don't want to have someone spending all of their time teaching you when you should be volunteering.


This doesn't mean that you need to be an expert before going over. However, having some knowledge of the work you are doing can help you feel a sense of purpose, instead of confusion, when you arrive.
 While your primary reason for volunteering should be a desire to help someone in need, you do not want to go to a place you feel uncomfortable or unhappy. Having an interest in a culture or country will help you dive into the experience and find the best way to help those you've come to help. Ask yourself a few questions as you choose places to volunteer:


Do I have any experience with the language? Is English common?
Do I want to go there as a vacation, or do I want to do some good?
Am I interested in this culture? Am I willing to immerse myself in order to learn more about it?
Are there any health or safety concerns I should be worried about?

, There is a variety of programs that need volunteers throughout the year. Some cost money and provide room and board. Others are free but don't provide lodging. Still others provide everything you need in exchange for volunteer work. The biggest determining factor in cost is the length of volunteering:



Short stays, between 1-2 weeks, are usually expensive. You pay for airfare as well as a program fee. Oftentimes you have designated activities as well, allowing you to tour the country as well as volunteer. This, of course, comes with a higher cost-- between $1-2000 a week.

Mid-length stays, between 1-2 months, have variable costs. You could contact an agency directly (such as a hospital in southeast Asia) and simply start working, paying for your own food and lodging. Or you could sign up for a program through a volunteer company, which may or may not charge a program fee, but usually costs less per week than a short stay

Long-term stays, or anything over 3 months, often require nothing more than transportation costs. There is usually some form of commitment (an agreement to stay X number of months), but you can volunteer "for free" once you arrive, as room and board are included., There are thousands of programs out there, and searching online for "volunteering in Africa" will result in a flood of different options. Instead, use your skills, desires, and logistics to search for specific programs online. A search for "Short-term orphanage volunteer in South Africa" will get you right to the programs you want to see, for example.


If you're looking to volunteer without a program you'll need to do a bit more digging. Try and contact the organizations you are interested in, such as schools, hospitals, or shelters, and ask them if they take volunteers. Many will be happy for the work, and may be able to help with lodging or food costs.
 Not all programs are created equally. Make sure that you know the exact "benefits" your program offers, from paid meals to medical options should you get sick. Check for testimonials online, and research their work and company history. Some groups are more effective than others, and you don't want red tape and low resources keeping you from doing the work that you want to do. Likewise, you don't want any hidden fees to get you later on, like having to pay for meals when yo expected them for free.
 Get in touch with someone on the ground, or someone with experience, to get the full details on the experience. You should ask what to expect, if they found the trip fulfilling, and their general attitude towards the work. The story advertised on the website may be very different from the one on the ground, and you should investigate before writing a check.


Make sure the group spends its money wisely by looking into old projects. Try and contact old volunteers for their opinions of the company. Many companies have a "testimonials" page, and you can contact them asking to speak to someone if they do not.
Get in touch with the organization and ask any questions you might have. If they do not answer back in a timely manner they may not be the best group to work with.