 How you choose to store your money can vary, but the most common is to store it in a money box. A money box is usually a makeup box or some sort of plastic container with a handle. You want to avoid using a regular purse to store your money because it can easily blend into the dark lighting and it can look similar to a purse that a customer who is a woman might have brought in. When you bring this box on stage with you, make sure it is out of the reach of any customer sitting at your stage. You don’t want to have someone steal it during your show.;
, Gather up any dollar bills customers may have thrown on your stage while you were dancing. Doing this in a sexy manner can give customers a little extra incentive to tip you when you come by to collect individual tips.
 Once you’ve gathered tips customers may have thrown on stage, make sure you go to your money box before you continue collecting tips. Shove all your money in there without straightening or unfolding any bills… you can do this later.
 Once your set is over and you’ve put your clothes back on, put your garter on one of your thighs. Always start at one side of the stage and systematically go to each customer. Stick the leg with the garter on it out to the customer and with one hand hold the money you’ve already collected to one side of your thigh, and with the other pull the garter out so that the customer can place the money inside your garter. Always smile and say thank you to the customer for their tip.
 This is the time to evaluate which customers can be potential sources of money. The customer who tips you $1 probably isn’t going to buy a lap dance from you, but you can always ask. However, the customer who gives you a $5 bill is more likely to accept your offer. It’s very important that you look at what he’s wearing and any distinguishing features so you can find him again. Don’t try to remember the customer by the place he’s sitting, he isn’t going to stay in the same seat all night.
 When you finish collecting tips from customers directly on your stage, remove some of the tips from your garter. Depending on how much you have in your garter, you’ll want to remove between 20%-50% of it and put it in your money box. When you go to collect money from customers sitting around your stage (as opposed to sitting at it) you want them to know you just got off stage but not make it look like you already have plenty of tips. It sounds silly but customers tend to tip less if they think you’ve already made ‘too much’ from other customers.
 After your stage set is over and you’ve collected your tips from customers sitting directly at your stage, try to collect tips from customers around your stage. Try not to think of this as a free for all where you ask every single guy at the club for a tip. Be reasonable and know which customers were actually watching you dance and which ones were getting dances from other girls, in the restroom, etc.
 Once you’ve collected all your tips, ‘shove’ all your money in your money box. The reason to ‘shove’ your money in is to prevent customers from seeing how much money you’ve actually collected and the amount of money you currently have in your box. You don’t want others to see how much money you have for safety reasons. You can straighten out your bills, count your money, etc. in the back room where you have more privacy.

