 People who are sexually active, especially having unprotected sex and with multiple partners, are at risk for contracting chlamydia. Chlamydia is caused by the bacteria ‘’Chlamydia trachomatis’’ and is contracted through vaginal, oral, or anal sex when mucous membranes come in contact with the bacteria. Anyone who is sexually active should get regular STI tests, including testing for chlamydia.You are at higher risk if you have had unprotected sex with someone who has chlamydia or another STI. Chlamydia can be prevented by using latex condoms and dental dams.
Younger sexually active people are at higher risk.
Men who have sex with men are at a higher risk of getting chlamydia.
You are at higher risk if you have been diagnosed with other STIs.
Transmission through oral sex is less likely than vaginal or anal sex. Mouth-to-vagina or mouth-to-anus transmission is not known to occur but mouth-to-penis and penis-to-mouth is definitely possible., It is possible to have a latent infection and not know it, so it is a good idea to get tested regularly, especially if you have unprotected sex.Men who go untreated may develop a condition known as nongonococcal urethritis (NGU), which is an infection of the urethra (the tube that men pass urine through). Men may also get epididymitis, which is an infection of the epididymis, which is the tube that carries sperm away from the testes.
Chlamydia can damage a woman’s body even if she isn’t experiencing any symptoms. Untreated infections cause pelvic inflammatory disease, which can eventually lead to scarring and infertility for your female partner. This is the main reason why screening is important.
If symptoms do occur, they usually appear within 1-3 weeks after infection.
Even if you are not symptomatic, if your partner discloses that she has chlamydia, get tested immediately.
 Contact a local health clinic, your doctor, a Planned Parenthood clinic, or other agency that offers STI testing. In many cases testing is free.Testing usually occurs in one of two ways. A swab from an infected genital area may be taken and analyzed. For men, this means a cotton swab is inserted into the tip of the penis or into the rectum. However, a urine sample may also be taken, and this is more commonly used because it has been shown to be as effective as using a swab., If you get tested and do have chlamydia, the treatment is usually a prescription for oral antibiotics, particularly azithromycin or doxycycline. If the antibiotics are taken fully as directed, the infection should clear up in a week or two. For more advanced chlamydia, intravenous antibiotics may be administered.If you have chlamydia, your partner should also be tested and you both need to be treated to avoid re-infecting each other. Sex should be put on hold during this time.
People with chlamydia often also have gonorrhea and thus will often be automatically treated for this second STI as well, because treating it is actually cheaper than testing for it.