 The Dragon Roost Mountain is an island located on the north eastern corner of the map. To get there, move five map tiles north from Outset Island, the starting point. On the fifth tile, move four map tiles east. You’ll eventually find a mountain island with a dragon sitting at the top. This is the Dragon Roost Mountain.


Map tiles are the square regions of the map. The entire Wind Waker map is divided into 49 map tiles.;
, Using the arrow keys on your GameCube controller, move towards the foot of the mountain where you’ll see a small, cave-like opening. Enter through this opening to get inside the Dragon Roost Mountain.
 Once you’ve entered through the opening, you’ll arrive at the first room inside the mountain. In this room, you’ll find two Bokoblins—goblin-like creatures with purple skins, a single horn on its foreheads, and large pointy ears. Bokoblins are also easily identified with the small sword with a bent tip that they always wield.
 Open your item menu by pressing the Start button on your GameCube controller. Then, using the arrow keys, select the Grappling Hook from the list of items and press the X, Y, or Z button on your controller to equip the Hook and return to the game.


The Grappling Hook is a short hook with a long rope attached to it. It is given to you by Medli, a non-playable female character living on the Great Sea. The Grappling Hook is primarily used to reach targets from afar.
 Once the Bokoblins approaches you, press the button where you equipped the Grappling Hook to fire it at the incoming enemies. The hook will hit the Bokoblins and come back to you with a Joy Pendant attached to it. Repeat the same step with the other Bokoblin.
 After getting the Joy Pendant from the Bokoblins, head out the room through the opening you came in. Once you’re outside, reenter the room once more to find the two Bokoblins again.
 Just use the Grappling Hook again to grab Joy Pendants from the two Bokoblins, exit and enter the room, and repeat until you get your desired number of Joy Pendants. You can always get a Joy Pendant from the two Bokoblins as long as you don’t kill them. If you do kill these two monsters, they will spawn back every time you enter the room but will no longer give out Joy Pendants.

