 If you order a taco salad from a restaurant, there's a good chance that you will receive it in a hard tortilla bowl (or "tostada") that looks a little like a giant, folded tortilla chip. You can replicate this at home easily. Just buy tortilla bowls from your local supermarket (your best bet is to look in the Latin foods section) and layer your taco salad inside the bowls instead of on a bed of lettuce.


You can also make your own tostadas if you wish — see our article on the subject for instructions.
 With its distinct flavor and reddish-orange color, there's no mistaking well-prepared Spanish rice. Prepare the rice on its own in a slow cooker or a separate pot (cooking times will generally be longer than for the beef, etc., so you'll probably want to start it first). Serve the rice on the side of the salad plate or use it as a layer in the salad itself.


See our article on Spanish Rice for a selection of easy recipes.
 Beans are a filling side dish that round out a taco salad well. With their high protein and fiber content, they're also quite nutritious. Try serving your taco salad with a generous scoop of beans on the side and provide a few extra chips or tortillas to eat it with.


Refried beans are a favorite often served at Mexican restaurants. See WikiHow's refried bean article for an easy recipe.
Seasoned black beans provide a healthier alternative (see our black beans recipe).
 Adding a few spoonfuls of your favorite dressing to your vegetable mixture can give your salad a richer, more complex flavor for almost no extra effort. Simply stir, shake or toss the vegetables to mix the dressing in well, then use them in the recipe as normal.


While there's no "right" dressing to use for this, the simple, tangy-sweet flavor of Catalina dressing tends to be a good choice. A good recipe is available here.
 Ground beef is generally the most common meat used in taco salads, but it's far from your only choice. Many types of shredded or ground meats can be substituted — you may even like them more once you try them. Some choices (like ground poultry) will generally even make a leaner, healthier choice. Prepare these beef alternatives as you normally would: cook them in the pan, drain them, and season them before assembling your salad. A few ideas are below:


Ground chicken
Ground turkey
Pork carnitas
Shredded/pulled barbecue pork
Flank/strip steak, chopped or sliced thin

