 There are hundreds of different deck shapes, from the classic popsicle to strange, artistic shapes, but they can generally be broken into a few simple categories.


Traditional boards, with two rounded ends, generally have a thicker nose and thinner tail end, helping for flip tricks and jumps. They tend to be the shortest boards.
Long board are generally pointed up top, with a flat bottom to rest your feet on while cruising downhill. This allows you to keep your weight back.
Vert boards, those made for ramps and halfpipes, tend to be longer and wider, and may have unique nose and tail designs or styles., A flatter board is better, in general, for pulling off tricks, whereas a deeply concave board is more stable and easier to ride at high speeds. That said, the biggest factor is your personal riding comfort, so try out a few different concavities as your local skate shop before buying. There are several options not only for the amount of concavity but the shape of it:



"Radial:' The most common concavity, it is a simple and shallow U-shape. Works for any type of skating. "Progressive" is a similar shape, but with a more dramatic curvature.

W-Concave: The back of the board is a W-shape, which provides a sharper, more precise board that can turn on a dime.

Flatcave: Allows you to keep your feet flatter, which allows for a smoother, more relaxed ride.

Asymmetric: These boards have an uneven concavity, which usually puts more power in the back of the board for tight or high-speed turning., If you're an adult taller than 5'3", your board must be 7.5" wide or larger. But how much larger is generally a matter of style. If you're significantly taller than the average person (over 6" feet, larger than 225lbs), you should test out a few widths near 8" to find your comfort zone. Similarly, vert riders almost always prefer something closer to 8" wide.


Street riders need thinner boards, as there is less board you need to spin when pulling off flip tricks., The wheelbase is the distance between the two sets of wheels (not the two wheels on the same axle). Longboards, which are made for higher speeds and cruising, have wheels that are highly spaced to provide turning support, and street boards tend to be closer together for more control when flipping and grinding. However, there is variation in every board style depending on your personal preferences, so try out a few to get comfortable.


Borrowing friends' boards is one of the best ways to quickly try out a lot of options and styles.
In general, most boards have a wheelbase between 13-15"., Most skateboards are created by pressing seven sheets of wood together, usually North American Maple. However, some companies will use more or less sheets (known as "plys") to get either a thicker, sturdier board or a smaller, lighter deck.


Thicker boards (8 or 9-ply) will last longer, and have more stability when cruising.
Thinner boards (5 or 6-ply) are easier to maneuver, especially for ollies and flip tricks.