 Petting your dog regularly can minimize stress for the both of you by reducing your heart rate and cortisol levels. Take advantage of a rainy day by relaxing with your pet at home. Put on the television and tell your dog to come sit or lay down next to you. Should it lots of affection (i.e. praise, petting) for obeying., Grooming should be an enjoyable experience for you and your pet that promotes bonding and signals trust. Have your dog lie on its side (on a sheet or easy-to-clean surface if you have a breed that sheds) and brush it gently, being careful to remove any mats. Take the opportunity to check for any skin irritations or abnormalities while brushing., Before giving your dog a bath, place a towel or non-slip mat on the shower floor for your dog to stand on. Carefully wet it from its rear to its front, then lather it with dog shampoo (available at pet stores). Rinse out the shampoo thoroughly from your dog’s hair, towel dry to remove excess water, and use a blow dryer on a low setting to dry off your pet completely., Play indoor games with your dog to help it burn off excess energy if the weather disrupts outdoor plans. Be sure to secure any breakable or dangerous items that your dog could get into while playing. Some idea for indoor fun are:An obstacle course in your living room or basement, made up of rolled up blankets, soft toys, and other safe obstacles for your dog to run over or through
A game of hide and seek, where your dog can follow your voice or scent to find you
Tug-of-war, a simple game that can be enjoyed indoors as well as outdoors
Playing Simon Says, a fun way to brush up on your dog's understanding of basic commands


, For a fun activity, host a play date for your dog to be able to play with a fellow canine. If you have friends, co-workers, or neighbors who are dog owners, this will offer a good opportunity for you to spend quality time with them while your dogs play. If not, look for prospective puppy play dates at dog parks, dog groomers, or the veterinarian's office, where you might meet other owners looking to socialize their dogs.Apps like Meet My Dog, a location-based social tool that matches up dog owners looking for play dates for their pets, are another option.