 Faux fur pillows are quick and easy to make. You just need some special materials to make them, such as:About ½ yard of faux fur fabric
Pillow insert or stuffing materials
Sewing machine (optional)
Needle and thread
Measuring tape
Chalk
Scissors
Pins
18 inch (45.7 cm) zipper (optional);
, You will need your faux fur to be about the same size as your pillow insert. If you are using stuffing material, then you can make your pillow any size you like. Just make sure that the pieces are the same size. For example, if your pillow insert is 18 by 18 inches (45.7 by 45.7 centimeters), then you might want to cut your fabric to 20 by 20 inches (50.8 by 50.8 centimeters) to account for the seams.
Always be careful to avoid cutting through the faux fur.You can brush the fur to the sides of where you need to cut to avoid it and make sure to go slowly.
Only cut through one layer of fabric at a time., Place the faux fur pieces so that the fur sides are facing each other. Then, begin to sew along the edge of the fabric, about ½” (1.3 cm) from the edges. Sew three of the four edges using a straight stitch.Be sure to leave one side of the faux fur pillow cover open so that you can slide the pillow insert in or stuff the cover before sewing up the final edge.
Keep in mind that you can also hand sew these edges if you do not have a sewing machine. Just thread a needle and stitch along the edges of the fabric.
 If you want to include a zipper on your pillow, then do this next. To add a zipper, unzip the zipper and then pin the edges of the zipper to the wrong sides of the fabric. The zipper pull should be facing inwards. Then, sew along the edges of the zipper and fabric to connect them.The zipper will be visible on one side of the pillow, but you can easily hide it by placing the pillow zipper side down.
 Before you close up the pillow, turn it inside out to expose the fur. Then, stuff it with the pillow insert or stuffing material to give it a form. You can make your pillow as full as you like, just be careful not to overstuff it or the excess stuffing may stress the seams., If you decided to skip the zipper, then you will need to sew up the final edge to make your pillow complete. If you added a zipper, then you can simply zip it shut and you are done!To sew up the final edge, thread a needle and stitch along the edge. If desired, you can tuck the faux fur fabric edges in slightly to avoid any exposed raw edges. Sew to the end of the edge being careful to keep the pillow stuffing or pillow insert inside the cover. Then, tie a double knot in the thread to secure it and cut off the excess.

