 Nobody feels happy when they’re sick! Even doing something as simple as taking a multivitamin with vitamins C, E, and A, selenium, and beta Carotene might help to boost your immunity.Having a strong immune system allows you to respond better to stress or physical illness. Other strategies such as regular exercise, getting adequate rest, and maintaining a healthy diet are also important for boosting immunity.
 Exercising affects the release of endorphins, which transmit messages to the brain, translating into positive feelings.Regular exercise not only combats depression, anxiety, and feelings of loneliness, but also strengthens your immune system. Even walking for exercise can increase your antibody and T-killer cell response., Sleep is strongly linked to a person’s health, stress levels, weight and quality of life. Moreover, while you sleep, your body produces cells that fight infection, inflammation, and stress, which means that getting too little sleep makes you more prone to getting sick and increases the time you need to recover from illness.Exercising is one of the absolute best ways to sleep better at night., Scientists are finding that friendly bacteria in the soil actually trigger the brain to produce serotonin (much like how antidepressants work).If you have a garden, get out there and dig. If you don’t, consider starting one – if not for flowers, for vegetables and herbs that you can use in making healthy recipes. Even designing a container garden can create a spot of sunshine in your life.


Obviously, not-so-friendly bacteria are also in your garden. Wear gloves to protect your hands, especially if you have cats or neighboring cats use your garden as a toilet. And wash your hands well after playing in dirt!

, It’s a no-brainer that eating well (fresh, unprocessed, real foods) has a huge variety of health benefits. In addition, taking the time to cook fresh foods for yourself gives you an emotional boost: it smells good, it looks good, it tastes good, and, when you become proficient at cooking, it can even provide a fun, creative break from your routine. In addition to being a form of self-pampering, cooking is also good for your wallet. If you’re new to it, start with a few fast, foolproof recipes that won’t turn you off cooking forever. The less processed foods in your diet, the healthier you'll be, which in turn will ensure a good deal more happiness for you.