 The right food can make your relationship and your sex life naughtier and much more exciting. Don't be afraid to get naughty with your favorite sexy foods. Here are some tricks to try:


If you're a girl, have your man pour some wine on your chest and lick it off.
Suck on a popsicle, mint, or an ice cube and then either kiss or pleasure your significant other. Enjoy the new sensation.
Eat when you're naked. If you're eating sexy foods, like fruits and chocolate, this will get you more in the mood.
Have dessert for dinner. Put it in naughty parts of your body and have your significant other eat it off of you.
Put little chocolates on your significant other's naked body and eat it off. Don't use your hands — only your mouth.
 Dirty talk can help you feel more excited and will put some of the spice back into your relationship. Whether you're giving your lover some dirty talk under the sheets or if you're texting or talking on the phone, dirty talk can help put you in the mood for doing the dirty.


Be naughty on the phone. Tell your honey what you wish he could do to you. Plan a meeting so you can make your fantasies a reality, or have some phone sex.
Talk dirty before any foreplay. The right words will turn your partner on before you even start kissing.
Talk dirty when you're making love. Let your honey know how you feel and how much you love his body.
Send naughty texts. Send sexy messages that tell your sweetie that you can't wait to hook up later. Be as graphic as you want. Just make sure he's not in a place where someone else can read your texts.
 Watching sexy stuff with your honey will get you in the mood faster than you can take your shirt off. It may feel a little strange at first, but watching other people get turned on will not only turn you on, but it will also give you some great love-making ideas in the process.


Watch a sexy movie together, like 9 1/2 weeks or Wild Orchids.
Watch some sexy raunchy television. Watching people make out, touch each other, or even make love on television will get you in the mood.
Be old fashioned. Look at sexy pictures together. That was how people got turned on in the days before porn.
If you're up for it, watch some porn together.
 Your relationship will be more exciting if you know that you can hook up at any moment. Though it's important to plan date night and to make a conscious effort to communicate and spend more time together, it's also important not to plan too much.


Whisk your honey away in the middle of the day and check in to a hotel to make love. Don't tell him where you're really going until the last minute.
If you want to have sex, go for it. Unless your honey is really not feeling it, if the urge strikes, don't be afraid to hook up.
Kiss when you're feeling passionate. Kissing can spice up your relationship just as much as sex. If you're in the mood, kiss your honey or move in for a make out session in an unexpected place.
Plan a surprise trip. Pack your bags and drive your partner off into the sunset. You'll be able to communicate and have a great conversation when you drive there, and to have amazing and surprising sex once you arrive.
If you're in a place where you just can't get it on, take your partner by the hand and lead him home. Tell him, "I want you. Now." Then race to the bedroom for some hot sex.

