 Libraries can offer you a wealth of information about your ancestors, but without a plan or goal as to what you hope to learn, the information can overwhelm you. Choose 1 or more specific ancestors to research and a specific time period or historical event your ancestor(s) are known to be associated with to make your research more productive.


Many libraries offer classes in conducting genealogical research, which includes an overview of the resources their library offers. If you're new to researching your family history, you may want to attend one of these classes before you begin your research.;
, Libraries contain a number of records that can help you in your family history research, among which are the following:


Federal census records. In the United States, federal censuses are conducted every 10 years. Census records list all residents by household for a given jurisdictions, their names, genders, ages, occupations, places of birth, and other information, depending on the year the census was taken. U.S. census records are available to the public 72 years after the census was taken. Library copies of census records are most likely on microfilm, with a printed index to direct you to a particular microfilm roll.
State and local census records. State and local censuses may be conducted more or less frequently than federal censuses. Although they contain mostly the same information as federal censuses, they may include information not found in federal censuses, such as farm acreage, and if compiled between federal census years, can identify births, marriages, or deaths that may have occurred within the 10-year period between federal censuses. State censuses are typically on microform, while local census such as school censuses may be in book form.
Passenger lists. These records identify the name of the ship your ancestor sailed on, the date it arrived, and the port it arrived at. Depending on the library, this may be a microform record, or in an index book.
Naturalization records. These records give the date your ancestor became a citizen of the country he or she moved to.
Military service records. These include draft registration cards as well as actual records of which branch of the military your ancestor may have served in and dates of service.
Cemetery records. These are a row-by-row listing of the grave sites within a cemetery. They are usually compiled in book form by local historical or genealogical societies.
Obituaries. These may be organized in a card file or in book form. Depending on its length, an obituary can provide not only your ancestor's date and place of death, but details about his or her life that you can research further.
Biographies and memoirs. Biographies cover all the significant events in a person's life, while memoirs typically cover only a single significant event. These can be useful resources if your ancestor was famous enough to have his or her life story written or if he or she played a significant role in the life of a famous person covered in the biography.
Microfilm copies of old newspapers. Combing through old newspapers can provide you not only with birth, marriage, and death/funeral information on your ancestors but also significant events that occurred during their lives. Older small-town newspapers were often written in a style more similar to modern newsletters, with descriptions as colorful as your ancestors may have been.
Plat maps. Available on either microfilm or microfiche, these show where buildings were located inside cities and towns and where farms were located outside them.
Printed histories. City, county, state, or provincial histories can be in soft- or hard-cover form and are usually written in conjunction with an anniversary of the jurisdiction's founding or of the larger jurisdiction it is part of. If your ancestor played a role in the history of that jurisdiction, the printed record should tell you what it was.
Printed genealogies. Many libraries that offer records for genealogical research also have copies of family histories previously published by others. These records can be useful to you if you discover that you're related to one of the families covered in these genealogies, and they can also give you ideas on how to format your own family history when you publish it.
 Tracing your family history requires consulting many sources and piecing the bits of information into a concrete whole. You may have to consult more than 1 library, and different types of libraries, to get all the information you need.


Public libraries are found in most city or county jurisdictions. Although best known for lending books on various subjects to cardholders, including books on how to do genealogical research and books on various aspects of history, many libraries also keep a number of records on microfilm or microfiche. Some libraries have dedicated genealogy sections with many of the same records kept at government libraries and free Internet access to subscription-based genealogical websites such as Ancestry.com. Access to the library is generally free, including a library card for residents of the geographic area the library serves to check out materials, while non-residents may be charged a fee to check materials out. There may also be fees for services such as printing, copying, and mailing.
University libraries are found on college campuses. They have many of the same resources as public libraries, although their collections may include the private effects of outstanding alumni or materials related to the areas of research the college is engaged in. Current students can usually check out books for free, while others may have to pay a fee to check out materials from a college library.
Government libraries and archives are usually located in federal, state, and provincial capitals. They may contain birth, marriage, and death records for the jurisdictions they cover, state or federal census records, military service records, prison records, and other vital records. They may also contain biographies of government officials or other outstanding citizens, indices of church and cemetery records, and microfilm copies of newspapers from cities within their jurisdictions, as well as published genealogies compiled by others. Government libraries usually permit access to their materials on-site, but do not offer materials that can be checked out.
The Family History Library of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints (Mormon) in Salt Lake City, Utah has 4,500 satellite Family History Center branches located around the world. It offers a broad spectrum of genealogical records, many in microfilm and some on compact disc, and also provides Internet access to use its online resources. LDS Family History Center services are open to all for free, with fees for photocopies, computer printouts, and the shipping cost of sending microfilms from the main library to a requesting branch.
Genealogical or historical societies may maintain their own private archives. Direct access may be restricted to only members of that society, although they will assist you in researching the information contained in their archive.
 This information is usually available on the website of the library in question, although it may be necessary to verify the information by telephone before visiting.


Main branches of public libraries in large cities are usually open all 7 days of the week, with morning and afternoon hours Monday through Saturday, evening hours Monday through Friday, and afternoon only hours on Sunday.
Public libraries in smaller cities and satellite branches in larger cities may be open fewer hours, according to how the city allocates its budget to the library system.
College libraries may or may not be open during periods when classes are not in session.
LDS Family History Centers determine their own hours. Hours of operation may be listed for a particular center on the Family Search website, or you may be provided with a telephone number to call to obtain the hours.
 Many libraries now post their card catalogs online, allowing you to reserve books or to learn if someone else has already checked out that book. Libraries with frequently used genealogical resources may also post a list of those resources, and in some cases the actual resources themselves online, such as the Denver Library's directory of settlers during the Pike's Peak gold rush. Knowing whether a library has the resource you're looking for before you contact or visit that library will save you time and spare you frustration in your search.


Many libraries that contain genealogical resources also feature links to other genealogical resources on their websites. Some of these resources may help you identify what resources the library offers will help you in your research, while others will help you in researching the answers to the questions your library research raises.
If you have identified a particular book or other resource from another library that can help you in your research, check to see if your local library has it in its catalog or can obtain it for you through interlibrary loan.
 You'll want the information on hand to refer to as you do your research. Items such as family group charts, pedigree charts, and research logs will present your current information in an organized form. You'll also want to have a number of blank forms to fill in with the information you gather during your research.


If you work with a laptop computer, have your information available in both digital and hard-copy format, for both your own convenience and that of the staff assisting you.

