


Arrange your letter in a business-style format that includes your address, the employer's address, a salutation, an orderly body of the letter and your signature.
Type the letter using a standard font, such as Arial or Times New Roman in 10 to 12 point size.
Utilize language that demonstrates proper grammar. Avoid politically incorrect phrases, profanity or other inappropriate language.
 Wasting time may demonstrate to a manager or hiring representative that you are not as interested in a position as another candidate.
 Explain to the reader why you're interested, what the promotion would mean to you professionally and personally, and the aspects of the job that match your qualifications.
 Demonstrate you understand the position by describing how you would go about the everyday tasks associated with the position. Describe the impact the position has on others, and elaborate about your intentions of working with other employees and departments within the company.
 Clearly define any obstacles you foresee that would make implementing the goals of the position difficult. Hypothesize about how you would face these obstacles and create opportunities from them to meet the needs of the position.
 List your education, talents and qualifications that demonstrate your ability to perform the job. Include any details about certifications or licenses you hold that make you more qualified for the promotion than other candidates in the company. Let the reader know you have the required skills for the position.
 These accomplishments might include exceeding sales expectations, creating a new marketing plan that has proven to be successful, or landing a lucrative account with a new client. Demonstrate your worth to the company, especially as it relates to the promotion.
 Tell the reader how long you've been employed with the company. Indicate that your efforts and achievements have been with the company's best interests in mind. Describe for the reader your vision of working with the company for many years to come, especially in this newly available position.

