 The protein and fat content in the food provides your dogs with the energy they need to run long distances. Whatever you feed your dogs, they should be taking in around 10,000 calories each day when they’re on the trail.Some mushers mix a cup or two of water into the food to help the dogs digest the food more easily and prevent dehydration. Adding water is also necessary when thawing out frozen food on the trail.Many sled dogs also like fish. Be sure to cook it thoroughly and remove bones before feeding it to your dogs.
Feeding a sled dog can be expensive, with costs totaling up to $500 per year.;
, Place water in a pan or bowl that won’t spill. A deep, heavy ceramic water bowl is best since, unlike flimsy metal or plastic bowls, they are less likely to be knocked over.


Empty the bowl each day and fill it with fresh water.
Clean the pan or bowl at least once each week to prevent food residue and bacteria from building up.
Always ensure your dogs have had plenty to drink before going on a run., Sled dogs are bred for cold temperatures. However, even the hardiest sled dogs have their limits. The temperature a dog can comfortably handle varies depending on its age, coat, and overall health, and there is no absolute temperature at which dogs should be kept from the elements.However, stay attentive to your dogs’ behavior and attitude, and look for changes that might occur in extreme weather. If your dogs are shivering, curled up in the snow and not moving, or engaging in other behavior that indicates they are unable to tolerate the temperature, don’t force them to continue running.Dogs can get frostbite, so always use caution if you suspect your dogs are at risk.In extreme weather, dress your dogs in special coats and blankets to give them an added layer of protection against the cold.
Wash your dogs at least once a month. Use a mild soap or shampoo specially designed for dogs that won’t dry out their skin. Special dog shampoos are available at pet stores.
 Take care to watch for behavior that indicates your dog is struggling or in pain, including labored breathing, yelping, an inability to keep pace with other dogs, and/or bloody paws or prints.


Know when to retire your sled dogs.Most dogs can only run until they are 10 years old. No dog should be running beyond the age of 15 years old.
 Many races require that your dogs are up-to-date on their shots and vaccines.When getting their shots, your vet should also examine the dogs for other illnesses or problems. Sled dogs are more likely to have joint problems then regular dogs, so if you catch the problem early, it could save your dog a lot of pain later and keep your team strong.


Email the International Sled Dog Veterinary Medical Association at ISDVMA@isdvma.org to find a sled dog vet near you.

