 Making a vinegar-based cleaning solution that can disinfect, descale, and deodorize is an economic way to clean inside of your iron. This is also the easiest way to clean parts of the iron that are otherwise unreachable.;
, Set the iron on its hottest setting. If your iron does not have a temperature dial, switch it to cotton on the fabric settings.
 This is accomplished by holding down the steam button while pressing the iron into a hand towel on the ironing board. Vent the steam in 20-30 second bursts in this manner for a total of one and a half minutes.
 If there is any solution left after venting, be sure to discard or repurpose it for something else. It has already run through the iron and is not needed in the following step.
 This will ensure that all of the vinegar is removed from the iron’s ductwork and reservoir. Drain any remaining water from the reservoir. , The resulting slurry will act as a mild abrasive and help to remove stubborn buildup on the base plate of the iron. This is particularly useful when an iron’s base plate is scorched and no longer glides over the ironing board smoothly.
 Spread an even layer of the slurry onto the base plate of the iron and gently wipe it with a dampened hand towel in a scrubbing motion. Remove any excess.
 Continue scrubbing and removing buildup in a soft but deliberate manner being careful not to scratch the base plate. Damage to non-stick surfaces can lead to permanent discoloration and rust., Over time these can become clogged with minerals found in ordinary tap water. If your iron is having trouble producing steam, get rid of scale buildup in or around the steam ducts by using a toothbrush, toothpick, cotton swab, or other soft object to remove any visible residue from the area.
 Some steam irons will have non-coated base or sole plates. Though these can be cleaned with the aforementioned salt and vinegar solution, they may benefit from a commercial iron cleaner as well. An extra-fine abrasive may be used as a last resort., Chill the iron by placing its base plate in a shallow bowl of ice water. This will firm up the plastic and allow for easy removal. Scrape any plastic away with a dull plastic knife, plastic spatula, or credit card edge. , Run a hot iron over a dryer sheet and then a hand towel. Alternate back and forth between the two. This will improve the luster of your iron by removing oils and small particles of scorched cloth or dust.
 Depending upon the hardness of your local tap water, the durability of certain internal parts of your iron, and the frequency of use, your iron may call for specific kinds of water. Spring water is always appropriate; however, an equitable and less expensive option is filtered tap water., Note any damage, fraying, or kinks in the iron’s cord. Damage to this area might be a potential fire hazard. If damaged, discontinue use until the cord is repaired.
 Never put unnecessary stress on the iron by storing it on its side or back. An iron should be stored sitting upright in an area where it is stable and will not fall. This is also a safety precaution and ensures that if the iron were heated, the base plate would not be touching a cloth surface that can be damaged as it heats.

