 Go to your Programs menu and click the Timehop Sync icon to start it. This will direct you to the login screen.


If you don’t have the application installed on your computer, visit timehop.com/install and download it for free. There are versions available for Windows and Mac.;
, Timehop Sync allows you to log into it using your Facebook login details. Click the “Log into Timehop” button at the bottom of the screen. You will be directed to a Facebook login page. Enter your email address into the first text box and password into the second text box. Click “Login” to sign into Timehop Sync.
 This folder will contain the photos you want to upload. At the bottom of the Timehop Sync window, you’ll find a green “ADD FOLDER” button. Click it and a file explorer will pop up.


There is no limit of the number of photos Timehop allows. You can add as many folders as you desire. In fact, the purpose of Timehop Sync is to give users more access to memories that can be shared.
 Browse your computer and go to the folder that contains the photos you want to sync. Click the folder, and click “OK” in the pop-up to start the sync. The folder you selected will be listed in your Timehop Sync account once it is done syncing.


Any photo that is uploaded is only visible to you until you choose to share it with friends on the Timehop app.
You can only upload whole folders, not individual photos. If there’s a photo you don’t want to include in the sync, it’s best to remove it from the selected folder.
 Timehop Sync will upload your photos to the server of your Timehop app. Give it a few minutes to complete uploading the photos. Depending on the size of the folder, your upload could take anywhere from a minute or two to an hour or more.


The app will notify you on your phone when a photo is synced.
 This will take you to the Get Started page.


If you do not have the app installed on your phone already, visit your respective app store and download the app for free.
 Tap the “Get Started” button at the bottom of the screen to access the login page.
 One good thing about Timehop is that you don’t have to create an account to use the app. Just sign in using your Facebook details.


Tap the “Sign in with Facebook” button at the bottom of the screen, then enter your Facebook login information. Tap “Sign in” to log into Timehop.
 Upon successful login, you will be directed to a screen for viewing the photos you’ve uploaded. On the screen, photos are listed and you can scroll down to view them. Tapping on a photo will expand it to full screen.

