 Each of you will have different ideas and preferences and this is about getting the main ideas heard, to allow both of you to plan in full knowledge of what matters to one another.


Write down a list of the songs and/or music that you would like to form a part of your wedding. Ask your future spouse to do the same. Bring the lists along to your discussion together.
Take notes of your discussion so that you can remember which songs and music you would both like to have at the wedding.;
, If there is music that your future spouse wants but you don't like it, consider how you can reach a compromise. Perhaps it can be played during a less important part of the ceremony, or simply not be used as your first dance song. Find ways that can include the music without upsetting you on the day.


If the music is of a style that you really don't like, such as punk, 80s hip hop, 50s crooners, or what have you, then perhaps suggest it be played as a fun moment during the reception, after the traditional and romantic parts of the wedding have been finalized. This can be part of your gift to your beloved.
 While you are free to play around with this any way you like (unless the faith or tradition requires it to be strict), it is helpful to know what parts of your ceremony and reception may need music.
 It's important because the guests are a mixture of emotions from anticipation to annoyance at having to wait, and music can soothe them and create the ambiance that you're wishing to have.

Processional music: This is music or a song played as the wedding party and/or important guests enter the ceremony place and are seated or positioned.

Bridal entrance music: This is the bride's last moment as an unmarried woman and it's her moment of special glory. A rousing piece of music that announces her entrance is almost every bride's dream.

Interlude music: That music that is barely heard but is playing away in the background while documents are being signed, candles are being lit or gaps are being filled.

Recessional music: This music is the post-ceremony music, as the bride and groom leave the place of ceremony (and people throw confetti and give out congratulations).

Postlude music: This is music that keeps playing in the background after the ceremony, to make things pleasant for those still milling around and awaiting to head to the reception.
 It is also the songs played during most of the dance time later in the night, it's whatever you or the DJ have selected to keep the dancing going.

Entrance music: This is music played when the new husband and wife enter the reception venue together.

First dance song: That special song for the new husband and wife to take the dance floor together and celebrate their union in dance.

Mother/son and/or father/daughter music: A nice idea for the parents and children to come together during a dance.

Cake cutting music: Not essential but this music can make a nice touch. It should be very low, background music.

Last dance song: This is the song to end the reception for the bride and groom as they're about to leave. It should be special to the couple but it doesn't need to mark the end of the dancing if guests wish to keep enjoying the event and the reception is still open.
 You may want the traditional bridal music, with the full classical experience. Or, you might prefer to use more contemporary songs, for a more tailored and intimate wedding experience. Either way, you will need to agree upon what works for both of you.



Traditional classical wedding music: This includes Pachelbel's Canon in D, Bach's Ave Maria, Bach's Air on a G String, Mozart's Ave Merum Corpus, Vivaldi's Four Seasons (especially the Winter Movement), Mozart's March of the Priests from The Magic Flute, Bach's Cello Suits, No. 1 Prelude, Grieg's Wedding Day at Troldhaugen, Rimsky-Korsakov's Procession of Nobles, Berlioz' Marche troyenne, and so forth.

Hymns: These may be determined according to your faith, to what your place of worship suggests and what you like. In Christian marriages, by way of one example, commonly used hymns include Ave Maria, Amazing Grace and On Eagles' Wings.

Modern love songs: There are so many possibilities here that to list them is not possible. Use the ones you already know and love, the ones that your beloved loves, or do a search online for lists of suitable songs. However, bear in mind that modern love songs used for the ceremony part are best kept clean, respectful and calm for the place of worship/ceremony location. Leave the raucous and fun stuff for after the ceremony. Of course, it's your wedding and if you want it another way, that's up to you!

, Now that you're aware of each other's tastes, there is another important element to consider. It is simply––the songs that resonate to both of you because they were playing during your courtship. You might have a dance floor number that was playing when you first fell for one another, or there might have been a song playing in the restaurant on your first date. Perhaps there was a song on the radio as you held hands overlooking the city in the car or a song that you dedicated to one another during your dating time. These types of songs have very deep meaning because they recall the moments during which you two were becoming closer.
 This is another style of song that might be suitable for your wedding music choices. Although the song may not have immediate recall for either of you, its wording may be so apt that both of you instantly feel it reflects your love for one another. You can search for lyrics online, using phrases that represent your love for one another, and using terms that reflect elements of your love and coming togetherness that both of you think are worthy of honoring.
 If you're having a first dance, and many cultures and faiths do have this element, then the first song is going to be important. It might be pre-determined by tradition, in which case you won't have much choice. Otherwise, if you are free to choose, this is a chance to select a song that really sums up your feelings for each other. Give this choice a serious thinking through; you may need to let the ideas bubble up for a while, or it may come to both of you in a flash. Ultimately, go with what feels right.


You'll know the song is right when you both cry: "This is our song!". It will be the song that reflects your relationship, sums up your feelings for each other and perhaps provides promises of ongoing support and love.
There are plenty of online lists for "first dance song". Spend a few evenings going through these and finding your likes. It's a fun exercise that the two of you can enjoy together, and you might discover some wonderful new music that you both like.
 Although you may be wrapped up in having certain music or songs, they might not sound as good as you wish them to. Be sure to trial the music, if possible, in the venue(s), so that you can be sure that the music will sound excellent.
 If bringing along your own, ensure that the players have the capacity to play the music loudly enough without distortion. If hiring someone to play the music, or hiring equipment, seek their advice as to appropriate placement and playing levels, etc.
 Once you've finalized the list of songs, turn it into a playlist. Play it in the car, at home, and on your MP3, to be certain that you've made the right choices. Having a digital playlist also makes it easy for the music to be played on your own players or used as a back-up for any hire equipment or music personnel.
 Will you use the venue's music facilities, bring your own players or hire a professional to come and play the music? Perhaps you'll pipe music through the ceremony venue's facilities but hire a DJ for the reception? Whatever your choice, make it early so that if bookings need to be made, these can be sorted out very early on.


If a friend or family member offers to be DJ, be sure to have a few meetings with this person to clarify absolutely everything you want them to play and say.

