 Once you’ve brainstormed a list of ideas, choose one as the theme of your essay. Focusing on one theme helps keep your essay organized and to the point., The person reading your essay will be reading stacks of them, so getting their attention right away is a great way to get the reader's interest right away. You could start with a quote, or a piece of advice you once received, or even a provocative way of setting up the theme of your essay.


For example, if your essay is on how you’re pursuing biology because you’ve always been interested in how things grow and survive in adverse conditions, you could say something like, “Watching grass grow is the most boring thing most people can think of. I love it.”

, Don’t try to copy someone else’s tone in your writing. You don’t have to sound like anyone else, you just have to sound like you. An easy way to write in your own voice is by avoiding clichés. Don’t use phrases that you’ve heard repeated over and over.For example, avoid saying things like "dream come true," "long story short," or "outside my comfort zone." Many, many people will use these phrases over and over and relying on them prevents you from using your own words to describe your experience and feeling., Once you’ve chosen the topic for you essay, write a messy first draft. Don’t worry about making it perfect, just write down everything you can think of that relates to your topic., When you’re writing your essay, provide examples to support the things that you’re saying about yourself. Anyone can say they’re a good leader or they love to learn, but what can set you apart is demonstrating how those things are true in your life.For example, don’t just say “I love being in leadership positions.” Instead, give examples of when you’ve been the leader in groups or taken the lead in situations with other people.
 It’s tempting to embellish or overstate what you’ve done when you’re trying to make yourself stand apart from others. You should not do this in your essay under any circumstances. Don’t say you’ve done something or been somewhere you haven’t., You might be tempted to try to make the admissions officer who is reading your essay laugh. Humor is a great way to make friends or break the ice with someone new, but you should try not to rely on it in your admissions essay. You have no way of knowing what the admissions officer’s sense of humor is like, and you don’t want to run the risk of a joke falling flat or, even worse, offending someone., College can be difficult, and one thing that admissions officers might be looking for is evidence that you've overcome obstacles and been able to work through hard situations. Using a positive tone in your essay helps emphasize that you've been able to get through and learn from difficult situations.


For example, if you're writing about a time when you helped a friend through the loss of a parent, part of your essay will obviously be sad. But you can also strike a positive tone by saying something like "It was one of the hardest things I've ever done, and it changed my friend in a lot of ways. But I also learned that you can never take a single day for granted and what it means to really be someone's friend."

