 In order to help rebuild trust, your partner may request certain things such as spending more time together or having you work to show them that you have changed. Be accommodating to your partner and put effort into any reasonable request they present.Getting defensive or private about your time or space may cause your partner to become suspicious. If there is a reason you cannot meet their request, be open about it and talk with them honestly.
Let your partner know, “I am completely willing to do this because I want to rebuild trust in this relationship. Would you be willing to share with me what you hope to gain from this so that I better understand the common goal we are working toward?”
Some individuals have even found it helpful to hire a personal detective to assure themselves that the cheating has completely stopped. Be aware that this is something your partner might want to do, and make sure it is something with which you are comfortable as well.
 You can make all the promises you want to your partner, but they will not mean much unless you also make an effort to show your partner that you are working toward change. This means not only being honest but keeping your commitments.Show your partner your dedication not just through grand gestures, but through daily, intentional efforts such as picking up the slack in areas your partner can’t manage on their own or by helping with things you didn’t help with before.
This may mean working harder to listen if your partner feels like you don’t pay attention, helping more around the house if your partner feels overwhelmed with other work, or making other contributions to your relationship to show your partner that you are committed and that you care.
It may help to establish a ritual that you and your partner do daily. For example, having a cup of decaf coffee together after dinner to discuss your day.
 Your partner does not have to take you back, and there’s a good chance they won’t. Some 30% of divorces in the US are the result of infidelity, along with countless more separations between non-married couples. If your partner decides that they cannot be with you after you cheated, respect their choice and remove your painful influence from their life.Fighting for a partner who does not want to continue their relationship may cause them greater emotional stress and damage. Show your love by respecting their decision if they want to leave the relationship.
 Accept your partner's answer and don't live your life hoping they will change their mind. If your partner does not want to take you back after infidelity, that is their right. They owe you nothing. Move forward and work to learn from your mistake.


If you truly regret your mistake, resolve to not repeat it in future relationships. Use this as an opportunity to improve your romantic partnerships moving forward.
Cheating does not happen in a vacuum. Spend some time looking at what contributed to your infidelity, and assess whether these are issues you can work on yourself.
Seek counseling if you feel you need it. A counselor may be able to help you get closure from your relationship, and work with you to develop more productive relationship choices in the future.

