 A tick must bite a person or pet to transmit disease, so by checking yourself constantly during your camping trip, the chances of contracting a tick disease are significantly reduced. When you check for ticks make sure to look in these places:Under arms and on the backs of knees
Inside your belly button
Around your waist
Between your legs
In and around your ears
A hand-held or full-body mirror can make checking for ticks easier.
 Although it can be difficult while camping, taking a shower or bathing will help you locate and remove any unattached ticks.This is a good time to perform a tick check.
 To kill ticks that might be on your clothes, dry clothing as soon as you come home from your camping trip.


Dry the clothes on high heat for 10-15 minutes.Do this before washing the clothes, since research has shown ticks are not killed by washing (even in hot water).
Don’t leave your clothing sitting in a pile or stick it in a hamper.
 To remove ticks that aren't attached, place duct tape over them and pull them off the skin or clothing with the tape. Then, fold the tape over itself and toss it in the trash.Bring a roll of duct tape on your trip so you are prepared.
A lint roller also works well for removing unattached ticks.
 If the tick has already attached itself to your skin, use tweezers to grab its body and pull it directly up and away.Tweezers with pointed ends work best so you can grab and hold on to the tick more easily.
If the tweezers are not pointed, you can tear the tick during removal, which increases the risk of spreading disease.
Never twist the tick or try to coax it off using heat or solvents.
Follow up by swabbing the area with rubbing alcohol to disinfect.
You can also apply an antibiotic cream or ointment to the site of the tick bite.
 If you are concerned about the risks of tick bites or live in an area where tick-borne diseases are common, it’s a good idea to place the tick you remove in a plastic bag so you can identify the type of tick and send it in for disease testing.Note the date you removed the tick on the bag.
Contact your local health department about where to send the tick for testing and for help with identification.

