 So your teen’s date demonstrates questionable behavior or has a disappointing reputation. Keep in mind that you don’t have to trust the date when you trust your child. If you have instilled good values into your child and they know their self-worth, you can depend on them to choose a partner who has similar values.Being able to trust your child comes down to knowing who you raised. Have you had any reason to question your teen’s judgment before? If not, give them the benefit of the doubt., Odds are, if you have warned your child about a dubious character, others may have, too. In fact, they may get the sense deep down that their date is bad news, but they may need time to come to terms with it.


Your child is bound to encounter undesirable friends and partners. Giving them the room to experience the relationship can help them learn how to successfully navigate these types of situations.Be sure that your child knows what they should expect from a healthy relationship. Discuss this with them often so that they understand what they deserve., If your instinct tells you to be on alert for your child’s new date, try your best to monitor the relationship. You may not be able to altogether keep them from spending time together, but you can enforce rules that restrict their visits.Set age-appropriate guidelines and sit down to discuss them with your teen. You might limit phone calls, social media use, dates, or house visits.
Setting these limits gives you an opportunity to closely observe the relationship to determine whether it is harmless or toxic.
 If you have evidence that your teen is being mistreated or abused, put your foot down. Obsessive communication with the date, unexplained marks or bruises, and marked changes in your child’s attitude or behavior may clue you in to an unhealthy or abusive relationship.Beware that forcing your child to end the relationship will probably affect your relationship with your child for a while. However, you must do this in order to keep your child out of danger.
Say something like, “I’ve seen the marks on your arms. I know he’s hitting you. I forbid you from seeing or talking to him again. I will also be talking to his parents.”

