 Certain lifestyle habits, which stress your body and immune system, will lead to a lower sperm count. If you are trying to make a baby, it's best to refrain from smoking, drugs (except prescription drugs — check with your doctor on this one), and alcohol in moderation.
 Not literally, but make sure your testicles are not jammed up against your body. Heat will kill the little guys, so switch to boxers and give them some breathing room. If there's a reason that men are born with testicles on the outside of their body, it's for them to stay nice and cool.
 Bicycle seats are notorious for reducing sperm count, and if you think about it for a moment, you will realize why. The pressure, the jostling, the bouncing — none of these are what sperm enjoy. Switch to the car or the bus while you're in sperm production mode, and your workers will respond with higher production.
 Yes, it's conducive to the right mood, but while you're making moony eyes, they're succumbing to heatstroke. Leave the tubbing for relaxation afterwards.
 Stress kills, and while you may be able to handle it for a while, your sperm is not nearly so rugged. Stress can interfere with the hormones needed to assist in sperm production. Given any kind of emotional (or physical) abuse, and they'll wriggle off to that great scrotum in the sky, never to return.
 Being too large — or too small — can affect hormonal balance. Too much estrogen or too little testosterone will have a negative impact on your sperm count. So hit the gym before you hit the sack, and find new and interesting ways to keep yourself motivated, so you don't give up on your weight loss mission before it starts.
 While they may help you bulk up your muscles, your un-muscular testicles will shrink. Regardless of sperm count issues, who wants that? Anabolic steroids are harmful to your overall health.
 Your body does most of the good production work while you sleep — and that includes sperm production. Get a full 8 hours of sleep every night when you're working on upping your sperm count.
 PC muscle exercises are used by men not only to last longer, but also to increase the volume of their sperm. There are a lot of PC muscle exercises that you can do to both satisfy your partner and give your progeny the best shot at success.
 Lubricants, while helpful for the process, may be harmful for the results. That's because lubricants, including saliva, lotions, and jellies, can interfere with sperm movement. If you need to, try using vegetable oil, peanut oil, or a lubricant such as PreSeed, which may not harm your sperm.
 Toxic chemicals and radiation can cause permanent damage to sperm. If you regularly work with toxic chemicals, be sure to wear protective covering (gloves, masks, etc.) so you limit exposure to your skin. Avoid areas that you know produce too much of radiation, and only opt for medical procedures involving radiation if necessary.
 All the above advice will not only help you increase the quantity of sperm, it will also improve the quality. Keep them healthy, active, and ready for the journey to come, and with any luck, one of them will reward you by becoming a baby!

