 There are hundreds of ways you can raise money for a cause, from a bake sale to a $100-a-plate gala. You must consider some of the following before hosting an event:


How much you intend to raise -- Think about why you are raising money. If it is an amount you can make by asking the general community, consider a car wash, bake sale, or selling candy. You can involve younger community members to participate in this fundraising, but note that this probably will not raise a million dollar.
Who you are asking to donate -- Consider the type of people you are asking to donate. If you are a local politician asking businessmen to donate, you will probably be raising more money than a local community club. If you are looking to fundraise around more affluent individuals, consider a formal dinner or party.
Who will be involved -- The type of fundraising you will be doing may depend on who is involved. If you are trying to raise money for a school activity, you may want to plan an event where children, teenagers, and adults can be involved.
 Fundraising takes a lot of work and planning. If you are planning an event, make sure you give yourself ample time and resources to plan before the actual event. Consider:


Will you need to book a venue? How many people do you expect to show up?
Will you be serving food and/or drink? Do you need a local permit for this?
Will you be playing music? Will you book a band, dj, or singer?
Will your or others be speaking at this event? What tone do you want to set for this? Do you want a formal speaker or a funny one?
What sort of dress code should those planning the event wear? What do you expect the donors/clients to wear?
What sort of advertisements will you allow? Will you hand out flyers? Will you make brochures? Will you show a video or picture slideshow to promote your work?
How will you acknowledge your donors? Will you send out personalized thank you cards?

, If you are fundraising for an event, get like-minded people involved! It is easier to promote your cause or product when you have others believing in the same thing. Ask friends, family, employees, neighbors, etc to help you in your endeavors.
 The most important step to fundraising is making sure everyone is happy. Always thank your donors and everyone involved with the project. This will help to establish friendships and potential future donors for additional causes.

