 Fentanyl is highly addictive. If you are using your prescription after your doctor has recommended you stop, or making the unsupported decision to increase your dosage, ask yourself if you are addicted. If you find yourself concealing your fentanyl use or otherwise acting surreptitiously or dishonestly to be able to obtain or use fentanyl, you may be addicted. If you are consuming fentanyl that you obtain from someone other than your doctor, you are likely addicted.


Fentanyl is often stolen from hospitals, pharmacies, and nursing homes.On the street, fentanyl is known as "rizzle," "gems," "china," "dance fever," "goodfella," "china girl," "TNT," "tango," "apache" and other names. It is sold by itself or mixed with other drugs.
If you find yourself buying fentanyl from dealers, consider visiting a detox center.
 Check into an inpatient facility for an immersive rehabilitation experience. In an inpatient facility, you will be in the company of other patients. You will have access to therapists and round-the-clock care. Your length of stay depends on your needs. After your detoxification, which may last a week, you can stay for anywhere from three weeks to three months.Supervised detoxification is safer than unsupervised detoxification, and your doctor may recommend it.
Inpatient care is a great option for patients whose home life is either unstable or distracting.
Consider joining a meet-up group or checking into an outpatient program to prevent relapse after completing inpatient therapy.
 There are several kinds of outpatient programs to choose from. "Intensive programs" meet several times a week for several hours a session and focus on preventing relapse. "Partial hospitalization" will have you visiting a hospital for several hours a day three to five days a week. Therapy and 12-step programs such as Narcotics Anonymous are also considered outpatient treatment.If you cannot afford inpatient care or to take time off work, consider outpatient care.
If you need continuing care after kicking an addiction, consider outpatient care.
If your home life is stable and supportive, and you feel you need the continuing support of your friends and family to commit to rehabilitation, consider outpatient care.
 Talk to your doctor or a rehabilitation specialist about taking methadone or buprenorphine to ease your addiction. Locate a methadone or buprenorphine center near you and ask for a clinical evaluation. If you have been using opioids such as fentanyl for a long time, methadone might be more effective than buprenorphine., Many rehabilitation centers are government funded or nonprofit. They may offer their services for free, or charge on a sliding scale based on your income. Almost all rehabilitation centers offer some amount of financial assistance. Outpatient care and methadone or buprenorphine treatments may be more affordable than inpatient programs.To find free or low-cost rehabilitation in the United States, call the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.


You can also look up local treatment centers with the Behavioral Health Treatment Services Locator on their website.
You can also use their website to locate centers near you that dispense methadone and buprenorphine.

