 One way to deal with a bad mood in a healthy way is to spend time in a natural setting. Go outside for a ten minute walk around the block or sit down on a bench in a park and read or people watch. Taking some time to relax in nature can help to alleviate a bad mood.Another way you can connect with nature and boost your mood is to go for a run outside or bike on an outdoor path. Exercise can help to improve your mood and doing it outside get help you feel that much better.
 Another way to snap out of a bad mood is to get in touch with friends, family, and peers that tend to cheer you up. Call up a friend who is often positive and cheerful. Or text a close friend who can sympathize with your bad mood and make you feel better. Sometimes talking to someone who is a good listener can help you let go of any anger or anxiety you are dealing with.For example, you may try talking to a friend about a bad grade and do something with them to cheer yourself up, such as going for lunch or heading out for a walk.
 Sometimes you just need a five minute break in your day to chill out and be with yourself. If you tend to have a hectic schedule, you may plan in a five minute coffee break in your day so you can have time to relax and let go of any negative feelings.During the five minute break, you may try doing breathing exercises or meditation. You may also do a relaxing activity, such as listening to your favorite song or doing some yoga stretches.
 Even a brief nap (about 20 minutes) can boost your mood and help you feel refreshed. If you feel exhausted or stressed, take a little time to lie down and snooze, or even just put your head down on your desk for a few minutes.If you can, take your nap between 1 and 4 PM, so that you will not disrupt your nighttime sleep schedule.
Be careful not to nap longer than 30 minutes, or you may feel groggy instead of refreshed when you wake up.
 If you are feeling angry or upset, you may need to channel these intense feelings into an action. You may release these feelings by doing chores and cleaning around the house to keep yourself occupied. Or you may use your negative energy to complete a project you've been meaning to do. Channeling your bad mood into a productive action can help you feel better and help you to release your anger. Focusing on a task can also help take your mind off of whatever is bothering you.


For example, you may use your bad mood to motivate yourself to complete a home improvement project or to get your homework done. Use your negative energy to get something done so you can feel accomplished and productive.

