 A sexual assault forensic exam, also known as a “rape kit,” can reveal important information about your attacker or abuser and serve as crucial DNA evidence in your case. Even if you are not certain about whether or not you want to report the crime or press charges, getting a sexual assault forensic exam will ensure that the evidence exists if you decide to report or press charges later on.Contents of a “rape kit” vary by state, but they usually include checklists, envelopes for evidence, a comb for collecting evidence, cotton swabs, and blood sample collection materials.
The test is available at no cost to you. In some states, your insurance may be billed or you may be billed if you do not have insurance, but you will be reimbursed for the cost.If you are helping someone who has been assaulted or abused, then you should encourage him or her to go to a hospital for a sexual assault forensic exam. Even if the person has been attacked or abused by someone who was known to him or her, getting a sexual assault forensic exam may be necessary to prosecute the person.
 The urge to bathe and throw away clothing is strong, but your body and clothing contain evidence. It is recommended that victims of a sex crime not:Change clothing or throw away clothing from the time of the attack.
Shower, bathe, or douche.
Go to the bathroom.
Brush teeth or hair.
Clean or straighten up the scene of the attack.
 A sexual assault forensic exam usually takes a few hours, but it may be a shorter or longer exam depending on your condition. You will receive care for your injuries first, and then you will receive a thorough physical exam.During this exam, evidence will be collected, such as swabs of your mouth, anus, and/or vagina, and samples of your hair, blood, and urine.
You may also be asked to submit articles of your clothing as evidence, such as underwear. These articles of clothing may contain important DNA evidence.
 Follow up care may include testing and preventative treatment for STIs. You may also need to see a physician to check on any injuries from the assault. Plan on following up with your gynecologist and/or primary care physician.You may also consider finding a therapist to help you with the psychological trauma of being sexually assaulted or abused. Sexual assault and abuse can cause a wide range of emotional reactions and some people even develop post-traumatic stress disorder.