 Not all dogs like the same toys. Pick a toy that your dog seems interested in, but use it exclusively for this training. Don’t leave it around for him to play with any time he wants., You should be standing or sitting in front of the dog. Hold the toy in your hand away from your body. Keep it completely still so the dog can see it and doesn’t think you’re already playing.In your other hand, hold a clicker. A clicker can be bought at a pet supply store for very little money. It's a tool that makes small clicking sounds to signal to the dog that he's done a good job.
Your dog will probably focus on the toy. He may jump or bark to get you to start playing.
Stay calm and be patient. Do not move. Don’t move the toy.
 Stand or sit totally still. Keep your eyes locked on your dog’s. Eventually he will realize that you’re not going to play and he will look you in the eyes. He may be sad or frustrated. That’s okay, you’ll play with him soon.Your dog may act very frustrated or upset when you won’t play with him. Stay strong. You need to allow your dog to feel a little uncomfortable in order to train him.
 Eventually, your dog will look at you. When he does, immediately mark that moment with a clicker. Then give him the toy or throw it for him to go fetch.Be sure to respond immediately to the desired behavior so that your dog will associate it with positive feedback.
 Keep playing this game with your dog until his attention wears thin. He will eventually begin to look at you very quickly when he realizes that looking at you gets him what he wants.Dogs have different attention spans. If your dog seems tired or disinterested, rest for the day and play again tomorrow.
Keep your method and reward consistent until your dog has mastered the art of focusing.
 Once your dog is generally successful at this game, add a verbal command. A common command is, “Watch me.” Use the command whenever you play the game with him.Eventually, you’ll be able to simply use the verbal command without needing the toy.

