


If you plan on using tissue paper, consider stacking 2 to 3 sheets so that it won't be see-through.
The paper does not have to be Christmas-themed. It can be winter-themed instead. For example, blue, white, and silver stripes are perfect for a Winter Wonderland themed party.
Consider matching the paper to your table settings. Your table will look nicer if the crackers match the napkins, plates, candles, decorations, etc.;
, If your paper has a patterned side and a blank side (such as scrapbooking paper or wrapping paper), make sure that the blank side is facing up.
 This will make your Christmas cracker pop like store bought ones. Place a long strip of double-sided tape down onto the paper, 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) down from the top edge.Next, place the cracker snap down onto the tape, make sure that it is centered, then run your finger across it to seal the tape. Make sure that both ends of the cracker snap are taped down.


Many craft and dollar stores sell cracker snaps during the holiday season. You may also be able to find them online.
 Make sure that the tape goes from edge-to-edge. You will be using this to seal your Christmas cracker shut.


If you added a cracker snap, the tape will be just above it.
 You should have about 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) to either side of your toilet paper tube.If you can't find any toilet paper tubes, you can cut an empty paper towel tube in half. You can also get an empty wrapping paper tube, and cut it into 4-inch (10.16-centimeter) long segments.
 Try to roll it as evenly and as tightly as you can so that the paper is smooth.When you get to the top edge, run your finger along it to seal the tape down., You can use just about anything to tie the cracker shut, but it might look better if it matches your paper or your theme. For example:


If you want something fancy or elegant, use a piece of satin ribbon, sheer ribbon, or curling ribbon.
If you want something cozy or rustic-looking, use baker's twine, jute or hemp cord, or yarn.
 You do not have to fill your Christmas cracker with everything listed in this section. Instead, use this section to get ideas and inspiration. Choose items that suit your budget, party theme, and guests.
 One of the most popular items is the paper crown. It is great for adults and children alike. You can make your own out of gold poster paper or out of butcher paper. Here's how you do it:Measure your head and add 2 inches (5.08 centimeters).
Cut a 2½-inch (6.35-centimeter) wide strip of paper according to that measurement.
Cut a zigzag pattern into one of the long edges.
Overlap the two narrow ends by 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) and secure them with a piece of double-sided tape.
Roll the crown up into a tube, then tie it up with a piece of string. This allows the crown to fit into your cracker.
 You can find lots of Christmas-themed facts and jokes online; you can also make up your own. Write or print your greetings, facts, and jokes on little slips of paper. You can take things a step further, and decorate them with Christmas-themed stickers, stamps, or simple illustrations.Pieces of washi tape around the borders would be a nice touch too. Here are some other examples of messages that you can include:


A fortune

A riddle
A blessing or a spiritual message
A recipe

, You can find lots of small items that can fit inside a Christmas cracker in the goodie bag section of a party store. The dollar section of an arts and crafts store may also carry some suitable items. Many stores also have a stocking stuffer section once the holiday season rolls around. Browse through those sections, and pick out some items to stuff your crackers with. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Candies or chocolates
Costume jewelry, such as "pearl" necklaces and clip-on earrings
Mini manicure kits and mini bottles of nail polish
Mini stationary items, such as: notepads, pens, novelty erases, etc.
Plastic figurines, toy cars, etc.
Small toys such as a spinning top, dice, hopping frog, etc.
Vouchers or gift cards for music, cafes, restaurants, etc.
 Keep in mind that this can get very messy, so only do this if you don't mind cleaning up afterwards. It would also be best to open confetti or glitter-filled crackers after the meal is over to avoid getting bits of paper or glitter into the food.
 Keep the amounts small and equal between your guests. It wouldn't be fair if one guest got a lot of money while another did not. Choose coins that are clean and shiny, and paper money that is crisp and clean. Dirty, grimy, wrinkled money may quickly the appeal away.


Do not include money if you plan on including candy, even if the candy is wrapped.
 This will give your guests something to unwrap as well as prevent messes. A small, organza bag would work for a fancier Christmas cracker.Matching tissue paper would work for a simpler Christmas cracker., You can, however, take things a step further and add some decorations. You do not have to do all of the decorations listed in this section. Instead, choose the ones that appeal the most to you.
 This will give your crackers that final, elegant touch; it will also make them look more professional.


If you used curling ribbon, consider curling the ends instead, but running them between your finger and the end of a pair of scissors.
 Cut a 4 by 8-inch (10.16 by 20.32-centimeter) strip of contrasting paper, and wrap it around the middle of your Christmas cracker. Seal the edge with a strip of double-sided tape., This can be as simple as a Christmas sticker with a Christmas greeting on it. If this is for a party, consider using a "To/From" style label instead, and writing the person's name on it. Use this as a place setting for your dinner party in place of the standard nametag.
, Many craft stores sell mini pine branches, holly leaves, and red berries for decorating gifts and wreaths with. These are great for Christmas cracker. Even though they are small to begin with, you might want to cut them down further so that they'd be more proportionate to your Christmas cracker. You can attach them to the body of the cracker, or to the ends where the ties are, with hot glue or pieces of clear tape.


If you are making blue, white, and silver Winter Wonderland-themed crackers, consider adding some mini, sparkly snowflake ornaments to them instead.
 An ink pad and a Christmas-themed rubber stamp can add a touch of old-timey design to a cracker covered with brown butcher paper. It will make the paper look more interesting, but it is simple enough to not detract from that cozy, rustic feel.
 This works great on construction paper, but you can use it on other types of glue as well. If you used wrapping paper or patterned scrapbook paper, you can use the original design as a guide. Glitter glue can take a while to dry, so it would be best to do this the night before your party.


You can also do this using puffy paint instead.
