 Just like you have to define a target audience for your trade show, you need to define a target audience for your speaking session. In the context of trade shows, this is usually a subset of your trade show target audience. You will need to find matching topics as well. Since your speaking proposal won’t get accepted if all you want to do is advertise your business, you have to come up with topics where you can demonstrate expertise and that interest your target audience.;
, You need to identify some possible speakers that could cover the topics you just identified. You need someone who is very knowledgeable about products and the industry, yet is polished and eloquent enough to be on a stage. The speaker/s you choose should also be outgoing and energetic, be witty, be able to “think on their feet”, and have a professional appearance.
 Trade shows need industry experts to speak at their conferences. It is not a requirement to exhibit in order to speak, though it often helps. Finding the opportunities that are out there can be a bit time consuming, but once you do and organize the results, maintaining your list becomes a quick and simple task. The first thing to do is make a list of possible shows you could speak at. Speaking proposals are usually accepted about 9-12 months before the show, so make sure you plan ahead. Search for shows with your target audience. Check the websites of trade shows you plan to attend for information on seminars and opportunities to fulfill your goal. You will find that information under various terms such as Call for Papers, Speaker Submissions or Speaker Proposals.
 As you find each opportunity, you should organize the information in such a way that it can be used from year to year, since shows and Speaker Submissions are typically held at the same general time each year. You can create a spreadsheet with the following information:


Event Name
Website
Contact Name
Contact Details
Speaker Submission Deadline
Event Date
Date Speaker Proposal Submitted
Results
Hyperlink to Documents (Create a folder for the information you collect from each show and link to it from the spreadsheet)

, Once you have found the speaking opportunities and collected the speaker proposal information and guidelines, you are ready to write your submission. Usually, the show will have certain guidelines to follow, such as amount of words you can use to describe your session. You might also have to answer specific questions about the target audience, your expertise etc.
Here are a few tips and guidelines to follow:


Look at examples of presentations that were offered at the show the previous year. (It is common for shows to offer popular sessions from previous years.)
Don’t duplicate previously offered sessions. You can try to cover the same topic, but you have to make sure you use a different angle.
Create a catchy title that describes your topic.
Be clear and concise with your session description (stay away from buzz words).
Don't pitch your product. The session needs to be educational in nature.
Describe what attendees will learn by attending your session.
 Once you have secured a session, get people to attend. Not only does it look good if your presenter is not in an empty room, the whole point is to create more interest in your knowledge and company. So it might very well be worthwhile to do a press release (especially free ones through the show), or send out invitations.

