 One way to get your dog to be less protective of you when you are with your partner is to use the “go to your place” command. This command can be done when your dog starts to get agitated or protective of you when you are around your partner. Or you can use it right before you and your partner are going to be intimate so you can have some privacy.To do the “go to your place” command, put a blanket or a pillow down in an area that is away from you and your partner. You may already have a “place” that you send your dog to when you have company over or when there is someone at the door.
Command your dog to “go to your place” or “go to place” and hold up a treat. Once your dog goes to the spot, throw the treat on the spot or go over and give them the treat.
Your dog should stay in the spot while you and your partner are out of the room. Reward your dog again if they stay in their spot when you reenter the room with another treat.;
, You can also use the “calm down” command to get your dog to relax and stay calm when you are around your partner. Do this by telling your dog to “calm down” or “relax” while holding a treat in your hand. Once your dog sits and appears calm, you can reward them with a treat.You may also try calming down your dog by ignoring their behavior when they get too protective around your partner. You may then wait until your dog relaxes to address them with a “Good job” and a treat.
It may take time for your dog to go from learning the “calm down” command to calming down on their own when you ignore them. You may want to start with the command first and transition to using no command at all, just body language like no eye contact or not addressing your dog.
 Another way you can encourage your dog to leave you and your partner alone during intimate moments is to teach your dog to stay off furniture like your bed or your couch. Not allowing your dog on the furniture can help to set clear boundaries and let them know that you are in charge. This way, your dog is already aware that the bed or the couch is off limits for them and that they cannot get involved in anything that happens on these spots.You can teach your dog to stay off the furniture by pointing at the ground and saying “down” to your dog until they get off the bed or the couch. Once they sit on the floor, you can reward them with a treat.
You should reinforce this rule in your home by not allowing your dog to go on any furniture, whether there is company over or not. Make sure other members of your household also uphold this rule.
 If your dog becomes protective and riled up when your partner is over or physically close to you at home, you should consider sending the dog out of the room. Tell your dog to go to their crate, if it is inside and nearby. You may put the crate in another room and say, “go to your crate” or “out.” You can also lead the dog to their crate and keep them in there while your partner is over so they are not able to see you or get physically close to you both.Keeping your dog in their crate may be a temporary solution, especially if your partner is over often and you do not want to confine your dog in their crate for a prolonged period of time. You may try other obedience techniques with your dog, such as a “calm down” command or a “go to your place” command once your dog understands the “out” command.

