 Climbing roses tend to be fairly heavy, so you will need more than a pole to support them. Consider using a rose tower or teepee trellis, using the process described in the steps below. Alternatively, use existing structures:


You may grow roses on a pergola or gazebo.
Roses can grow up walls or fences, but the lack of air circulation can cause issues. Using a trellis or horizontal wires near the wall is recommended.
Roses can be convinced to climb up a tree, but they will not cling to it on their own. Try tying sturdy string onto the lowest tree branch and anchoring it in the ground next to the rose.
 Place the trellis about 6 to 12 inches (15 to 30 cm) away from the roses. If planting the roses near a wall or fence, do not lean the trellis directly against the structure. Instead, allow for at least 3 inches (7.5 cm) of space in between the trellis and the wall to give the roses plenty of air circulation.
 You can often install the trellis simply by pushing its legs about 4 inches (10 cm) into the ground. If the soil is hard, dig a hole for each leg of the trellis instead. Pack soil back into the holes firmly to keep the trellis anchored.
 The smaller stems that carry the flowers are called rose canes. Attach these canes to the trellis as the rose bush grows tall enough to reach the bars. Choose the strongest canes and loosely tie them to the trellis using stretchy cloth, such as nylon or pantyhose.Try to keep the canes spaced evenly apart, gently bending the new canes outward to cover the trellis.
 Other than removing dead branches, leave the rose shrub alone for two or three years. After that time, you can begin pruning side shoots down to two or three buds every winter, when the plant is dormant.


When you are ready to prune your roses, you need to follow a specific process. Make a 45 degree cut about 1/4-inch (6 mm) above a leaf node. Be sure to angle your cut away from the leaf node so that any water on the plant runs away from the node instead of towards it.

