 As soon as you get your Maltipoo, you will need to make an appointment with your veterinarian. Your veterinarian will need to examine your Maltipoo to ensure that he is healthy and give him a variety of vaccines and preventative medicines. Some of the things that your Maltipoo will need include:


Lyme disease vaccination
Rabies vaccination
Heartworm prevention medicine
Flea and tick prevention medicine
Spay or neuter operationAnnual exams and vaccination boosters;
, Some diseases are more common in Maltipoos than in other dogs. You will need to check with your veterinarian to determine what tests your Maltipoo should have each year at his or her annual check-up to screen for these diseases. Maltipoos are more prone to:Dental problems due to their small mouth
Hypoglycemia or low blood sugar
Patellar (kneecap) luxation
Collapsing trachea
Legg-Calve-Perthes Disease
White shaker dog syndrome

, Since Maltipoos come from parent breeds that require regular grooming, your Maltipoo will also need regular grooming to maintain a healthy coat and to avoid matting and infections. Your Maltipoo will require a visit to the groomer about once every four to six weeks for a trim, so be prepared for this expense. Your Maltipoo’s grooming needs will also include daily brushing, bathing, checking ears, trimming nails, and cleaning teeth.Brush your Maltipoo’s coat every day. Use swift, firm strokes to brush your Maltipoo’s sides, stomach, back, and chest. Check for fleas, ticks, scabs, lumps, and other skin conditions as you brush. Tell your dog’s veterinarian about anything unusual that you find. Be aware that if your Maltipoo has curlier fur (similar to a poodle) then she will need even more attention to avoid matting.

Bathe your Maltipoo once per month. You can take your Maltipoo to a groomer for a bath or do it yourself.

Clean your Maltipoo’s ears. Look for any wax buildup, discharge, or foul odors. You can clean out your Maltipoo’s ears with a small piece of damp (not wet) cotton gauze wrapped around your finger.

Clip your Maltipoo’s nails once per month. Use a guillotine style trimmer or a grinder to trim your Maltipoo’s nails. Just be careful not to hit the quick, which is a sensitive blood vessel inside of your Maltipoo’s nail. Trim only a little at a time to avoid the quick.

Clean your Maltipoo’s teeth daily. You will need to use a dog toothbrush and toothpaste meant for dogs. Human toothpaste will make your dog sick. Start by letting your Maltipoo lick some wet dog food off of the toothbrush a few times and then try brushing your dog’s teeth.
 Maltipoos are indoor dogs. Keeping your Maltipoo outside will expose her to the elements, predators, and dog thieves. Since Maltipoos are designer dogs that often cost a lot of money, an unattended Maltipoo can be an attractive target for dog thieves.


Make sure that you keep your Maltipoo indoors as much as possible and supervise her whenever she needs to go out.
Give your Maltipoo a soft, comfortable bed to sleep in. To make your maltipoo even more comfortable, you may want to provide a soft bed for your dog. You can purchase a special dog bed or use some old (but clean) blankets.
 If your Maltipoo should ever get out of the yard and wander away from home, a collar and ID tag can help someone to return her home safely to you. Make sure that your Maltipoo is wearing a collar and ID tag at all times.


You may even want to have your Maltipoo implanted with a microchip to ensure that she can be identified even if she gets lost.'

, Maltipoos make excellent family pets because they are so even tempered. However, since Maltipoos are such small dogs, they may end up getting mishandled by young children who do not know any better.If you have kids, make sure that you talk to them about how to be gentle with your Maltipoo to avoid hurting him.


Supervise children around your Maltipoo until you are sure that they know how to handle him with care. If you notice that your child is being too rough with your Maltipoo, then try demonstrating the right way to hold, pet, and play with your Maltipoo. Make sure that you explain why it is important to hold the dog in this way.

