 Open up your web browser and search for something like, “Twitter Auto Direct Message” or “Twitter Auto Responder.”


There are several options for you to choose. autodmer.com is a simple option that has been working for a long time, and is free to use.
You can give a multitude of applications access to your Twitter, which can really increase both the social and marketing aspects of the social network.
At this time, Twitter does not provide you with an option to auto respond. You must authorize an outside application to do the job.;
, You will be asked to sign in to Twitter by providing your account and password credentials.


The application will tell you what specific aspects of your Twitter account it will have access to.
An auto responder/direct messaging application will not have access to your password.
If you change your mind and want to revoke access from an application you can do so through your Twitter settings. All you need is to go to Twitter, then go to Settings and then Apps.
 These applications are usually very straight forward. The most important part will be coming up with a short and concise Direct Message.


Twitter removed the 140 character limit from Direct Messages in August 2015. However, you don’t want to overwhelm a new follower with a wall of text that will likey go unread.
You’re going to want to greet people first, so that you don’t sound robotic. Be polite. This is your first impression.
Create a call to action to market yourself, but don’t be overly aggressive. If you’re polite in your presentation, people will be tempted to check out what you have to offer.
You can market anything you want ranging from your personal or business website, a blog, or another social media account.
 You can do this by going to Google and searching for “URL shortener.” A URL shortener will give you a new URL that is shorter than the original so you can save characters on Twitter.


Simply copy and paste a full URL into the Shortener. You will be given a shorter link, which still points to your website. Copy this link and use it in your auto tweet.
It is tough to both make a proper salutation and market yourself politely without writing far more than is necessary. A URL shortener will help you keep the clutter to a minimum so that a new follower actually reads what you have to say.
 You can do this by either having a second account or by having a friend unfollow and then follow you again. This will allow you to see what your auto tweet looks like, so that you can decide if you like it or not.

