 A pharmacy assistant, also known as pharmacy aide, organizes medications, deals with customers, and oversees the day to day business of a pharmacy. Pharmacy assistants do not have the credentials to be a pharmacist and need very little formal education. As an aide, you can accept orders, package prescriptions, and prepare prescription labels. But you cannot work directly with medications.As of 2013, the median salary for pharmacy assistants was $22,580, or an hourly rate of $11-$14.;
, Many pharmacy assistants are trained on the job. The main qualifications for the position, besides a high school diploma, are good people skills, good communication skills, and good organizational skills.
 As an assistant pharmacist, you will need to have basic math skills to count out dosages and run a cash register., Some employers favor applicants with training or experience in customer service, retail, or administration.


Previous customer service is a big asset for this position, as you will be working directly with patients to give them their prescriptions.
 Look online for job postings at pharmacies in your area. Go into your local pharmacy and talk to the pharmacist about a possible position or references to other positions available in the area.You will need to be at least 18 years of age to work at a pharmacy. Employment for pharmacy aides is growing every year, as pharmacies are always looking for capable, efficient assistants who work well with people.
Job opportunities for pharmacy technicians, who are trained to assist pharmacists in dispensing medications, are also growing rapidly every year. So you may decide you want to pursue a formal technician training program and become a pharmacy technician.
 When drafting your resume and cover letter, its important that you highlight your math skills and your communication skills. You should also indicate that you enjoy working with people and providing excellent customer service.


You should also list your high school diploma and any other education you have received.
 In most states, you will need to fill out a pharmacy assistant application to apply for a position. If you are applying for a job out of state, you can mail in your application. Regardless, you will need to provide basic information on the application, including:Your demographic information, including your social security number.
Your medical history, such as any medical conditions you suffer from or any past use of drugs or alcohol.
Your criminal history, if any.
Any medical certifications or licenses you hold.

