 If you don't already have one you can generate one for free online.;
, We all know the symbol for Venus - the circle with the little cross underneath. What zodiac sign is she in? Which house (1 to 12)? and identify any aspects that other planets are making to her. For advanced astrology sages look to the fixed stars and asteroids as well.
 Jot down some keywords for your Venus.


For example, you might have Venus in Gemini in the 5th house, Neptune is opposite (at a wide orb) and Saturn squares her closely. You would be jotting down things like: variety, fun, self-expression, mental stimulation, "the courtesan", pleasure. These would be for Gemini and the fifth house. For Neptune opposition and Saturn squared you'd have: illusion/delusion/vision, faith, spirituality, duty, honour, maturity, blockages, hardship, enforced waiting vs. patience. All of a sudden Venus isn't as simple as she first seems!
For those who want to, go ahead and add to your list what the books and sites say about the signs and houses that the planets aspecting Venus are in. For example my Saturn is in Virgo in the eighth (as if Venus didn't already have enough trouble) so we would see words like: sex, health, bonding, technique, intimacy, service/servants. With Neptune, you would continue along the same lines. With all that, for just Venus alone, you have built an intricate and revealing picture - but we are just getting started.
 The first, fourth and sixth houses are important in relationships but we are primarily dealing with how you attract, what you want to attract and what fits your idea of a mate.


For the Venus notes write above them "What I value and bring to me." For Mars write "What and how I go after and how my passions emerge". For the moon write "My needs and how I feel safe."
For the fifth house write " What fun looks like to me". For the seventh house "Who and how I am prepared to commit long term." For the eighth "Qualities that attract others to me / how the stage is set for sex / how I form intimate bonds with my mate." (The eighth house is complex)

, Let's start with the Moon. You want to start here because if your needs aren't being met and you don't feel safe and comfortable, basically, you can't flirt efficiently - your mind and body will be too busy trying to find ways to make the moon happy instead.


Example: your Moon might be in Gemini in the fifth house with the same aspects as your Venus. You have to be out having fun in a mentally stimulating environment that addresses my Saturn in Virgo need for cultivation, class and civilisation. You also need to have a clean house (that Saturn in Virgo has more say than the sign of Gemini!).
 When you look in the mirror do you see her? If not buy some clothes she would like etc. Layer this on top of your Moon's needs. For example a Moon in Aquarius needs to feel youthful and up with the times, or ahead of them if possible but Venus in Virgo needs simplicity purity, visual peace - its good times for this pairing with all the natural fabrics against fluorescent colours. (PS This is for men too, men need to activate Venus)

, Bring him in at the same level as Venus (we are all reaching for gender neutrality to some extent these days.) The Mars list will highlight how you can put your animal self out there. Going with the above example, Moon in Aquarius, Venus in Virgo, Mars in Leo - add a bit of getting noticed into the mix. For more, look to the house mars is in. In the second? Choose the expensive bag and watch. In the tenth? Make your appearance relevant to your industry or life purpose.
 Venus is centripetal energy, drawing in. Connecting with her will bring others towards you. Example Venus in Aries ("I'm the best!") in the seventh house ("Because I'm looking at you!") opposite Pluto ("Looking deep into you!").


Mars in centrifugal energy stepping out into the world, going after what it wants. This is desire and to connect with it will allow you to take action without thinking it out and the action will work out for you. Example, Mars in Aquarius in the first house conjunct Jupiter: responding to the environment like a surfer to the wave, based on exactly what you want and done in a big way.
 The first three give your more details in the picture of how you fall in love and what makes you attractive and the last two are more about your primal needs and tendencies. You could also add to your lists Juno who shows you what you absolutely need from someone in order to commit to them.
 Look to your Venus to see what you find visually appealing (Venus in Taurus: sensuous, touchable). Look to your Mars as to what sexual approach you respond easily to (Mars in Leo: someone who is not shy of romancing you).
 If they don't get activated, attraction can't happen. In this article we haven't worried about looking to 'his' or 'her' Venus or Mars - if you know yours well and are in tune with them then coming to you will be the person whose Venus and Mars tickles yours the right way.
 For example Capricorn a mature setting or even at work (for Sagittarius Sun perhaps) could make you feel like you are in the right place to take your clothes off.
 Using your birth chart to discover how you attract positive mates is especially helpful in those times when you seem to be beating your head against the dating and mating wall. We are all individuals - some of us aren't even all that monogamous - and all it takes is a little self knowledge and a lot of self acceptance and we can feel open to love and intimacy.

