 Before you begin packing, think about what you plan on doing during your stay in Oahu, Hawaii, and plan accordingly. One of the most tourist-bound locations in Oahu is Waikiki Beach. If you plan on staying on, or visiting, Waikiki Beach, plan accordingly to visit a beach. Other popular Oahu attractions include hiking the Diamond Head Crater, a Natural Historical Landmark. Before you even begin packing, make a list of your itinerary, and pack your bags based on that.;
, Oahu is a tropical climate, and the weather usually averages between 70째F (21째C) to 85째F (29째C). Because of the steady warm weather, Oahu is not the destination to bring winter attire to. When choosing clothes to pack for Hawaii, think light.



Do not jam pack your suitcase with fuzzy sweaters and blue jeans. Not only will these things take up more space in a suitcase, they will make for a sweaty and uncomfortable vacation. Pack your summer attire when thinking about clothing for your vacation in tropical paradise.
 Do not hesitate to be picky when choosing a suitcase to take along with you on this trip. If you have to question whether the old suitcase in the back of your closet will endure your travel, do not bring it. Your suitcase should have plenty of space, and an abundance of storage pouches.


It's also a good idea to pick a suitcase with a completely funky, unique pattern. This will make it easier to spot your suitcase in baggage claim, and avoid any confusion with others.
Use a suitcase that is slightly larger than necessary to accommodate souvenir space. If you don't want to hassle with additional baggage fees, it's recommended shipping a flat rate box to yourself.
 When choosing what you will be packing in your suitcase, think in the mindset of packing light. Chances are, during your stay in Hawaii, you will have access to laundry facilities at little to no cost at all.
 Below, is a clothing list. It is biased to women; however, it can be adapted to men, as well. You can change this list to adapt to your needs, as they are. By no means at all is this list an end-all-be-all of things you have to take with you, of a restricted quantity.


5-6 casual t-shirts and tank tops. You don't have to wear a new shirt everyday you're on your trip. By packing a limited amount, you are being space-efficient to your suitcase and saving yourself some laundry work. Same goes for all other article of clothes.
3-4 pairs of comfortable shorts. Pack a variety of shorts, but they should be comfortable. Be aware, when you are packing your clothes, that this list is meant to be mixed and matched. Steer away from bold color patterns. Stick with simple blue denim, white, and black shorts, and be wary of patterns.
1 pair of jeans. Only one pair of jeans is really necessary. These are for dinners and outdoor activities like horseback riding. You will not need more than one pair on the duration of your trip.
2 casual blouses. This one was obviously geared towards the ladies. If you're a man, opt instead for polo shirts, or button-ups. Steer away from suits and ties. A very slim amount of dining facilities in Hawaii require a strictly formal dress code.
2-3 bathing suits. This one is important, especially if you plan on spending time near the water. Three bathing suits is ideal, but a minimum of two is perfectly okay. This way, you can alternate drying them. Make sure you place one suit in your carry-on bag, just in case you have some slight luggage complication. Even if you are a guy, do not skip out on this suggestion. Putting on a cold, damp swimsuit is never fun.
2 suit cover-ups. This one is especially a must if you plan on shopping shortly after spending a day at the beach. Make one of the cover ups a full coverage (sheer is fine) cover up. Online, you can find plenty of cute crochet cover ups that are elegant while still being casual at the same time. For ladies, a sarong is great. These can tie around the waist and serve as a cute, bohemian cover up, and serve multiple functions. Whatever you choose, keep it beach-casual and think efficiently.
2-3 sundresses/skirts. Ladies, these are very cute when done right. Maxi dresses and maxi skirts are wonderful tropical destination attires. Be wary when selecting these dresses and skirts. Sea breezes can be quite strong along the coast, and short dresses/skirts when not tight/form fitting, are quite likely to blow up and over, which may cause for an embarrassing situation. Sundresses can also double as swimsuit cover ups.
1 nice outfit for semi-formal outings. It's perfectly fine to have one well put together dressy outfit for nights out. Girls, think casual dresses and wedges/flats/dress sandals. Guys, think button up with khakis and a pair of flip flops.
3 pajama combinations. Opt for leggings/sweatpants with normal T-shirts. These can double as comfortable and casual outfits for the airport.
6 pairs of socks. Self-explanatory. You may want to add a few to this number and always keep an extra pair or two in your day bag- Socks are easily soiled, and damp/wet socks are annoying, and are very likely to irk you if you are required to walk around in them.
6 pairs of underwear. Alternate the styles to fit your outfits. For example, T-backs and seamless styles are far more suitable for spandex like clothing.
4 bras. Neutral colors and versatile styles are best. Nude, black, white. Racerback, sports bra, strapless, etc.
2-3 active outfits if you plan on rigorous outdoor activity. Opt for breathable, fast drying materials. If you plan on working out, pack yourself some spandex shorts, yoga pants, etc; Don't forget compression shorts and other necessities.
 Once you have chosen what clothes you are packing, organize them by category, fold them as tightly and space-efficiently as you can. Place these aside for now.
 Get them out and lay them aside for now (you'll pack them in the next section). You should also plan to be efficient with the shoes you pack. No matter how tempting it may be to pack those dazzling pumps your hubby bought you as a gift, they will not be necessary on the islands. Stick to a bare minimum here, but do not cheat on comfort, or style. Many comfortable shoes are also stylish, so here are some good options to include:


One pair of training shoes. Nike Frees are great choices. these will make wonderful shoes for sightseeing, hiking, and other rigorous outdoor activities. These will most likely be your most space consuming shoes, therefore it's a good idea to wear them to the airport to save space in your suitcase. Picking a shoe with comfortable padding, arches, and size will serve you well on your sightseeing- and trek through the airport.
1 pair of flip-flops. These are perfect for a two week outing to Oahu, Hawaii. They don't take up lots of space in a suitcase, and you can never go wrong with flip-flops on a tropical vacation.
1 pair of dress sandals or flats. Perfect to pair with your dinner outfits, and you only need one. Don't try to pack three of these as your 'flip flops'. Flip flops are much less likely to cause blisters. Save these for nights out on the town and dinner reservations.
 Get small bags to store your different toiletries in based on the categories they fall under. One caboodle (They sell these at Target) can fit all of your travel sized bath supplies and makeup. This can fit snugly amongst your clothes in your suitcase. Also consider a bag for hair items, and another for feminine products, regardless of if you plan to be on your cycle or not during your trip to Oahu. Better safe than sorry. Suggested Toiletries:


Toothbrush
Toothpaste
Mouthwash & Floss
Teeth whitening strips
Face wash & Acne wash
Cotton swabs
Facial moisturizer
Body wash
Deodorant
Body mist
Shampoo
Conditioner
Leg razors, bikini trimmers, + Shaving cream
Tweezers and nail clippers
Sunblock (Body)
Sunblock (Face)
Aloe (After-sun gel)
Feminine Products
Bandaids + Basic first aid
Excedrin, Ibuprofen, Tylenol, Other prescriptions
Contact solution
Birth control
Multivitamins
Hairbrush
Bobby pins
Hair clips
Clear nail polish
Makeup
Makeup tools
Hair dryer (If your resort doesn't make the accommodation)
Heat Protectant
Heat tools for hair

, As you pack, prepare a piece of paper you will use to make inventory of the items you pack. This will be useful when you are packing to come home. This way, you will not miss anything.
 Make sure easily wrinkled items are rolled. Fold everything in a compact matter and condense everything. If you are positive your suitcase is not large enough to accommodate everything you are packing, invest in space saving bags that will remove the air from packages and allow you to store them flatly.
 If you have a net pouch/pocket on the top section of your luggage, this is a good place to store your intimate wear and bathing suits. They will be easily accessed here. Also place your socks here.
 Use your space wisely, and reassure you folded everything efficiently.
 Add your active-wear.
 This is especially important for sheer blouses and silk, which may wrinkle easily.
 Other items, like maxi dresses and skirts, can be rolled and placed in gaps between clothing.
 Just be sure to place them so that the potentially dirty soles of the shoe are not against any clean clothing.
 Chances are that you need your toiletries until shortly before you leave, unless you have extras. Pack them in a water-resistant toiletry back that will keep in any spills, should they occur on the plane or in transit. If desired, you can wrap the whole toiletry kit in a plastic grocery bag to be safe, and then put it in your suitcase.

