 Colonic irrigation, also known as colonic hydrotherapy, can help to flush waste material out of your bowels with water. Your doctor may be able to do this procedure for you or recommend a colonic hydrotherapist who can do it for you. Be sure to choose a colonic hydrotherapist who is licensed by a recognized national organization. Before you get the procedure done, speak to your doctor about your medical history to ensure you can safely get the procedure.During the procedure, a pump is inserted into your rectum and about five gallons of warm water are put into your system over a period of time. Once the water is in your colon, the therapist may massage your abdomen to get circulate the water through your colon and to help waste products pass out of your body. The procedure can take about 30 to 45 minutes.
You should not have a colonic irrigation performed if you have certain medical conditions, including diverticulitis, severe hemorrhoids, ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease, bowel or rectum tumors, recent bowel surgery, heart disease, or kidney disease., Your doctor may be able to perform an enema on you in their office if your bowels have become impacted or you are having issues with your colon. Enemas are often recommended for constipation and poor bowel movement.Your doctor may recommend a certain type of enema for you, based on your needs. The enema insertion should be done by a trained professional in a sterile space with clean equipment.
 If you have had chronic constipation for longer than six months, ask your doctor about drug treatments that can help to stimulate your bowels. You may resort to this option if adjusting your diet and lifestyle, as well as other colon treatments do not work. Medication may also be a good option if you develop a bowel issue like Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS).Make sure you are aware of the side effects of the medication you are taking. If the side effects become severe, you should see your doctor right away. Side effects of colon medications can include short term nausea, dizziness, and cramps.

