 Your senior dog will be anxious about going to a strange new place, so you will want to create a warm and inviting environment for it. Purchase a crate and put it in a quiet part of your home. This will make the transition much easier. You should also ask your roommates and family members to keep it down for a while as your dog adjusts to its new surroundings.Keep the crate in a place where your dog can interact with you and the other members of your family. Do not put it in the garage or a storage closet.
Although your senior dog will likely be house trained, it may still have accidents while it adjusts to your home.
 One of the first things that you should do once you adopt a senior dog is take it to the veterinarian. You will want to make sure that your dog is spayed/neutered and that it has all of its vaccinations. Because it may have chronic health problems to address, you will want your vet to evaluate your dog as soon as possible.Many dogs develop ear infections and other minor diseases while in a shelter or rescue home.
Give your senior dog a few days to rest and adjust to being out of the kennel before taking it to the veterinarian.
 Gradually introduce your dog to new people and things. Take it on a tour of your home and allow it to explore at its own pace. If you have other pets, bring them to introduce your new dog one at a time. Introducing a bunch of new animals may overwhelm your senior dog.Try not to have any parties or major get together in the first couple of weeks after you adopt your dog.
 It is important that you introduce your dog to its new routine as soon as possible. Take the dog for walks at the times that you intend to walk it and feed it during regular meal times. Try to create a routine right away and stick with it. This will help your dog adapt to its new surroundings.If your senior dog is on any medications, make sure that it receives them as prescribed.
At first, try to feed your dog the same food that it ate in the kennel. This will keep it from developing any digestive issues.

