 If you've hurt your friend, she may not want to immediately spend time with you. She may want some space initially. It's important to respect this if you want to eventually win your friend back over.Be understanding. If you hurt your friend, she may not be able to forgive immediately. Do not take it personally if your friend asks you to limit contact with her temporarily.
The space can be valuable for both of you. Your friends can have a chance to cool down, and you can take the opportunity to reflect on what you did.;
, You will eventually want to apologize to your friend. The most effective apologies focus on acknowledging the needs and feelings of those you've hurt. Spend the time to yourself reflecting on what your friend might need from you.Did you violate your friend's emotional needs? This may be how you lost his trust. For example, maybe you made a comment about your friend's weight. This is a sensitive topic for him, and he reacted poorly.
What does your friend need from you to move forward? He probably needs you to be more respectful and understanding in the future. He may also need you to understand which subjects are off limits for jokes.
 It may help to understand why you behaved the way you did. If you did something to hurt your friend, there may be a reason for this. Spend some time reflecting on any factors that contributed to your behavior.Ask yourself honestly why you lashed out. Were you feeling insecure or bad about yourself? Many people hurt others due to their own feelings on inadequacy.
Once you understand your behavior better, think about how to change in the future. Maybe you lashed out at your friend because you have issues with your own weight. You could talk to a therapist about your body issues and try to treat your body better through healthy eating and exercise.
 You can send this letter, if you want. You can also simply write it as a means to get your feelings out. When you apologize to your friend, having written out your thoughts may be helpful.Write a sincere letter expressing your remorse. Begin with something like, "I'm really sorry that I hurt you."
You can try to offer an explanation; however, make it clear it's an explanation and not an excuse. You do not want to sound like you're justifying your behavior.
You can send the letter out to your friend. You can also type the letter and email it. You can request to meet in person to apologize formally.
 The first step of a solid apology are the words, "I'm sorry." People need to hear this first. From there, acknowledge your mistakes. You want to make it clear you understand what you did wrong.For example, begin with something like, "I'm sorry. I completely take responsibility for messing up and hurting you."
From there, explain what you did and why it was wrong. For example, "I never should have made that comment about your weight. It wasn't funny. It was insensitive and hurtful."

, Your friend will be more inclined to listen to your apology if you seem genuinely remorseful. Be direct about how bad you feel about your actions.This can be short and simple. For example, "I really regret being cruel and breaking your trust."

, You want to make it clear you understand. Your friend is more likely to trust you in the future if she feels you understand the consequences of your actions. Your friend will want to know you've learned your lesson and will not screw up again.You can say something like, "I can't imagine how hurt you must have been when you heard what I said."
From there, once again take responsibility. For example, "I am so sorry I hurt you in this way, and put you all in a position where you felt betrayed. There's no excuse for my behavior."
Be willing to allow your friend to to express how you hurt her. After an apology, your friend who was hurt may restate how it affected her as a way of making sure you truly understand how she feels. Be prepared for this: listen, try to understand, and, even if you have already said "I'm sorry," you may have to say it again.
 You want to end things on a good note, so ask your friend to give you a second chance. Things may not be normal again right away, and your friend may initially reject your apology; however, leave the door open for reestablishing trust in the future.Your request for forgiveness doesn't have to be long. You can simply say something like, "I'm sorry for having hurt you. I know it may take time, but I hope in the future we can be friends again."

, If you broke trust, your friend may expect you to make up for it in some way. You can offer a concrete means of repairing the damage when you apologize.Let your friend know if you have already done anything to make up for it. For example, "I made you this mix CD of apology songs, and I've been seeing a counselor about my own body image issues."
You can also tell your friend what you may do in the future to repair things. Make sure your friend knows this will never happen again. For example, "I'm really making my own mental health a priority right now. I'm not going to stop seeing a counselor until I feel stable enough not to lash out at others."

, Your friend may set some boundaries with you and let you know what she will and will not accept in a friendship. She may also have some ideas about how you can begin retraining her trust. You can say something like, "I know it's hard for you to trust me right now. Is there anything I can do to show you I really mean it? Is there something I can do to begin earning your trust back?" She may have some specific steps you need to take in order to feel you can be trusted again, depending on what happened.

For instance, if you friend found out you were talking about her behind her back, she may want you to go speak with those people and tell them what you said was untrue, and that you were wrong to say those things to them.
 Show your friend you're capable of loyalty. If he lets you back into his life, work on being a good friend. You want to make sure you do not break his trust again.Be sensitive to your friend's worries and fears. Ask your friend how he's doing if he is going through a rough time. Offer to listen if he needs to vent.
Never judge your friend. If he expresses something, react with respect and interest. People are likely to trust those who do not tell them what to do.
 It's going to take time to reestablish trust. In the aftermath of an apology, do not be surprised if your friend is still mad. She may still be stung by what you did, and it make take some time for her to work through that.

Continually put yourself in your friend's shoes. If you feel frustrated by her inability to forgive you, think about how hurt you would be in her position.
 Actions often speak louder than words. After apologizing, try to show your friend how you have changed.Work on being a more trustworthy person. Keep your promises, do not talk behind people's backs, and be there for your friend emotionally.
 You can rebuild broken trust over time. Be consistent and kind with your actions. Eventually, your friend should forgive you; however, do not expect this to happen overnight. It is difficult to trust people, and when trust is broken it can be tough to get it back. It may take many months before your friend completely forgives you.