 The toys that your child plays with can have an influence on your child’s behavior. Some toys, like pretend guns, swords, knives, or slingshots, may cause your child to play violently, as they are violent items. When your child plays violent games, that violence may transfer to his other actions, causing him to become aggressive.


Consider giving your child education toys that encourage thinking, creativity, and problem solving. These toys may include Legos, clay, blocks, or a painting kit.
 The media includes TV shows, video games, the internet, and much more. While there are some restrictions placed on the media, there is still a relatively loose limit on the amount of violence that can be shown. When your child watches a TV show that focuses on violence, he is may begin to consider this acceptable behavior.Try to restrict the shows that your child watches, particularly if he is around the age of two.
 Children tend to look up to and mimic their peers, which means that they will accept the behaviors that their friends display as good behavior. If your child hangs out with another child who tends to make snarky remarks to the teacher, or throws temper tantrums, your child may see these behaviors as things that are fine to do.


If you have your child’s friend over and notice that he displays a lot of aggressive behavior, consider talking to his parents. If it becomes very bad, you may consider limiting the amount of time your child can spend with that friend.
 Children can be influenced by the people taking care of them. These people include parents, babysitters, older siblings, and teachers. Make sure that you model the appropriate behavior, and that others who take care of your child are also displaying decent behaviors.


A caregiver who builds a child’s self-esteem, confidence, and trust will encourage him to learn how to establish meaningful relationship with other people.
 If your child has been exposed to trauma, danger, or violence, this exposure can affect his behavior.For example, if your child witnessed abuse being done to someone else, this could affect his behavior.


Family therapy sessions may help your child to understand and deal with the trauma.

