 Injured or orphaned prairie dogs are occasionally turned over to shelters by wildlife services. Shelters also occasionally have domesticated prairie dogs that are surrender by their owners for a variety of reasons. Go online to get contact information for the shelters in your area and give them a quick call.


If you adopt from a shelter you will generally have to agree to get your prairie dog spayed or neutered by a certain date, if it hasn’t been done already. You may need to pay an adoption fee.;
, Many areas with prairie dog populations also have wildlife organizations established to protect the area’s animals. These groups often maintain a rehabilitation center as part of their operations or they work cooperatively with local vets. The animals that they sell are often rehabbed after injury or abandonment.Many wildlife rescues, as well as animal shelters, now list their available animals online either on their main website or an adoption listing service. Adopt-A-Pet is a good site to see pics of rescued prairie dogs. You can search by location as well.Getting your dog via a rescue or a shelter is a humane option as it frees up more space for another animal to be taken in and cared for. Many of these organizations will also require that you surrender the prairie dog back to them if you change your mind.
 These shows are held all over the world and feature dealers who are selling (or simply showcasing) their exotic pet collections. To find a show near you go online and search your location and “exotic pet show.” However, be prepared to pay a premium for your dog as dealer often charge higher purchase prices.


Whether you buy from a dealer in person or online, make sure to ask about how they come upon the animals that they sell. Some prairie dogs are legally trapped while others are caught in less regulated ways and could have suffered as a result., There are a handful of breeders online who make a living raising and selling prairie dogs. You can find a listing by searching for “prairie dog breeders” online. Before you buy, carefully discuss the details of cost, care, and transport. Request to see photos of the particular dog that you are purchasing as well, which can help ensure that you receive a healthy animal.Make sure that you buy a young, hand-raised dog. It is best if you can have the dog in-hand before it is 10 weeks old as this is a critical bonding time for you both.
Breeding conditions are often a subject of some controversy. Check online or with animal rights organizations (such as the SPCA) to make sure that your breeder is not under investigation for animal cruelty. For example, one prairie dog breeder (U.S. Global Exotics) had animals seized due to inhumane treatment., These establishments often stock animals directly from breeders. Therefore, the best selection is to be found directly after breeding season in the spring. If you purchase a dog from a pet store you can expect to pay right around $150. Most stores offer some sort of guarantee for health as well.The price point is dependent on location too. In Japan a pair of healthy prairie dogs in their prime can sell for thousands of dollars., No matter which seller you choose, try to dig up some information on their past transactions. Talk to people who you know own prairie dogs and ask for seller references. Investigate your potential seller online to see if they have any negative reviews and why. This is particularly important as prairie dogs can have some serious health problems that are difficult to detect until post-purchase.