 Remove all of her clothes this time, as she will be "dressed" in candy instead.

Tie back Barbie's hair in pink ribbon. Make it as high a ponytail as you can, as it will look better on top of her head when she is lying down.
 Follow the package mix instructions and bake the cake in a square cake pan lined with parchment paper.,, Let stand in the pan for 10 minutes after removing from the oven.

Place on a wire cooling rack and let cool completely before icing.
 To do this, draw a butterfly wing template that matches the size of the cake on construction paper or thin card. Cut this out, then place over the square cake. Cut around the template and remove the excess outside pieces, leaving the butterfly shape intact.

Basic butterfly wing shapes can be found by doing a quick online image search.
If you make a sturdy enough template, it can be kept for using another time. Simply brush off crumbs or icing that accumulates over time.
, Use the same recipe as above. However, there is no need to make two colors; this time simply use pink as the base color (or vary as needed)., Cover all of the sides as well as the top., Alternatively, cut out shapes from fondant and add these in a pattern around the edge of the cake., If you can't find something like this, be creative with any sort of candy that will cover Barbie up modestly., Her head and neck should be located above the cake's middle dip and her legs should come out from the lower dip in the middle of the cake, just above her knees. The wings will fan out from either side of her body.

Barbie should adhere to the existing icing already on the cake but if not, add a few more dabs of icing to help keep her in place.
 If you can find candies shaped like leaves or berries, this will fit the nature/fairy theme. Thick candies can be sliced in half to help them fit better and their sticky insides will make it easier to attach them.

Use icing as the glue to keep the candies stuck to the doll and each other.
 Her legs should be straight down. Once the icing sets, the cake is ready to serve.