


Fibrates are carboxylic acids, a type of organic acid made of carbon and oxygen. They area also amphipathic, meaning that they are drawn to both fats and water.
These drugs increase HDL levels while decreasing triglyceride levels. They accomplish this by reducing the liver's production of a particle that carries triglycerides.
Be aware that fibrates can cause digestive upset and liver irritation, along with gallstones. They are also dangerous to use with blood thinners and may cause muscle damage when used with statins.
 The most common nicotinic acid is niacin.


Nicotinic acid is another carboxylic acid.
Like fibrates, nicotinic acid reduces the liver's ability to produce triglyceride-carrying particles called VLDL, or very low density lipoproteins.
Nicotinic acid raises HDL cholesterol ("good cholesterol") more than many other medications of this type.
Consult your doctor prior to using this medication as it can interact with other medications and have dangerous side effects. Possible severe side effects include difficulty breathing, severe stomach pain, jaundice, and dizziness. Although these are uncommon, they are important to be aware of.
 Naturally consuming more omega-3 fatty acids can make a difference in triglyceride levels, but high doses of prescription omega-3 supplements can lower triglycerides even more effectively.


Prescription omega-3s usually come in the form of fish oil pills.
Only take high doses of omega-3s under the instruction and care of a doctor, as they could interact with other medications. Too much omega-3 can severely thin out the blood and lower blood pressure. It can also lead to elevated levels of blood sugar and may impair liver function. Mental disorders can also be triggered.
 The most commonly used statin is atorvastatin. Other statins include fluvastatin, lovastatin, pitavastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin, and simvastatin.


These drugs lower cholesterol by blocking an enzyme known as HMG-CoA reductase. This enzyme has a key function in producing cholesterol.
The main purpose of a statin is to reduce LDL cholesterol. It can also reduce triglycerides, but the drug tends to be less effective than many other types of medications prescribed for this purpose.
Statin side effects are rare but severe. Muscle damage is the main side effect, especially when used in conjunction with a fibrate, but it can also cause liver problems and increase your risk of diabetes.
Beware of symptoms of excess omega-3 intake. These may include oily skin/breakouts, cravings, greasy hair and overall feeling of sluggishness.

