 Satin Angora rabbits need lots of room to hop and play, so make sure that your rabbit’s cage is at least 12 square feet. If the cage that you choose has a wire bottom, then you will need to cover it with something to protect your rabbit’s feet. A large piece of cardboard or a large plastic mat will work.If possible, try not to get a wire bottom cage because the wire can hurt your Satin Angora rabbit’s feet. Try to find a cage that has a solid metal bottom.You can also use a puppy playpen as an enclosure for your Satin Angora rabbit. This will give your rabbit lots of room to hop and play.
Rabbit condo enclosures also offer more room and fun hiding places for your rabbit to enjoy., Satin Angora rabbits like to hide in cardboard boxes, chew on them, and push them around. Make sure that your Satin Angora rabbit always has a few boxes to use for chewing, playing, and hiding.Try stuffing a small box with hay and cutting small holes in the sides so that your rabbit can munch on the box and the hay.
 Satin Angora rabbits have to chew all of the time to wear down their teeth, so make sure that your rabbit always has plenty of things to chew on. Try giving your Satin Angora rabbit some:


alfalfa cubes
untreated pine boards
cotton towels
cardboard
apple branches, Your Satin Angora rabbit will use a litter box if you provide one for her. Line the litter box with a few sheets of newspaper and some shredded newspaper as well. Make sure that you empty the box once per day to prevent your rabbit’s cage from developing a foul odor.Place the litter box in the corner of the cage that your Satin Angora rabbit like to use for urinating and defecating. This will make it more likely that she will use the box.
You may also want to keep a couple of litter boxes outside of your rabbit’s cage so that she can use them when she is playing outside of her cage.
Do not use cedar or pine shavings as litter or bedding for your Satin Angora rabbit. These materials can lead to respiratory and liver problems for your rabbit.