 Each player sets a ball on the table behind the "head string," meaning between the end of the table and the second pair of "diamonds" or marks on the table's sides. At about the same time, each player hits one of the balls, aiming to touch the far end of the table and return as close to the near end as possible without touching the near end or the sides. Whoever comes closest gets to break.


Repeat the lag if both players hit the sides or nearest end.
If you are playing multiple rounds, you only need to lag before the first one. After that, players take turns breaking.;
, Set up the nine object balls (everything besides the un-numbered cue ball) in a tightly packed diamond shape. The ball at one end of the diamond is on top of the marked "foot spot" on the table surface. The nine ball is in the center of the diamond, and the other balls are arranged randomly around it., The player about to break places the cue ball behind the "head string," on the far side of the table from the diamond-shaped rack of balls. (Remember, the head string runs between the second pair of diamonds marked on the table's sides.) That player then shoots the cue ball at the one ball at the diamond's closest tip.


In official rules, the break must either cause one numbered ball to enter a pocket, or cause at least four balls to hit a side of the table.If neither of these happen, the break is considered a foul, and the other player may place the cue ball anywhere on the table. You may wish to play without break fouls if you are playing casually.
 Immediately after a player breaks, that same player can declare that he will "push." If he does, he takes an additional shot with the intention of putting the ball in position; unlike with a normal shot, this shot does not require any balls to hit a cushion or be pocketed. The push out is always optional.


If the player does not say he will "push," the shot is considered a normal shot and ordinary foul rules apply.
 If the breaker pocketed a ball on the break (not the push out), that player continues shooting until he fails to pocket a ball or commits a foul. Otherwise, the player who did not break has the first chance to play. However, if that player thinks the cue ball is in a position that isn't advantageous, she may pass and have the player who broke make the first shot instead.


The player who broke must take the first shot if his opponent passes. He cannot pass back.

