 Be sure to get the supplies your teacher suggests. Your teacher may have sent you a list of supplies that you will need for the year before your classes begin. If he or she did, then you should remind your parents to help you get them all before the start of the school year. This will guarantee that you have the right supplies when they are needed in class or for an assignment.


You may also need a new backpack and a new lunchbox for the year. In addition, getting some new school clothes before the start of the year is also usually a good idea.
You don't have to spend a lot of money. There are many 99-cent stores that sell inexpensive school supplies. If your family cannot afford to buy school supplies at all, there are some charities that may be able to supply them to you.;
, Once you get all of your supplies, it's important to keep them organized in a container. This could be a pencil pouch or a pocket on your backpack. Whatever the container, this simply is a good way to keep them separate and organized.You may want to have two separate containers for your supplies. One can hold the things you use every day and the other can hold the things that you rarely use.
Using a container that is specifically made for holding school supplies may work best, as it was made in the right shape to accommodate your supplies.
 If you have a desk with your own drawer, don't just shove stuff in there. Instead, stack your materials neatly. This will keep your papers and supplies in good shape and it will help you to easily find everything you need for class.


This is also a good idea for your backpack and your space at home. If you cram everything into your backpack and don't clean it out regularly, you can end up damaging your supplies and losing important papers.
In order to keep your area clean, make sure everything has a specific place that it goes. If your items have a place, it will make putting your stuff away more straight forward.
If you have a hard time keeping your area clean, try using some organizational trays to keep odd shaped and small items separate and out of the way.
 Even in elementary school you will have assignments that you need to turn in on time. Your teacher will tell you when they are due and it is your job to get them in on time. This might require you to have a calendar of assignments, so that you know when one is coming up, and that you bring home the materials you need to complete an assignment.


When you get an assignment, write the due date down in your calendar right away. In order to do this, however, you need to bring your calendar with you to school every day.
If you have a hard time keeping track of assignments, ask your parents to help you keep track of them and when they are due. This could involve them reminding you ahead of time about an assignment, so that you have time to compete it.
When you are heading home for the day remember to think about what homework you have to do that evening. Homework usually requires you to bring home materials, such as worksheets, so if you are organized you will remember to bring them home with you.

