 The first time you read through an article, you should simply try to understand the overall argument that the author is making. Note the author's thesis., It is sometimes helpful to use a red pen to make your markings stand out. Ask yourself questions like these as you read through a second time:What is the author's thesis/argument?
What is the author's purpose in arguing said thesis?
Who is the intended audience? Does the article effectively reach this audience?
Does the author have ample and valid evidence?
Are there any holes in the author's argument?
Did the author misrepresent evidence or add bias to evidence?
Does the author reach a conclusive point?

, Create a unique symbol to differentiate between parts of the text that might be confusing, important, or inconsistent.


For example, you could underline important passages, circle confusing ones, and star inconsistencies.
Creating a legend with assigned symbols allows you to quickly mark up an article. Though it may take a little bit of time to recognize your own symbols, they will quickly become ingrained in your mind and allow you to breeze through an article much quicker than without a symbol legend.
 In addition to a legend, it is helpful to take notes when expanded thoughts come to you as you read. For instance, if you realize that an author's claim can be refuted by noting a scientific study that you previously read, make a note of it in the margins, on a separate piece of paper, or on a computer so that you can come back to your idea.Don't be foolish enough to think that you will remember your idea when it comes time to write your critique.
Spend the necessary time writing down your observations as you read. You will be glad you did when it comes time to put your observations into a complete analytical paper.
 Form a vague opinion of the piece in question. Evaluate the author's overall argument after you have read the article through two or three times. Record your initial reactions to the text.Make a list of possible sources of evidence for your critique. Jog your memory for any literature you've read or documentaries you've seen that might be useful for evaluating the article.

