 You can purchase map updates for your Garmin Nuvi from the Garmin website. There are two basic options: a lifetime purchase or a one-time upgrade. The lifetime purchase gives you access to any new updates for the life of your device, while the one-time upgrade will provide you with the latest current maps, but you'll need to purchase again if you want to upgrade again later.

You can only upgrade the preloaded maps on your device. For example, if your Nuvi came preloaded with North American maps, you won't be able to update to a Europe map. If you want to add additional areas to your Garmin, click here for instructions on adding open-source maps.
Make sure to log in with your myGarmin account before purchasing the map upgrade. You can create a myGarmin account for free during the checkout process.
If you want to use free maps, you can use community-made maps from OpenStreetMap. Click here for more details.;
, You can only update the maps through connecting to your computer. You can use any Mini USB cable to connect the device to your computer.

Wait for your Garmin to boot up, indicated by the progress bar on the Nuvi's display.
 Make sure to sign in with the account that you've purchased the map updates on.

You can access the myGarmin page at my.garmin.com/mygarmin/login.htm.
 This will load a list of all of your purchased map upgrades., Select your Garmin Nuvi from the list of devices., This is required in order for the Garmin website to transfer the map files to your Garmin software on your computer.

You must be using Internet Explorer, Firefox, or Safari. The plugin does not support Google Chrome., This is the program that allows your computer to interact with your Garmin Nuvi.

If you weren't automatically prompted to install Garmin Express, you can download it from http://software.garmin.com/en-US/express.html.
 If you haven't already registered your device, you'll be prompted to when you start Garmin Express. You'll need to register in order to update the maps., This will show all of the available updates for your Nuvi, including the new map update you just purchased., Click the "Install" button that appears. You will need to accept the agreement before the update installs., Once you agree to the terms, the map update will begin downloading to Garmin Express, and will then be transferred to your Nuvi. This will likely take several minutes to complete., The Nuvi will reboot and begin installing the updated software on the device. This may take another couple of minutes.