;
,


If you already have an google ID and password that you use with Google services such as gmail, youtube or other, then you can use that as the login information for AdWords.
If you don't have an email address that can be used with Google services then you should select the option that says "I do not use these other services." You can then create a new Google account and verify the email address by logging in through Gmail and clicking on the verify link.
If you are creating a work advertisement, but Google suggests you use your personal ID, you may want to back out and use a business ID. Once your email is used to create an adwords account, it can't be used for any other adwords account.
 This will take you to the Your First Campaign page to set up your advertising.


Enter your website address. You may choose to enter your home page (example, www.example.com), or another part of your website (example: www.example.com/buynow). Where you send the visitors is up to you, and depends on what you are trying to accomplish.
Enter your target audience. There are three parts to a target audience:

Location. Google will default usually to your country. If you are selling a local service, you would simply remove the country and add the name of your city. Or if you sell internationally, you can choose other countries.
Network. Google defaults you to running ads on all websites in the Google network, including the tens of thousands of websites where you see "Ads By Google." If you only want to show on Google and its limited 'search partners,' uncheck the box that says "Display Network."
Keywords. This is the most challenging part of advertising on Google for new advertisers. A keyword is simply a word or set of words that you think people will be typing into Google to find your product or service. For example, if you are selling shoes, you might pick keywords like, "red shoes," "Nike shoes," and "buy new shoes."



, If you want to spend $50 a day, simply enter $50.


You want to enter a number large enough that, you will get a good sense if your ads are working, but not so much that you get burned financially.
The conservative thing to do is to, set your budget assuming you will waste every penny. You probably won't, but this is the safe way to start out.
Realize you won't know the actual price you will pay per click until you start. The prices are set in a complicated auction process where what you actually pay will be all over the map. As an example, if you are advertising on keywords for popular songs in India, you may pay only one cent per click. If you are advertising for insurance or trying to market a weight loss scam, you could be paying $10 per click or more.
 The default is "Automatically set my bids to get the most clicks within my budget." You can change the setting to "I'll set my bids manually."


Automatically setting the price you pay per click sounds alarming, but it usually works fine. Google tries to give you the maximum value for your money.
If you want to manually choose the price you pay per click (CPC), you will need to enter a number for each keyword.
 Here is where you write your actual ad that people on Google will see.


Write something catchy that makes your readers want to click on the ad. The ad should be catchy, yet truthful.
Google will not approve your ad if it violates certain policies. As examples, the ad cannot promise something that is not true (don't say Free iPad giveaway if you don't have one.) Similarly they forbid too many capital letters, overactive punctuation and the like.
In the add, tell people about your business.
Add a call-to-action such as "Call Us" or "Buy Tickets."
Use relevant keywords within the ad text. These are the words that you want people to type on the Google search engine when you want your ad to appear.
Hit "Save and Continue" when you are done.



Select your desired payment method, usually a credit card, and provide the pertinent billing information.
Hit "Save and Continue" when you are done.
 Here you can review everything before you spend any money.


Examine the ads, keywords, locations of your ads etc, and confirm they are correct. Hit save.
Accept the terms and conditions for using AdWords.



If you are in an industry or a country with a lot of fraud or bad actors, review may take a few days. Google is wary of ads that hint of weight loss, lawsuits, pharmaceutical sales, sex, firearms and others. Other advertising networks like Bing and Facebook allow some things that Google does not. Even if you are legitimate, anything close to those topics will come in for extra scrutiny.
 How will you decide your ads are working?


You can choose increase in sales, increase in inquires, downloads of sales material, registrations, or simply website visits.
 If your success is selling a pair of shoes, you want to find in Google (or elsewhere) a count of how many sales you made from your ads.


If you are only looking to increase visits to your site, you can see that in Google.
If you want to measure sales, downloads or similar, you may need to have an IT person set up what is called "conversion tracking."Conversion tracking is not hard for someone to set up, but may take a while to find someone to do it.
 You want to pull out a number that web people call Cost Per Action, or CPA. That simply means how much you pay Google for each of your successes.


For example, if you are selling shoes, and you spend $20 to Google for every shoe sale, you have a CPA of $20. That may be good or may be bad; but you will have a firm number.
 You may want to increase your advertising if you are happy, or rethink your ads, keywords or budget if you are unhappy.

