 You'll need strong legs to jump and arms to push the ball into the shot. If you're younger, (10-12) try 50 push ups and 100 wall-jumps (find a wall, reach up, and jump to touch the top of the door or higher). If you're in teen years, double the number. For adults, triple. Try to do this four-five times a week to build muscle.;
, In a game, you won't be walking, stopping, shooting. Do 5-10 down and backs in your lawn, then pick up the ball and shoot 10 free throws. Do this a few times over. Free throws are the easiest shot that you'll be expected to make, and practicing shooting them when you're sweaty and worn down will be a great help.
 You won't have open hoop in a game and will need to be used to looking at the defender instead of the ball and getting around it.
 These motions will help trick defenders in a game and the more you practice doing them on your own, the more natural you'll be at tricking defenders in a game and you'll have better chances at making shots.
 Do this from both sides and straight in front for about 30 shots each, 3 times. Practicing form will make it come more naturally and make you shoot in the correct form to up your percentage of made shots. It's basic, but it really helps when you're naturally shooting in the correct form.
 Practice about 10 shots in 5 different locations three times over. This will help you get used to shooting in common positions you'll be in during a game so you can sink them from any position.
 If you can't dribble, you won't be able to move around defenders and won't get a chance to shoot.
 Stretching is important before and after to make you more flexible and in shape and prevent injury.
 That's the easiest way to improve is doing 1 on 1 games (or more if you can gather more players) once or twice a week. Practice being in the game-mode and taking shots.
 Practice makes perfect, and actually being on a team working will help you improve. You can join a club by searching or asking athletic centers or do a camp if it's off-season.
 When you get a chance and you're in the mood, go out and start shooting around. Don't push yourself too much or it won't be fun anymore and you'll burn out. Spread out different drills throughout the week.