 Provide your dog with a comfortable bed and place it in a quiet area of your home. If you’ve just brought a new dog home, allow them to hide, withdraw to their bed, and explore their surroundings at their own pace.Try to avoid any coercion or negative experiences with a newly adopted shy dog. Give them some time to settle in and, over the course of the first several days, try to work on developing your new routine together.;
, In general, living without a set routine is stressful for dogs, making them prone to shy or stressed behavior and less open to bonding. Try to offer meals, walks, and other activities around the same times every day. If you’ve just adopted a shy dog, make developing a regular routine your first priority.Consistent rules, like routines, will also help your shy dog become more open to bonding. If you don’t want your dog on furniture, don’t make an exception one moment then yell at them the next. Try to be consistent about your house rules and avoid making any exceptions.
 Your breathing offers your dog interpretive cues and helps set the tone for their behavior. Try to breathe deeply from your belly when your dog exhibits shy or stressed behavior.Yawning for a couple minutes when your dog is nervous is also a helpful calming technique.
Show them that you’re a calming presence, but avoid petting, picking them up, and other forms of coddling when the dog is shy or fearful. Coddling will only encourage future shyness or fear., If you're introducing your shy dog to your other pets, be gradual and let animals get to know each other at their own pace. After introductions, be sure to give equal amounts of attention to your pets, as coddling your shy dog or showing preference for another pet can cause dominance rivalries.Be sure to use treats to reward your shy dog when they act socially or calmly around your other pets. Avoid forcing them to interact with your other pets if they resist.
 Talk to your children about respecting the dog's space. Show them how to allow the dog to sniff their hand and to gently pet the dog's back instead of grabbing and overwhelming the dog. Have them offer the dog a treat and, if the dog knows command words, have them tell the dog to sit or stay.