 With some metal watch straps, it is necessary to separate the bracelet before you can remove any links. To do this:


Remove the spring bar from the watch strap clasp. To identify which spring bar it is, hold the clasp in your left hand, and it will be the one on the left side.Use the spring bar removal tool or pin pusher to compress the spring bar and lever it out of the clasp.
Be careful that it doesn't spring across the room, because this is the only one you have!

, Use the pin pusher or spring bar removal tool to push the pin that secures that particular link, following the direction of the printed arrows on the underside of the metal link.You should be able to push the pin 2 or 3mm and then pull it out from the other side using your pair of pliers or by hand.
Place the pin in your parts tray, you will need it to put the bracelet back together again.
 Some watch bands contain small metal ferrules in the middle of joining links that will be released when you take out a pin. It may fall onto the floor or work station, so keep an eye out for it. You will need it later., Repeat the pin removal process on the link's other pin. When you have finished, you should have two pins and possibly two ferrules ready to use later.
 If you need to, remove another link on the other side of the clasp, using the same process. When you have removed as many links as you need to, you are ready to join the bracelet back together.
 Once the required links have been removed the pin will need to replaced into the band to complete it again. To do this replace the pin in the opposite direction to the arrows.


If your watch band has ferrules, place the ferrule in the middle of the link that you are joining up, and when you push the pin back into the hole, make sure to engage the ferrule.
If you need to, you can gently tap the pin back into place using your small hammer.
 To reconnect the clasp, you need to do the reverse of the disconnecting process. Ensure that the clasp is the right way round and replace the spring bars.
 Your watch should now fit, if you have removed the correct number of links. If it is still too big, you can always remove another link.


If it is a little loose or a little tight, it may be possible to further adjust the bracelet by inserting the clasp's spring bars into an alternative set of holes to adjust the size.
Make sure to keep any extra links and spare pins or ferrules safe, you may need to use them again in the future.

