 To ready your hair for the bun scarf, gather it into a ponytail just above the nape of your neck. Secure it with an elastic, and then twist the tail around the base to form a bun. Pin the bun in place with bobby pins.








If you have short hair, you don’t have to pull it into a bun. It will remain hidden under the scarf when you create the bun.;
, For a back of the head scarf bun, you’ll need a large square-shaped scarf. Create a triangle with the fabric by folding the scarf from one corner to the opposite corner.Depending on how large your scarf is, you may want to fold it smaller before creating the triangle. It should be just large enough to cover your entire head when you place the straight edge against your hairline.
 Once you’ve folded the scarf into a triangle, set it on your head so the long straight edge matches up with your hairline. The pointed edge of the scarf should fall over your head and cover your neck.








If the scarf is so big that the point of the triangle falls down your back, you should refold it, creating a smaller square from the material before the triangle.
 When the scarf is resting on your head, take the two ends and tie it in a knot at the nape of your neck. The knot should fall under the point of the scarf.








While you want the knot to be secure, don’t tie it too tightly. The scarf is more prone to slipping if you tie it too tightly.
 With the knot in place, take the pointed end of the scarf and slide it under the knot. Push it tightly under the knot so the end is completely hidden by the scarf. It should form a loose bun just above the nape of your neck.








If you have short hair that you haven’t pulled into a bun, make sure that any loose pieces are covered by the scarf.
 After you’ve created a loose bun, take the right end of the knot and twist it. Wind the end around the loose bun, and tuck the end under the bun so it won’t come loose.








As you’re wrapping the right end around the bun, pull it as tightly and smoothly as you can manage.
Instead of the loose bun that you started with, the bun should become more round and protrude further from your head when you wrap the end around it.
 Once the right end of the scarf is wound around the bun, grab the left end from the knot. Twist it tightly and wrap it around the bun just as you did with the right corner. Tuck the end under the bun to secure it.








If you're worried about the scarf bun coming loose, you can secure the end of it with bobby pins.

