 If you want to use herbal remedies for your kidney stones, talk to your doctor first. Some of the herbs used may interfere with some medications or cause other conditions to worsen. Let your doctor know what your plan is so she can make sure anything you plan to take is safe.


Very few herbal or home remedies are verified by scientific study — most evidence is anecdotal, or based on personal accounts.
 Make sure that any herbal remedies you decide to use have been USP verified.This will ensure that you are getting high quality ingredients and that the contents of the supplement bottle match the label on the product.


Look for a "USP verified" seal on the bottle.
 Raw celery juice and celery seed has antispasmodic, diuretic, and pain-relieving properties. This means these can help ease your pain as well as dissolve your kidney stones.


Use a juicer or blender to make celery juice. Drink three to four glasses of this juice a day.
You can also add celery seed to recipes to help with your stones as well., Phyllanthus niruri is a plant that has been in use in Brazil for years to treat kidney stones and kidney stone pain. There is no set dosage for this herb, so follow the instructions listed on the bottle when you buy it.


These are available as supplements and can be found at health food stores., White willow bark is an herb that helps reduce inflammation and pain in a similar fashion to aspirin, but without the same side effects caused by aspirin.


You can take this herb as a water drink by mixing 10 to 20 drops of liquid willow bark with a glass of water. Take this four to five times a day.
You can also buy it as a 400 mg capsule, which should be taken four to six times a day. , Devil's claw has been used to treat kidney issues, including kidney stones, because of its pain relieving properties. This herbal remedy is available as a 400 to 500 mg capsule. Always follow manufacturer’s instructions for this drug.


There has not been any clinical evidence that this remedy works, but it is a common folk remedy., You can make a lemon and apple cider vinegar mixture to help with your kidney stones. Mix ½ ounce lemon juice, 12 ounces of water along, and 1 tablespoon apple cider vinegar.


Repeat every hour to help with pain.