 If you want to be more laid back, you need to learn how to cope with anxiety in the moment. If you struggle to stay calm under pressure, simply taking deep breaths can help you slow down, relax, and regroup.


Deep diaphragmatic breathing is a powerful means to reduce anxiety. Inhale through your nose, channeling your breath into your stomach. It can be helpful to place your hand on your stomach and make sure it rises when you take in air.Then, hold your breath for a count of four. Exhale through your mouth. While a fairly simple procedure, it's a good start to work towards a more laid back mindset.;
, Many times people who want to be more laid back suffer from chronic overthinking. If you're prone to anxious thoughts, take a second to deconstruct any negative thoughts you encounter. Pause when you're feeling anxious and ask yourself a series of questions.


What are you worrying about? Is this a realistic worry? Are the possible outcomes you're imagining likely to actually occur?Consider what, realistically, the worst possible outcome is. Is that outcome really insurmountable? Are there ways you could deal with this outcome that wouldn't be so bad?Is there any way you can prepare for what might happen? Is what you're seeing and believing actual truth or just your own perception?, Try to keep your thoughts in the present moment. People who are more laid back are able to occupy a single brain space at a time. When you start thinking ahead, and getting nervous or agitated, pause and try to return to the present.


It's perfectly okay to make plans and have to-do lists, but you should try to focus on one thing at a time. You might know you need to do the dishes after work, but try not to linger on the dreaded chore. Simply relax and do your job.
Mindfulness meditation is a form of meditation in which you focus on aspects of the present moment, such as your breath, your body's sensations, and your environment. Regularly practicing mindfulness meditation can help you stay in the present and feel more laid back overall. There are many free guided mindfulness meditation routines you can find online. These can help you get started with regular meditation., Calming visualizations can also help you unwind in the moment. Picture yourself relaxing in a place you enjoy. Maybe you're resting your feet in the sand on the beach. You could be lying in a hammock in the woods. Try to imagine with all your sensations. How does it feel, taste, smell, sound? Going on a mental vacation to a safe, relaxing environment can help you stay calm under stress., People who are laid back tend to avoid overthinking. Social interactions, plans, events, and other aspect of life are things they can maneuver with ease. If you're prone to overthinking, and convincing yourself something is wrong in any given situation, make an effort to change. Try to periodically remind yourself your thoughts are not necessarily a reflection of reality.


If you perceive something a certain way, you may start imagining your worldview or perspective represents truth. For example, say you made a comment at work you feel have rubbed a coworker the wrong way. You may go from wondering if you bothered your co-worker to imagining her sitting alone, thinking negative thoughts about you. This is not a particularly realistic scenario, but if you're anxiety-prone you may convince yourself your perception represents the reality.In such a scenario, remind yourself your thoughts are not reality. Your co-worker is probably not thinking poorly of you. Even if she was bothered by the comment, it's doubtful she is even still thinking about it. Your thoughts are, by nature, very centered around yourself and your own actions. Other people likely do not think about you as much as you think about yourself. Try to relax and remember this fact on occasion.