 Turn on the oven to 375 degrees F (190 C). You'll also need to place parchment paper on the bottom of a 10x15-inch jelly roll pan or spray it with baking spray. Thaw 2 sheets (17.3 ounce package) of puff pastry according to the manufacturer's instructions.Ensure that the puff pastry is still cold when begin to work with it. Room temperature puff pastry will become sticky and difficult to roll.
 Peel, core and slice 2 1/2 pounds of apples into thin slices. You'll need 7 cups of prepared apples. Place the apples into a large mixing bowl and stir the other filling ingredients until they're combined. You'll need to add:⅔ cup (133 g) of sugar
⅓ cup (40 g) of flour
½ teaspoon of ground cinnamon

, Sprinkle a work surface with a little flour and roll one sheet of thawed puff pastry into a 10x15-inch rectangle. Place the rectangle in your prepared jelly roll pan. Spread the apple filling over the puff pastry, but leave a one-inch border around the edges.The filling will spread as it cooks, which is why you'll need to leave a border.
 Roll out the other sheet of thawed puff pastry to make another 10x15-inch rectangle. Pour 1 cup (340 g) of salted caramel sauce over the apple filling before you place the puff pastry rectangle on top. Brush the edges of the puff pastry with milk and fold the puff pastry to seal it closed.To completely seal the puff pastry, you may want to crimp the edges with a fork.
 Brush the top of the puff pastry with ¼ cup (60 ml) of milk and sprinkle ¼ cup (56 g) of coarse sugar evenly over it. Cut several slits on the top of the pastry. Bake the pie in the preheated oven for 50 to 55 minutes. The pastry should become golden and puffed.If the pastry gets dark very quickly, you can cover it with aluminum foil during the last 15 minutes of baking time.
 Place 1 cup (140 g) of powdered sugar, ½ teaspoon of vanilla extract, 1 dash of salt, and 4 to 5 teaspoons of milk in a small bowl. Whisk the glaze ingredients with a whisk or fork until it's combined. Drizzle the glaze over the apple slab pie and cut the pie into squares before serving.You may need to add more milk to make it a little easier to drizzle.

