 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the rolls, set the temperature to 350°F (177°C) and allow it to fully preheat. Next, use a nonstick cooking spray to lightly grease a baking sheet.If you prefer, you can use grass-fed butter to grease the baking sheet.;
, Add 8 tablespoons (56 g) of coconut flour, 3 tablespoons (41 g) of baking powder, 1 tablespoon (2 g) of dried basil, ½ teaspoon (3 g) of sea salt, and 2 tablespoons (18 g) of organic psyllium husk powder to a large bowl. Whisk the ingredients together to combine them completely.You can add other herbs, such as dried oregano, thyme, and/or rosemary, if you like.
You can find psyllium husk powder at most health food stores and natural grocery stores.
 Add 4 large pastured eggs, 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of apple cider vinegar, 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of avocado oil, ¼ cup (59 ml) of filtered water, and a finely grated medium zucchini to a separate medium bowl. Mix the ingredients together until they are fully blended.You can substitute bottled or distilled water for the filtered water.
 After you’ve mixed the wet ingredients together, pour the dry ingredients into them. Use an electric mixer on medium speed to fully blend the two together to form a dough.You can also use a stand mixer to mix the roll dough.
You can mix the dough by hand, but it will require a little more time and effort.
 Once the dough has come together, use clean hands to scoop out golf ball-sized mounds. Roll the pieces into balls and place them on the greased baking sheet.If you like, you can press down on the top of the dough balls to flatten the rolls.
 When the rolls are on the baking sheet, use a pastry brush to brush the tops with some avocado oil. Place them in the preheated oven, and allow them to bake for about 45 minutes, or until they are golden brown.You can also tell that the rolls are finished baking if they sound hollow when you tap them.
 When the rolls are finished baking, remove them from the oven. Place them in a bowl or on a platter to serve alongside your favorite paleo meal.The rolls pair well grass-fed butter.
 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the rolls, set its temperature to 350°F (177°C) and wait for it to fully preheat. Next, line a baking sheet with parchment paper and set it aside.You can substitute a silicone baking mat for the parchment paper if you prefer.
 Add 1 cup (125 g) of tapioca flour, ¼ cup (28 g) of coconut flour, and 1 teaspoon (6 g) of sea salt to a large bowl. Stir the ingredients well to ensure that they’re fully blended.You can substitute arrowroot starch for the tapioca flour if you prefer.
 Once the dry ingredients are mixed, slowly pour ½ cup (118 ml) of warm water and ½ cup (118 ml) of olive oil into the bowl. Whisk the mixture well so the liquids are fully incorporated.You can substitute avocado oil for the olive oil if you prefer.
 After the water and oil are mixed in, pour 1 large beaten egg into the bowl. Stir the mixture well so it is fully combined.If the dough seems too wet, you can add more coconut flour as necessary. Add it just 1 tablespoon (7 g) at a time, though, and wait 1 to 2 minutes after each addition to ensure that you don’t use too much.
 When the dough has formed, use a small cookie scoop to create balls. Shape them by rolling the dough between your hands, and set them on the lined baking sheet.Be sure to place the rolls an 1-inch or so apart.
 After you’ve arranged the rolls on the baking sheet, set them in the preheated oven. Allow the rolls to bake for 30 to 35 minutes, or until they are slightly browned on the bottom., Once the rolls are finished baking, remove them from the oven. Place them in a bread basket and serve them while they are still warm.To keep the rolls warm while you eat dinner, place a kitchen towel in the basket before add the rolls. Wrap the towel over the rolls to trap the heat.
 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the rolls, set its temperature to 350°F (177°C) and allow it to fully heat. Next, line a baking sheet with parchment paper and set it aside for the moment.You can also use a silicone baking mat to line the baking sheet.
 Add 1 tablespoon (10 g) of ground chia seeds and 3 tablespoons (45 ml) water to a small bowl. Stir the two together well until the mixture thickens and forms a gel-like chia “egg.”You can also use this mixture to replace 1 egg in other recipes to make them vegan.
 After you’ve mixed the chia “egg,” transfer it to a large bowl. Add ¾ cup (95 g) of tapioca starch, ½ cup (62 g) of coconut flour, ¾ cup (177 ml) of water, ¼ cup (52 g) of melted coconut oil, ½ teaspoon (3 g) of salt, 1 teaspoon (1 g) of dried oregano, and 1 to 2 cloves of minced garlic. Mix the ingredients together until a thick, moist dough forms.Tapioca starch is also known as tapioca flour.
If you prefer a more subtle garlic flavor, add 1 clove to the dough. If you prefer a stronger garlic flavor, add 2 or more.
You can add other dried herbs, such as basil or rosemary, to the dough if you like.
When you stir the dough, knead it with your spoon or spatula to remove any clumps.
 After you’ve mixed the dough, scoop out heaping tablespoons (40 g) of it and roll them into balls with clean hands. Next, set the balls on the lined baking sheet so they’re about 1-inch (2.5-cm) apart.The rolls will be slightly smaller than more traditional dinner rolls, but they won’t cook all the way through if you make them too large.
 Once you’ve arranged the rolls on the baking sheet, place it in the preheated oven. Allow them to bake for 35 to 40 minutes, or until they are dry on the outside and lightly golden on the bottoms., After the rolls have come out of the oven, let them sit on the baking sheet for 15 minutes to cool. That will give the centers time to finish cooking before you eat them. When they’ve cooled, serve the rolls alongside your favorite paleo meal.The rolls can dry out very quickly, so store any leftovers in an airtight container.

