 When you take a shower, always use shampoo and conditioner that are the same brand and same scent. If you don't like the scent of your shampoo and conditioner, you can always spritz some body spray or perfume in it once it's dry.;
, The steam opens your pores. Use a set that has a scrub, toner, and moisturizer. If you want, you can use a spot treatment to clear up zits. Always rinse with cool water. It closes your pores. NEVER rinse with really cold water, it can close your pores too tight and cause blackheads.
 To have a really fresh mouth, use these steps: mouthwash, toothpaste, floss, mouthwash. To make your breath feel even more fresh and clean, pop in a mint or chew some sugar-free gum.
 Wear something cute and clean. Never wear something that MIGHT be clean. It might smell clean, but it might not look clean or the other way around. Don't assume nobody will notice a small stain, even if you cover it up, someone will. A Tide-to-Go pen is great if you get a stain during the day, I highly recommend it. Never wear a revealing top AND revealing bottoms. It looks cheap. Wear one or the other. For shoes, flats are foolproof- comfortable and stylish. Try to have a basic pair of both brown and black, they go with practically everything. Heels can make you seem too old if you're very young and can be hard to walk in. If you're old enough, stick with two inches or lower for day, but if you want to go a little higher for a special occasion or night out, go ahead.
 Do it whichever way you want, as long as it looks well kept. Use hairspray, but not too much or it can backfire on you. Don't shampoo every day, all you'll get for your trouble is brittle ends and greasy roots, yuck! If you're hair gets greasy on the second or third day, however, dry shampoo is a handy thing to have. Heat styling ,may deliver best results for curling and straightening, but don't use these too often because they can fry your hair. Use a good heat protectant if you're using any kind of heat, even a blow dryer. I recommend the Tresemme Heat Taming Spray, it works wonders.
 Put on deodorant, lotion, body spray, perfume, etc. Try buying a set or relentless ones because to many scents make you smell like a walking perfume factory. Obviously, these things should be effective and in scents you like, but be careful with body spray and perfume during the day. Try a lighter or fruity scent so you don't knock out everybody in your lecture hall or office. Body sprays are generally less concentrated in smell than perfume, so it's better for the daytime. Whatever you do, don't use too much. Nobody likes being around a person whose perfume is so strong to where they can taste it, guys especially hate that. Just go easy on the scents, it's that simple.
 It's better to own a few nice pieces of jewelry than a bunch of cheap stuff you'll throw out within a month. If you need help on finding classic pieces or don't know what looks best on you, ask your mom or sister. Try to have one signature piece like a charm bracelet or ring that can go with anything. Charm bracelets are great because you can personalize them so its all your own, the Italian style ones are really nice. If you are going to use a bold statement accessory, be it a necklace, scarf, ring or whatever, keep the rest to a minimum. Wear pearls by day and diamonds by night. They don't have to be real, but they can't be plastic. In fact, steer clear of plastic, fake leather, (unless it's nice, I mean the cheap kind), and nickel.
 You don't HAVE to wear makeup, but if you do, make yourself look polished and use a natural look for every day. It doesn't have to be channel, but don't buy Chinese makeup. Walgreen has a surprisingly good selection of budget makeup. Most girls who wear makeup for the first time are clueless on how to wear it, so turn to an experienced person, magazines or YouTube tutorials for help. If you have a facial feature you like a lot, make it stand out and keep everything else subtle. NEVER do a dramatic eye AND a bold lip, it will make you look like a clown or a drag queen. Doing one or the other for special occasions can be very classy if done right. Mastering makeup takes practice, but once you've got the hang of it, there are no limits to what you can do. Eyeshadow and eyeliner are hard to master. For your first time, go with bold lip. You can never have to many lip products if you are a beginner.

