 Put plants with similar watering needs together, so that you avoid overwatering plants that have low water requirements simply because they are beside plants that need a lot of water.For instance, you could put all of your high water plants close to a bog.
You should also be familiar with the type of plants and shrubs you have in your yard and garden so that you know what their exact watering needs are.
If you have plants in containers, you can place the big ones so that they give shadow to the small plants. With more shade, the small plants will lose less water to evaporation.
 Because drip irrigation systems deliver the water directly to the root systems in your garden, they are much more efficient. The water goes right to your plants without running off or evaporating. Connect a soaker hose to your tap and run it through your garden bed. Whenever you want to water the bed, just turn on the hose.Spray irrigation, such as a sprinkler, is only 50-75% efficient.
Drip irrigation is 95-99% efficient.
You can also use a smart irrigation controller to run your drip irrigation system.
You can also install drip irrigation for a lawn but it needs to be subsurface by four to six feet., Since native plants are adapted to your local climate, they won’t need much water beyond the regular rainfall for your region.You can find native plants for your region by contacting your local native plant society.You can search for your local native plant society by visiting the North American Native Plant Society website.If you live in Alberta, you can visit the website of the Alberta Native Plants Council.If you live in California, you can contact the California Native Plant Society., One of the best ways to garden with less water is to choose varieties that are drought-resistant, which often have silver and grey-green leaves that reflect sun rays. Another way to spot a drought-resistant variety is the fine hairs that grow on their stems and leaves, which trap moisture. Some drought-resistant plants include:Mimosa (Acacia dealbata)
Hop tree (ptelea trifoliata ‘Aurea’)
Lawson cypress (chamaecyparis lawsoniana)
Sacred bamboo (Nandina domestica)
Silver jubilee (Ozothamnusrosmarinfolius)
Verbena
Echinops
Bidens
Felicia

, When you are planting, you should choose slower growing and smaller plants, which require less water. Similarly, you should avoid large leafed plants, which tend to use a lot of water., If you have some young trees that need a lot of water, you could make a little berm around them. Pile up the earth in a donut shape around the tree. When it rains, the berm will catch the water and direct it towards the tree that needs it., When you make your garden paths, use bricks, gravel, or pebbles, which will allow the water to seep into the ground and nourish the plants. Otherwise, the water could flow down into your driveway and into the street.