 Male condoms should be used for any kind of sex, including vaginal, anal, and oral contact. The male latex condom is easy to use, efficient and cheap. It is also widely available for free at Planned Parenthood locations, other counseling services, and many schools. Consistently and correctly using latex condoms during sexual intercourse can reduce the risk of STIs and pregnancy with up to 99% reliability.


If you’re allergic to latex, you can also use polyurethane condoms, which offer some protection against STIs. Natural or lambskin condoms offer reliable protection against pregnancy, but the material isn’t fine enough to prevent the transmission of some infections, making them less reliable for that purpose.
Make sure to properly place the condom on the erect penis. Doing this together can create a more intimate experience.
Remember, both partners are responsible for safe sex. If you are sexually active, you should always have a supply of condoms on hand. Make sure to regularly check the expiration date, too.
Condoms do not typically break when used properly; however, if the condom rips or tears during intercourse, make sure that both partners get tested within 10 days.;
, Female condoms can be used for vaginal penetrative sex. They are effective against most STIs and can help reduce the chances of pregnancy. Though the failure rate is higher than with hormonal contraception, female condoms can be very effective when used in combination with other protection.You should never use a female and male condom at the same time. That can cause friction that will tear one or both of the condoms, making them ineffective.
Make sure to carefully read the instructions on the packaging. You want to ensure that you properly insert the female condom.
You will insert the female condom in a similar manner as inserting a tampon. The penis should be inside the female condom during intercourse.
It is unlikely that the female condom will break if used correctly; however, if there is a tear, make sure to visit your physician to get tested within 10 days.
 Dental dams are latex sheets, or condoms that have been cut open to form squares. When used correctly, dental dams have been proven to reduce the risk of passing blood and other fluids to the mouth from the genitals. These are effective in preventing STIs and HIV. You can use them when performing oral sex on both the vulva and the anus.Make sure the latex doesn’t have any holes, tears, or other damage. Rinse off any cornstarch if necessary, as this can promote vaginal infection. Cover the genitalia or anus while performing oral sex.
Never switch back and forth between the vagina and anus without first replacing the dental dam. Discard after use.
 While friction can be a pleasurable feeling during sex, it can also heighten the risk of infection. Friction is often the cause of broken condoms or dental dams. To prevent too much friction, try using a lubricant during intercourse.Make sure to read the ingredients on the package. Don't use an oil-based lube on a latex condom. It will break down the latex.
Instead, choose an water-based lubricant. Silicon-based lubes are also a good choice. You can also use lubricants to make dental dams more supple and less likely to tear.
 You and your partner can engage in sexual activities that carry absolutely no risk. Be creative and explore new ways to turn each other on. You can use words and fantasies to arouse one another. Some no risk sexual acts include:Phone sex or sexting
Mutual masturbation
Cyber sex

, Anal and vaginal intercourse are considered “high risk” sexual activities. The risk of infection when having intercourse anally is greater because the skin of the anus is thinner, making infection and disease transmission more of a possibility. Likewise, sexually transmitted diseases and infections are transmittable between the mouth and the genitals, making unprotected oral sex also a risky behavior. You can still be intimate without engaging in intercourse. Talk to your partner about trying out some new sexual activities. You could try:Deep kissing
Fondling
Experimenting with sex toys such as dildos or vibrators.

Keep sex toys clean. Always wash them between uses, and never use one that you're not sure is clean. A weak solution of disinfectant in a bowl of water is a cheaper option.
Rinse the toys well and be sure to dry them before storing them in a sealed bag in a clean and dry environment. Do not share sex toys with partners you aren't fluid-bonded with since you can spread infections this way.



