 Roast chickens are notoriously hard to keep moist, especially where the breast meat is concerned. Butterflying is when you cut and split the chicken, providing a more even cooking surface for optimum crispiness. This is best done before brining, but can be done afterward as well. To butterfly a whole chicken:


Use a sharp knife or kitchen shears to cut out the spine of the chicken. This is the long bone in the center of the chicken on the opposite side as the breast meat.
Place the chicken breast-side up on a cutting board.
Use the heel of your hand to press straight into the center of the breastbone. You'll hear a crack and the chicken will flatten down.
Lightly brush the entire top surface with olive oil., Make sure there are no other racks above the middle one. Get out a roasting or baking pan and place your chicken in the center.
 Aromatics, like herbs and lemon, add flavor to your roast. Squeeze the juice of a large lemon on the chicken, add sprigs of rosemary or thyme between the wings and thighs, or crack some black pepper on top of the breasts.


If the chicken is whole, stuff lemon slices, garlic cloves, and herbs into the cavity in the middle of the chicken to your liking.
 Basting is taking the hot oil and juice from the pan and spreading them on top of the chicken. This helps the chicken stay moist and gets the skin nice and crispy. Use a baster or a cooking brush to reapply the liquid from the pan on the chicken. Try not to leave the oven open for too long as you work -- this causes the heat to drop too quickly and slows cooking.
 Breast meat is best at this temperature, and thigh meat needs to be 170°F to be safe. If the outsides start to darken before the insides are fully cooked, lower the oven temperature to 450°F.
 You need to let the chicken rest, otherwise all the juice will leave the meat when you cut into it. Set the chicken aside on a cutting board and tent it loosely with aluminum foil. After 5-6 minutes, you can remove the foil, cut into the chicken, and start eating.

