 This is a more expensive option, but it's the quickest and the safest. Decide whether you want an electric trimmer or a manual trimmer. Electric trimmers are quicker and more efficient, but manual trimmers don't need electricity to work, and they may not tickle your nose so much as the vibrating electric models. You should be able to find a trimmer at a pharmacy or department store for less than $20 USD. Some trimmers even come with attachments that help you shave eyebrows, beards, and other facial hair.


Manual trimmers don't require batteries or a plug, and they tend to avoid the tickling sensation that results from the vibrating electric models. Instead, manual trimmers use a simple spring-loaded "punch" mechanism to trim hairs from your nose--something like a single hole-punch or a pair of wire cutters.You will need to use two hands to operate most manual trimmers.
Electric trimmers cut hairs quickly and efficiently, and most can be used with one hand. Some trimmers are battery-powered (and hence, cordless), while others must be plugged into an outlet. Some electric trimmers feature a rotating blade that spins in one continuous direction, while other trimmers work with an oscillating blade that rotates from left to right. Neither option works significantly better or worse than the other., Make sure that your nose is clean and dry. Blow your nose beforehand, if need be, to remove any gunk. If you're battling a cold, a flu, or any other sinus-related infection, wait until the sickness subsides before you try to trim away your nose hairs: if you clear too many hairs, you may give new contaminants an easy passage into your already-compromised immune system.
 Make sure that the lights are bright enough to clearly see into your nostrils: good lighting helps you see the lighter hairs that may be sticking out of your nose. You may need to get close to the mirror to see enough detail. Try using a magnifying mirror or a hand-held mirror to get the right angle. Keep a towel on hand to wipe your face when you're done, and keep tissues on hand to clean the trimmings out of your nostrils.
 Tilt your head back and carefully insert the nose trimmer, looking into the mirror for accuracy. Try gently pulling down your upper lip to open up the nasal passage. The trimmer should fit comfortably; don't push it all the way in. Stir the trimmer in a slow circular motion, moving up and down the nostril.


Your trimmer shouldn't hurt you or cut your skin--especially not an electric trimmer. The blades are covered such that they buzz nose hair close, but never actually touch the skin. Some trimmers, however--especially the manual variety--may occasionally (and painfully) yank a hair from the root.
Be careful not to insert the trimmer too deeply in your nose. You only want to trim the hairs peeking out below your nose--the ones that people will notice. Leave the rest of the hair alone to help protect you from bacteria.
Buzz until you're satisfied with your appearance. The trimming shouldn't take you long--perhaps only a matter of seconds. If you aren't sure, pull the trimmer from your nostril and inspect the situation in the mirror.
 Try to trim only the most visible hairs: the hairs near the rim of your nostril, and any large hairs that noticeably protrude from your nose. Smile at yourself in the mirror--or push your nose straight up with your finger--to reveal nose hairs that don't poke out otherwise. Trim only what you absolutely need to trim. Your nose hairs serve an important function by protecting your body from infection, and removing nose hair completely could have negative side effects.
 Clean the nose hair trimmer, clean your face, and wipe up any stray nose hair trimmings that have spilled onto the sink, the counter, or the floor.


You can clean most manual nose hair trimmers by rinsing the blades with running water, but many electric trimmers are not wet/dry capable. Wipe an electric trimmer clean with a moist or dry towel, and be careful not to submerge it in water. Unplug or switch off electric trimmers before wiping them clean.
Use a towel to wipe off any hair that's fallen onto your face. Lightly blow your nose into a tissue to catch any remaining trimmings--and consider cleaning out your nostril with a tissue, a sanitary wipe, or a nasal spray.
Use a towel, tissue, or sponge to clean stray hairs from any surfaces. Dispose of your cleaning tool or wash it clean.

