 Accessories are often the outfit pieces that can firmly establish the feel of your ensemble. They can dramatically push an outfit toward being more “smart,” or more casual.For example, statement necklaces are usually go-to pieces of jewelry that can liven up and dress up a plainer outfit.They can include color and act as an accent to an otherwise muted outfit.


This same principle goes for earrings. You still want your earrings to be simple, but they can add some flair and elevate to your outfit.
If your outfit is already a bit varied with colors and prints, consider toning down to jewelry to balance your look out., Accessorizing your outfit with a belt can add a pop of color to your look, function as a statement piece, or add a bit of texture to your outfit. For example, if your outfit consists of mostly matte fabrics, you can wear a patterned or patent belt to make your ensemble a bit more interesting and add a little variety.Depending on what kind of belt you use, incorporating one into your outfit can make your look more fun and fashionable (if the belt is colored), or more put together and smart (if the belt is more modest).


Thin belts tend to look really nice with dresses, and wide belts can pair well with longer skirts., Wearing a watch may bleed over into jewelry territory, but it can be a separate accessory in it’s own right. Try to pick a watch that is simple, yet can make a statement. For example, a watch with a slightly bigger face, but a simple band can make a great accessory addition. Or, if your watch is going to have a bit more color in the band, make sure the face of the watch isn’t so big and bold.


Another thing to consider is the material of the watch. Your watch should be some sort of metal (silver, gold, platinum), but the metal color should go with the other metal pieces in your outfit.
For example, if your shoes and purse have gold detailing, avoid wearing a silver colored watch.
 A colorful or unique purse can act as a statement piece to a calmer, more conservative outfit. Conversely, a stylish and simple bag can elevate a more casual outfit. Your purse does not have to match your outfit, but if you already have a color piece in your ensemble (top, blazer, shoes, etc.), you might want to keep your purse color on the more reserved side.


Any purse that you use should be sleek and fashionable, no matter which way your outfit is leaning toward. For example, if you purse if smaller, it could be a bit more playful and flashy when paired with a casual outfit. If your purse is bigger, keep it simple and modest when paired with a more colorful outfit., A scarf can serve as a simple accessory that can add a little variety to your outfit.You don’t want the scarf to overpower your outfit, but enhance it in a small way. A scarf can always add a bit of color to your outfit, while sometimes lending a more fashionable feel, depending on the print and fabric.


If your outfit consists of mainly dark colors, consider pairing it with a graphic scarf.