 The National Breast Cancer Foundation recommends a screening mammogram every one to two years for women aged 40 and older. If you have a personal or family history of breast cancer or you notice a lump during a self-exam, your doctor may want you to begin having screening mammograms before you are 40 years old.Screen mammography for women aged 75 and older depends on the woman’s overall health. If she has a number of health problems, she is not likely not to be a candidate for treatment were cancer in fact detected. Thus, you should talk to your doctor about screening if you are 75 or older.For women who know via genetic testing that they carry the breast cancer genetic mutation (BRCA1 and BRCA2), screening should begin at age 25 and may also involve an MRI of the breast tissue in addition to a mammogram., A mammogram is an low-radiation x-ray that allows doctors to see your breast tissue. A mammogram can often detect lumps in your breast tissue before you can feel them.Although the doctor may be looking for potential cancerous growth with a mammogram, the test can also detect calcifications, fibroadenomas and cysts in the breast tissue., Find out if there are any requirements before your mammogram. You should not wear deodorant, perfume or lotion on the day of your mammogram, as these can interfere with the test reading.Be sure to wear a loose top that will be easy for you to take off for the mammogram.
Read up on the procedure to help calm yourself if you feel anxious. The test may be slightly uncomfortable but is over within a matter of minutes.
 They will need to know if you have breast implants, or if you are currently menstruating., In the mammogram, your breast is placed on a platform and compressed with a paddle to even out the breast tissue, hold the tissue still during the x-ray, and allow for the use of a lower-energy x-ray.


You’ll feel pressure and may experience some discomfort during the mammogram, but this is just temporary.
A mammogram will be done on both breasts so the radiologist can compare both sides.
 If the potential for breast cancer shows up in your results, you might need have further imaging testing, such as a breast ultrasound to look for cysts or an MRI to evaluate and differentiate a suspicious lesion from a benign one.If the mammogram and MRI detect a tumor or growth, your doctor may recommend an ultrasound-guided needle biopsy to determine both the type of cell growth and the type of treatment needed to treat the cancer (i.e., surgery, chemotherapy, radiation, etc.). In a biopsy, tissue is removed from the suspicious area of the breast and analyzed in a laboratory. Most breast tissue biopsies are outpatient procedures, and you won’t have to stay overnight in a hospital.