 A mountain biking trip is no easy feat to successfully plan and pull off, and you’ll need plenty of time to plan out the logistics. The larger the group you’re biking with, and the longer the trip, the earlier you’ll need to start. You’ll need to begin researching costs, locations, and equipment as soon as possible.For example, if you’re planning to take a medium-length trip (5–11 days), you should start planning a year in advance. If you’ll be taking a mountain biking trip that lasts a full month, start planning at least 18 months in advance.;
, Even before you determine the location of your mountain biking trip, you need to figure out who will be coming with. Since you’re planning the trip, you can act as group leader and talk to friends, family members, and other mountain bikers in the community. Get hard commitments from as many of your friends and other participants as soon as you can.There may also be a local mountain biking club that you could talk into joining your trip. If this is your first time planning a biking trip, consider tagging along on one of the local club’s trips before your orchestrate your own.
 There’s also a financial reason to get the number of participants sorted quickly: you’ll be able to approximate how much the trip will cost. Mountain biking trips are not cheap, especially if you’re planning to travel out of your state or country, or if you’ll be paying for accommodations along the trail.


More participants means that costs can be split among more people. Figure out early who will pay what amount for transportation, hotels (if applicable), and any other up-front expenses.
 You’ll want to be in good shape for the biking trip, so start physically training well in advance. Do this by taking evening or weekend bike rides along local trails and paths. If you can find trails in your area that are similar in elevation or incline to the trails you’ll be riding on your trip, train on those trails. If you need to, you can even use a stationary or road bike to help train. Any type of training will be beneficial, and cross training is certainly better than not training.Make sure that you train on the bike that you’re going to ride. Since you’ll likely be on the bike for dozens or hundreds of miles, make sure that you’re familiar with it and comfortable in the seat. Do not buy a fancy new bike right before the trip.
 You can confirm that your bike is in good condition and ready to ride by checking A, B, and C: A for air, B for brakes and bolts, and C for controls and chain. These are the parts of your bike most subject to wear and tear, and need to be in good condition before any long ride.If you spot any serious problems with the bike, take it to a cycling shop for professional maintenance.


Check the air in your tires by hooking up a pressure gauge. If the tire pressure is lower than recommended in the manufacturer’s handbook (usually 90–110 psi), inflate to the proper psi.
Check the bike’s brakes by making sure that the brake pads press firmly on the side walls of your tires, and confirm that the brake pads are not won down past a safe level. Check the bolts by going over your bike with a multi-tool and tightening all visible bolts, especially those on the handlebar, seat and seatpost, and pedals.
Check the controls by confirming that gearshifts properly cycle through the gears. The chain should pass smoothly through the rear derailleur in all gears. If it hitches or skips, you may need to use a chain took to loosen a stiff chain link.
 The type of trail and terrain you want to ride on will have a substantial impact on the location you choose for your trip. Each type of train brings unique views, challenges, and experiences. Once you’ve selected a general type of terrain you’d like to ride, you can start looking into specific trails and locations.Common types include:


Long downhills, like in the Rocky Mountains in the American west and parts of Canada.
Slick flat rocks and sandy trails in the desert, like in Utah and much of the American southwest.
Durational alpine trails, like in western Canada, the Rockies, or the American northeast.
 Websites devoted to helping plan mountain biking trips can be invaluable resources: look into a site like SingleTracks, which offers a ranking of the most popular biking-destination trails in the United States. This and other sites which provide extensive trail information will inform you of the length of the trail and its difficulty.SingleTracks will also provide information regarding the nearest major city to the start of the trail, which allows you to plan a starting point for your biking trip.
It’s important to thoroughly research the region and trails you’re considering, especially if they’re in a state or country outside of your own.
 The weather at various biking-trip locations can have a large impact on the safety and status of trails. For example, weather on a trail like the Great Divide Mountain Bike Route (through much of the American west) can be treacherous in winter, so it’s best do to the trip in spring or summer.Conversely, if you’re planning a trip to a hot, arid region such as Moab (in Utah), biking in spring or fall will help you to avoid temperatures above 100°F (38°C).
Keep in mind that elevation can have a dramatic effect on weather as well, especially in the northern Rocky Mountains (think Colorado through British Columbia). During the winter, sunny skies can quickly turn to rain or even snow.
 You’re bound to get at least one flat tire on your biking trip, and will need to be able to repair it right on the side of the trail. Make sure you know your tire size (e.g. 26 inch, 29 inch), and buy the corresponding size of spare tubes.Even if you don’t end up needing both tubes for yourself, one of your fellow riders may not have come prepared. You can lend them your second spare tube, if needed.
 Riding along long-duration trails, especially ones with sharp rocks or narrow gaps to ride through, can be rough on tires. You’re likely going to get at least one or two ruptures during the course of a lengthy bike trip, and will need patches to fix up your spare tubes. Both spare tire tubes and patch kits are basically useless without a pump to re-inflate the tires after switching the tubes or patching a hole.You’ll want to find a pump that’s lightweight and doesn’t take up much space, so it will fit easily in your backpack.
Spare tubes, patches, and air pumps should all be available at your local bike-supply or outdoor-supply retailer.
 These are both biking-trip necessities: a multi tool will allow you to do trail-side adjustments to parts of your bike, including the chain, spokes, and frame. Make sure you find a tool which has fold-out tools including regular and Philips screwdrivers and several sizes of Allen key. A tire lever, as the name suggests, allows you to pop the tire off of the wheel frame so that you can replace the interior tube and patch the tire when needed.These items should also be available at your local bike shop or outdoor retailer. If you’re buying the majority of this gear for the first time, speak to a member of the stales staff who can recommend high-quality biking brands.
 Although you may not end up needing these two supplies on your bike trip (especially if it’s relatively short), it’s still wise to be prepared. Chain lube can be used to re-lubricate your chain and keep it circulating smoothly if you encounter water (rain or streams) or dusty conditions on your ride. Although you’re unlikely to have problems you’re your shocks while riding, a shock pump will be handy if you need to fix a slow leak.The sales staff at your local bike shop or outdoor retailer will be able to provide further recommendations about bike equipment that you’ll need, depending on the location and duration of your trip.

