 The sell-by date may also appear as "not to be sold after" or "EXP." This date is, at most, 30 days from the day the eggs were packaged.Eggs that are kept refrigerated and are not broken should be good for at least 1 month beyond the sell-by date.


The sell-by date appears as month/day in the United States. So eggs that must be sold by March 15th are labeled 03/15.
"Sell-by" refers to the last date the eggs should be available for the public to purchase. Eggs should be pulled from the shelf after this date.It does not mean the eggs are bad or rotten after this date.
 The best-by date may also be labeled as "use by," "use before," or "best before." The best-by label must be within 45 days of the date the eggs were packaged.Try to use these eggs within two weeks after the best-by date.


"Best-by" refers to the period of time eggs are at their peak freshness, with the best texture, flavor, and binding and thickening properties.It does not mean the eggs are bad or rotten after this date.
 Sell-by or best-by dates are not required by federal law (some states require them, other states forbid them), but all eggs must be labeled with the date they were packaged. This date usually appears as a 3 digit code using the Julian date calendar. This means eggs packaged on January 1st would be labeled 001, eggs packaged on October 15th would be labeled 288, December 31st 365.Look for the Julian date on the end of the carton. You'll see the plant code (a letter P followed by numbers) indicated where the eggs were packaged, and beside it you should find the Julian code.The European Union also requires that eggs are marked with a pack date. Even if eggs are sold loose and not in a marked carton, the consumer should have access to that information., Once an egg has cooled in your refrigerator, it is important to keep it at the same temperature. A cool egg in a warmer environment begins to sweat, which can encourage bacteria to grow on the outside of the egg. Because the egg shell is porous, it is sometimes possible for the bacteria on the shell to pass into through and contaminate the egg.


To prevent temperature fluctuations, store your eggs in the coldest part of your refrigerator, not on the door. The temperature is more likely to fluctuate on the door when it is opening and closing, which may cause your eggs to sweat.
If you receive your eggs unwashed and at room temperature, they do not need to be refrigerated. Many countries, including most European countries, keep their eggs at room temperature.This is safe because eggs are laid with a protective "bloom" which naturally keeps bacteria out. Once the eggs are washed, however, they must be refrigerated. Also, in most European countries, the hens have been inoculated against Salmonella prior to laying their eggs., If you have egg-laying hens and you're wondering when they will go bad, you can refer to your country's guidelines for freshness. It's a safe bet your eggs will be good for at least two months, if not more.


If you're not sure how long you've had your fresh eggs or if you think they are older than two months, learn the signs of bad and old eggs to help you decide whether or not you should use them in your cooking.

