 You can cover your gazing ball with a variety of things including pennies, glass marbles, gems, or crushed tinted glass. Decide on what would go best with your landscaping and garden, and choose a material that compliments it. Make sure to consider the material's colors when creating your gazing ball.


If you’re going for a lighter, colorful garden, turquoise glass gems make the perfect material.
Lighter weight materials like coins or gems may be easier to attach to your gazing ball.
If you’re going for a more rustic look, try finding flat stones in your garden.;
, Go to a department or thrift store to try to find a globe light cover. Some light covers will come with a fixture that can double as a gazing ball stand. If you can't find a round light cover, you can find an old bowling ball at a thrift shop, garage sale, or a bowling alley., Use soapy warm water to clean your round light cover or bowling ball. Use a rag or sponge and then thoroughly rinse and dry it off. You can also use rubbing alcohol or water and vinegar to wash your bowling ball., Spray paint primer will improve the spray paint’s cohesion and will help bring out the vibrant colors in your spraypaint.Apply two light coats of primer instead of one thick coat. Once you're done spraying your primer, allow it to dry.


Drying should take around an hour.
Two light coats of primer will prevent your paint from dripping later on.
 When considering what color to paint your gazing ball, determine the color and type of materials that you are using to cover it. Use a color that will blend in with the materials that you will attach to your ball. Do not use colors that clash or that stand out. Once you’re done painting your ball, allow it to dry before moving onto the next step.


For example, dark blue and purple stones look best when your orb is painted black.Brown may be good color for a gazing ball that uses stones from the garden.
 Because you’re gluing heavy stones to a smooth object, regular glue is not suitable for this step. Use a strong adhesive like epoxy or super glue and attach your covering materials to your ball.Apply the glue to the flat side of the material you’re using and press the material against the ball.


Work from one point on the ball and make a full ring around the ball if you want to keep your lines symmetrical.
When going for a rustic or artistic look, you can lay your stones asymmetrically.
 Allow the glue to dry thoroughly before putting it outside. Try to find a place in your garden that will accent the plants and flowers around it. If you used a lighter material like a round lamp cover and want to place it on a stand, you should attach it to your base using an adhesive, so that it doesn’t fall and break.

