 Each letter in "Best Me" corresponds to a step. It does not matter what order you do the steps in (the order below is BESTME), or what words you use. It is important however, that you include all the steps to ensure that you immerse every aspect of yourself in the imagined experience.B - Belief system
E - Emotions
S - Sensations and physical experiences
T - Thoughts and images
M - Motives
E - Expectations

, Think of a real or imagined place where you feel safe, calm, and happy. You can choose any place you like; there is no "wrong" place. It is, however, best to stick with a place once you choose it, as this makes reaching a relaxed state easier.Common safe places include:


A beach
A sunny park
A spot you visited on vacation
Your favorite room in your house, past or present
A place you've seen in a picture

, This is the sensation and physical experiences part of the process. Use all of your senses, not just sight. As you imagine each detail of this safe place, let its calmness relax you. For example, if your safe place were a beach at sunset, you would concentrate on:The colors – the red and golds of the sunset, the blue of the water
The sounds – the crash of the surf and call of the gulls
The sensations – the wind on your skin and the warm sand beneath you
Smells – the pure sea air with a hint of saltiness

, Absorb the peace around you. Feel yourself becoming calm, relaxed. Tell yourself: "I am calm. At peace."

, Thoughts will inevitably flit through your mind at first. Don't fight them. Rather, gently return your focus to your safe space. You are sinking into it and shutting down. Sinking down and shutting down. Sinking down and shutting down.If you have difficulty pushing away a negative thought, imagine putting the image on a TV screen, then use a remote control to put it on mute, to make it black and white, and to turn it off.You can also imagine putting the image in a drawer and closing the drawer.
 You have no other motives, no desire to be anywhere else, to do anything else. All you want is to exist free in this place. To dream, to drift on an on, until you are completely in your own personal paradise., Don't worry about whether you will achieve hypnosis. Expect to. Hypnosis is nothing but focus. Focus on your safe space. Be there. As you enter it completely, you are in hypnosis. As the technique's creator writes, "The deeper you go, the deeper you're able to go, and the deeper you go, the deeper you want to go, and the more enjoyable the experience becomes.", Return to the sensations of your safe space. Feel the peacefulness. Let thoughts fade. Enjoy the space as you sink deeper and deeper, until you are completely in your safe space., Once you have created and immersed yourself in your safe place, consider giving it a name. You can then use this name, even when not in hypnosis, to bring feelings of calm and relaxation., If you are still mastering self-hypnosis, or if your goal was simply to relax and calm yourself, you can now emerge from your session. Or, you can move on to pre-experiencing a goal in order to increase confidence and incentive, or to re-experiencing past emotions in order to build confidence and reduce anxiety.

