 This question defines the remaining steps and is the most important.


Do you only need your phone for phone calls, texting, and Facebook? If so, most phones today have these options and you can save money by purchasing cheaper phones for these purposes.
Is the phone going to be used for multimedia and gaming? If so, a mid-range to high-end flagship phone will be in order. These tend to have more storage for taking HD pictures and video, as well as higher level processors and cameras.;
, There can be a lot of different facts to be stated about computer processors. A few basics can help a user to make the best decision.



Cores. The more cores a processor has, the faster it will be (dual core, quad core, etc.) Many phones today run quad core processors; however, great deals can be found with dual core phones, as they contain older technology but are perfect for basic phone tasks. Some Android phones with dual core processors include the LG Realm, Motorola Luge, and the LG L60. Phones like the Samsung Galaxy S5, Motorola Droid Turbo, the HTC Desire and the Samsung Galaxy Note 4 have quad core processors.

Clock speed. On most advertisements for phones, the clock speed of the processor will be displayed. This is measured in gigahertz (Ghz). The higher the number, the faster the device, for the most part.
 There are two basic types of memory on a phone: main storage and RAM.


The main storage is where applications, media (pictures, videos, etc.) are stored.
RAM is always the smaller of the two memory types. RAM is basically live, active, memory that the phone uses to run multiple apps all at once. Many high-end flagship phones run high amounts of RAM for gaming and multimedia.
The average phone today comes with 16GB (gigabytes) of storage; however, the amount of RAM can be different. It ranges from 3GB to 512MB for older, more basic phones. (1GB is 1,000 MB.)
Generally, the higher the amount of GB in the phone, for either storage or RAM, the more expensive it will be.
 The camera in a phone measures the picture quality based on megapixels (MP); this is called the resolution. While this should not be the only factor, it is an important one. iPhones generally come with an 8MP camera (sometimes called a shooter). For Android, this is more mid-range. Android phones can come with a 2MP–20MP shooter. The Samsung Galaxy Note, the Google Nexus 6, and the Samsung Galaxy S5 are a few Android phones that have particularly good cameras.


The more MP, the better the quality of the camera.
Generally, the more MP, the more space will be taken up in storage for each picture or video taken.
Many newer phones come with two different cameras, one facing the user (front-facing) and one facing away (back camera). The front-facing camera will have a lower resolution, usually around 2MP or so. It is mostly used for self-portrait and video calls.
Video quality is also important. Most phones with an 8MP back camera will shoot in HD (high definition) video, giving clear, crisp video. However, a few phones with lower MP front-facing cameras are capable of this as well.
 The screen on today’s phones is a very important feature for many users. Lower-resolution screens can make many pictures, videos, and games look grainy. There are a few basic things to understand when choosing the right screen.


Is it HD or not? There are two different numbers associated with screen resolution, and they should be displayed like this: 1280 x 720. This particular resolution is the lowest HD screen available. Anything lower is not considered to be HD.
Generally, the higher the resolution, the sharper the screen.
Today, high-end phones can come with QHD screens. These can have resolutions as high as 2560 x 1440.
A final important factor is the pixels per inch (PPI) measurement. The PPI of a screen determines how sharp the display is when zoomed in. Edges of text and the like can become grainy even on HD screens that have a low PPI. However, this number is not very important for the basic functions of your phone, such as Facebook, texting, or email.
 There are many different places to purchase an Android phone. A few are online stores, mobile carriers, and electronics stores. These will all have different ranges in deals and packages for different phones. Make sure to compare pricing differences between each market.


Online markets can be unsafe. However, places like Ebay have user protection to safeguard user information and ensure that returns and refunds are enforced.
Online markets are also much more likely to have older, or more basic, phones available than other markets.
 Do not simply pick up a phone and buy it. Make sure to compare phones to each other. Look at the specifications and price of each phone to weigh each phone’s strengths and weaknesses.
 Some good deals can be passed over when searching for the perfect phone. Having a technologically inclined friend who respects the buyers point of view can be a of great help. Buy that new Android phone and enjoy!

