 You can create an Uber account directly from the mobile app. Uber is designed to be used on the go, so you'll be doing most of your Uber interactions on your smartphone.


Uber is available for iPhone, Android, and Windows Phone.;
, Search for "uber" in the app store and then tap "Get" or "Install" next to "Uber."

, After installing the app, you'll be able to tap it to get started.
 You need to have a valid phone number to use Uber in case the driver needs to contact you. Because of this, you are asked for your phone number first when you start the app.
 Your Uber receipts will be sent to this address.
, Make sure to enter your real name so that drivers will be able to identify you.
 box. This will let you type a destination.
 You'll see search suggestions appear as you type. You can tap one to quickly select it.
 By default, your pickup location will be your current location. You can make adjustments if necessary.
 Different cities will have different ride options available, at varying prices. The most common option in most areas is "uberX," which is everyday drivers in everyday cars. This is typically the cheapest option with the most available drivers.


For larger groups (up to 6), select the "XL" option.
Luxury options will cost more, and may not be readily available in your area.
"UberPool" allows you to share rides with other Uber riders and split the fare. It is not available in all areas.
 Selecting a ride option will display the estimated wait time next to your pickup location on the map.
 In some areas with uberX rides, you'll be able to see your guaranteed fare when selecting the vehicles. Otherwise, you'll see a fare estimate based on distance and current traffic.


Look for any current surge pricing. Surges occur when multiple riders are requesting rides from the same area, and will result in higher fares. This can lead to a much more expensive trip, so pay attention to the fare estimate that is presented. If you're facing a high surge, consider another transportation method or choose another pickup location.
 You'll be asked to confirm your pickup location if you didn't modify it earlier.
 If you didn't change your pickup location, you'll be asked to confirm it. You may also be shown an ideal pickup location, which can help your driver find you in busy areas. It's recommended to choose the suggested pickup location.
 You need to have a payment method associated with your account, even if you're using free ride credit. You can add credit or debit cards, PayPal, Apple Pay (iPhone), or Android Pay (Android).


Some countries allow you to pay cash for Uber rides. In the US, you must have an electronic payment method associated with your account, and you cannot pay cash.
 During the day in most major areas, this should only take a minute or so. Once your request is accepted, you'll see your driver's name and photo appear in the Uber app.
 If you were given a suggested pickup location, make sure you are there at the expected time.


You'll be notified through the app one minute before your driver arrives.
 You can see your driver's car on the map and an ETA at the bottom of the screen.
 The car model will be displayed underneath the driver's name. This will help you identify your driver in a busy area.
 The Uber app will tell you your driver's license plate number. Use this to help make sure you're getting in the right car., Don't say, "Are you here to pick up <your name>?" Instead ask, "Who are you here to pick up?" The driver will know your name through their Uber app, so this will ensure that you're safely getting into the car that you ordered., If you leave something behind, you'll have to coordinate a meeting with your driver later to retrieve it, which can be a hassle. Double-check that you've grabbed everything before getting out of the vehicle., After the driver ends your ride, the Uber app will prompt you to rate your driver.


Be honest with your rating, but also keep in mind that Uber will kick drivers out if their rating falls below 4.6 stars., You don't need to do anything to pay your driver after the ride. Your payment method will be charged automatically through the Uber app. If you feel like tipping your driver, you can do so with cash. Tipping is not required, and it's not possible to add a tip to your automated payment.

