 Generally, for every inch of the turtle's shell 10 gallons (37.9 L) of water for the aquarium is needed. For example, if you got a 5 inch (12.7 cm) turtle, you would need at least a 50 gallon (190 L) aquarium. Aquariums are expensive!;
, Your turtle will need some decorations in their aquarium so he/she won't get bored! Turtles love to play with decorations. Don't get anything that takes up too much space in the aquarium, or the turtle won't have as much space to swim.
 Place it in your tank and set the heater for whatever the normal temperature of your species of turtle needs.
 Your turtle needs a place where it can get fully out of the water. It is extremely important, because otherwise your turtles shell will rot! You can buy a basking platform at pet stores, and place it in your tank. Make sure it is completely out of the water, and that your turtle can easily get on the platform.
 Your turtle will need a heat lamp to be able to properly bask. Depending on the species of turtle you get, the hotter/cooler the basking area will need to be. Place the lamp so that the heat is shining over the basking area.
 It helps take care of their shell, by providing rays from the sunlight. Place it over your tank, just like the heat lamp, except you can put it wherever you would like.
 Most turtles enjoy live crickets and worms. They can also live on traditional turtle food that are pellets. They also enjoy vegetables such as lettuce. Research your turtle before giving certain foods!

, Make sure you do not overfeed your turtle, or it will grow too big for its shell!

, It is good for their shells. You can buy them calcium sticks and put it in their tank for them to eat.
 You should get a filter that is 2-3 times more powerful than needed, because turtles are very messy.
 Do not do a full water change! Only change out most of the water. You will need to rinse off the tank, basking area, and any other decorations in your tank. You will also need to clean out your filter, and replace any parts of the filter if needed.

