 The market is full of topical creams containing estrogen and collagens, and purporting to both increase the size and tone the shape of breasts. The creams are said to pump up the cells in your breasts and make them appear to be bigger, and some run several hundred dollars a bottle. No enhancement cream has been proven to actually enlarge breasts, and some sources say the creams may actually be unsafe to use.If you want to give this option a try, look for a cream with only natural ingredients like shea butter and aloe. Worst case, your breasts will be soft and moisturized.
 This is a breast-enhancement vacuum device that will run you at least $900, but there is research to show that it causes the breast cells to enlarge and replicate, leading to an increase of one or more cup sizes.The device is fitted over your breasts like a bra, then vacuums inside the cups work on your tissue and increase your size over time. It takes at least 10 weeks to see a difference.
 Fillers are injections of hyaluronic acid into the breast. They increase breasts by a cup size or two over a serious of multiple injections. Each injection takes about 30 to 90 minutes, and the procedure totals a few thousand dollars.


Fillers may have extremely dangerous side effects, so do careful research before deciding to use one.In some cases you may need a "tune-up" to keep the fillers looking natural.
 In this procedure, fat is taken from the abdomen or buttocks and injected into the breasts to make them fuller. Since some of the fat is absorbed into the body each time, multiple injections are required before results are seen. Pursue this method with extreme caution, since there's a chance the fat will calcify and lead to major health complications., In this procedure, needles are inserted into the breasts, transferring an electrical current that plumps up the cells. It's a popular treatment among celebrities. In some cases it doesn't last forever, so you may need more than one treatment. There isn't much scientific information on long-term effects of this, so proceed with caution.

