 Take your cat to the veterinarian at least once a year for routine check ups and dental appointments. Also, make sure your cat is up-to-date with its shots and vaccinations.If your cat exhibits pain or stiffness in its tail or legs, then you should take your cat to the veterinarian. These are signs of a health issue common to Scottish folds called osteochondrodystrophy.To optimize your cat’s health, ask your veterinarian about the Scottish fold’s nutritional, grooming, and health needs.;
, If you have a shorthaired Scottish fold, then brush it once or twice a week using a metal comb. If you have a longhaired Scottish fold, then you will need to brush it daily. Use a wire slicker brush to comb your longhaired Scottish fold.Brush in the direction of its hair growth and make sure to brush its whole body, including its chest and abdomen.
 If you decide to clip your cat’s nails yourself, then you will need to acclimate it to having its paws and nails handled. You can do this by:Rubbing or massaging your cat’s paws and toes for two to three seconds a day.
Pressing the pad to expose the nail for trimming. If your cat pulls away, wait until it is calm before handling its paws again. Reward it with treats and praise for good behavior.
Using the nail clippers to clip a piece of macaroni near your cat’s ears as you handle its paws. The sound of the macaroni will familiarize your cat with the sound of its nails being clipped. Reward your cat with a treat and praise for good behavior.
 Clip the white part of the nail only. Do not clip near the pink part of your cat’s nails, also known as the quick. Because the quick contains nerves and blood vessels, it will bleed if you clip it. Keep a styptic stick or powder nearby just in case you clip the quick.Trim only two or three nails at a time. Do this until your cat is comfortable with having its nails clipped. Remember to reward your cat with praise and treats for good behavior.
Trim its nails every 10 to 14 days.
 If you cannot brush its teeth daily, then once or twice a week will suffice. Do not use human toothpaste or toothbrushes to clean your cat’s teeth. Purchase specially formulated toothpastes and toothbrushes from your local pet store. Clean your cat’s teeth by:


Touching its teeth and gums with a Q-tip, or by gently massaging them with your finger. This will introduce your cat to the feeling of getting its teeth brushed. Practice this for a week.
Placing a small amount of toothpaste onto your cat’s lips. This will introduce your cat to the taste of the toothpaste. Do this daily for a week.
Pushing its lips back gently and touching the toothbrush to its teeth and gums. This will introduce the toothbrush to your cat. Practice this for a couple days. Reward your cat with praise and treats for good behavior.
Gently scrubbing your cat’s teeth in a downward motion. You want to use a downward motion so you can remove plaque and tartar away from its teeth and gums. Do this once your cat is used to the toothpaste and toothbrush.
 Check the outside of its ears for bald spots, and make sure the inner surfaces of its ears are light pink and clean. Check its ear canals by gently folding its ears back. The ear canal should be dirt-free, have a healthy pink color, and have minimal earwax.If your cat’s ears look dirty, then use a damp cloth or cotton ball to wipe away dirt and debris. You can moisten the cloth with an equal parts water and apple-cider vinegar solution for a thorough clean. Never stick anything into your cat’s ears to clean them.
If you notice swelling, a large amount of wax, bleeding, pus, or smell an odor, then you should take your cat to the vet to see if it has an ear infection.
 Check your cat’s litter box twice a day for cleanliness, i.e., once in the morning and once in the afternoon. Make sure to remove any waste and re-fill the litter box with fresh, clean litter.Wash your cat’s litter box with hot water and a mild, unscented soap every two weeks. Do not use scented cleaning products (especially lemon-scented products) or cleaning products that contain ammonia or deodorants to clean your cat’s litter box.

