 65-75% of Swiss citizens speak Swiss-German, particularly throughout northern and central Switzerland. 20% speak French, and 4-7% are fluent in Italian.French and Italian are respectively most common along the borders with France (to the west) and Italy (to the south). Romansh is an ancient language, native to some southern regions, that is spoken by less than 1% of Swiss citizens.


Bear in mind that many Swiss are multilingual. German is a good bet anywhere in the country, but you may be able to get by with French, Italian, or English regardless of the region.;
, Just say "Hello!" Most Swiss citizens speak at least some English, especially in the big cities. The locals may be impressed if you make the effort to approach them using their native language, but you should be able to make your way around with English in most metropolitan areas. Bonus: the English "Hello" shares its roots with the German "Hallo," so you might be briefly mistaken for German if you use the right tone., Listen to the people around you. Before you speak to someone, listen carefully to hear him or her talk. If you are greeting a group, try to eavesdrop on their conversation before you jump in. You may even be able to pin down the pronunciation of certain words by listening to how the people around you say them.


Look at signs, notices, and advertisements. If most of the public notices are written in German, then you should probably try speaking German. If most of the notices are written in French, then you should try speaking French.
If you are preparing to meet someone for the first time, consider his or her name. If his name is Pierre, there's a good chance that he hails from a French-speaking region. If his name is Klaus, then it might be safe to assume that he speaks German.
 If you’re meeting someone for the first time, stretch out your hand and say hello. If you are a woman greeting a female friend or a man greeting a woman, kiss them three times: offer first your right cheek, then your left, then your right again. These are not actual kisses, just air kisses. If you are a man greeting a male friend, stick with a handshake or man-hug. This format applies over much of the country, but certain regions (particularly those that border other countries) may have their own specific etiquette.