 When asking a guy out on a date, avoid asking him to do things like go to a wedding with you, doing anything that will involve your family, or sharing a major moment in your life like your birthday. Save those times for guys that you are serious about. Instead, suggest more low stakes ideas like the movies, bowling, coffee, rollerblading, a bar, or a museum., If a bunch of your friends are going out on the town, to a movie, or to dinner, ask him to tag-a-long. This can potentially be low pressure as well, as both of you will have others that you can talk to through the course of the night.If your friends have all been with their partners for a long period of time, don’t ask him to go. Being around serious couples might be a bit intense for a first date.
You can also ask him out on a group outing with friends, but be sure to pay attention to him and involve him in conversation.
 If you have tickets to a game or concert, invite him to go with you, especially if you know he likes the team or band. Even if he doesn’t go, you can still invite a friend and have a good time.You might say something like “Hey Ryan, I have a spare ticket to the Drake concert next weekend. Wanna go with me?”
This method will work best with those who you know already.
 He might say he really wants to see a movie or that he likes baseball; invite him to the movie or the batting cages. However, don’t pretend that you like it if you don’t, but do be a good sport about it., If you’re age 21 or over and out on the town, and see a guy you like or want to get to know, buy him a drink. You can either send it to him via the bartender and wait for him to come over, or you can approach him and ask what he’d like. Either way, this is a conversation starter.You might say to the bartender “Hey, what’s that guy in the blue drinking? I want to send him another on my tab.”
You can approach him by saying “Hi, how are you. I was noticing you across the bar and wondering what you were drinking. Can I buy you another one?”

