 You'll need at least one other capable, strong person to help you remove and install your new windshield.






;
, Damaged windshields are illegal to drive with and can impair your vision. If you have any cracks, replace your windshield as soon as possible to prevent tickets or more serious damage.









Before embarking on this project, check with your insurance company to see if a windshield replacement is covered. If so, you may be able to take your car to a body shop and have it replaced without a hefty bill.
 Using a heavy blanket or tarp, cover the front seats and dashboard to protect them from glass, debris, or any dripping urethane — a chemical used to seal the windshield in place. You and an assistant should always wear gloves and protective glasses while working








, Set these aside to be re-attached later.
 These may be on the inside or outside of the car. Since you will need new ones for your new window, you can throw these out. 







, You may need to use a small knife or crowbar to get it off at first; some trim will require special trim removal tools to prevent trim damage. Remove the urethane weather stripping as well so that only the windshield remains.









You may also use a knife to cut the seal along the perimeter before you try to pull it off. , This will make it easier to slide the windshield out later. Apply lubricant around the edge between the windshield and the car frame.









Wait several minutes for the lubricant to seep into the cracks before you move on. Make sure the seal all the way around the windshield has been cut with a windshield removal cut tool.
 Attach large suction cups, which you can buy online, tightly to the glass. Pull up with even pressure while a friend pushes the windshield from the inside.









It may be easier to have the person inside push the window out first, loosening the window, and then you pull with the suction cups.
Have the person inside the car recline the seat back so he can get their feet onto the glass and use his legs to push.
Do not stand on the hood or roof of the car — this will damage the body.
The windshield may come out suddenly, so make sure you are steady and balanced and don't fall backwards.
 Windshields should be disposed of in a landfill, not in your backyard. Check if your state offers windshield recycling programs, or if your local auto mechanic will dispose of it for you. 








Tape the windshield up in a thick blanket while you transport it to prevent cuts on any broken edges. , Make sure you get one that fits the make, model, and year of your car.









Use a water and a brush to clean the new windshield of dust before you start working.
 If there is still sealant or weather stripping attached to your car, remove it carefully with a knife and gloves and dispose of it.
 Using a paintbrush, add a thin amount of primer along the entire the inside edge of the window. You only need a strip about an inch wide. Then apply some primer to the windshield socket as well.









Allow the primer to dry. Do not touch the primer or the oil in your fingers can prevent the sealer from sticking to window or frame.
 While they come in many different forms, they all attach by sliding onto the tabs on the top of the windshield socket and hammering snugly into place.
 Apply the urethane evenly throughout the entire frame, working quickly to prevent it from drying.









Using a V-shaped nozzle will help the urethane sits higher, forming a better seal with the windshield. , Have the new windshield nearby — suction cups already attached — so that you can rapidly put it on the car before the urethane dries out. Push it gently but firmly into the window once you have it in place.
 This is also a good time to push any bubbling urethane back in between the car and the windshield. You want to create a perfect seal to keep the windshield in place and hold out rain. 







, Pop in your cars molding (you may need to buy more) and push it securely into the frame, closing off any exposed areas between the windshield and the car. Reinstall your cowl panel and windshield wiper arms.
 You want the windshield to be firmly in place before you move the car so that it doesn't pop out during an accident or acceleration. Refer to the directions on the sealant to see how long you need to wait. 







