 This striking and elegant wall decoration is easy to make with fifteen minutes and some basic supplies. First, tie a pretty tree ornament to some ribbon and make a loop. Take an empty wooden picture frame (painted to match the ornament, if you like) and make sure the ribbon is long enough that when you hold the top against the top back side of the frame, the ornament hangs in the center. Once you're satisfied, mark that spot and hot glue or nail the ribbon in from the back. Hang the frame on the wall to show off the ornament suspended in its center.
 These are spiky, unique looking ornaments that recall snowflakes and dandelion fluff in equal measure. Start with balls of craft foam and lots of flat toothpicks. Sit down and stick the toothpicks into the foam balls all over, as closely together as possible. Once the entire ball is covered, adjust the toothpicks until they're all about even, and then spray paint the whole thing white. They look great sitting on top of other objects or just scattered as a set of three or four across a shelf.


Use different-sized foam balls to make varying sizes of puffs.
 Thread thin ribbon through the tops of one or two small globe ornaments, and then tie the thin ribbon through the center of a bow knot in a piece of wide ribbon to serve as the napkin ring itself. Use two different colors, such as blue and silver, for a pretty and classy look.


As with all napkin rings, this works best on cloth napkins; however, if you skip the ornaments, you can make even a plain table festive by tying utensils together with satin bows.
 Wrapped candles are quick, easy, and impressive to look at. Start with a candle in a dedicated glass holder, or use a pillar candle set in a properly-sized wine glass or other piece of glassware. Next, wrap the base or center area of the glass with something festive. Bits of sleeve cut from old winter sweaters look cozy; a fat velvet ribbon with a bow is festive; sprigs of cedar glued around the base are warm and elegant.


Consider using pretty Mason jars, such as diamond-patterned jelly jars, as candle holders for an extra-homey look. You can even turn the ring of the jar upside-down and set the jar inside it for a more elaborate display!

, There are an endless number of crafty things you can do with a wreath-form base to create your own custom Christmas wreaths: glue fruit and nuts to them, wrap them in fabric, cover them with globe ornaments – but there's no easier or more fun way to create a quick custom wreath than to start with a plain fir- or pine-bough wreath from the store and let your creativity take over from there. Try adding gift tags with the names of your family and friends, or sticking floral elements (the kind that come on plastic spikes) in to add fruits and leaves.


You can also decorate your wreath just like a Christmas tree. Instead of hanging the ornaments, tack them to the boughs straight through the tops. Use a couple different sizes and colors to create a look that's at once homemade and professional.

