 For heavier pictures, it is best to hang your picture on a stud. Drywall has a stud, or wooden support brace, about every 16 inches (40.6 cm). Find a wall stud using a stud finder, or by gently tapping the wall until you hear a solid, rather than a hollow, sound. Plaster walls are more difficult to find studs, so consider another method if you have trouble.


If your picture is wider than 16 inches (40.6 cm), or the distance between two studs in your wall, Use a level and two screws to screw a narrow piece of wood into the wall. Make sure the screws are in at least two studs, for extra strength. You can then fasten picture hangers into the wood at desired intervals using nails or screws, depending on what the fastener requires. Hang the picture across both picture hangers. If your picture is narrower, use a mounting picture hanger to hang it from one point on the wall stud. Choose a hanger that uses several nails for added strength. Hammer the nails into the wall stud, then hang your picture on the hanger. If hanging on a plaster wall, make sure you use a hanger that uses screws, not nails.
It is unlikely that you will want to hang your picture exactly where you have studs in your wall. There are other strong, reliable methods for hanging pictures if you do not find a desired wall spot for your picture with a wall stud behind it.
 While traditional picture hangers may not seem like the most sturdy option, they are easy to use and cause minimal damage to your wall. Picture hangers with one nail can hold up to 25lbs, and hangers with two nails can hold up to 50lbs. While it is not recommended that you push the limits of these hangers, you may use them for medium load paintings. You can use them on plaster as long as the hangers have screws or anchor screws. Hammer or screw the picture hanger into the wall at the desired spot using the corresponding number of nails or screws. Hang your picture on this hanger.
 There are many different kinds of anchor bolts depending on the weight of your picture and the type of wall you are using. All anchors require pilot holes. You will need to drill a preliminary hole into the wall before inserting the bolt or screw and hanging the picture. You must use anchor bolts and screws with plaster walls. Using nails and hammers on plaster will only cause damage to the wall.


Plastic anchor screws are surrounded by plastic that expand into the wall after you screw them in. For drywall, choose ones with plastic wings that expand out behind the wall. Plastic anchor screws without wings work best on plaster walls, as they grip the plaster well. Drill a hole the diameter of the anchor. Insert the anchor into the hole and pull it back out. Screw it back into place to activate the plastic anchor. Screw it back out and attach a picture hanger, then screw it back in to secure it. You may also unscrew the anchor screw to the desired length and simply hang the picture from the hook it forms. Molly bolts are more difficult to use but hold heavy loads well. This kind of anchor bolt provides support by gripping the back of the wall. Drill a hole the diameter of the molly bolt. Insert the bolt and then tighten with the drill. The metal support behind the bolt will flare out on the other side of the drywall as you tighten the screw. Unscrew and attach a picture hanger, or simply hang the picture from the screw. , Toggle bolts hold the greatest amount of weight. They are spring-loaded and provide support from the back of the wall. They are also the best choice for plaster walls. They require a much wider drill bit to install.


Drill a hole the diameter of the folded toggle bolt. Fold down the spring-loaded wings and insert the bolt into the hole. Let go and the wings will spread out behind the drywall. Pull it back out and tighten with a drill. You can hang a picture hanger from the screw, or hang the picture directly from the screw. 