 Many people may use the term “lose a guy” when meaning the types of behavior that will make the guy lose interest or even do the job of breaking up so someone else doesn’t have to. It’s always better to take a direct approach to someone you’re not interested in seeing anymore. By the time the guy gets the hint, he’ll initiate a conversation where you will probably have to admit that you don’t want to be with him regardless. You can save you both time and frustration by just telling him how you feel to begin with.


For more information on how to do this, check out: How to Break Up with a Boy or How to Break Up with a Guy Nicely.
Of course, if you simply want to compare your own relationship behavior to what could potentially cause you to lose the guy, then there are several things to avoid.
 Mutual respect is one of the most important aspects of a serious relationship with anyone. By lacking respect in a relationship, you essentially tell the guy that you don’t value him and don’t care about his concerns or priorities.Consistently putting your own concerns and priorities before his without any willingness to consider his is inherently disrespectful and one of the biggest ways people fall into this trap.


Disregarding his emotions and challenges as valid is just as disrespectful and hurtful as always putting your own first as well.Keep in mind that respecting him doesn’t mean being subservient to him. This is still the 21st century. Respect goes both ways.
 One extreme pitfall of uncommunicative relationships especially is realizing that while you may love someone and feel obligated to the person, you still don’t particularly like the person. By not liking a guy you nonetheless love and remain with, you’ll often come across more angry or resentful, which he will in turn notice. The behavior can easily drive him away., Anyone in a relationship will open up, express vulnerabilities, and rely on a partner for help. One of the quickest ways to make a guy close up and run is to judge him for his flaws or shortcomings instead of being the safe place for him to be open about them.He’ll retreat even more quickly if you pair your judgmental behavior with explicit blame toward him for the flaws and shortcomings and then complain about him because of them to others., Trust is one of the strongest foundations on which people can build a relationships. By not trusting a guy, especially if he’s never given you a single reason not to trust him, you are likely to drive him away.This applies just as much to trusting his ability to make decisions as it does to trusting his fidelity. Trust enters multiple facets of a relationship.
 Regardless of sex, people usually want to run to a significant other in times of both great news and terrible news. Being unavailable when he needs support is a surefire way to make a guy pull away.This applies just as much to simply being emotionally disinterested in his celebrations and sorrows.
 Conflict is unavoidable in any relationship. Getting past a conflict is usually about calming down, meeting someone in the middle, and taking responsibility for one’s part in the fight. If you want to drive a guy away, never concede to any culpability in the conflicts that arise during the relationship., Everyone occasionally makes mistakes in relationships. The important part is that the mistake wasn’t dangerous, the person acknowledges the mistake and shows remorse for it, and takes steps not to repeat the mistake. If you want to lose the guy, refuse to forgive him in every situation regardless of how big or small the mistake and despite how well he has tried to fix it.By never taking responsibility and never forgiving him, you additionally end up keeping him on the hook for things that weren’t even his fault, which will really go a long way to losing him.

