 This method is similar to the blow dryer method in that it removes dried candle wax by melting it. However, this method differs in that it allows you to soak up wax as it melts, rather than wipe it up when it's all melted. Because of this, it's a great choice for wax that's stuck to fabric or clothing.


Though it's obvious, one thing bears mentioning: as you should during any occasion that calls for a hot iron, use caution with this method. Handle the iron with care - if you're unsure whether it's hot or not, flick a little water at it, rather than touching it. Never leave hot irons unattended, especially not face down.
 As your iron heats, put paper towels on top of the troublesome wax, making sure that they are as large or larger than the iron. Cover the layer of paper towels with a fabric kitchen towel.
 Gently rub the iron back and forth as you would if you were ironing clothes. This will gradually heat and melt the wax, which will be absorbed by the layer of paper towels as it melts. Keeping the iron in constant, gentle motion prevents it from burning your towel.
 Periodically remove the iron and towels to check your progress. If your paper towels start to appear saturated with liquid wax, discard them and replace them with new paper towels. Repeat until the wax is fully absorbed.


Replacing saturated paper towels is important. If you allow your paper towels to become completely soaked with wax and continue working, you'll start to spread hot wax around the fabric, rather than soaking it up. This can make the stain caused by wax bigger, which you definitely don't want.
 When you seem not to be making any more progress on your candle wax, you may turn off your iron and discard your paper towels. Be patient - this can take upwards of ten minutes. When you've soaked up all the wax you can, all that should remain is a slight discoloration in the fabric (assuming the candle was made from colored wax).
 To get any lingering discoloration out of your fabric, switch to a carpet or fabric cleaner. Use an appropriate cleaner - one that won't damage your fabric - and scrub gently with a wet rag after allowing the cleaner to soak in.

