 You do not need to get deep with someone, talking about your life, work, and goals or dreams. Casual flirting is more about smiles, light teasing, and occasional touching. If they reciprocate, then you're likely developing a rapport that can lead to a casual fling. Some hints to drop while flirting include:


"I've had my share of relationships, and I am definitely not looking for any commitment right now."
"I'm just here to have fun and meet someone cute.", You need to be clear and upfront with someone you are hooking up with from the beginning. If you are not you may lead someone to expect more than you are willing to give, ending in one-sided relationships that will end poorly for everyone. While this conversation can be awkward, the best advice is to come right out and say what you want:


"I am not looking to start a relationship or begin dating."
"I want something casual, not a girlfriend/boyfriend."
"Let's have something light and fun."

, There is no need to be gushy, overly-loving, or cuddly if you both want a quick hook-up. You wouldn't kiss your friend and send them flowers at work, so you shouldn't do it with a casual sexual relationship. But there is also no need to act ashamed, awkward, or aloof when with someone. Have a sense of humor about everything, enjoy each other's company, and keep things light. This will allow you to get everything out in the open, preventing bottled up emotions or stepping over the line.


When you see someone again the next day, be kind and cordial -- a hug and hello is not the same as asking for a date., You need to be upfront if you are keeping multiple partners "on-retainer." If you are hooking up with more than one person, your partner deserves to know. Remember, however, that if they take offense or would rather be with someone exclusively then you can both easily go your separate ways. If they believe you are exclusive and you keep seeing them, they may get the idea the relationship is going to develop into something more serious.


Casually bring up funny, light, or interesting stories of other hook-ups to make it clear you are not exclusive.
"I'm not looking to be exclusive right now, I hope that's okay with you?"

, Apps like Tinder and Grindr were developed to help people interested in finding casual relationships in their area. You can download them for your phone, make a quick profile, and start talking with someone in your area almost immediately.


Always meet in a public location first.
Don't ever give personal or financial information -- your name is more than enough.
Drive yourself to and from your meet-up location.
Tell a friend or family member your plans to meet someone, your location, and when you plan on returning., If you or your partner starts to fall in love, but the other person still wants to stay casual, you need to end the relationship. Trying to "work through" it, or convince someone to drop their feelings and go back to something less intense will never work, and the longer you stay together the stronger the feelings will get. Remember that this began as something casual -- it can end casually too. Things to say include:


"This has been fun, but I'd like to look for something a little more serious."
"This has been fun, but I'm not available for anything serious right now, and I'm going to see some other people."
If something is in the early stages, stop making a move or trying to flirt, even if you think it is "harmless."

