 Your state and the federal government can limit your rights to own a firearm. The most common limitation is the federal prohibition on felons owning a gun if they were convicted of a crime that could result in imprisonment for more than one year. You do not actually have to serve more than a year in prison. It is enough that, under state or federal law, you could have been sentenced for that crime to more than a year in jail.Federal law, however, makes an exception for misdemeanor convictions if the crime would not result in imprisonment for more than two years.
The misdemeanor exception does not apply if you were convicted of a domestic violence offense.
 States can also limit who can own guns within their state boundaries. These limitations may be in addition to the federal limitation on felons owning guns. You should understand the effects of any misdemeanor conviction in your state.


To find your state laws, you can visit your nearest law library, which could be at the courthouse or at a nearby law school. Ask the librarian to help you find the laws regarding gun ownership in your state.
You can also visit the website of the Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. Although this is an organization dedicated to limiting your gun rights, they have helpfully collected information about state gun laws. Click on any state on the map and then read up on that state’s gun laws., You will face pressure to take a plea bargain in order to make a prosecution go away.However, if you agree to plead guilty to a felony, then you could lose your gun rights. You also could lose your gun rights if you plead guilty to a misdemeanor which could carry a term of imprisonment for more than two years.


Before accepting a plea deal, you need to meet with an attorney. Tell the lawyer that protecting your gun rights is very important to you and ask the lawyer how you can go about doing that. The lawyer might be able to talk the prosecutor down to charging you with a misdemeanor.
If you need to find a criminal defense lawyer, then contact your local or state bar association and ask for a referral. If you have a public defender, ask him or her how pleading guilty will affect your gun rights.
 The prosecuting attorney might not let you plead to a misdemeanor. Instead, they might insist that you plead guilty to a felony. In this situation, the only way to protect your gun rights would be to go to trial and win your case. If you aren’t convicted, then you can generally keep your gun rights.


Talk with your lawyer about how hard you should fight the prosecution. It may be possible in your state to have your gun rights restored after you serve your sentence. Because this depends on your state’s law, be sure to talk to your lawyer.
 If you are convicted of a felony, then you may be able to petition your state to restore your gun rights.Each state has its own policies, and in some states you can’t get your gun rights back no matter what. However, you should talk to a lawyer about how your state handles restoring gun rights to ex-felons.

]

See Get Gun Rights Back for more information.

