 In order to maintain optimal health and well-being, you should make sure you're getting enough sleep. Quantity and quality of sleep is intrinsically connected to our physical and mental health. Sleep has an essential restorative effect on our body and, in fact, a lack of adequate sleep is linked to impaired immune function. During the third phase of the sleep cycle, our bodies' natural T and B lymphocytes (a form of white blood cell) produce “cytokines,” chemicals which target and kill viruses and bacteria.Research has determined that ideally people should get between seven and eight hours of uninterrupted sleep per night; those who sleep less or more than the recommended amount were may be a greater risk for the development of adverse medical conditions and diseases.;
, Medical experts and researchers recommend doing aerobic exercise (exercise that gets your heart rate up and makes you sweat) at least three times per week in increments of 30 minutes. Aerobic is defined as working in such a manner as to achieve your target heart rate for this period. Some of the best and most enjoyable aerobic exercises include running, cycling, and swimming.


To calculate your target heart rate for aerobic exercise, subtract your age from 220 and multiply by .70.For example, if you are 20 years old, your target heart rate would be 140. You check this while exercising, by placing your index and middle finger into the groove of your neck and feeling for your carotid pulse and counting the number of beats for one minute.
Pick an exercise you enjoy. If you like what you're doing, you're more likely to continue with the regimen.
 Currently, we are discovering more and more the value of phytonutrients in preventing illness, both in preventing free radical cellular damage to increasing immunity through immune mechanisms and production of cytokines that ward of viral and bacterial invaders. Eat three balanced meals a day, including plenty of fruits and vegetables, complex carbohydrates, and protein. Follow the guidelines at United States Department of Agriculture to make sure you are getting the essential vitamins, nutrients, and minerals your body and mind need to stay alert and healthy and keep your immune system strong. A diet rich in fresh fruits and vegetables containing Vitamins A and C as well as zinc is recommended to ward off viral infections like influenza.Eat a healthy breakfast. Breakfast really is the most important meal of the day, so take the time to eat healthy carbs like oatmeal, proteins like lean turkey or ham, and a healthy portion of fruits and vegetables.
Make time for healthy snacks that will keep your energy high throughout the day. Carry an apple, banana, or bag of almonds. Avoid snacks that will make you feel unhealthy and lethargic, like a sugary snack or a soda.
Minimize your caffeine and sugar intake. Caffeine and sugar may give you a temporary boost but often result in energy and mood crashes later on.
 Obesity has been found to be an independent risk factor for contraction of the HINI virus.Whether someone is overweight or obese is determined by using the body mass index (BMI), an indicator of body fatness. BMI is a person's weight in kilograms (kg) divided by the square of the person's height in meters (m). A BMI of 25-29.9 is considered overweight, while a BMI greater than 30 is considered obese.To lose weight, reduce the number of calories you intake and increase the amount of exercise you do. This is the best way to lose weight. Always be sure to consult your physician and potentially also a registered nutritionist before beginning any weight loss or diet-and-exercise program.
You can also make a concerted effort to watch portion sizes and to eat slowly and stop when you're full.
Note that if you're eating healthily and exercising but are still gaining weight, it may be a good idea to have a physical to rule out any hormonal abnormality that is affecting your metabolism.
 Consider taking some vitamin and mineral supplements in order to boost your immune system, particularly in the winter, which is the height of flu season. Good options include:



Vitamin D - Vitamin D plays a significant role in immune function. Take 2000 mg every day. This is especially important for those who live in cold weather regions, where snow and darker days keeps them from receiving adequate Vitamin D from the sunshine.

Vitamin C - Vitamin C has been shown to play a key role in our bodies' ability to fight infection. Dietary sources of Vitamin C, such as fruits and vegetables, are ideal, although it can be difficult to find fresh produce in the winter months in some regions. Consider taking a supplement of 1000 mg per day; this is the recommended minimum. If you feel like you are coming down with a cold, research indicates that 2000 mg can have an even greater benefit in reducing not only the duration but also the severity of symptoms.Zinc - Zinc is an essential trace element and we know that it assists your body in combating infection. For example, in one study in which zinc supplementation was added to the diet of the study group, the rates of pneumonia dropped considerably.Zinc can be hard to get from your diet but can be obtained from oysters, lobster, beef, wheat germ, spinach, and cashews. In addition, consider taking a supplement of 50 mg for general wellness and disease. When you're ill, you can take a higher dosage of 150 to 175 mg.
Be sure to consult your doctor before taking supplements, as they can sometimes interact with other medications.
 If you sneeze, keep a disposable tissue in front of your mouth, and after sneezing or blowing your nose, throw the tissue away. If you don't have tissues, try sneezing into your elbow; avoid sneezing into your hands as this can transmit germs. As a general rule, avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth; this will stop the spread of germs.Wash your hands often, especially if after blowing your nose/sneezing, before you eat, and having been outside (e.g., taking public transit, touching door handles, etc.). Use a disinfectant when possible or just use soap and water.
Don't share utensils or drinks. This can contribute to the spread of disease, especially if the other person is ill.
 Specific preventive tactics are somewhat limited since the Center for Disease Control (CDC) cannot forecast the next seasonal flu strain until approximately six months prior to flu season (October through April or May) for the year in question. However, the CDC does recommend getting the flu shot as a preventive measure in anticipation of flu season. The CDC recommends anyone over 6 months of age get vaccinated. People over 65, those with chronic illness, pregnant women and the obese are at higher risk of contracting the flu and experiencing complications.H1N1 is one of the viruses included in the flu shot.
If you were previously vaccinated for swine flu in the past, this doesn't matter. You will need to be vaccinated every year. The virus mutates rapidly, so while you are immune to last year's strain, you won't be immune to the mutated strain this year.
 Influenza is spread via a “respiratory droplet” or contact with an infected person’s respiratory secretions, meaning when an infected person coughs or sneezes, and those secretions have contact with others. We do not absorb the H1N1 virus through the skin, but we often touch our nose or mouth and can then become infected. Step up your hand-washing during flu season. Wash frequently with soap and water, especially after coming into contact with others or being in public. If you come across someone else who is ill and has the flu, wash your hands immediately.Avoid getting infected by or infecting others by limiting hand-to-hand contact and other ways of transmitting germs (coughing into the air or inadvertently onto others, sharing utensils and drinks, etc.).
You can also use alcohol-based sanitizer to clean your hands after touching doors, shopping carts, handling money, or other situations where others may have contaminated the object or space with infected secretions. Studies have shown that hand sanitizer can be effective and help decrease the spread of H1N1., Face masks and respirators may help prevent some exposure to flu viruses. However, face masks should be used along with other preventive measures, such as frequent hand washing.Masks are primarily useful if you are going to the doctor’s office for a non-flu related visit during flu season as there were will likely be many sick people who are coughing and sneezing in the office. They are also useful if you have a serious chronic condition that makes you immuno-compromised, such as cancer.
 If you do feel symptoms of influenza coming on during the season, it is best to see your doctor for proper medical treatment within 48 hours. The drugs Relenza or Tamiflu are both effective in reducing the duration and intensity of symptoms if started within 48 hours of symptoms.
 The symptoms of H1N1 are very similar to those of the common flu and include fever (greater than 100°F or 37.8°C), cough, sore throat, body aches, headache, chills and fatigue. Diarrhea and vomiting can also be symptoms of H1N1. There's no way to tell if you have the swine flu unless a respiratory specimen is taken within the first four to five days and sent to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (or equivalent).Note that vomiting is more common in children and that diarrhea is only seen in 17% of patients.
 Pandemics can rouse panic, so it's important that you know some basic information about what could happen and how you can prepare for it.A vaccine for pandemic flu has been released in limited quantities; as a result, you may have to wait in long lines to receive the vaccine. This is why you should try to get it as early in the year as you can, once it becomes available to the public.
People will have little or no immunity to pandemic flu since it is a new virus to humans. With seasonal flu, people have some immunity built up from previous exposure to the viruses.
If a pandemic flu virus spreads rapidly, being prepared to stay at home will help slow down the virus because you'll minimize your exposure to infection (and other people's exposure to you, if you become sick)., Store non-perishable foods, bottled water, over-the-counter drugs, health supplies and other necessities. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) recommends having a two-week supply. These supplies can be useful in other types of emergencies, such as power outages. Have basic, over-the-counter health supplies such as a thermometer, facemasks, tissues, soap, hand sanitizers, medicine to relieve fever, and cold medicine., Think about, anticipate and plan for what you will do in the following cases:Schools are dismissed: Consider childcare needs. Plan home learning activities and exercises. Have materials, such as books, on hand. As for students, take valuable items from lockers, such as iPods and textbooks. If the school is closed, you wouldn't want such items left behind.
You or family member becomes sick and requires care: Plan to stay home for at least 10 days when you are sick with pandemic flu. Staying home will keep you from infecting others. Make sure others in your household also stay home when they are sick. During a severe pandemic, stay home—even if you're not infected—if someone in your household is sick with pandemic flu. Make plans for how to care for people with special needs in case the services they rely on are not available.
Transportation networks are disrupted: Think about how you can rely less on public transportation during a pandemic as this typically is a time when you have considerable contact with potentially contaminated surfaces and people and thus risk infection. For example, store food and other essential supplies to reduce shopping trips. Consider other ways to get to work or, if you can, work at home.
 Ask your employer about how business will continue during a pandemic. The U.S. Department of Health & Human Services offers a Business Pandemic Influenza Planning Checklist; or you can Develop a Risk Management Plan that accounts for the possibility of a flu pandemic. Find out if you can work from home, or if your employer will consider virtualizing the workforce. Plan for the possible reduction or loss of income if you are unable to work or your place of employment is closed. Check with your employer or union about leave policies.


Reduce exposure at work by using virtual workforce technologies. Use email, web conferencing and Pixetell enhanced documents to maintain effective business interactions without shaking so many hands.
 Identify sources you can count on for reliable information. If a pandemic occurs, having good information from reputable and knowledgeable sources will be critical. Reliable, accurate, and timely information is available at PandemicFlu.gov and at the World Health Organization's swine flu webpage.


Telephone sources include the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Hotline at 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636). This line is available in English and Spanish, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. TTY: 1-888-232-6348. If you do not live in the U.S., check if there is an equivalent hotline in your area.
Look for information on your local and state government websites. Review your state's planning efforts and those of your local public health and emergency preparedness officials.
Listen to local and national radio, watch news reports on television, and read your newspaper and other sources of printed and web-based information.
 Do not go to the hospital or doctor, or else you might spread the virus to other patients. Call your doctor first, explain that you think you might have the swine flu, and follow any instructions you are given. Read the CDC guidelines on care; in most cases, the flu should pass in about 10 days. However, there are a number of conditions whereby infected people should seek emergency care as soon as possible, including if they are:Exceptionally ill with flu-like symptoms
Chronically ill
Immune-suppressed
Elderly or very young (under two years of age)

, These more severe symptoms are an indication of flu complications. If you experience any of the following, you should get emergency medical care:Difficulty breathing or shortness of breath
Pain or pressure in the chest or abdomen
Sudden dizziness
Confusion
Severe or persistent vomiting
Note that emergency warning signs in children are different and include: fast breathing or trouble breathing, bluish skin color, not drinking enough fluids, lethargy, not waking up or interacting, increased irritability, fever with a rash.

