 Email providers often allow you to include phone number, address, company affiliation, and other information. Plus, people are easy to find by using the search feature.


Most email providers have the ability to import data from other files. This is a quick way to input information all at once, while minimizing the possibility of errors.
Some providers give you the option of automatically adding someone to your contacts the first time you receive an email from them. Taking advantage of this helps assure that no one gets missed or lost in your contacts.
Email accounts are often available through mobile devices, enabling you to find the information you need when you are not near a computer.;
, Memory cards allow you to transfer contact information from one phone to another phone or to the computer. Smartphones may also have apps you can download to make syncing information simple.


Sync contacts regularly so you have an updated list on all devices. Otherwise, you may find yourself searching for a phone number on a device where you do not have it stored.
Families can also sync contacts with each other so that parents have important numbers of their children's friends and employers.
 By creating categories like Personal, Business, and Family, you not only keep contacts organized, but you also have the ability to filter through hundreds of contacts to find the one you for whom you are looking. You can also send emails or text messages to a particular group of people by organizing them in this manner.


On mobile devices, these categories are often referred to as Groups; on email accounts, they may be called Distribution Lists or Categories.
 Managing contacts implies that you are making choices about who gets added and who does not. For contacts you do not interact with regularly, there are other ways to find their information should they not appear on your contact list.


Search through past emails to find someone's email address. This way, you still hold onto the information you need without adding yet another person to your contact list.
Create a larger, all-inclusive list of contacts on your computer. Keep your primary contact list limited to those with whom you interact on a regular basis.

