 When you’re trying to become sober, one of the worst things you can do is spend time around those who are still using. You are going to be tempted to use, and your friends aren’t likely going to stop you. Misery loves company, so they will likely encourage you to relapse.


If you think your friends will understand, you could try being honest with them. Say, “I value you as a friend, but I’m trying to get sober and I can’t be around you while you’re using because it will be too tempting.” They may understand, or they might lash out on you. You may also find it easier to simply cut ties altogether by ceasing all communication.;
, If you currently reside with active users, you’ll need to find a new place to live. You’ll never be able to abstain from using if your home is filled with drugs or alcohol and people who use them. You may be leaving those you live with high and dry, but you need to do what is best for you right now.


If you can’t afford to live on your own right now or are unable to find a place, ask friends or relatives if you can move in with them until you can find a place on your own. You may also consider moving into a treatment facility or a halfway house until you are able to find a more permanent place to live.Consider moving into a sober-living house. If your home environment is not supporting your recovery, then you may want to look into a sober-living house. Talk with your doctor, therapist, or sponsor about moving into a sober-living house.
 Part of clean living is taking care of yourself. To deal with living in an unsupportive environment, you might try to shift your focus to your health and well-being. Some things you can do to keep yourself healthy include:



Eating healthy foods. Try to eliminate junk foods and fast food from your diet in favor of healthy whole foods, like brown rice, lean meat, and lots of fruits and vegetables.

Exercising. Getting regular physical activity can help to control anxiety and make your body stronger. Try going for a daily walk to get out of the house, or join a gym and pick a time to go and work out most days of the week.
Getting yourself on a good sleep schedule is also essential. You may be used to staying up all night and doing drugs and sleeping during the day. You may also be used to relying on drugs or alcohol to fall asleep. You’ll need to break this pattern and learn how to fall asleep on your own and at night.Aim for 7 to 9 hours of sleep per night. You can do things like drinking herbal tea, turning off electronic devices at least 30 minutes before you go to bed, and making your bedroom cool and dark.

Relieving stress. Being around people who don’t support you may also be stress full, so make sure that you care doing things to calm yourself on a daily basis. Try using meditation, yoga, and deep breathing to relieve stress.

