 People often ignore racial comments or jokes out of discomfort, not knowing what to say. But preparing a response ahead of time can help you to feel empowered to respond and do your part to stand up for what is right. There are several approaches you can take depending on your personality, the relationship you have with the speaker, and the situation:


Consider saying, "That's not ok." In some situations, like in the middle of class or when you have to get off of the bus, you might not have the time or ability to go into a full-blown conversation about what someone has said, but you can simply let them know that their behavior has crossed a line. You'll feel good knowing you stood up for what is right.
Try saying, "Wow, that was really racist. Why did you say that?" Opening up the conversation will help the person reflect on whether they should have said what they did.
If it’s a joke, try saying, "Why is that funny?" in a very serious tone, like you really don’t get the joke. Forcing someone to explain why it's funny makes the person have to consider the racist implications of what they have said. After they explain, if they still seem to think it's funny, you might say, "That's really racist."

, Sometimes the worst offenders are members of your own family, like your dear Grandpa or your own mother. Your family member might make racist jokes or comments, or might actively discriminate against other races (for instance, not allowing you to date a black person or not allowing an Indian friend to visit your home). It can be a tricky situation for you, since the person might be someone you respect and need to obey (for instance, your parents if you still live at home).


Stay calm, but let your feelings be known. Family is built on love and trust, and you should be confident to let your family members know when they have said or done something that is offensive. Don't yell, don't get personal, but do let them know: for instance, you might say "I didn't like what you said," "It bothered me that you said that," or ask them to explain why they say things that are racist. This might open the conversation and provide an opportunity for you to teach them why their behavior is problematic.
Be aware that sometimes this will escalate the problem; for instance, if your Uncle Bill knows that racist jokes bother you, he might purposely tell more.
If your parents have rules about who you can befriend that are racist, you have a choice to make. You can abide by their rules while you live in their home, or you can choose to go behind their back and disregard their rules. Realize that doing this might have consequences for you if they find out.
Sometimes, nothing you can do or say will influence a racist family member to stop doing or saying hurtful things. You can choose to avoid that person as much as possible, and you can continue to let them know how you feel about their racism, but unfortunately sometimes it just won't help. Learn from their choices and do your best to avoid harboring prejudiced or bigoted ideas or habits.
 If you are against racism, but you are not a minority, you can play an important role in confronting racism when you see it. By learning to recognize acts of microaggression against people of color, you can use your position of privilege to help fight racism in all its forms.Practice talking about race in "safe spaces." Racism is a hard topic and people who are not minorities are often taught that they should not talk about or "see" racial differences. This makes it really hard to fight racism when it occurs, because you may not have experience talking about race at all. Find other allies who want to combat racism, and practice acting out scenarios of racism that you might encounter in your daily lives.