 In this project, you will be using Alka-Seltzer and water to create a lava-lamp effect. Here is what you will need:

A bottle, jar, or tall glass
Baby oil
Water
Food coloring
Alka-Seltzer or an antacid tablet

, You can make your lava lamp in a bottle, jar, or a tall glass. If you use a bottle or jar, however, you will be able to seal your lava lamp and use it again and again by swirling the liquid around inside., If you do not have baby oil, you can use olive oil or another pale-colored oil instead. Baby oil, however, is clear and will let you see the colors of the lava better., Do not fill your container all the way. Instead, leave about 1 inch of space between the water and the top of the jar., This will make the lava more visible. You can use any color you want, but reds, oranges, and yellows will create the most lava-like effect. You can only use one color however; if you use all three colors, they will mix together and make orange., After a few minutes, the water and food coloring will sink to the bottom of the jar, and the oil will float to the top. The food coloring will mix into the water by itself when it sinks to the bottom of the jar., You can break the tablet in half, or you can break it into fourths., The Alka-Seltzer will sink to the bottom, and cause the colored water to bubble and fizz. The bubbles will float to the top of the jar, creating a lava lamp-like effect. You can drop another piece of Alka-Seltzer to create more bubbles., When you have run out of Alka-Seltzer, you can still continue using your lava by putting the lid on the jar or a cap on the bottle. If you used a glass, you can pour everything into a jar or bottle. Gently turn the jar upside down and back and forth. The colored water will come together into a large glob (o several smaller goblets) and float in the oil. It will look like lava!If you used a bottle, simply twist the cap onto the bottle.
If you made your lava lamp in a cup, you can pour the liquid into a jar of bottle using a funnel, and then close the jar or bottle tightly.

