 The classic choice for a grilled cheese is a fluffy, white bread,but if you're a little more health-conscious, go for a whole grain or flax bread. Otherwise, just follow your taste buds—from pumpernickel to sourdough, there is no wrong answer.


Avoid bread with large air bubbles or holes, as your cheese may melt right through and drip out.;
, Since the moisture in fresh bread makes it soggy (unlike a hot oven, a microwave won't evaporate the moisture, which would allow it to get crispy), a dry piece of bread will fare much better in a microwave.Always check old bread for mold, just to be safe.
 Each slice of pre-sliced bread will have the same thickness, which means they will toast evenly. If you are buying an unsliced loaf from a bakery, ask if they can slice it for you. Most bakeries, and bakery departments at grocery stores, have a bread slicer.


If you slice the bread by hand, use a serrated bread knife and try to cut the slices about 3/4 of an inch thick. Bread at this thickness will fit in a standard toaster and be thin enough for the microwave heat to penetrate., American and Cheddar are the go-to cheeses for a grilled cheese, but you can branch out with cheeses like Monterey Jack, Gruyere, Munster, Gouda, or Brie, as they all melt smoothly.Avoid fresh, crumbly or very hard, aged cheeses, including fresh goat cheese, Feta, and aged Parmesan.These cheeses just don't melt well when they are the main cheese in a sandwich.
A very hard cheese like Parmesan will melt smoothly if you grate it and pair it with a melter, like Cheddar. The moisture in the Cheddar will help the Parmesan melt better.If you can't resist those hard-to-melt cheeses, you can still add them to your sandwich for the taste (like you would add pickles or a tomato). Just make sure you also have plenty of cheese that melts easily, like Havarti or American., Butter is the classic choice, but margarine or mayonnaise will also infuse your bread with a richer flavor and help crisp the outside., Pickles, tomatoes, jalapenos, avocado, even potato chips—get creative with additional fillings if you want to branch out from the classic cheese-and-bread-only sandwich.Up your protein intake with a few slices of ham, turkey, or other deli meat. Just wipe off extra moisture before putting it on your sandwich.Remember that ingredients with additional moisture—like tomatoes—might make your sandwich a little soggy.
Enjoy your sandwich with a side of mustard, ketchup, sriracha, or tomato soup.

