 Let the sun light your home for you rather than rely on electric lighting during the daytime. If possible, install skylights for increased lighting. Switch your solid outside doors to ones with paned glass. Leave your blinds and curtains opening between sunrise and sunset. If privacy is a concern, use other home decor to maximize the natural light while partially blocking the sun with sheer or wooden blinds. For instance, you could: as:Use light colors to paint your walls.
Add mirrors and other reflective or shiny surfaces to each room.
Keep your windows clear of any furniture that would block the light.
 For bulbs, use CFL (compact fluorescent light) or LED (light-emitting diode) bulbs rather than incandescent ones, since these two types last much longer and add up to less waste.With fixtures, install or keep as many as you need in order to see comfortably, but seek out ways to avoid excessive lighting. For example:If your ceiling fan holds four or five light bulbs, but only two or three are needed to light the space, remove the unnecessary ones.
Give yourself some options by, say, providing a table- or standing lamp in a room with track lighting so you can alternate between the two depending on your needs.
Invest in some solar-powered lamps to keep near windows and other sources of natural light.
 Replace your existing windows with ones that have been treated to reflect heat, so hot air stays outside in the summer and your heated air stays inside during the winter.If this isn’t possible, caulk your windows and add weather-stripping to reduce leakage. Add storm windows for additional insulation. Keep the temperature inside your home as consistent as possible to minimize active use of your heating and a/c units.Give your windows extra help by choosing thermal-backed curtains and blinds. Although this may contradict the tip about keeping curtains open for sunlight, keep them closed for more insulation during extreme temperatures, since your heating and cooling units use more energy than a couple light bulbs.

