 You will need fine steel wool (#0000), a soft-bristled brush (such as a paintbrush), a vacuum with a soft brush head, rubber gloves (optional), safety glasses (optional), and a fan (optional).


You may wish to remove your contacts before getting started (or wear safety glasses), because all the steel dust may irritate or injure your eyes.
You may wish to wear rubber gloves to protect your hands when using the steel wool. If not, be sure to wash your hands often as the grime will transfer to your hands and cause unsightly fingerprints on your clean windows.;
, You want to begin with a clear, empty window. Don’t worry too much about getting off the adhesive residue from the stickers., This will knock the dust loose from the screen. You may want to position a fan so that it blows out of the window, otherwise the breeze from outside may blow all that dust and pollen back into your home., Do this systematically: start with the outside of the top pane, then the inside of the top pane, then the outside of the bottom pane, and so on. Continue until the entire window is clean. Steel wool removes the grime without scratching the glass. It will take a bit of elbow grease to remove the grime, particularly on the outside of the window.Have plenty of steel wool on hand, and take new pieces often. The steel wool tends to fall apart after a while, creating more dust while cleaning less effectively.
 The steel wool will flake and cause a lot of dust. Keep a vacuum cleaner with a soft brush-head handy and vacuum each section, including the windowsills, right after you finish., You will need white vinegar, water, an empty spray bottle, and newspaper. It’s also a good idea to ventilate the area so the smell of vinegar does not become overwhelming.


Distilled water works best, as it contains the lowest amounts of contaminants and minerals.While steel wool removes dirt and grime from your windows, the vinegar removes grease and oils. Using both will leave you with sparkling, streak-free windows.
 Fill a spray bottle with this solution. Make sure the solution is mixed thoroughly.If you don’t like the smell of vinegar, you could add a few drops of essential oil to your solution to mask the smell.
If you don’t have vinegar on hand, you can use lemon juice in its place. Don’t dilute it, just use straight lemon juice in place of the vinegar and follow the same steps., Evenly coat the window, but don’t use too much. You don’t want a dripping, sloppy mess.
 Do this systematically: start at the top left corner and work your way to the right, then move down and work from the left to right again.Newspaper cleans glass better than paper towels, which leave streaky marks.
You may want to wear gloves, as the newsprint could stain your hands.
 If you missed any areas, scrub them with a bit of the damp newspaper. Don’t spray the solution directly onto the window, as you would likely have to clean the entire window again.
 This will help you catch any bits of dust or dirt left behind, and ensure your entire window area is clean. Enjoy your sparkling, streak-free windows!

