 98 percent of your feedback ratings from buyers must be positive for 12 consecutive months, as this factor demonstrates buyer satisfaction.


Ship your products on time and provide honest, accurate information in your listings to keep your buyers satisfied with their purchases.;
, This practice will demonstrate that you support eBay's business ethics and procedures.


Refrain from using profanity in your listings, list items in the appropriate categories, and provide accurate information about the location from your items are shipped.
Review the full list of eBay's rules and policies by visiting the eBay website provided in the Sources section of this article, then clicking on "Resolving selling problems" on the left. A complete list of rules and policies will be featured under the "Top Questions" section of the web page.
 To be considered for a PowerSeller or Daily Deals account, you must pay your eBay fees on time to avoid account suspension.
 eBay will examine your sales volume and earnings to determine if you have the ability to handle being featured on Daily Deals.


Sell at least 100 items and earn at least 3,000 dollars (2186 euros) within a consecutive 12-month period to show that you can handle high-volume business.
 Buyers can rate sellers in 4 categories; "Item as Described," "Communication," "Shipping Time," and "Shipping and Handling Charges."


Score at least 4.60 out of 5 in each category by accurately describing your items, responding to and communicating with your buyers in a timely manner, shipping your items on time, and charging a reasonable or appropriate amount for shipping and handling charges.
Your account must have no more than 1 percent low ratings in the "Item as Described" category and no more than 2 percent low ratings in the other 3 categories. Low ratings are considered to be 1 or 2 stars out of 5 stars.
 If buyers are not satisfied with your product, or if the item they receive is not as described in the listing, they may open cases with eBay's Resolution Center to obtain a refund or to file a dispute against you.


If any such cases are opened, resolve the dispute immediately with the buyer. eBay Daily Deals will only consider you for the program if your unresolved cases are less than 0.30 percent.
 Your eBay account manager will then review your account and your ability to adhere to eBay's rules and policies before determining if you can participate in the Daily Deals program.


If you do not have an eBay account manager, contact eBay directly to learn how to obtain one. eBay will usually assign account managers to sellers based on their account metrics.
Visit the eBay website provided in the Sources section of this article, then point to "Customer Support" in the upper-right corner.
Click on "Customer Support" from the drop-down menu, then click on the "Contact eBay" tab. After selecting your reason for contacting eBay, you will be provided with the available methods for contacting an eBay representative.

