 You will need 1¾ yards (1.6 meters) of fleece fabric, about 44 to 45 inches (1.2 meters) wide. Plaid patterns work best with this, but a solid color will also look nice.Make sure that you are using flannel and not fleece. Fleece does not fray the same way flannel does.
For a larger blanket, opt for a 2-yard (1.8-meter) piece of fabric instead.;
, This blanket will only have a fringe on the narrow edges. The long edges will be left alone for a finished look. Take a look at the long edges of your fabric, and trim off any stray threads. You won't be hemming them because the salvage already takes care of that.If you want to have a fringe on all four sides, cut the selvage edges off., Choose a thread color that matches your fabric, and sew across the narrow sides, 1-inch (2.54-centimeters) from the edge. Use a short stitch length. This will keep the fabric from fraying past the fringe.If you want to have a fringe on all four sides, sew around the blanket using a 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) seam allowance. Turn the fabric at the corners so that you sew in one continuous line.If you want a longer fringe, leave a larger seam allowance.
 Cut the slits from the narrow edges of the fabric so that they are aligned with the selvage edge. This will make the proceeding steps easier.Be careful not to cut through your stitching!


If you want your blanket to have a fringe on all four sides, cut a 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) square into each of the corners. Be careful not to cut through your stitching. This will make it easier to pull the threads out.
If you want to make a longer fringe, cut longer slits/bigger squares.
 Be careful not the pull the actual stitching threads out, however. You are only pulling the threads that make up the fabric out. The easiest way to do this would be to grab a thread or two with a seam ripper and then pulling it out. Keep doing this until you reach the stitching you made.


Be sure to pull the threads out from the notch you cut into the selvage edge. Do not fray the rest of the selvage.
Run your fingers through the fringe when you are done. This will loosen up the fringe and get rid of any residual fuzz.

