 Take a picture (mobile phone, camera, DSi, memory, doesn't matter how) when it's dirty and put it somewhere you can see it. As you clean, you can compare it to what it used to be like, and it will motivate you to keep going.;
, Force yourself to clean. Head up, and toughen up, soldier!

, Search for it while cleaning up along the way.
 You can make an On-the-Go playlist on your iPod, or burn a CD. Even a happy, upbeat song that makes you feel good will help to pass the time while you tidy.
 Then, choose a new song and focus on a different area of your room. Start with a long (about seven minutes) song, then move on to a shorter song, but move faster. Use a playlist with about 10 or more upbeat songs and take a break every 5 songs.
 For instance, only clean or straighten up things that are green, then move on to the next color until everything is put away.
 Write down the sections, e.g. clothes, shoes, bags, books, magazines, things you used in the last 3 days, other. Don't have too many and as you tick them off it will motivate you if you see there's not much left.
 Pretending the floor is lava and only stepping on things is fun, and you get safely to ground when there's nothing left on the floor. You can pretend you're on a game show, and if you complete a section in time, you get a prize (e.g. a snack or text to a friend.) Breaks you take can be commercial breaks. Or you can pretend you are a slave to an evil lord (if you like books, try Kalona from House of Night, James from Twilight, or Voldemort from Harry Potter) and if you're not finished by the time he gets back he'll destroy you. You can also do it with a princess who is out shopping, and if you don't finish in time, she'll throw you in the dungeon.
 (e.g. Oh no! I gotta clean this place up before the evil Pink Menace blows this place off the cliff!)

, Time how long it takes to clean one section of your room, then move on to another section. Try to beat your previous time with each new section. Win gold by cleaning the whole room in a certain amount of time, win silver by going less than 5 minutes over the limit, and win bronze by going between 6-10 minutes over the time limit. Or you could assign each section of the room (i.e. bed, floor, desk, closet etc.) a category-neatness, speed cleaning, putting things where they belong, etc. Have a family member or friend "judge" each section on a scale of one to ten, add up the points, and determine how many points deserves a gold. Have a family member chip in for the prize, something as simple as $5 or doing a chore for you.
 Ok... so the treasure may just be loose change or whatever is the source of that weird smell. But you don't have to tell them it is just a ruse to get help cleaning up your mess.
 Well-placed shots are cause for celebration!

, It helps to take out all the junk that's under your bed, in the bottom of your closet...etc then organize it and dump it where it needs to be!

, It always motivates you to have some nice new surroundings, find something old you lost and put it up on the wall. Have fun with it! It's a game!

,, posters, ornaments) last.
