 You can usually find this on your school's website. If your school doesn't have a website, your teacher will probably give everyone a list at orientation.;
, Have fun with colors! Get different colored pencils, scissors, etc. You will also need a backpack. Choose something that will last you a long time, but at the same time, one that you really like.
 Search for 'Back-to-School Fashion Guide' (including whatever year it is if you want to see the current trends), you can find a lot of good ideas. There are also many articles about school fashion on wikiHow too.
 If you aren't nice to people, they probably won't be nice to you. If you are picking on someone, think of these things,


Why are you doing this? Do you really need to do this, or is it just because her shirt has a unicorn on it? If that is the reason, it isn't necessary. She would feel bad, and if you don't feel guilty, you aren't very friendly. Put yourself in her shoes, and think about how your behaviour is making her feel.
Think of the consequences. If she goes and tells an adult (which she should) you probably will get in trouble. Do you really want to?
If you aren't the bully, but you are the victim, stay calm. Ignore them if they are verbally bullying you, and walk away. Then immediately tell an adult, and they should handle the rest, but they might have to pull you into a room with the bully and discuss it. If they are physically bullying you, try to do the same as if they were verbally bullying you.
 Get a container for pencils, a bag for books, etc. Keep your locker clean and neat (no one likes messy people), and keep everything else neat too. You can buy containers and mirrors etc. at stores like Target and Walmart to put pencils, note pads and other stationery in.
 Try to keep everything organized (get a homework folder of some sort), and if you are stuck on a question get an adult or older sibling to help.
 Think of all the consequences you could get expelled for.
 More people would like to hang out with you if you are toned.
 Don't be best friends with the kid who went to Juvenile Detention when he was 3. Pick people who are nice, and not naughty or criminal.
 Before you know it you will be in High School with even more homework!

