 Mouth ulcers are very common and are not a surefire sign of mouth cancer in and of themselves. However, when mouth ulcers are combined with other symptoms and their development follows a certain pattern, they may indicate cancer.


Look for mouth ulcers which have not healed in over two or three weeks.Look for mouth ulcers that recur in the same areas of the mouth over and over again.
Look for mouth ulcers with irregular borders, that bleed at the slightest touch.;
, Look for color changes on the surface/sides of the tongue, lips and inside of the cheeks that last for more than two weeks.


These color changes may be red, white, grey or dark in color.
You may also notice velvety white and red patches inside your mouth., You might experience a numb sensation in any area of the mouth, face and neck region as a symptom of cancer.


You may also feel a non-stop pain/tenderness in a particular area of your mouth.
If you experience any of these two symptoms with or without swelling/lumps, then you should visit your doctor immediately, These crusted patches may feel rough to the touch, have irregular borders and bleed without provocation.
 Examine your teeth carefully to check for any changes in their alignment. Also look for any loose teeth, as this can also be an indication of mouth cancer.


One good way to tell if the alignment of your teeth has changed is to try wearing your dentures (if you use them). Difficulty in fitting the dentures inside your mouth is a good indication that your teeth have moved.
 Look for any abnormal lumps, swelling or bumps that are present on the side of your face or on your neck.


Press gently along the sides of your neck for any pain, tenderness or lumps. Visually examine the skin for any abnormal growths or moles.
Pull out your lower lip using your thumb and index finger and check for any lumps or irregular growths. Do the same for the upper lip.
Put your index finger inside your cheeks and your thumb outside and check for any pain, change in texture, swelling or lumps in the cheeks by gently rolling and squeezing the skin with your fingers.
 If you experience any difficulty while speaking or chewing food (in addition to the other symptoms) it may be an indication of mouth cancer. More specific symptoms include:


Being unable to swallow foods or liquids or feeling pain when swallowing.
Experiencing a loss of taste when eating.
Feeling as if something is caught in your throat when swallowing.
Difficulty moving the tongue and jaw due to stiffness.
 Cancer of the mouth can put pressure on the vocal chords, causing changes in the sound of your voice.


Usually, your voice will become more hoarse.
You may also feel pain in your throat while talking, eating or even at rest.
 Check for swollen glands (lymph nodes) in the neck by pressing on the lymph nodes, which are located at the base of your lower jaw, under your ear lobes.


The glands will feel swollen and painful to the touch. This is due to the fact that mouth cancer affects the drainage of the lymph nodes.
You may also experience pain in the ears, as the cancer causes pressure against the inside of the ears. This usually indicates that the cancer has spread and become more advanced.
 As mouth cancer often causes pain when eating or swallowing, you may find it difficult to maintain your normal eating patterns. This reduced food intake can lead to weight loss.


In addition to difficulty eating, the illness may cause a loss of appetite, which can contribute to further weight loss.
 It can be difficult to get a good view of the inside of your mouth in a wall mirror, so try using a small hand-held mirror to perform the self-examination — preferably one that fits inside your mouth.
 Light is also important in getting a good view of your mouth, so make sure to do the examination in a well-lit room, near a bright lamp.


You could also use a small, hand-held torch to illuminate the inside of your mouth.
 Clean your hands with anti-bacterial soap and dry them thoroughly before performing the self-exam, as you don't want to introduce any dirt or bacterial into your mouth.
 If you identify some of the signs and symptoms of mouth cancer described above, it is important that you make an appointment with your doctor or dentist as soon as possible in order to undergo testing and confirm the presence of cancer.


As with all types of cancer, early detection is key in successful treatment.
 If you have reassured yourself that you do not have mouth cancer but wish to prevent it from developing in future, there are a number of measures you can take:


Avoid smoking or using tobacco products.
Avoid drinking excessive amounts of alcohol.Protect your lips from the sun using SPF.
See you dentist for a check-up every six months.

