 You can feel better about your outward appearance when you feel good on the inside. You can do this by trying to maintain a healthy diet. Filling yourself with junk food may be a source of emotional comfort for you, but the way you feel afterwards will likely only discourage you. Eat a healthy, well-balanced diet and you may find that it gives you a boost in how you feel.


Talk to your doctor about what diet would work best for you. Additionally, they may also be able to prescribe supplements and vitamins that can help you feel better., Keeping your stress levels under control is important for your overall well-being. To manage your stress, ask other people for help when you need it and set aside some time every day that is just for relaxing. Some relaxation techniques you could try include:

Deep breathing
Meditation
Yoga
Progressive Muscle Relaxation

, Massage has a variety of both physical and emotional benefits. This type of healing touch can help you relax and possibly reduce the anxiety and stress you may feel because of your cancer. It may also help sore areas of your body feel better.


For example, therapeutic massage can help your muscles to heal after surgery. It may also prevent adhesions in those who undergo mastectomies, which can occur when tissue sticks to the chest wall., Your body is going through major changes right now and is enduring a lot. Rather than trying to keep up your typical schedule, give yourself time to rest. The more fatigued you are, the worse you will feel and look. Ensuring that you get some good rest can help your body and your mind., You may feel that you are too fatigued to get out and exercise, but the act may actually help you feel more alive. Even something as simple as walking around the block can help you to feel better. You may be able to gradually increase the amount of exercise you can tolerate, and you will likely be pleased with how you look and feel.


Try not to overexert yourself, especially when you are first beginning to exercise. You may also want to take someone with you, just in case you feel uneasy about exercising. 