 Whisk together ½ cup heavy cream, ¼ tsp cinnamon, ¼ tsp allspice and ¼ cup pumpkin puree in a medium-sized saucepan. Simmer the liquid over low heat for fifteen to twenty minutes. Remove the saucepan from heat. Once the liquid has completely cooled, whisk in 1 cup of heavy cream and 14 ounces of sweetened condensed milk.Pour the creamer into mason jars or Tupperware and store in the refrigerator for up to one week.
Always shake the creamer well before using it.;
, If you’re a smoothie enthusiast, a spoonful of pumpkin puree can be a great additive to one of your favorite recipes. Simply add a teaspoon or two of pumpkin into the blender with the rest of your smoothie ingredients. Blend until smooth.

Pumpkin tastes especially great with smoothies that have a vanilla or almond milk base. Ingredients like bananas, Greek yogurt, dates and cinnamon also work well., You can use any kind of milk – dairy, almond, soy, and rice milk all work great. Put three (or more) tablespoons of pumpkin in a medium-sized bowl. Add eight ounces of milk. Use a whisk to combine the two ingredients. For extra flavor, whisk in cinnamon and/or freshly grated nutmeg. This makes one serving of pumpkin milk. It can be served warm or cold.If you want your pumpkin milk a little sweeter, add sugar or honey to taste.
If you own an immersion blender, use it instead of a whisk to froth up your pumpkin beverage.
 You only need four tablespoons of leftover pumpkin to make two servings. Boil water and pour it over chai tea bags in two mugs. Let them steep. Add the pumpkin to a small pot, along with one can of organic full fat coconut milk and a teaspoon of cinnamon. Whisk over medium heat to combine them. Remove the teabags from the hot water and pour the chai tea into the pot. Whisk and heat to your preferred temperature.Pour the tea into the mugs and sprinkle the top with cinnamon.
If you like, froth it up with a hand blender before serving.
If you dislike the texture, use a fine mesh sieve to strain the beverage first.

