 Low estrogen is commonly caused by the onset of menopause, however several other behavioral or physical problems can be the cause. These include: decreased function of the ovaries, eating disorders and/or excessive exercise that result in low body fat, childbirth and breastfeeding, and certain fertility drugs. Symptoms of estrogen deficiency include hot flashes (feelings of intense heat and sweating with rapid heartbeat), menstrual irregularity and amenorrhea (absence of menstruation), dry vagina, loss of sex drive, low mood, reduced bone density (which can cause fractures with only minor trauma). Visit your doctor if you are experiencing these symptoms.Normal estrogen levels in women prior to menopause range between 50 pg/mL to 400 pg/mL.
As estrogen levels fluctuate greatly in a normal person, several other tests are necessary to detect an actual problem. These include testing the levels of other hormones such as progesterone, FSH, LH etc.
 If you have been diagnosed with low estrogen (particularly if menopause is the cause), your doctor may recommend hormone therapy. There are two main types of estrogen hormone therapy: systemic hormone therapy and low-dose vaginal products. There are risks and benefits to each. Discuss these with your doctor and decide if hormone therapy is right for you., Low estrogen has been linked with excessive exercise. Working out 30 minutes per day can help prevent obesity, heart disease, and other problems, but more than 30 minutes per day is not necessary. Try modifying and/or limiting your exercise regime to help raise your estrogen levels.Intense exercise burns fat in the body. As a result, estrogen cannot find a place to be stored. This explains why athletes sometimes experience irregular menstruation.
You should perform mild-to-moderate exercise to maintain a satisfactory level of estrogen in the body. Avoid excessive strenuous exercise.
 Eating a healthy diet can help to balance the estrogen in your body. Specifically, avoid refined carbohydrates and sugars, such as cereals, bagels, waffles, pretzels, and most other processed foods. Instead eat foods high in protein and fiber.Simple carbohydrates rapidly break down into glucose and other readily absorbable sugars. They increase insulin resistance and impair the proper function of natural estrogen.
Foods low in fat and high in fiber can increase your estrogen levels. Keep a sufficient amount of fresh fruits and vegetables in your diet, especially those that contain a lot of fiber.
 Phytoestrogens are naturally occurring substances that mimic the effects of estrogen. Phytoestrogens in food can act almost like estrogen-replacements.Most plant products contain phytoestrogens to some extent, and some foods contain particularly high levels of phytoestrogens, these include:


Soybeans, chickpeas, bran, peas, pinto beans, lima beans, flax seeds, vegetables, legumes, and fruits. Aim for two to four servings of these foods per day.
Don’t go overboard with these foods. In excess, phytoestrogens can actually suppress the natural estrogen produced by the body, as they compete with estrogen receptors.
 The contents of cigarette smoke significantly affect the production and metabolism of estrogen in the body. Increase your estrogen production, and glean numerous other health benefits, by giving up tobacco right away.


Decide why you want to quit.
Make a plan.
Execute your plan.
Consider seeking therapy for help.
 Caffeine is a natural stimulant for many hormones, including estrogen. Try drinking two to three cups of coffee per day to boost your estrogen levels. Try to drink your coffee black, or with some milk, and avoid sugars and sweeteners.