 Your legal malpractice attorney must review your case file in order to evaluate your chances of success and file your claim in court. You are legally entitled to a copy of your case file, so do not accept any excuses from your former attorney if he or she initially fails to provide it to you.
 Either you or your attorney must prepare the required documents in accordance with your state’s laws. The required documents vary from one state to another, but they generally include:A complaint is the legal document that specifically sets forth basic information about your case and describes how you believe that your lawyer committed malpractice. It also details the damages that you sustained as a result of the malpractice and requests compensation from the lawyer.
A summons is the notice that a lawsuit has been filed. Each defendant in any type of lawsuit will receive a summons, along with a copy of the complaint. This document tells the defendant who filed the lawsuit, the date of its filing, and in which court it was filed. A summons is generally served on each defendant according to each state’s rules for service of process, which may include delivery by a process server or a county sheriff’s deputy, or leaving and mailing a copy to the defendant at his home or business. The summons gives the defendant a specific amount of time, usually between 20 and 30 days in which to respond in writing to the lawsuit.
 This is the step that formally initiates the lawsuit. You will receive a file-stamped copy of the documents for your records.
 Defendants often will file motions in a lawsuit that are designed to get the case dismissed without ever going to trial. These differ by state, but may include motions to dismiss or motions for summary judgment., In all types of lawsuits, both sides are required to exchange certain pieces of information. There are a variety of discovery techniques that you can use in order to get the information that you need:Depositions – a witness or party must answer questions orally while under oath
Interrogatories – written set of questions that a party must answer
Request for production of documents – a list of documents that a party must produce for the other party
Requests for admissions – a set of written statements that a party is asked to admit or deny

, The vast majority of lawsuits settle prior to going to trial. The parties often try to work toward a settlement up until the trial date. In some cases, the parties work with a neutral third-party mediator in order to settle their differences and reach a settlement that is acceptable to all parties.
 If the parties are unable to reach a settlement, the case must proceed to trial. When the case does go to trial, it will follow a very set course of events.Choosing a jury – During the jury selection process, commonly referred to as “voir dire,” the two sides question prospective jurors about their lives, their occupations, and their views on lawyers and the court system. Each side has a certain amount of strikes, which means that they can remove a prospective juror from the panel. The sides will alternate choosing or striking jurors until they have selected a complete jury.
Opening statements – Each side will have the chance to describe his or her case to the judge and the jury by making a relatively short presentation.
Witnesses – Each side will have the chance to call witnesses, including the parties, to testify about events or facts related to the case. Each side can question the witnesses extensively.
Closing statements – Each side will have the chance to sum up his or her side of the case and ask the jury to rule in his or her favor.
 Once the parties have finished presenting their cases to the jury, the jury will meet in a confidential and private setting in order to make a decision about the case. After they have reached a decision, they will announce their verdict to the court and the parties.
 If either party is unhappy with any part of the jury’s ruling, he or she may file an appeal with the appropriate appellate court, which differs by state. That court will review the jury’s decision and decide if it is appropriate under the law and the particular facts and circumstances of the case.

