 You might meet in your home or his, or in a public place like a coffee shop. Make sure that you are both happy with the time and place, and have no time restrictions so you are not rushing.;
, In the excitement of meeting a potential father for your child, you might forget something, so make sure you have a list to fall back on. Putting some thought into this list will help you get as much as possible out of the meeting.
 Ask the potential donor about his motivations for donating, and see if his answer aligns with your plans. For example, he might be donating because he wants to father a child and expects to be involved in the child's life. This is something you should know before you proceed.
 This will give you an idea of his success as a donor. Think about whether you are still willing to use his semen if he has fathered lots of children.
 It's absolutely crucial to make this clear from the offset. To avoid legal and personal problems in the future, this will need to be clear and recorded from the beginning.
 If you want the donor to be involved in the pregnancy beyond insemination, discuss and strategize his involvement.
 Confirm his age and know that for men over 40 or 45, the potency of their sperm might be lower. Ask about his general health as well.
 Many significant physical and mental health issues are genetic, any medical history from his family could affect your child. You should have a thorough understanding of any issues or potential problems before you make a decision.


Do not be afraid to ask for proof or documentation about any medical issues.
 Be upfront when asking about smoking, drinking, and drug use. These may be personal topics, but if he might father your child, you have a right to know.
 If he has not taken a fertility test, ask him to do so at a nearby sexual health clinic. Do not commit until you see those results!

, Again, though this may seem awkward, you have a right to know. Ask him to get tested for any sexually transmitted diseases that might affect you our your child.
 This is often a very high in priority for women looking to receive sperm. Ask about his profession, academic background, and personal hobbies and interests for an overview.


Try not to get too specific of an idea in your mind of what you want your child to be like, but strike a balance in your expectations.
 Remember, no question should feel too personal or embarrassing. You're picking the father of your child - everything about the potential donor could make a difference.
 Never make such an important decision on the spot decision, no matter how perfect he seems! Go home and think, and even sleep on it, before you commit.

