 There are several types of song format available on iTunes and a variety of reasons to convert your songs from one to the other. When choosing a song format, you want to consider the file's size and quality. Do you want to hear the song in pristine condition? Or do you want to fit as many songs as possible on your computer or iPhone? Do you want a mix of both?



AAC: A modern version of the mp3, it offers the small size of an mp3 but with higher audio quality. This is the most common format for an iPhone or iPod and is generally found on Mac machines and products. Not all music players can play AAC files, but this is the easiest "all-around" option for Mac users

AIFF: A big file that, along with WAV, offers the highest quality song. It does not copy information like Song Title, Artist, etc, however. While you can still see this in iTunes, you will get only "Track 1, Track 2, etc." in any other music player. It is generally more common for Mac users than WAV.

Apple Lossless: A high quality song file that is slightly smaller than AIFF or WAV files but can only be played on Apple programs and devices.

mp3: A small, low quality song file that can be played on any mp3 player, including mp3 CD players or other most other music devices and programs (Windows Media Player, Zune, etc.)

WAV:A big but high quality file similar to AIFF. WAV files are generally more common with Windows systems, but Macs can read them as well. It does not copy information like Song Title, Artist, etc, though iTunes remembers this for you.;
, In iTunes, click on "Edit" → "Preferences" (Windows) or "iTunes" → "Preferences" (Mac). Click on the "General" Tab at the top of the Preferences window when it opens.


In newer versions of iTunes "Preferences" can be found by clicking on the small black and white square in the upper left corner of iTunes., This is where you get to decide how iTunes formats all new songs that you add to iTunes. This allows you to convert your current songs to whatever format you choose as well. Choose what format you prefer under "Import Using." You can adjust the settings if you want specific file sizes or audio quality:


Adjust your song quality using the "Setting" dropdown menu. The higher the "kpbs," "bit-rate," and "kHz" the better the song's quality but the bigger the file size.iTunes has many preset settings ranging from iTunes Plus (high quality, mid-sized files) to "Good Quality" mp3's (low quality, small files). If you are in doubt, choose automatic or iTunes Plus.
 Be sure to click "OK" and not "Cancel," which will eliminate your changes. Now, any new song you import to iTunes will be converted for you, but you'll have to take another step to convert your old songs.
 You can select as many songs as you want and convert them at once. Highlight the first song you want to convert by clicking on it, then scroll down to the last song you want to convert. Holding the "Shift" key, click on the last song to highlight all of the songs in between it and your first track.To select only certain songs, click on each song while holding the CTRL key (Windows) or Command key (Mac).
 Right click on a song and choose the option "Create ____ Version" This blank will be filled in by whatever you chose in your Import Settings-- if you chose AAC files, then it will say "Create AAC Version" for example. It will take a few minutes until the files are done converting.


You will make two versions of songs when you convert. You can check which is which by right clicking the song and selecting "Get Info."
Every time you change your import settings you can create a new version in iTunes.