 Use the website's eligibility calculator to make sure you can apply for a visa. Though it doesn't ensure you will get one, it can tell you if you are not eligible at all.It will ask you questions about the length of your trip, how long you're staying, where you are from, and even your marital status.If you are applying on paper, you can download the application online to print off. It will have a reader's guide to help you fill out the forms., Once you've checked your eligibility, you'll be asked a series of questions to create a checklist of documents. You'll need to answer questions about why you're visiting, whether you're employed, if you've ever committed a crime, whether you've had a physical in the last year, and other such questions., The documents you need may vary based on the country you’re coming from. Some common documents you may need include a valid passport and information about your travel planes, such as a plane ticket and your itinerary. You need to prove you're in good health with a copy of the appointment you made for a physical.You may also need to provide proof of your income, such as bank statements or pay stubs.You will fill in information about your family, including any family you have in Canada.In addition, the application may ask that you give information on any time you've traveled outside your country in the last 10 years, proven with your passport, visas, work permits, and student permits., If you are applying for a parent or grandparent super visa, you will need to give proof that you are actually a parent or grandparent. You can provide evidence such as the birth certificate of your child or grandchild or a baptismal certificate. You'll also need a letter from your child or grandchild that includes an outline of care and lists the number people that are in that household.You or your child must provide evidence that the child or grandchild exceeds the low income cut-off, which is on the website. For instance, in a single-person household, that person's income must exceed $23,861 in 2015.Before entering on this visa, you need to show you have insurance from a Canadian company that will cover you for the time period you are there. It must cover up to $100,000 and be valid for multiple entries to Canada., You are required to give a passport photo when applying. It needs to be at least 420 pixels by 540 pixels. It should be a JPEG file between 60 kilobytes and 240 kilobytes in color., Any documentation you have must be scanned and added to the computer. That includes your photo., When going through the eligibility checklist, you should have been given a personal reference number. Create an account with the system, and when prompted, enter your personal reference number.If you didn't get one, you can use the same link to apply for one., As of 2015, the fee was 100 Canadian Dollars. You can pay the fee through the website's online payment system.Fees can vary based on what country you come from. You may also have to pay a fee for the government to collect fingerprints and a photo, depending on where you come from.You can save money by applying together as a family. However, it's really only beneficial if you have 5 people or more.If you are applying on paper, you can still pay online if you want, and you must submit the payment before you turn in the application. However, you can also pay by bank draft or certified check to the Receiver General for Canada. You need to send in a copy of the receipt or copy of the bank draft with your application., You will need to add your documents and fill in any biographical paperwork. You will also need to upload your picture.Submit the paper application to the appropriate place. If you are submitting on paper, you will need to find the location of where to submit it through the website. It has a place to enter your country and find the appropriate application destination. Send your application in., You should receive confirmation that government received your application. Don't forget to check your spam folder.Also, be watching for acceptance or rejection of your application, which should come through the mail. How long it takes varies by application, but it can take as long as 70 days.,, Once you are approve, you will most likely need to send your passport in to receive the visa. The authorization email or letter should give you more information.

