 Do the requested research of the business, to ensure the business is already on the site. If not, you'll have to add the business to its database.;
, Mentally make notes of the star ratings and the equivalence of others' ideas in their reviews.
 This button is located underneath the business' address, telephone number and website, as well as under two hyperlinks to edit this information and editing this information, as if you are a business owner to the company. At the current time, this button is white, with red lettering.


When the page begins to load, you'll see some other text-boxes appear.
 Use the scale they give you (the ratings range between 1 star and 5 stars). The submissions will not let the review be posted, without a rating.
 To help you out, as you hover over the rating box, there will be several words that will help you explain your rating. Click the star-rating you believe should best match the conditions of your upcoming review. The ratings are as follows:


1-star: Eek! Methinks not!
2-star: Meh! I've experienced better.
3-star: A-Ok.
4-star: Yay! I'm a fan.
5-star: Woohoo! As good as it gets!
Don't be too easy, as there is always room for improvement.
There have been several companies that have 5-star ratings, but don't let the 5-star rating be the only rating you give the companies you review.
 Below the review, you'll find a place to write a text-based review-box. The box may contain up to 5001 characters. (See writing a Review Update below if you want to add more characters than that.)


Good things to think about depend on business type, but most answer the overall questions: How was the overall experience?; How was the atmosphere?; Were the waiters cleanly dressed and well-mannered?; Were the ticket booths adequately stocked?; Were the restrooms clean?; For transportation items (bridges and tunnel systems leading up to the business), were the road you traveled on, well maintained?

As you read other reviews, you'll find that experienced writers get good "compliments" on these key points, as well as many other things that may not appear on the list at all.
Don't be too harsh––be firmly fair in your opinion.
 If you would like to save your review for another time, there is a way to save this review as a draft. Right underneath the textual full review, there should be one of two links. One link that ends with "Save Now" allows you to save the review as a draft. If there is no link, but words saying "Auto saved a moment ago" or "Auto saved (x) minutes ago", you're all set! In this case, Type a space in the box above, and click the "Save Now" button.


If you saved this item as a draft, and would like to return to this item, on the Yelp home page (on the right-hand side), you'll find a link that states how many unfinished reviews you have click this link. However, keep track of this number. You don't want to just save reviews. Submit them once-in-a-while.
Towards the top of the page, you'll find your drafted review. In the same box nearby, should be a button marked "Finish my Review". Click this button.
As you see on this page, the questions will not sync (if answered before), as well as your picture suggestions will not sync (if more than 3 pictures in their collections, these pictures will change). Finish your review and click "Publish" to finalize publishing this review.
 Below this, you'll find a box to share this with all of your friends on Facebook. In another tab, open and log in to Facebook, then return to this review in this other tab (make sure you save your email for future use). Once again on this checkbox, click the box to place a checkmark in the box.


Several pop-up windows from Facebook, should now display. These pop-ups allow Facebook access to sharing this information on your wall. As these boxes come up, just click "Allow access" in the bottom right hand corner of the displayed box.
 Below this, you'll find some optional pictures to let Yelp know how helpful it would be, for a person to make their decision with visiting the company. The pictures correspond to pictures people have taken via their smartphones and posted on the site, as well as uploaded via their PCs.


The button below that says "Suggest as storefront photo" can help to suggest a good photo of the business for the location's home page, if there isn't one. This picture, once approved by a Yelp moderator, will add the picture to the page, or can change the picture entirely (after approval by Yelp moderators).
 These questions are optional, but they'll help others decipher problems. Once enough people have answered these questions, Yelp admins will display the answers to the most-selected items on the business' page that you found. These questions pertain specifically to this individual location. These questions are easy to answer. These questions should only take you a minute or two to complete.


Not all questions will tend to be displayed. There sometimes will be more hidden by default in back of the "Show more survey questions" link. Click the link to open the remainder of the questions.
, It should now say that it has been successfully submitted, after a few moments.

