 Over-the-counter antacids, such as Tums or Alka-Seltzer, may ease symptoms of occasional indigestion. Recurrent or severe heartburn and acid reflux require consultation with your doctor.





See your health care provider if heartburn or indigestion recurs for more than 2 weeks.
 Medications such as ranitidine (Zantac), cimetidine (Tagamet) and famotidine (Pepcid) act to block the histamine receptors that signal your stomach to produce acid.





Take H2 blockers before eating to prevent symptoms of acid reflux, or after eating to treat heartburn.
H2 blockers are available over the counter.
 Medications such as omeprazole (Prilosec, Nexium) prevent the production of stomach acid.





Taking PPIs for up to 2 weeks may not only relieve the symptoms of acid reflux, but can also repair the damage done to the esophageal lining.
Some PPIs are available over the counter. Others require a prescription.
 If you'd rather go the natural route, there are a few home remedies that are said to reduce acid reflux:





Drink one tablespoon of baking soda mixed with water.Eat raw almonds, which can balance your pH and reduce acid reflux.
Drink a few teaspoons of apple cider vinegar every day; it helps your digestive system do it's job properly.Drink chamomile tea.
Drink aloe vera juice.
 Before the invention of newer drugs like H-2 receptor blockers and Proton Pump Inhibitors, only herbal remedies were available to treat the gastric acid reflux. Herbs such as Glycerrhiza glabra or liquorice, Asparagus racemosus, Santalum album, Cyperus rotundus, Rubia Cordifolia, Ficus bengalensis, Fumaria parviflora, Bauhinia variegate, Mangifera indica, , are quite effective to reduce the gastric acid secretion, to heal the erosions of the soft mucosal linings of stomach and esophagus, to eliminate the infections such as H.Pylori. Similarly resonance homeopathic medicines like Natrum Phos and Argentum nit also help in GERD. Studies suggest that Natrum Phos may work by kick-starting the repair of damaged tissues. Studies suggest that Argentums nit may neutralize the acid present in the stomach for fast relief from heartburn.

