 To maintain a progressive relationship with your child’s teacher, it’s important that you’re open-minded. When you enter any discussions with staunch expectations, you can interfere with problem-solving. Flexibility also means not viewing the teacher as the enemy—you are both interested in what’s best for your child.


Be considerate of any comments or suggestions offered by your child’s teacher, even if you don’t exactly like them. Remember that no one in the equation is perfect: you, the teacher, nor your child.
Be willing to acknowledge your child’s limitations. Understand the child’s side and try to view it objectively before approaching the teacher. Know that accepting any limitations will position your child to get the services or accommodations they need., Go into any discussion with a resolution in mind. If you get hung up on the details or technicalities, you’ll walk away feeling less than satisfied. Focus on the common ground between you and move forward towards a mutually agreeable outcome.


Enter the situation by putting on your problem-solving hat. Resist the urge to blame or accuse the teacher of anything. Offer feasible solutions and be willing to compromise.
For example, instead of dwelling on the problem, you might say, "I researched a list of possible options to help Jimmy with his reading comprehension. Do you mind reviewing the list and giving me your feedback?"
Make a point of comparing your experience with your child to the teacher's. They can be very different because your child may behave differently at home and at school.
 It's sends a good message to the teacher when you use language that shows you're working together for the concern of your child. When you accuse or insult, you shut down the lines of communication. You can reduce any defensiveness or conflict by using “I” statements.


Say, “I’m a bit disappointed in Tommy’s progress” rather than “You’re not helping my child learn to read.”, You can empower your child and limit unnecessary interactions with the teacher by inspiring them to handle certain issues themselves. This should be done using discretion for the age and maturity level of your child. But, it’s a great way to help your child develop assertiveness and problem-solving skills. At home, help your child practice what to say to their teacher. For example, your child was given a poor conduct grade that they feel was unfair. They might role-play at home by saying, “Mrs. Weathers, I am upset about my conduct grade. I think you may have marked me based on the behavior of some of my friends. I am around these kids, but I don’t act out like them.”

, Academic, behavioral, and social progress takes time. Be realistic about the time-constraints you place on your child and their teacher to implement new strategies and produce results. If you rush progress, you could aggravate the teacher and make them less willing to collaborate with you.


Be realistic about the time-frame you set for results. Stay in the loop by maintaining regular contact with your child’s teacher. But do yourself a favor and lose the perception of a firm deadline. Let your child set the pace.

