 Feeding all of your cats at one time, instead of letting them graze, will minimize conflict and fighting. Instead of allowing access to food at all times, which can lead to conflict when two cats want to eat from the same bowl at the same time, timed meals will allow all cats to have their own space and food to focus on.

How often you feed your cats each day depends on your schedule. In many cases, it works best to feed your cats once in the morning before you leave and once again in the evening when you return.Provide food puzzles if you have a cat, or cats, that is used to grazing instead of eating at meal times. This will help them transition to timed meals. Putting a small amount of kibble in one of these puzzles won't replace a whole meal but it may satiate a cat enough until meal time comes around.;
, Do not feed your cats and then leave your home. It is important that you monitor feeding time, so that you can make the cats stay at their own feeding stations and break up any conflicts that might occur.It may be that your presence calms your cats while they eat because they know that they will be protected from other cats trying to get their food when you are around. This will allow them to focus on their food more than on defensiveness.
 When feeding multiple cats you should remove food dishes after the cats have eaten or after a set amount of time, if one or more of your cats are very slow about eating. This will teach the cats that there is a set time to eat and if they don't eat at that given time, then there is no food to be had. The goal is to make meal time a time for strictly for eating, not a time to play games, show dominance, or fight for territory.Setting specific meal times and taking away food when meal time is over requires a gradual training process that may take some time for your cats to adjust to. If your cat meows repeatedly at you for food when it is not meal time, just remember that you are working to make a peaceful household and your cat will not starve if it has to wait an hour for food.
 If your cats are very territorial and tend to fight over food, you may want to try using a calming product made for cats during feeding times. These products tend to be non-toxic sprays that use pheromones to calm cats and reduce fear and aggression. Spray one of these products, which are usually available at most pet stores, around the feeding area or on the specific cats that are most fearful or aggressive.The pheromone sprays used for calming cats mimic the pheromones given off by mother cats to calm their kittens.

