 If you're looking for opportunities to stir the pot, consider the type of environment you're in. What is considered polite, and what could you do that would be seen as rude or awkward? For instance, a library values peace and quiet. Coughing loudly could create awkwardness on its own.
 If the possibility for sexual tension applies to whomever you're trying to make feel awkward, sexual tension is a great way to make everyone uncomfortable. This is especially true if neither of you have ever realistically seen each other that way before. Making flirtatious advances, such as staring and complimenting someone romantically ("You're so pretty," e.g.) will make things awkward quickly.


If you choose to do this, remember to respect boundaries. Awkwardness can be fun, but you don't want to get a lasting reputation as a creep. Explicit threats and physical advances are a no-go. You could get into significant trouble if you're excessively physical with someone. If someone tells you to stop being sexual, you shouldn't test your luck with it.
 Interrupting conversations is a common habit of rude, awkward people. You can jump into a conversation and begin talking about something else entirely, preferably loudly. The awkwardness will increase the larger the group conversation you hijack. For instance, if a group of people is talking about weekend plans, running into the centre and loudly professing your love for neoclassical minimalism will conjure awkwardness in everyone involved.
 Awkwardness is derived from a failure to consider where other people are coming from. If you barge into a room singing music with headphones in, the environment will be disrupted. If you're hanging out with someone and are in a public place doing this, you'll make that person feel even more awkward for the association of being with you.


It's preferable if the music itself is loud and obnoxious. Something like Madonna is preferable to Brian Eno or Phillip Glass.
 Physical slip-ups like tripping over or breaking something have great potential to ruin the momentum of a social situation. While it's easy enough to shrug off a situation like this, if you're going out of your way to be awkward, you can take advantage of the slip-up by dragging it out. If you drop something (like a drink), you should take a long time to clean it up. Make a big deal out of it. Apologize gratuitously.


You get bonus points if the object you drop breaks.
 Awkwardness and embarrassment go hand-in-hand. If you're in a public situation, you can use the gazes of everyone around you against the person you want to make feel awkward. If you're sitting together at a table in a restaurant, make a scene. When everyone looks over, he will feel guilty by association and won't like the attention.


Keep an eye out for physical signs of the person being embarrassed successfully. This includes the eyes being downward, and a reddening (blushing) of cheeks.