 Promote your Facebook page as much as possible: on your website, in your email signature, through notifications in your store or office, by printing the URL on business cards or newsletters, etc. The more users who visit your page and “like” it, the more opportunities you have to drive traffic to your website and achieve desired conversions.;
, Provide special discounts available only to Facebook users to generate profitable interest in your company. Create a call to action that will require customers who want to redeem your “Facebook only” special to interact with your website or Facebook page. This strategy will increase the chances of cultivating repeat business as well as aid in viral marketing as customers spread the word about your discounts.
 Relevant wall posts containing a link to your website can increase the amount of targeted traffic your website receives as well as the opportunity to convert more users into customers. This can also tie in with your Facebook specials if you have a page on your website dedicated to those specials.
 By providing historical facts, current articles, breaking news, market updates, resources and other relevant information, you’ll show prospects that you are actively involved and knowledgeable in your field. This helps build consumer confidence and encourages customers to trust you for valuable products or services whether they need them now or in the future.
 If you sponsor charity events, webinars, trade shows, open houses or any other special events, your prospects and customers should know about it! Post an event in advance and keep the details updated to get maximum exposure.
 Respond to messages and comments from customers asking for information in a timely manner. When days or weeks go by without a response, it sends the message that you’re not interested in connecting with your customers.
 Monitor the comments posted by users to address positive and negative feedback in a timely manner. Thank satisfied customers for their comments and ask if their feedback can be used as testimonials on your website or other marketing materials. Should negative feedback arise, consider responding directly to the customer to resolve the issue. Taking a transparent, proactive approach to addressing negative feedback can help to resolve specific problems, and help to show other prospects that your business is committed to providing excellent service.
 Facebook emails a weekly report summarizing statistics for your users and page activity. Make the most of this information to see where you can make improvements. For example, use the Insights data to view the demographics of the users who “like” your page. This can help you define your target audience and appeal to their interests more effectively