 Debt settlement isn’t as bad as a bankruptcy, but it is almost as bad. With debt settlement, you stop making payment on your debts. Instead, you make payments to a debt settlement company. After a certain amount of time, this company will approach your creditors and try to negotiate a settlement using the lump sum you have saved. If successful, you might end up paying only a fraction of what you owe.With this approach, your credit score will be shredded because you aren’t paying your bills. Also, there’s no guarantee that your creditors will agree to negotiate with you.
Debt settlement works only if your debt is “unsecured.” This means it isn’t backed up with collateral like a secured loan is. Unsecured debt is typically credit card or medical debt.
 Most debt settlement companies are “for profit,” and in any profit-seeking field there are many scams. Make sure to research any debt settlement company you see on the Internet or advertising on television. In particular, keep an eye peeled for the following:


A debt settlement company should not guarantee a result. It’s ultimately up to your creditors whether they agree to settle your debt.
Never pay upfront fees and avoid any company that charges fees before settling your debt.The company shouldn’t promise it can stop collections lawsuits. It can’t.
 Avoid any company with a long history of unhappy customers bringing lawsuits. You can find this information in a few ways:


Search online. Type the company’s name and “complaints” into a search engine.Read through the results. If you see people complaining of being scammed, then cross the company off your list.
Contact the Better Business Bureau for the city where the debt settlement company has its main office.
Call your state’s Attorney General, which might have information on lawsuits filed against the company.
 A legitimate debt settlement company must give you disclosures. You should read them carefully. If you don’t receive anything, then don’t sign with the company. The following disclosures are required:A description of the fees charged and any conditions of service. For example, the disclosures should spell out how much you will have to pay the company.The length of time that will pass before the debt settlement company tries to negotiate with your creditors.
What happens if you stop paying your creditors. In particular, the debt settlement company should explain how stopping payments will hurt your credit and potentially make you vulnerable to a lawsuit.
Who will manage the bank account you pay money into.
An explanation that you can take your money out of the account whenever you want and that you are entitled to any interest that accrues on the deposited amount.
 You shouldn’t work with a debt settlement company unless you have a detailed contract. If you don’t understand it, then schedule a meeting with an attorney who can help you. Always keep a signed copy of the contract for your records.


If at any time the debt settlement company doesn’t follow its contract, you should reach out to your attorney.

