 In Arizona, a person must be 18 years or older to obtain a copy of a birth certificate.There are certain restrictions on who can order someone’s birth certificate, and individuals who are not named on the certificate must provide supporting documents. The following people are potentially eligible to order a birth certificate:


The individual named on the certificate.
A parent named on the birth certificate
A foster parent of the individual named on the certificate
A spouse of the individual named on the certificate
An adult child of the individual named on the certificate
An adult sibling of the individual named on the certificate
A grandparent of the individual named on the certificate
A guardian with legal custody of a minor child
An attorney representing the registrant, biological parent or adoptive parent
An adoption agency representing the biological or adoptive parents
Persons or agencies given authority by a Court to act on the individual’s behalf;
, Each person who is ordering a birth certificate must provide certain materials that attest to their legal authority to request a birth certificate.You. If you are requesting your own birth certificate, you must provide a valid government ID or have your signature on the application witnessed and notarized.

Parents. The parent(s) named on the birth certificate may submit valid government photo ID along with the application. If the father is not named on the original birth certificate, the father will need a court order establishing paternity to order a copy of the birth certificate.

Foster parents. Foster parents must include a signed letter from their Child Protective Services caseworker certifying that they are currently the individual’s foster parents as well as a photocopy of the caseworker’s government photo ID. The applicant must also provide his or her own valid photo ID to verify identity.

Spouse. The individual’s spouse can order a copy of the birth certificate if s/he provides a notarized letter of permission signed by the individual, along with a marriage certificate or other document that shows their names together (e.g., utility bill, mortgage) and valid photo ID.

Adult children Adult children must include their own birth certificate that lists the individual named on the certificate as a parent. Adult children may also use Arizona's "Electronic Birth Registration System" (EBRS) to verify family connection.Valid photo ID or a notarized signature is also required.

Adult siblings. Adult siblings must include their birth certificate that shows at least one common parent with the individual named on the certificate. Adult siblings may also use the EBRS to verify family connection. Valid photo ID or a notarized signature is also required.

Grandparents. Grandparents must provide their child's birth certificate to prove that their child is the parent named on the individual's birth certificate. A search may also be conducted using the EBRS. Valid photo ID or a notarized signature is also required.

Legal guardians. Guardians must include an order of Temporary or Permanent Guardianship. Valid photo ID or a notarized signature is also required.

Attorneys. Attorneys must provide evidence of representation and relationship to the individual named on the certificate (or the individual’s parents, if the individual is a minor).

Adoption agencies. Adoption agencies must provide certified copies of court records to pending adoption, the name of the agency or attorney representing biological or adoptive parents, a letter from the adoption agency, and a description of the relationship between the agency and the parents.

Others. Other people who are empowered by law or court-appointed may be able to obtain a copy of the individual's birth certificate. Valid evidence, such as court records, of the relationship between the applicant and the individual must be provided, along with valid photo ID.
 To obtain birth certificates issued under certain circumstances, you should make an appointment with the Office of Vital Records. If the birth certificate you’re requesting includes one of these conditions, you should make an appointment:


Delayed Birth Registration
Foreign Birth Registration
Adoption
Putative Father Registrations and Searches
Corrections or Amendments of birth records

, Most county health departments in Arizona offer walk-in service to order your birth certificate. Locate your local health department and verify its hours.


The Arizona Department of Health Services Office of Vital Records in Phoenix no longer offers walk-in service. However, you may obtain a copy of your birth certificate by visiting certain local county health departments' Office of Vital Records. The list is on their website here.
Some county health departments require mail-in orders only. Check the back of the birth certificate order form for information on your county health department’s order requirements.
 Locate the birth certificate order form on the Arizona Department of Health Services website. The form is available in English and Spanish. Download and print the form.


You can type directly into the form before printing it out.
You can also apply for a birth certificate online via VitalChek, an online service provider. This service costs more money (usually, the $20 Arizona fee + an additional $10 processing fee). It also requires that you fax in your identification.
 The first section of the form pertains to payment for your order. One certified copy of a birth certificate costs $20.You can pay with a cashier’s check, money order, Visa or MasterCard. Cash and personal checks are not accepted.Make your cashier’s check or money order for the exact amount of your order. These should be made payable to “Office of Vital Records.”
If you pay by credit card, provide the full card number and expiration date on the form. Be sure to sign and date this section of the form.
Verify current fees by consulting the Office of Vital Records Fee Schedule website.
 Provide as much complete information as possible here, including the individual’s full name, sex, date of birth, parents’ names (if known), and place of birth.
 Provide your own information. If you are not the individual named on the certificate, you are required to provide proof of your relationship to the individual as shown above.
 After you have filled out the entire order form, you need to get it notarized by a notary public. A notary public is a person authorized by the government to verify the authenticity of documents.
 When you have gathered all of your information, submit the order. Be sure to include the following:Your completed application form
A copy of the front and back of a valid government-issued picture identification.
Proof that you are eligible to order a birth certificate, if necessary
A cashier’s check or money order (if you are not paying by credit card)
A self-addressed stamped envelope
If you want to order your birth certificate from the Arizona State Office of Vital Records, you need to mail in your form. Use this address: P.O. Box 3887, Phoenix, Arizona 85030.
 The average processing time for a certified copy of a birth certificate is 5 business days. If you need to get the certificate more quickly, you can pay for expedited service. There is an additional processing charge, along with express courier service.The processing charge per order is $10. Depending on how quickly you need the birth certificate, express courier service can range from $14-$18 (plus an additional $5 for UPS delivery).

