 Look to see if the hat has a label of some sort. You might be able to find this under the brim. Once you find it, see if your hat is made up of baku, shantung, or any other material that can be washed with water. It is possible to have a straw hat that cannot be hand-washed. This probably will not be the case.;
, Sometimes straw hats will have bands, ribbons, or other decorative pieces on them. If possible, you will want to remove these extra pieces. Don’t do this if the decorations are interwoven into the hat!


Cleaning the ribbon isn’t difficult! You can dust and hand-wash it. Use a brush to lightly dust away anything that has ended up on the cloth. Also, you can spot clean the ribbon with a wet cloth. After you clean or dust the ribbon, you should use a small amount of steam to freshen it up. You might also try using an iron on a medium setting to go over the ribbon.
 The hat will probably have excess dirt and dust on it. So, you should use a soft bristle brush to scrub that dust and dirt away. You can generally find these at hardware and beauty supply stores. Gently brush the grime off. You don’t want to be too rough, because you can end up harming the fabric of the hat.
 For an incredibly dusty hat, you may need an extreme solution. You can try placing netting or pantyhose over a vacuum brush, then using a vacuum on the hat. Again, this should only be used in extreme cases.
 Combine equal parts hydrogen peroxide and warm water in a bowl or bottle.Then, you should either spray a soft cleaning cloth with the bottle, or dip a cloth in the bowl.


Don’t use a colored cloth because its dye will bleed into your hat. Test a small area of the hat with the solution to make sure it does not damage the hat. Once this has been verified, begin wiping the hat with the cloth. Swipe off as much dirt and grime as possible.
Make sure that your cloth is damp, but not soaked. You don’t want to get your hat extremely wet.
 Combine a tablespoon of dish soap with a cup of hot water in a bowl or bottle.As you did before, dip your cloth in the bowl or spray your cloth with the bottle. Again, verify that the solution will not ruin your hat by placing a small amount on your hat. Rub the cloth in a circular motion to remove the dirt.
 While most straw hats should not be rinsed, this is a good option if the hat's label clearly says that it is OK to submerge it in water. Fill a bowl with warm water. Dip a cloth in the bowl, take it out, and run it over the entire hat. Put the hat in a cool place, preferably under a shadow, to let it dry. If your hat’s brim is curved, do not lay it on a flat surface.