 Click on your browser icon to launch it.


Click here to download and install the latest version of Chrome.;
, Chrome versions 23 and above feature a Menu icon, which looks like three horizontal lines. This is located at the top right-hand corner of the screen.
, You will find this tab on the bottom of the Settings page. If you are using an older version of Chrome, you will need to do the following:


Click on the "Spanner" icon. This is located at the top right-hand corner of the screen.
Click Tools. You will find this under the Cookies section.
Click Options. This will bring up a list of options that you can choose from.
Click “Under the Hood”. You will find this on the left-hand side of the browser window, listed under Options.
 You will find this button in the “Privacy” tab of the Settings page.
 Check the first box, which says, “Allow local data to be set (recommended)”. This will automatically enable first-party and third-party cookies


In Chrome versions 3-9, choose the setting that says, “Allow all cookies”.
 In the “Cookies” section, you are given three more options.


Checking the box labeled “Block sites from setting any data”, will block all cookies from that website.
Checking the box labeled “Block third-party cookies and site data”, will enable only first-party cookies to access your browser.
Choosing “Keep local data only until you quit your browser” will erase the cookies when you exit Chrome.
 This will let you manage cookie data manually. It opens a new window, where you are presented with a “Hostname Pattern” box and a “Behavior” box. Enter the website URL which you wish and select your option.


Choosing “Allow” will always allow cookies for that URL.
Choosing “Clear on exit” will clear up the cookies for the website when you close it.
Choosing “Block” will block the cookies for that URL.
 Once you are finished with managing your settings, click Done to save changes and end the process.
 Go to your cookies list. If you see the sign of a blocked cookie next to a website address bar, it means that it has been blocked.

