 Do you want to be an actress? Do you want to be more fashionable? Do you want to be more responsible in school? Get the picture. It's kind of like making goals. Write it down on a piece of paper and post it somewhere you can see it everyday like your vanity table mirror or a cork board. Never give up on your goals.;
, You want to look better, don't you? Well, the first thing people will see is your physical appearance, so invest a lot of time and effort in making yourself presentable. You don't need to look like a supermodel, just make sure you wear neat and ironed clothes that suits you well. Do you think you have ugly hair? Get a new do. Get a new cut or new shade. Just be careful with choosing your cut or hair color. Make sure you have a professional help you out with that. Got glasses? Try getting contact lenses. You'll look and feel fabulous with it. If you can't get contacts for whatsoever reasons, just get new and more fashionable specs. There's nothing wrong with wearing glasses.
 Try reading fashion magazines and looking at fashion websites. Magazines and websites will help you to know what kind of clothes and colors go well together and how to put an outfit together. Also, make sure that you have your own personal sense of style. It would help if you have a fashion icon.
 Take a bath everyday (Hopefully, you do that already) and comb your hair. Keep your nails clean, get a manicure/pedicure, and brush your teeth. When brushing your teeth, use a mouth wash and a whitening toothpaste to keep them sparkling white.
 Don't slouch. Walk with poise and learn how to carry yourself with grace. This is a bit difficult, but can be done with a lot of practice. Enroll in a modeling class to learn how to correct your posture and walking.
 If you aren't happy with your current figure, exercise and diet. Just don't starve yourself and don't be bulimic! Go to a gym or do quick easy exercise routines at the comfort of your own home. Consider reading this.
 It is said that education is the key to success and it's true. Sure, the popular kids consider smart girls as geeks or nerds, so don't be affected by them. Those popular kids will probably end up broke in the future, anyway. Read books, magazines, and newspapers. Do your best in school and as much as possible don't use slang terms. Don't swear and say racists and sexist comments.
 Make a habit of being the first one to welcome newcomers in your school, club, or neighborhood. Talk to everyone . Don't limit yourself to befriending other people.
 If you know you're good at drawing, sports, playing music, etc, don't hide it, show it! Nobody will see your true colors if you won't expose all the good things that you could do. Join clubs and organizations that supports your interests.
 Believing in yourself will make you a better you! Why? Because people will notice a change about you in the inside first and after a while on the outside!

