 People often ask about each other’s beliefs and invite one another to religious gatherings. You can either choose to dodge the questions, or answer them. There is no need to wear an “Atheist” T-shirt everywhere you go, but if you are going to identify publicly as an atheist, you have to come right out and say “I am an atheist,” and be prepared for the conversation that follows.Saying something such as “I am not religious and prefer not to discuss religion,” is a good way to end the conversation most of the time. Keep in mind that some people will still continue to ask you questions, and you can still insist that you would prefer to talk about something else.
 You may be asked a lot of questions. Sometimes, this is out of genuine curiosity, and others times, it is an attempt to shame or convert you. It is up to you what you disclose and to whom you disclose it.If you are asked what religion you observe during a job interview, you can easily redirect the question with something like “I do not feel like my spirituality is relevant to this interview.”

, Some people choose to post their religious beliefs, or lack thereof, on their profile. Others simply do not share the information. Still, others post very deliberately about their atheism. Consider your standing in your profession and community and the degree to which you are willing to create controversy to post on social media. That said, it is a personal choice and there is no right or wrong decision.Remember that employers (and future employers) will have access to the information you share. If you fear that being openly atheist will damage your career, be careful about social media.
 Do this only if you feel comfortable. There is no need to discuss the topic, but it is also illegal to for anyone to discriminate against you for doing so. The culture of your workplace will heavily affect how you approach this topic with co-workers.If the conversation does come up in an uncomfortable way, it is usually best not to argue or debate with religious co-workers. Instead, say something like “If you’d like to discuss atheism more, we can have coffee sometime, but I am pretty busy right now.”

, While you will experience some degree of intolerance, or at least confusion, for your atheist beliefs at times, do not fuel the discrimination. You do not have to partake or agree with someone else’s point of view, but it is no more your right to change their mind than it is their right to change yours. Be as open-minded as you hope others will be and show respect.


For example, if someone says “Bless you,” after you sneeze, this is no reason to go on a rant about how you are an atheist and do not believe that there is a God to bless anyone. A simple “Thank you,” will do.
If an acquaintance is genuinely interested in your views, it is okay to discuss them. Just make sure to keep the conversation respectful on both ends.

