 The sirloin is from the rear part of the beef, specifically the hip. Look for steaks that are marbled, where the white stripes of fat are interspersed evenly throughout the meat. Choose steaks with a light, bright red color, and pick steaks that are 1 inch (25.4 mm) to 1-1/2 inches (38.1 mm) thick.Ask the butcher to cut you a fresh steak if they all seem brown on the outside -- this means they have been sitting out in the air for too long.;
, Many people swear that a grilled steak, with a little salt and pepper, is one of nature's finest meals. Sirloins, though not extra tender, pack a lot of flavor even without seasoning. The real flavor comes from the interaction between the meat and the heat source. They only need a light searing on the outside to taste flavorful and juicy. Depending on your grill, you may get very different flavors from your steak:



Propane: Gas grills impart little additional flavor on the meat. They are, however, easy to control and get hot the quickest. You can adjust the temperatures with a simple knob, allowing you to perfect the cooking process to your liking, and they usually have attached thermometers.

Charcoal: Briquettes light up relatively fast and get hot quickly. They impart the "classic" BBQ flavor, with a hint of smokiness, but are a bit trickier to get to the right temperature.

Wood-fire: Wood chips, like hickory or oak, give the best natural flavor to the meat. However, they are harder to maintain and light, so many people use a mixture of charcoal and wood to get the best of both worlds., If you are using charcoal and/or wood this might take 30-40 minutes, until the briquets are covered in gray ash, but propane grills only take a few minutes to get hot. Aim to have the inside of the grill around 375°F by leaving the cover on as it heats.The thinner the steak, the hotter you want the grill:



3/4-1 inch thick: 360-400°F You shouldn't be able to hold your hand over the grill longer than 4-5 seconds.

1-1 1/2 inch thick: 325-360°F You shouldn't be able to hold your hand over the grill longer than 5-6 seconds., Most steaks are best with only a little bit of seasoning. Rub 1/2 tablespoon of both salt and crushed black pepper on both sides of the steak and let it sit at room temperature for 15-20 minutes while the grill heats.You want the steak to sit at room temperature so that it isn't cold when you put it on the grill-- this can cause the meat to contract and tighten up as it cooks.


Be liberal with the salt -- a nice crusting is perfect, but you should still be able to see the meat underneath.Bigger kernels of salt (course sea salt or kosher salt, for example) will caramelize the outside better, so avoid using fine table salt whenever possible., You want to sear the outside with nice, caramelized crust for the best texture and flavor. Slap the steak over the flame and then leave it alone, closing the top of the grill as it cooks.Resist the urge to poke, prod, or move it as it cooks.
 They should be dark brown when you flip them over. If they are black, the grill was too hot. If they are pink, the grill was not hot enough, so try and raise the heat or leave them over the flame for another 2-3 minutes. You can also turn them 45 degrees halfway through cooking to get the perfect cross-cut grill marks. For reference:



Medium rare steaks should be grilled for roughly 5 minutes a side.

Medium steaks should be grilled for roughly 7 minutes a side.

Well done steaks should be cooked for ten minutes on each side, then left on indirect heat to keep cooking.
Use tongs to turn the steak instead of a fork as piercing it causes the juices to drain out., Move the steak to another side of the grill, one without direct flame, and let it keep cooking until the inside is done to your liking. With a charcoal grill you can open or close the top vent to control the smokiness, closing it for smokier texture. You can use a meat thermometer to gauge the meat's internal cooking, or just estimate with time.



Rare: 130-135°F. Remove immediately after flipping each side.

Medium-Rare: 140°F. Sear each side for an extra minute or 30 seconds longer than you would for a rare steak.

Medium: 155°F. Let it continue cooking for an extra 1-2 minutes off of direct heat. Flip halfway through.

Well Done: 165°F Let the steak cook on indirect heat for 3-4 minutes, flipping halfway through., Press on the center of the steak with one finger. For medium steaks, it should have a give, similar to pressing on the center your palm. For medium-rare it will feel bouncy and spongy, like the pad right below your thumb., Tent a piece of aluminum foil over the steak let it rest before eating. This traps the flavors in the meat and leads to a better tasting steak.