, To start, go to Bob's axes (south of Lumbridge Castle) and take a free bronze hatchet and bronze pickaxe. Find some level 2 goblins north or east of Lumbridge and begin the "killing process." The hatchet is recommended, but you can use the pickaxe and still have a good effect. If you set the hatchet to "Chop" you level attack. "Slash" levels strength and "Block" levels defense.
 After fighting for a few minutes, your health begins to drop and drop. If your health is below 15, STOP FIGHTING! Turn on the run button in the top right and run away to a safer place with no enemies. As you level up, you are less prone to taking damage and become slowly stronger. The one way to heal yourself the fastest: food. This is where the next four skills will come into play.
 To start the healing process with food, use your hatchet once again to chop down a tree. You only need one tree, but cut two in case your first fire burns out. Make sure it's a regular tree or a dead tree only. You need a woodcutting level of 15 to cut oak trees, so you can only cut regular trees for a while.
 To fish, first go to the fishing store in Lumbridge and take a free sample for a crayfish cage. Go behind the church to find spots for "crayfishing." Catch about 10 crayfish and walk away from the river.
 Fire is a lot less dangerous in RuneScape. It may take a while the first few times. To start, grab a free sample for a tinderbox from the Lumbridge General Store. Come back and click on the tinderbox in your inventory and then click on the logs to light a fire.
 By now, your health may be (almost) full. This is alright, but you are still learning to fish, cut, burn and cook. Click on the raw crayfish and then click on the fire. You will most likely burn at least forty percent of your crayfish.
 Head back to the goblins and train on those until you think you are ready to fight cows or you get 15 or below health if you get 15 or below health then go back and repeat steps 5-7 and train until you are comfortable

, If you are level 5 or lower, you will need to go back for food often so it is not recommended. Train and pick up cowhides as these sell for high prices and bury bones. DO not sell the cowhide until you have about maybe 200-300 of them. After you have 200 cowhide you will have a good solid 20-50k gp. Congratulations! You have reached your first 20-50k gp! Sell your cowhide at the Grand Exchange, which is North-West of Varrock West Bank and North-East of Barbarian Village.
 Walk east from the Lumbridge Lodestone into the desert area. Now walk south into the town and you will see a palace. Enter the palace and fight Al-Kharid warriors. The only bad thing is there are really no fishing spots and going around is just plain boring so lots of GP is recommended just in case.
 Sell your cowhides and get armour according to your defence level (bronze 1, etc). If you were training on cows for a long time, then you might be looking towards into buying feathers or food. Make sure you still have at least 10 gp left to go through the gate. Leather Armor can also be effective-if you have the required crafting level.
 This can get you Xp, Coins or items. A good one to start with is "Cook's Assistant". if you get stuck on it just go to a help site or go onto the RuneScape quest help page.
 Note that gaining 100k as a noob AND a f2p can become extremely challenging.
 Go to the Grand Exchange and buy some good armour. For instance, after all of those hours obtaining cowhide go and buy some black or mithril armour depending on your level. Do not buy the helm or shield as that is a total waste of money (maybe not, depending on how much money you have). Buy about 100 trout or pike, as they heal good enough for a noob (beginner). Or, you can fish for your own food, as it can save you lots-I mean lots-of money. If your defence level is only 20, then it is suggested to buy steel armour, because it is a lot cheaper and also you would save more money. Stay in the GE, don't fall for the doubling money scam which is always not legit. Buy 100 bowls of water. With your 30k leftover, buy 100 pots of flour. Make some pizza dough. Withdraw 9 pots of flour and also 9 bowls of water as you will make 9 pizza dough. After you make the 100 pizza doughs, sell them for around 400 -330 gp, each making 200-250gp profit (items may not load right away so wait for 1 day).
