 People with eating disorders may also have low self-esteem.In order to battle your eating disorder and feel confident enough to pursue romance, you need to feel good about yourself.


Make a list of your positive personality traits, skills, hobbies, and interests.
Pick two or three words off the list that really define you and write them on a sticky note. Post the note somewhere you can see it frequently or carry it with you.
Use positive self-talk with yourself. Look in the mirror and compliment yourself using some of the words from your list.
For instance, tell yourself, “I’m brave, kind, good at playing the sax, and romantic.”;
, One of the hard parts about eating disorders is that they can leave you feeling isolated or cause you to avoid social situations.You can’t pursue romance, though, if you are isolating yourself. If you suffer from an eating disorder and want to pursue romance then you have to open yourself up socially.


Accept the invitations that family and friends give you. You never know who you might meet at the event.
For example, if your sister invites you to her softball game, then go. Your future romantic interest could be there in the stands.
Volunteer or participate for a community organization. You’ll be giving back to the community, supporting your recovery, and possibly meeting a new romantic interest.
If you already have a romantic interest, spend time with them one-on-one. For example, invite them to a football game or out skating.
 Sometimes people with eating disorders can show signs of low confidence by being insecure or jealous.Whether it’s when you’re first meeting your romantic interest or after you are in a relationship, being confident will help you successfully pursue romance.


When you introduce yourself to a romantic interest, hold your head up, look them in the eyes, and smile.
For instance, if you see someone that catches your eye, stand up straight, walk up to them, smile, and say, “Hi! How are you doing?”
If you are in a relationship, give your romantic partner some space. It’s great to spend time together, but don’t be clingy or needy.
Instead of being jealous when your partner spends time with someone else, be confident that your relationship is secure.

