 There are many different Irish soda bread recipes that call for additions such as raisins or sugar. However, traditional Irish soda bread only has four ingredients: 4 cups of all-purpose flour, 1 teaspoon of baking soda, 1 teaspoon of salt, and 14 ounces of buttermilk.If you want to make brown Irish soda bread, substitute three of the cups of white flour with whole wheat flour.
Buttermilk can be found in the dairy section of your local grocery store.
 Preheat your oven to 425 degrees Fahrenheit (218 degrees Celsius) for about ten minutes. While you wait, grease and flour a nine-inch circular cake pan and set it aside. Alternatively, use a cast-iron skillet for a more traditional touch. The skillet should be pre-seasoned and doesn’t need to be greased and floured.


To grease and flour a cake pan, first coat the inside of the pan with butter. Next, sift over a small amount of flour until all of the butter is coated. Discard any excess flour.
 Sift the flour while adding it to remove any lumps. Make sure these ingredients are very well combined by whisking them together. If they’re not, you risk having unsavory pockets of baking soda all through your bread.
 Add the buttermilk all at once and fold it into the dry ingredients with a spatula. Stir until the ingredients are just combined. If you mix it a lot, you will have a smooth crust. If you mix until just combined, your crust will have the traditional rough texture.Don’t use an electric mixer to incorporate the buttermilk. The mixer will overmix the batter and your bread won’t rise very well.
 Once all of the batter is in the pan, tap the pan on the counter to release any trapped air bubbles. Next, cut an “x” shape in the batter with a sharp knife for a traditional Irish soda bread look., Place your soda bread in the center of a hot oven and bake it for about thirty minutes. Check the loaf periodically after the thirty minute mark to see if it’s ready. The crust should be firm to the touch, and if you insert a toothpick into the center of the loaf it should come out clean.If you use a cast-iron skillet instead of a cake pan, your bread will need more time to cook.
 Remove the bread from the oven when it’s done cooking and transfer it to a wire baking rack. If you leave the bread in the pan to cool, the bottom of the crust will get soggy. Let the bread cool for a few minutes before serving it.


If the bread crumbles a lot while you’re slicing it, let the bread cool for a few more minutes. This will give the loaf more time to firm up.

