 An important way to move on and heal is to talk about what happened. Talk about the loss of your classmate. It doesn't matter if you were close to the person or not. The death of someone you know is difficult. Talking about the person, your fears, or your feelings can help you start to process and heal.When you talk about it, you let more of it out. If the feelings stay inside, you may feel upset or like it's too much. Talking about it lets you get a little bit out each time, which eventually allows you to move on and heal.
For example, say something like, "I am sad about Sally dying" or "I wish I had known Sally better before she died. That makes me sad."

, When a schoolmate dies, think about any good memories you have of the person. Think about interactions you had with your schoolmate. If you didn’t know the person very well, think about what you did know about them, such as remembering them in class, at lunch, or out on the playground.Get together with other classmates to talk about the deceased schoolmate. You can talk about memories with each other.
You can say, "I remember when I played with Jasmine on the playground. We had fun" or "I remember how Jasmine always was the first to answer a question in class."

, It's important to get back to your normal day to day life. This includes going to school, participating in activities, and going out with friends. Sitting around and constantly thinking about what happened is not healthy. You need to remember the person who died, but continue on with your life.


This may be difficult at first. If you need to, start out slowly. Instead of trying to return to everything at once, return to one thing at a time as you move on and get back into your normal routine.
 If one of your classmates dies, you may want to say goodbye to them. Consider going to the wake or viewing, or go to the funeral. Some families may have a reception or dinner in honor of the student. Visit the gravesite after the classmate is buried and read them a letter you wrote.This can provide closure for you, help you grieve, and allow you to move on.
If you do not want to attend the funeral, then you might try setting up a memorial for your friend in your home. Find some pictures and keepsakes that remind you of your friend and place them on a table. Then, reflect on the good times you had with the person. You might even try talking to a picture of your friend and saying goodbye to him or her.
 You may find that no matter what you do you cannot get over what happened. If this happens to you, talk to your parents or school counselor about getting help. Consider going to see a professional grief counselor or therapist to help you talk about and process what happened.You might feel anxious or scared of dying. You may not want to get out of bed or go to school, or you might be unable to go to sleep. If you feel depressed, anxious, or otherwise unable to move on, talk to someone.
For example, tell someone, "I need some help dealing with this grief" or "I'm not sure how to get over Bob dying. Can you help me?"

