 Decide what hotel you will be staying at, how much gas you will need for the trip, etc.
 Buy them directly at AAA or The Disney Store. Other sellers can sell you fake or expired tickets. It also helps to buy your tickets ahead of time, to avoid waiting in a line in the hot Florida sun with a screaming child., Nothing is worse than to finally get to your hotel and they don't know you reserved something., Tell everyone who is going! Your children should be happy! If not, buy them a book about Disney World or Walt Disney. They might learn to appreciate the park., See "Things You'll Need" for more information. Keep in mind it can get very HOT, especially during the months of June-August., See "Things You'll Need" for more information on what to pack.,,, Also, clean it up. Vacuum the seats and floor, pick up trash, etc. Some people don't like travelling for long distances in a trash pit., It sounds early, but you need all of the sleep you can get!,, Sleep!!! In this case, curfew is 5:15pm., If you wake up any earlier than 6:00am (or 2 Hours before your flight), nap until then., This is a fun part! Run up and down the hallway and scream "We're going to Disney World!" Then, make some loud noises., Wear comfy clothing, you will be in the car for a bit., This will avoid any extra stops., Eat quick meals, like oatmeal, cereal (Cheerios brands recommended), grits, bagels, leftover waffles or pancakes, Pop Tarts (or any other toaster tart brand) or some fruit.,(Or go to the airport and do the airport check-in, security, and get on the plane.) This might take a while, so be prepared for kid tantrums and complaining., Lake Buena Vista is the real town Walt Disney World is in, not Orlando., Go to your room, unpack, and take a cold, short shower., Try microwaving mac & cheese, eating a sandwich, or anything else that suits your fancy., This will be loads of fun; it is the best way to cool off., By now it should be 8:00 if you enjoyed yourself at the pool. Put on your pajamas and get in the car with everyone else.,,, Make sure to rest well because you have big days ahead of you!, Take a cold shower. Eat breakfast. Do everything you would normally do in the morning.,,, There are many signs to get you there, so don't worry. They might even tell you where to park!,,, Enjoy! Stay until 12 noon or until your kid starts screaming., Eat something, do your business, go for a little swim, etc., See the parades and fireworks.,,, There is a LOT to do at Epcot, so plan ahead for your day., Hollywood studios is made up of more shows than rides, so make sure you plan ahead for any shows., Animal kingdom tends to close earlier than most parks, so when you get back to the hotel, take the opportunity to relax and maybe watch tv or swim again.,,,,,,,,,,, Also, go back to the hotel room and check everywhere to make sure you didn't leave anything.,,,