 Pulled thigh muscles can be very painful and most commonly occur while running, kicking, skating, and weightlifting; however, they can also be strained just by walking. A pulled thigh muscle can happen anytime there is a sudden stretching of these muscles and can occur anywhere along the length of the muscles.It is very important to warm up and stretch the muscles in the thigh before any activity. If these muscles have not been adequately stretched, you are at a higher risk of straining and injuring the muscle.
 The most common symptom of a strained thigh muscle is a sudden and sharp pain at the muscle. This can be at the front or back of the thigh, at the inner thigh, or at the hip, knees, or groin, depending on which muscle has been strained.Many people also report hearing or feeling a pop.
Within a short time, from minutes to hours, swelling, bruising, and tenderness at the area of the injury is common.
There may also be some degree of weakness, or you may not be able to walk or put any weight on your leg.
 Thigh pain occurs often with thigh strain. Some people are at higher risk than others. The greatest risk factors for thigh muscle strain is:Participation in any sport that involves running, kicking, and sprinting, especially if enough time is not taken to stretch the muscles before participating. Dancing and other vigorous activities can put you at higher risk as well.
A history of muscle strain. Previous thigh muscle injuries do weaken the muscle and make it more likely to happen again
Starting physical activity while in poor shape or before the muscles are properly stretched.
Muscle imbalance. Since the quadriceps and the hamstrings work together, along with the adductor muscles, if one group of muscles is much stronger than another, it can strain the weaker muscle group.
 Most thigh pain will go away with the above methods; however, sometimes thigh pain may not be due to a sprain, strain, sore muscle, or cramp, but a symptom of a much more severe condition. If you have chronic pain that doesn't get better, cannot put weight on your leg after a few days, see abnormal swelling or bruising, or find no at-home treatments are working, you should see your doctor.If you experienced an injury that caused thigh pain, you may want to see your doctor if you believe it is severe.
If you are unsure of the cause of your thigh pain, you can see your doctor as soon as it happens just to be sure.

