 The job description for a Hooters Girl usually does not require lots of hospitality experience before applying. Instead, most ads prioritize that you should be at least 18 years of age and have the "ability to maintain attractive and fit image."You might find you will become more competitive for a job if you gain experience in a restaurant or cafe taking orders, working a cash register, and contributing to a large team. Although this is not strictly necessary in all locations, popular Hooters locations will consider experience in a competitive hiring environment.;
, You can find job postings on the "Careers" section of the Hooters website (www.hooters.com), but many Hooters Girls report being able to walk into the restaurant and fill out an application after you inquire for one.Because the value of the Hooters Girl is, according to the company handbook, based on her ideal appearance as an "All-American Cheerleader, Surfer Girl, Girl Next Door," you should present yourself in a way that embodies at least one of these three types.Dress professionally, but in a way that also flatters your body. Consider wearing a pair of skinny, dark jeans with tall boots and a blouse, a flattering pencil skirt or even a body hugging dress in a dark color (like black or navy) when you go inside to ask about employment. Your potential manager will note your appearance.Hooters generally does not employ men on their serving staff, although they have faced multiple law suits over this practice. In 1997, they won a class-action lawsuit against male plaintiffs under the reasoning that hiring an all-female waitstaff was a "bona fide occupational qualification" for its business (meaning the core value of its business would change if it began to hire male servers)., , If the Hooters restaurant is in immediate need of hiring, you could be interviewed after you fill out your application. But you might also be called in to interview at a later date. Wear a similar outfit to what you wore when you inquired about an application.


Emphasize your perpetually cheerful disposition. Most job ads for Hooters Girls state that they must be "fun, upbeat, and entertaining."Smile constantly during your interview and do not talk negatively about your past work experiences or complain about former bosses. Talk about your people skills and how you make conversation with strangers.
You will probably be asked questions about your past work experiences, how you approach customer service, how you handle stressful situations or work in a team, your schedule and availability, etc.
 If you are offered a position, you will need to sign the Acknowledgment form, which states that you understand that Hooters' work environment is "one in which joking and innuendo based on female sex appeal is commonplace."You must also state that you do not find your "job duties, uniform requirements or work environment to be offensive, intimidating, hostile or unwelcome.", According to the Hooters Employee Handbook, your tank top must be tucked into your shorts at all times. Do not reveal your midriff. You must wear a white or nude bra and it can't be visible to customers.You also must wear pantyhose under your shorts and they must be in the shade Suntan. If your skin is a darker shade than Suntan, you can select a darker shade. You are not allowed to wear a lighter shade of pantyhose than Suntan.For footwear, you must wear white "slouch" socks and all white sneakers. The sneakers cannot be in any other color than white and they should be a "high top" style.If you have any tattoos, they cannot be visible while you are wearing your uniform.
You are not allowed to wear the Hooters uniform anywhere outside of Hooters. It should not be visible when you are outside the restaurant.You should also be prepared to pay for extra elements of the uniform (tank tops, shorts, panty hose, etc.) You will be provided one uniform but then you are required to buy any extras pieces should your uniform become dirty or frayed., The Hooters Handbook strictly prohibits wearing a ponytail or pigtails, hats or headbands. Hair is supposed to be done in a "glamorous" style, which suggests worn down and long with full volume.Consider putting your hair in large rollers for one hour after drying as this will give you added volume and pretty waves.
You should also try back combing the roots of your hair, brushing it out, and then spraying it with hairspray to add extra volume.
 Make up is also a required component of your appearance while at Hooters. It must be, according to the handbook, "camera ready at all times."Basic components of your beauty routine should include foundation (to even out skin tone and cover any redness), concealer (to cover blemishes and under-eye circles), lipstick, mascara and eyeshadow. Your makeup should be wholesome, yet sexy. For lips, stick to colors like pink, coral and rose tones. Avoid dark wine or plum lip shades.
For eyeshadow, consider more neutral tones of brown and gray. Do not try anything too dramatic (like a bright blue or purple) or overwhelming (like a 60s eye flick or a very smoky eye). "All-American" means pretty and sexy, yet still natural.
You are encouraged to think of yourself not simply as a waitress, but rather as a model who has been "cast" to play the glamorous guide through your customer's pantheon of Hooters-rooted fantasies., Hooters encourages minimal jewelry; its handbook limits it to one necklace, two rings per hand and two earrings per ear. Chokers and tongue piercings are prohibited., For Hooters Girls, nails must be clean and pretty, done in French manicure or nude color. If you wear false nails, make sure they look clean and get them re-done when they start to chip or break off.You are not allowed to wear nail polish in the following colors: black, gold, silver, purple, blue, green, yellow. Avoid anything that suggests you might have slightly eccentric tastes., Always show up for your shift on time and be prepared to help out your co-workers when scheduling conflicts arise. Most women who work as Hooters Girls have lots of other responsibilities, from working through college to raising families.Try to keep your schedule flexible. If you have periods where you can take on extra shifts -- like during a school break -- then try to help other co-workers who might have other demands on their time.
 At breastaurants, 75% of customers are men, most of whom are middle-aged. Unlike other chain restaurants, Hooters encourages waitresses to have a personal rapport with their customers. Make conversation with them and give them personalized attention.Be very friendly, positive, and engaging. Do not complain, make offensive jokes or use profanity.
Do not touch your customers. Most restaurants stipulate you can only touch customers when putting a hand around their waist in a picture., This is what Hooters calls its "hands off" approach. If your customers order a pitcher of beer, pour it for them individually. Open every container for them. Your job is to make sure they can simply relax and eat., Hooters emphasizes that its servers must be "fit," meaning not overweight or obese, or could face termination. You will probably have to exercise at least three times a week in order to maintain the body type of a Hooters Girl.Consider walking, running, swimming, cycling or hiking for at least 30 minutes, 3-4 times a week.
 Although chain restaurants (like The Olive Garden and Applebee's) have generally struggled to attract customers since the recession, breastaurants like Hooters (and similar places like Twin Peaks and The Tilted Kilt) have actually grown since 2008. Many waitresses also report getting larger tips at breastaurants than at other franchises., Although you might make larger tips at Hooters, studies have shown it can take a psychological toll on its employees. In some studies, Hooters Girls have reported experiencing lewd comments, groping, harassment and even stalking in extreme cases.The result is that many waitresses working in breastaurants have reported experiencing feelings of depression, anxiety, anger, and a sense of degradation. They often feel constant pressure to maintain the beauty standards set by their company.If you start to feel this way while working, turn to your support system of co-workers, friends and family members. Many servers have discussed bonding with their fellow Hooters Girls over these kinds of issues.