 Of course, price shouldn't be the only consideration when choosing childcare. However, you do need to be able to afford it. Check your budget, and decide what you can pay comfortably. When you're looking at daycares and camps, check to see what's included, so you don't have surprise expenses. For instance, some programs include meals and excursions in the tuition while others don't include them., When picking a childcare, it's essential to see how many adults they have caring for the children. Children as young as four do okay in a ratio of ten kids to a single adult, but babies need at least one adult for every four babies.Pay attention to how the kids are grouped. Even if the adult-to-child ratio is good, large groups can be more chaotic than smaller groups.
 When assessing a childcare program, it's important to ask about the staff. You can ask what kind of qualifications they have, for instance, as some daycares have staff with child development training.Also ask about turnover. Stability is important for your children. Also, high turnover can show an issue with the program.
 State licensing makes sure the daycare provides a minimal amount of care. If you want to make sure your daycare is held to a higher standard, look for accreditation from organizations such as the National Association for Family Child Care (NAFCC) and the National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC).For summer camps, accreditation is a bit different. While not every high-quality camp is accredited, almost all accredited camps are high quality. Talk to a representative from the camp to see if they are accredited by the American Camp Association.If the camp isn't accredited, that doesn't automatically mean it's terrible. However, you should do more investigating before deciding on that camp.
 Childcare needs to be somewhat convenient for you. If you have to drive 30 minutes each way to pick up and drop off your child, you're likely not going to be happy about it. Plus, you're more likely to run late or have issues being to the daycare or your work on time., Whatever kind of childcare you decide on, from in-home childcare and childcare centers to a summer camp, go to the facility in person before making a decision. Look for things like appropriate supervision, cleanliness, and safety.