 Go to https://twitter.com and click the “Sign Up” button in the top right corner.


Enter the information that it requests.
Choose whether you want Twitter to tailor suggestions to you based on your recent website visits.
Click the blue “Sign Up” button when you are ready.
Create a password and enter your phone number. If you do not want to enter your phone number, you can skip this step.
Customize your interests by following the step-by-step tutorial. This will help Twitter customize suggested accounts to you. Some of these steps can be skipped if you do not want to do them right away.
Confirm your account with Twitter so that you can start using it.
 This will give you another method of sharing photos with Twitter directly from your smartphone.


Search for the Twitter app in the App Store, if you have an iPhone, or in the Play Store, if you have an Android phone.
Open the app once it is downloaded and log into your account.
 Once you do this, your followers will be able to see it, as well anyone who finds your account, if it is public.


Click the blue button in the top right corner that says “Tweet.” A window should pop up that says “Compose new Tweet.”
In the bottom left corner of this new window, you should see a link that says “Add Photo.” Click it, and then find the folder where your photos are saved. Select the photo you would like to tweet and then click the “Open” button.
Type a tweet with the characters you have remaining (you have a limit of 140 characters). You can also tag who is in the photo by clicking “Who's in this photo?” and selecting friends.
, This is another method to share a photo on Twitter but directly from your smartphone this time.


Open the app and tap the small box in the top right corner with a feather in it, to the right of the magnifying glass.
Your camera gallery should automatically come up with the box to write a tweet, so choose which photo you would like to tweet. You can also identify the location of the photo, if you would like, by tapping the teardrop-shaped button with a dot inside it.
Type a message in your tweet with the characters that you have remaining. When you are ready, tap the blue button that says “Tweet.” Your photo will be attached to that tweet for followers to see.

