 Most beginners will not be familiar with the term and will think you have to halt and stay still for a certain amount of time. This is not true when it comes to break dancing. Do not suddenly rush into it and think that you will be able to do it first time because the chances are you won't. Your body will not be used to staying in the freeze position for a certain period of time because the muscles that are used have not grown strong enough to be able to maintain the weight. Able learners may learn the move properly after one day and then progress on to make it better and to learn others. The freeze requires a bit of effort but only a short amount of time and once it is learned and mastered then it is time to move on and try something a bit more challenging.;
, The part of your body that is required most for a typical freeze is the wrists. They need to be strong enough to take the whole of your body weight. It is usually easier for people who are thin and healthy to learn the freeze because less weight will be required. However anyone can learn the freeze. The other parts required for balancing and maintaining the freeze position are the head, upper body, abs, elbows, knees, legs and feet.
 Stretch your body so that your muscles tighten and you can feel it in the required body parts. Hold each stretch for 10 seconds to ensure that the body parts warm up and then they will eventually become used to the exercise, making the freeze a lot more easier to learn.
 For beginners, the freeze requires a lot of stabbing in certain parts of the body and at first they might feel painful but start off wearing a jumper so that it feels less painful, and then gradually use lighter clothing as your body becomes used to it.
 Look around you to see if you're going to hit anything and if you are, move it away so it is safer. You might fall at first so it is better to fall directly on to the floor rather than on another object.
 Try doing a few practice exercises before starting the freeze. Good examples for this are putting weight on the wrists, bending the wrists back and forth and shaking them out, tensing the upper body and ab muscles and doing sit ups and press ups can sometimes help as well.
 This can be the starting position for most beginners. Let your head become used to the floor you are practicing on, if it is carpet or grass it will take a short time to get used to, but if it is something like marble, glass, concrete, wood or lino, then that will take a bit more time to get used to.
 Hold the elbows and tense the muscles for 10 seconds so that they also become used to the exercise. You should look like you're eavesdropping on the floor because your head is touching it.
 Stabbing basically means bringing the elbow of your right or left arm to a certain area in the upper or lower body. The best place to stab on the body for an easy freeze is the back, hips, or side. It is best to stab there for a while before you start stabbing with the abs. The abs take a bit more time to get used to the position.
 Hold it there but don't try to balance just yet. Now stab the left elbow into the bottom of your left thigh and hold it there without balancing. Now if you keep your head and hands flat on the floor, you should be able to feel a certain amount of weight from the stabs. Keep in this position for a couple of seconds so you become used to the stabbing.
 This is a facepalm position but it is better to get used to this position before maintaining the freeze position. The left knee should now be balancing on top of the left elbow and the right side of your body should be balancing on the right elbow. If you take the left knee off the elbow, you will either fall or if you're really strong, you will still keep in the position but will require more effort and much more weight.
 Every now and again keep doing the facepalm position so your entire body becomes used to it. The head will seem to want to stay where it is. This for now is a good starting position and it is classed as a freeze, but only just. Remember to exercise the wrists each time you practice.
 After a while your body will now be used to making contact with the ground for a bit of time. Now you can put on more weight on the wrists and slowly bring your head up while still keeping to the position. Now you are not doing a facepalm as the head is no longer on the ground. This is the normal freeze position. Now practice this and try to keep to the position for about 5 seconds or more, exercising the wrists as you go along.
 You will need days of practice to become properly used to the freeze position. Try it on different surfaces, and let the body become used to each surface slowly before you move on. Don't go and impress your friends and family just yet! The last thing you want is to fall over while in the position and injure yourself. Practice makes perfect and it takes time so don't rush.
 You will need the exercise if you want to try the freeze position with just one hand. This part of the procedure will take days, weeks, maybe even months to get right, so for now just focus on getting those parts exercised and used to the position.
 Practice loads to be able to maintain the position for the amount of time. Try it on different surfaces and as soon as you're ready, move on.
 If you fall over at first keep practicing and practicing until you don't.
 You do not want to strain your wrists so that they can no longer support body weight. Practice the freeze position with one hand loads. Frequently per day is most recommended for you to get the best out of it as you possibly can. Remember to try it on different surfaces.
 After many weeks, maybe even months or years of practice, your body should now definitely be used to the freeze position with one hand. It takes a long time to figure out the right position and where the wrists actually make contact with the ground. Good stability is key for this move.
 It is now time to show people what you can do. Being a break dancer is not about being isolated and alone, you have to share what you can do and learn from other people as well as yourself. If you are the sort of the person who is shy, then practice expressing yourself before showing anyone. Express yourself as you show the move to your fellow people and avoid showing off and attention seeking. Think of it as if no one is watching you and then go for it. Chances are you will get surprises or shouts or praise from your family or friends.
 Do not go and boast about the move to anyone, you will lose respect and they may become jealous of you. Remember if anyone takes the mick out of you, ignore it and continue doing the move and as you progress on start to learn the other break dance moves as well!

