 Creeping charlie blooms in different times of year based on your region's temperature. Take into account whether you live in a warmer or cooler area before harvesting creeping charlie.In cooler climates, your creeping charlie will bloom in mid-spring or early summer. In warmer climates, such as Florida, your creeping charlie blooms in the spring or fall.
In regions around Canada, creeping charlie usually blooms from September to November.;
, Harvesting creeping charlie is simple. All you need to do is use your fingers to gently pick the leaves off the plants.The leaves are what are typically used in foods and beverages, so it's unnecessary to pick the blooms or stems.Creeping charlie leaves are somewhat fragile, so pick them gently to avoid tearing.
Pick as many leaves that are in full bloom. If you notice more leaves blooming later, pick those then.
 As you pick creeping charlie, place the leaves in a container. As creeping charlie leaves are small, a mason jar or similarly sized container should be adequate. Gently place the leaves in the container to avoid breaking them. Use the mason jar to carry them back into your home to clean., After bringing creeping charlie into your home, you should wash it. Fill a bowl of cold water and submerge the creeping charlie leaves completely. Leave the creeping charlie in the bowl until dirt has sunk to the bottom of the bowl.Times will vary based on how many leaves you're using.
 Use a skim, which is a net-like device, to remove all the herbs from the water. Set them aside on a piece of paper towel. Dump the dirty water down the sink., Use a paper towel to gently pat down the leaves on either side. Keep patting until the leaves are more or less dry.Be gentle with creeping charlie as the leaves are delicate.
You can eat creeping charlie without drying it like you would with other herbs.
 Store your creeping charlie. Take a mason jar and pour an inch of water (2.5 centimeters) on the bottom of the jar. Add your leaves to the jar and seal it slightly. Place your jar in the refrigerator until you're ready to use your creeping charlie., Creeping charlie plants thrive in most soil types. Any soil you purchase at a greenhouse should be adequate for creeping charlie. However, creeping charlie does take best to soil rich in organic substances that promote growth. Mix in things like compost, leaf mold, or manure into the flower bed or pot where you're growing your creeping charlie., Creeping charlie needs some water to thrive, like all plants. The soil should be moist, but not wet. Watering once or twice per week should be enough to keep creeping charlie growing.To determine whether creeping charlie needs watering, place your finger into the dirt. If the soil feels dry past your first knuckle, your creeping charlie needs water.
Overwatering can cause fungal problems, so only water when the soil needs it. If you're growing creeping charlie inside, make sure to use a pot with a drain hole that allows excess water to spill out into a container below.
 Creeping charlie needs access to light to thrive. However, full sun inhibits growth. Plant creeping charlie in a somewhat shaded area. If you're growing creeping charlie inside, keep the creeping charlie near a window where sunlight is blocked slightly by trees or buildings., Use a water-soluble all purpose fertilizer to promote growth. Read the instructions carefully to make sure you're using fertilizer in the proper amounts. Most fertilizers require a teaspoon of fertilizer be diluted in a gallon of water, but the precise measurements vary by type.The amount of fertilizer you need to use depends on how much creeping charlie you're growing. Read your fertilizer's label.
Apply fertilizer during the growing months, which are from May to October.
 Creeping charlie requires regular trimming to promote growth. Trim the stems back until they branch out just slightly before the plant's leaves. This is especially important if creeping charlie plants are growing into one another.