 Teach children how water affects the body and brain. Don't forget to teach how water can affect mood and thinking as well.


Look for simple diagrams of how water works in the human body. Find cartoons or fun illustrations that have been specifically made for kids. Show these to your kids to help make a stronger visual impact of the effects of water and not having enough water.;
, Tell them to do the following:


Check for dry mucous membranes (nose and mouth).
Check their urine. This should be clear in colour and not dark yellow.
Are they constipated? That could be a sign of lack of water intake as well.
 When the kids are home in the morning or evening, encourage them to drink a glass of water every hour (up to a total of 7-8 cups a day) . Join them, so they can watch you participating in this regularly too. Each person has a preference. Some like water warm, tap or cold and filtered. Find the one your kids likes and make sure they have access to it. It is always a good idea to have cups with the kids' names on them, so that they are not getting a new glass every time. Who wants to wash that many dishes all day? They sure won't!

,


When the kids are home in the morning or evening, encourage them to drink a glass of water every hour. Join them, so they can watch you participating in this regularly too.
Each person has a preference. Some like water warm, tap or cold and filtered. Find the one your kids likes and make sure they have access to it.
It is always a good idea to have cups with the kids' names on them, so that they are not getting a new glass every time. Who wants to wash that many dishes all day? They sure won't!

, This is completely within your control. If you do buy juices, dilute with water; this will have minimal change to flavour, especially the more that it is done.
 Some schools only allow children to bring water. Kids may not drink the water because they consider that it is boring and tastes bad. To get around this, put fruit slices in a pitcher, such as apples, pears, oranges or lemons, then add water and allow it to "marinate" overnight. In the morning, add it to their water bottles.


The fruit/vegetable flavor in the water gives the kids the impression that they are not just drinking plain water.
Some great combinations to try include apple and cinnamon, blueberries, mint and cucumber and lemon. Try it you will be surprised how they react. Maybe they can come up with a combination they like too, in which case, it's their own "buy-in" and they'll keep on making it.
 Examples of suitable high-water content foods include: watermelon, tomatoes, celery, lettuce, and so forth. (Check online for more ideas.) Through such high water content foods, kids obtain a little more hydration via their diet.
 Have them choose the bottles so that they like the designs. Encourage them to fill the bottles each morning to take to school and to refill once at school.
 Becoming obsessed about drinking too much water, can in turn cause problems as well. There is always a balance which needs to be stressed.