 When you act as your own mentor, your main job is to help yourself make improvements. In order to do that effectively, you should take some time to think about what is most important to you. Are you trying to advance your career? Or build more solid personal relationships? List your priorities. You can start by simply writing down all of the important things in your life.
Once you have a list, you can go through and rank them in order of importance. Did you put "Finish my MBA" at the top of your list? Then consider that your number one priority.
 After you have figured out your priorities, it is time to create goals. You want your goals to be realistic and attainable. Don't set yourself up for failure.List some goals that you can achieve in a reasonably short amount of time. For example, you can say, "Within one month I would like to have applied for 6 new jobs."
You can also set some personal short term goals. For example, you can write, "I am going to make it home in time for dinner with my family four days a week."

, It is also a good idea to create some goals that will take longer to accomplish. When listing your long-term goals, remember to keep your priorities in mind. Also remember to list things that are reasonable and attainable.A long-term goal could be, "I will be promoted to Senior Analyst within the next year."
An example of a personal long-term goal might be, "I will travel to visit my extended family for a week each summer."

, In addition to listing goals, you should consider writing a personal mission statement. This is a document that outlines your values, goals, and skills. It can serve as the framework for future goal setting.To start, list your core values. These might be something like: family, career, education, spiritual health, etc.
Identify what you want to accomplish. For example, you might write, "I wish to make the world a better place by being a great dad and an excellent attorney.
Then include the ways that you will make those things happen. For example, "I will spend time with my son every day and offer him encouragement."

, When you are creating your goal-related documents, don't forget to include some physical goals. Your physical health is important. The mind-body connection means that the health of your body will impact your moods. If you don't feel well, it can be hard to make positive life changes.Get plenty of rest. Most adults need about 7-9 hours of sleep per night.
Eat a healthy diet. Choose meals with a combination of fresh fruits and veggies, whole grains, and lean proteins.
Exercise. Try to get at least 30 minutes of physical activity most days of the week. Try a yoga class or an outdoor hike to add some variety to your workouts.

