 Measure the clay you need to soak and make sure it will fit in the basin before beginning. The entirety of the clay needs to be submerged, so make sure you use a container large enough for your clay.If you do not have a basin large enough, you can cut your clay into smaller pieces and do this gradually.
 Place your ceramic clay inside of the water, making sure it is completely submerged. Some pieces may break apart and float to the surface or some debris may come loose. Both are okay, and will not affect the soaking process.








Do not stir the clay as it soaks. Stirring will interfere with the soaking process and will not allow the porous nature of your clay to properly take in water.
 Placing a towel or other cover on top of your container to keep out curious pets or pesky dust particles, give the clay 2-3 days to thoroughly soak up all of the water. At the end of the three days, the clay should look like a handful of mush.









If your clay does not seem to be affected after 3 days, allow it to soak for an additional day, until it begins to loosen up.
 At the end of the three days (or when the clay is moist), begin to remove the water. Because the clay will be extremely mushy in texture, you will not be able to turn the basin upside-down to drain the water. Instead, you can remove water using a ladle or siphon water out using a tool such as a turkey baster.









The tools you use may be at risk for coming into contact with clay. If you are not comfortable with the possibility of ruining the ladle or baster, purchase an additional set for this purpose.
 Remove the clay from the basin using your hands and place it atop a concrete slab, plaster slab, canvas, or denim surface, making sure your surface is clean first. Spread the mixture 2-3 inches (5-8 cm) thick to dry, smoothing your hands over the top of the clay to prevent uneven drying.








To help your clay dry out faster, you can place a fan beside it as it dries.
 Once your clay has dried, seal it in proper storage containers, making sure air cannot reach the clay and dry it out a second time.








You can simply place your clay in a sealed container once it has hardened or you can roll it into coils and place your coils into plastic wrap or sealed plastic bags.
The length of time you expect to store your clay will play a role in how you store it. If you plan to store it for an extended period of time, tight plastic storage is the preferred method.

