 A child can learn a lot just by watching you zip your jacket or clothes. When it is time to go outside, put a zip-up hoodie or jacket on yourself and your child so you can do the zipper together. Start with your child holding onto the zipper pull between their thumb and index finger. Help them insert the tongue into the pull and push it all the way down. Still holding the tongue, move the pull up with the other hand.


Show your child how you do this on your own jacket, and talk them through each step. Repeating this process each time you zip a zipper will model the behavior and internalize the instructions to your child.
 Hold your hands on top of theirs and go through the movements together, all while talking about each step out loud. Give them lots of help at the beginning, and then give them less help after they begin to get the hang out it.


To help a child’s small fingers grasp the zipper pull, add a key ring or a small toy to the end of the pull to give them something larger to grab.
 When it’s time for your child to attempt zipping a zipper on their own, make things as easy as possible for them. Smooth the front of their jacket and remove any lumps or bumps to help the zipper move more easily. Help them line up the slider and connect the slider and the zipper tongue.


Once the pieces are connected, it should be fairly easy for your child to pull the tab to the top of the zipper.
 Encourage your child to keep practicing on the zipper and give them lots of opportunities to zip clothes that they are wearing and clothes that are laying flat in front of them.
 Point out the progress your child is making. They may want to give up, but encourage them to keep practicing by praising their performance.
 Even after they learn how to use a zipper, many children find it easier to leave their jacket unzipped or that it is more fun to unzip a zipper than to zip it up. If this is the case, or if your child needs a little extra motivation to master the skills, consider giving them a reward.


The reward will be different for each child, but for some it could be a sticker or a piece of candy each time they zip their clothes themselves and keep their jacket zipped, or it could be working towards a larger prize if they keep their jacket zipped for a certain number of days in a row. Rewards can solidify the zipping skills you’ve taught and give children motivation to continue to zip their clothing.

