 Hold one end of the ace bandage against the ball of the foot, with the tail of the bandage extending past the outside of the foot, rather than the inside. Keep the tail rolled so that you can unroll it as you go, rather than dealing with an unwieldy long piece as you're trying to wrap.


For extra support, you can place a gauze pad on either side of the ankle before wrapping.
Horseshoe-shaped padding cut from foam or felt is also used for extra stability in compression wraps.;
, Use one hand to hold the end of the bandage against the ball of the foot. Bring the bandage over the foot, from outside to inside, then under the foot for a second wrap. Wrap the foot a total of three times, overlapping each wrap by half.


Use the same tension for each loop of the wrap. It should be firm, but not too tight.
Each loop of the wrap should be lined up evenly, rather than going in different directions. Start over if you need to do the job more neatly.
 After the third wrap, bring the bandage over the top of the foot, around the inside of the ankle, behind the ankle to the other side, and back over the instep and under the foot. The bandage should be woven over the foot and ankle in a figure 8, with the heel exposed.
 Make two more figure 8s, each time overlapping the bandage by half. When you're finished, the bandage should cover the entire foot and extend up past the ankle.


Smaller feet and legs may not require three full figure 8s with a full-sized ace bandage. Use your judgement to decide whether the wrap looks stable after 2 figure 8s.
Ask the person how the wrap feels after you're finished winding the bandage. If he or she complains that it's too tight, start over.
 Stretch the last segment of the bandage a bit and use the small metal prongs or velcro adhesive to secure the end of the bandage in place. Make sure the wrapping job is free of unnecessary lumps or bulges; it should be comfortable and neat.


Remove the bandage if the toes on the foot turn white or feel numb or tingly.
The bandage may be worn for a number of hours and during physical activities, or as recommended by the doctor. It should be removed twice a day to allow the blood in the foot to circulate freely.

