 If your child feels comfortable talking to you about problems at school, you are more likely to be able to intervene in a bullying situation and stop it before it gets worse. Usually, when bullying goes unchecked, the victim loses confidence about their ability to handle it.Make it normal in your household to discuss what’s happening at school. Ask your child about friends and classmates. Listen without distraction to catch cues that something may be amiss. Provide comfort and guidance and tough situations and make sure your child knows they can count on you if necessary.
 Recognize that how you communicate with and treat other adults and adolescents is being observed by your children. If you are not modeling appropriate behaviors at home, such as respecting other’s boundaries, listening, sharing, and avoiding sarcasm or mean comments, it’s highly possible that your children will take what they learn to the school environment. Remember that if your children see you model inappropriate relationship behaviors, they assumes that this behavior is OK., Your child's ability to effectively cope with mean girls at school relies on how they have seen conflict handled at home.Plus, their ability to have confidence and stand up for themselves comes with getting practice navigating difficult relational situations.


Not only do you want to model appropriate ways of handling conflict, but you also want to present your children with chances to develop conflict resolution skills. By doing this, you are empowering your children to handle difficult situations that may arise at school.
For example, you might find teachable moments when watching a movie together if a child in the movie is being bullied. You can quiz your children about appropriate ways to handle similar situations and see what they say. Based on their answers, you can use this opportunity to talk to them about bullying and how to protect themselves or stand up for a friend when bullying happens.
 Perhaps this child just moved to the area and is a new student at the school. Or, maybe this student is different in some way, such as race, culture, language, sexual orientation or disability.


If you can help your child learn to develop empathy for all people—even those who are different—they may be less likely to engage in bullying behaviors. What’s more, having empathy may also help a child who is the victim of bullying not internalize the behavior as being about them. An empathetic child may come to understand that a girl who constantly picks on others may be being picked on at home, have a dire need for attention, or hasn’t had the opportunity to participate in healthy friendships.
Teach empathy by first attending to basic emotional needs of your child. If those basic needs are met, then your child is more likely to show compassion and help others in need. Another way to teach empathy is to discuss bullying situations with your child and consider how the victim must feel. Saying things like “That must have been very humiliating for her” allows your child to identify how someone else may react to a situation emotionally.
Finally, you can teach empathy by giving your child opportunities to work alongside and help those who are less fortunate. It may be helpful to participate in a volunteer project in which your child becomes more aware of the circumstances of other people.

