


Most computer speakers have a 3.5mm (1/8") audio output connector, which is the small plug that will fit into a typical headphone jack. These speakers will also need to be plugged into a power source.
USB speakers are powered by your computer so they won’t need to be plugged into the wall. If you have available USB ports, these might be more convenient.;
, Most speakers are clearly marked as Left (L) or Right (R) on the back or bottom of the unit. If your speakers come with a subwoofer, you may want to put it behind your system or on the floor. Make sure that wherever you choose to place your speakers, the connector cable will reach its corresponding input on your computer, and the power cable (if you have one) can safely reach an outlet.
 This is done by turning the volume dial on the speakers (there’s only one) all the way to the left.
 Windows users will probably see two different sliders—use the one that says “Applications” above the slider.
 With your laptop turned on, plug the audio connector cable (the USB or 3.5mm (1/8") connector) into its corresponding port on the laptop.


If you’re using a 3.5mm (1/8") connector, look on the sides of your laptop for a small jack that has a drawing of headphones or a speaker. Don’t plug it into the jack with the drawing of a microphone.
If you’re using USB, plugging in your speakers may trigger the system to start installing drivers. If you are asked to insert a disk, insert the one that came with your speakers and follow any instructions that came in the packaging.
 The On button is usually located on the back of one of the speakers. If your speakers have a power cable, plug that in before turning the speakers on.
 Start some audio (streaming music, a CD, a YouTube video, etc.) on your laptop.


Find a comfortable listening volume. Slowly turn the volume knob on your computer speakers to the right until you reach your desired volume.
If you don’t hear anything, make sure the speakers are connected and plugged in if necessary.
If you’re using Windows and can hear sound but it’s coming through your laptop speakers, you may need to manually change your audio settings. Press ⊞ Win+S and type control. When “Control Panel” appears, select it, then click “Sound.” Under “Playback,” you should see two devices listed—your laptop audio card and your new speakers. Double-click the new speakers to change your default sound device. Click “OK” to hear audio through your new speakers.

