 This means that it isn't wise in general to use it in an open map, for instance "Hemorrhage" doesn't give too much cover to recharge.;
, It is the most predictable thing to do when enemies know you have AC. When you camp you might get a few kills before you get flushed out by, grenades, a crowd, or power weapons.
 Almost everybody thinks that AC is for campers. To be nearly invisible you need to move slow, so you need to move a lot if you want a safe recharge and be untraceable.
 The radar jammer AC generates a lot of blips on the radar, but they don't move gradually like you want to do with AC and by crouching you avoid getting on their radar. Even when you don't use AC at the moment keep crouching, because you never know who's around the corner or camping.
 Don't use it when nobody is in radar range because it will drain precious energy to use. Only use it when an enemy pops up on the radar so you have optimized use of AC in combat.
 It may confuse the enemy. When you activate AC, keep track of which blip is the real enemy to keep in mind. This may be difficult with two or more enemies, so you may want to practice.
 And I'm not talking about constant changing routes, but in combat. The radar jammer gives away that someone is near and most players think that users of AC hug walls and hide in corners. Stay in the open, that is what they won't see it coming.
 Be successful in eliminating enemies with AC. After a while in a match with AC in game, most players will eventually vow to kill you with AC. Don't let that happen, because you want to make sure that there is only one king in the arena.
 When you see a jammer entering the radar, activate yours instantly. This will confuse them a lot.
 When you use AC many times, you might already know the boundaries of the jammer. But if you don't, try to imagine a rough circle where the blips never go out, then locate the center of the circle because that's where your enemy is located.
 Use a perfect mixture of hugging walls, standing in the open and standing still to you liking.
,, Only attack when you're sure that you can make the kill, otherwise just walk past and look for an other opening. This will save you some lost battles on you K/D.
 Loud weapons will always give your position away.
