 By calling, you’ll be able speak to a representative about canceling your subscription. Calling is the only way to cancel traditional service. In addition, when calling you may be able to get information about your account that is not available on the internet.

Call customer service at 1-800-531-5000.
You’ll likely have to hold 5 to 10 minutes, depending on when you call.
Consider calling during low call volume time, such as between 10am to 2pm on week days.
Follow the prompts of the automated system. They’ll direct you to representatives who specialize in helping customers who want to start, upgrade, downgrade, or cancel service., After waiting, you’ll be connected to a DIRECTV customer service representative. The representative will likely specialize in customer retention and will ask you questions and try to stop you from cutting off your service.

Be polite.
Tell the representative that you want to cancel your DIRECTV. For instance, say “I’ve decided that I no longer need DIRECTV service.
The customer service rep will ask you why you’re canceling. Be honest with them. If it’s because you’re switching to wired cable, tell them.
They may offer you alternative packages., Once you’ve made it clear that you do indeed want to cancel, you need to ask the representative about any specifics related to your cancelation of service. These specifics will help you settle questions associated with no longer having service and settling your account.


Find out when your cancelation will be effective in terms of service. For example, will you lose service on the same day? In addition, find out when you will no longer be billed for service.
Inquire about the details of cancelation fees. This fee ranges from $15 to $250, depending on the amount of time left on your contract.
Inquire about the specific pieces of equipment you’ll have to return.
Ask if the representative can give you a preliminary account statement balance. This will address whether you owe money or if you have a credit on your account.