 While you are going through this difficult time and in the future it is important to have someone you can talk to. Try talking to a trusted friend, family member, or mentor. If you are struggling speak to a professional counselor or therapist. Sharing what you are going through with a professional or with a loved one can help you release sadness, and keep it at bay. You will also then have a someone who understands your struggle and can help you if you need it in the future.Talking to someone can help you deal with avoidance or procrastination which can be common when dealing with sadness.A professional can help you address any thoughts or feelings you have about the event or your emotions.Discussing with someone allows you to see a different perspective on the issue and receive alternate suggestions on what might help.
 It is not uncommon to become out of touch with your emotions to the point that sudden strong emotions, like sadness, surprise you.An important aspect of coping with a sad time and keeping sadness at bay is to know yourself and know your emotions. One way to access or explore this is to write. Write whatever you feel motivated to write. Write letters, poetry, songs, or journal. Try the following.


If your sad time involves a person, write a letter to them but don't send it.
Try putting your sadness into words with a writing prompt such as “I feel sad when...” or "If my sadness were a person, it would look like..." Write about what sadness means to you and what it means in different contexts.Channel your emotions into creative projects like poetry or stories., Being social can be difficult when you struggle with sadness. You may have a lack of energy and an anxiety or fear about being around or close to others.Get into the habit of being social as much as you can to help you cope with your sadness now and in the future. Being social may include going out with friends, or spending time with those in your support network. Just make sure you are spending time connecting to others.


If being social with friends feels like too much at times, pick one friend to do something with or consider finding a social support group.
Agree to a time limit of making sure you are social for at least 30 minutes a day during the week and an hour on the weekends.