


From Britain, you can take the ferry from Harwich to Hoek van Holland. Next, you get on the train to Rotterdam CS (Central), where you catch the train to Dordrecht CS.
If you travel from Brussels or Amsterdam airport it's easier, since the intercity that connects these cities stops at Dordrecht CS.;
, Dordrecht offers a wide variety of those, ranging from bed and breakfasts to hotels, scattered all over the town. In the Biesbosch you can find a couple of camping sites as well as a youth hostel (StayOkay).
 The city centre grants little access to cars, so renting a bike is probably your best bet.
 Call the church you want to visit for the opening hours) and almshouses. These last ones are only viewable from the outside. The inhabitants are under no obligation to show you the inside. So please respect their privacy.
Waterrondje Dordt. A guided tour on a so called "fluisterboot" (whisperboat) through the canals, lets you see the city from an entirely different perspective.
Kunstrondje Dordt. Every first Sunday of the month galleries, antiquarians and studios open their doors to the public.
, Whether you want to sample typical Dutch cuisine, enjoy Mediterranean or Oriental cooking, or go for a burger and fries, it's all there! In the town center, most restaurants are located around the Scheffersplein., For example:


the famous hazelnutpastry

the apple pastry
the beer

the jenever
or a frikandel. Although now available in all of the Netherlands, the frikandel was originally invented in Dordrecht , The city borders on National Park de Biesbosch. The park can be reached by Waterbus, bicycle, bus or car. You can explore the park by bike, boat or on foot. Boats are for rent at the Biesbosch visitors centre.


If you choose to stay in the city, nature is also close at hand. Dordrecht has three beautiful parks: Weizigtpark, Wantijpark and Park Dubbelsteijn. At Weizigtpark you´ll find the Natuur en Milieu Centrum (Nature and Environment Centre) which includes a city farm. This last one is especially fun for young children as they can get as close to the animals as they want.
 The kick-off for the festival season is mid June, with Wantijfestival, a festival with music for every taste and activities for all age groups. All through the summer various festivals take place, as well as a series of free concerts every Monday night at the Wantijpark. These concerts feature artists from the Netherlands and Belgium (Flanders).
 The Waterbus stops there, and it´s no problem to take your bike with you.Important: the people of Kinderdijk keep the sabbath, so the mills don't work on Sundays.