 They don’t have to be your best bud, but it’s worth getting to know them and cultivating a mutual respect. Especially early on, it’s nice to have a go-to companion around. Since your roommate is one of the first people you meet, they’re the most obvious person to help see you through orientation and the early weeks of college. That being the case, it’s a good idea to start getting to know your roommate before you even move in together.Your university should provide you with your roomie’s contact information if you don’t already know them. Don’t hesitate to reach out via email or find them on social media and start up a conversation. Open with a greeting like, “Hello, I’m your new roommate! I wanted to introduce myself, and find out about about you.”
Keep your message fairly brief at first, so you don’t overwhelm them with information, but do share where you’re from, along with some of your hobbies and interests. Don’t forget to close by asking about them: “What are your favorite things to do your free time?”
Exchanging messages with your roommate early on can also be a great help logistically; you can plan your move-in strategy together.
Depending on your school, you roommate may be of the opposite gender., Even if it seems like you don’t have much in common at first, you both need to eat, so why not help each other navigate the cafeteria? If you have a similar schedule, you may even want to meet up to eat a particular meal together on a regular basis. It’s always nice to have steady company, and it’ll help you bond with your roommate outside your room.
 Each of you will have your own furnishings and taste, but it can be nice to pick out a few things for your room together. It will make your dorm room feel like it belongs to both of you.Try attending a campus art fair to choose a statement piece or two for your walls. Or, go to a home goods store to purchase a rug for the floor between your beds or a string of lights to brighten up your ceiling.
 Check out your new environs together. Take a tour of campus or a bus into town. Track down your nearest sushi restaurant, or go to a local museum. It’s a great chance to learn more about your campus, community, and each other.


If there’s something you want to do anyway, it makes it easier to ask. For instance, you could say: “Hey, I’m going to the concert in the student union building--do you want to join me?” or, “I’ve been meaning to check out this park; would you like to go sometime?”

, Figure out a show or a video game that you both enjoy. It’s nice to have a “thing” with your roomie that ensures you’ll spend time together and always have something to talk about.It’s nice if you already have a guilty pleasure or must-see prime-time program in common. But, if you don’t, it’s also fun to try something that’s new to both of you. You might open the conversation by saying, "The new Netflix series is about to launch. Should we give it a try?"

, If you’re both comfortable having people around, go ahead and invite your classmates and neighbors over. If both you and roommate invite people, it’ll expand your friend group. Plus, organizing the party offers an opportunity to bond.


Discuss if you want it to be just a casual get-together or if you’d like the gathering to center around a particular activity (such as watching movie or playing a game). You could also make it a themed party, like a disco or pirate party, or an event to celebrate a particular holiday, like Halloween or Mardi Gras.
Set the guest list together, keeping in mind that your room has a limited capacity.
Decide how you’re going to go about inviting people. Do you want it to be word-of-mouth, or do you want to make a paper or online invite? If you go with the latter, designing the invitation can be a blast in itself. Make the announcement short and fun. Try embellishing it with a graphic or picture that you both find entertaining.
Collaborate on day-of preparations that set the tone. Work together to select the soundtrack, pick decorations, and choose refreshments to have on offer.

