 If you’ve been honest with yourself to this point, then you can probably determine the degree to which you are obsessed. It is beneficial to know in which category you would place yourself. The more aware you are of your own behaviors, the more likely it is that you are ready to make a change in your thoughts and interpretations. Research studies have identified three independent dimensions of celebrity worship. Of these three, where would you place yourself?:
A. Entertainment-social: relates to attitudes where individuals are attracted to a celebrity because of their perceived ability to entertain and to become a social focus of conversation with like-minded others.
B. Intense-personal: relates to individuals that have intensive and compulsive feelings about a celebrity.
C. Borderline pathological: relates to individuals who display uncontrollable behaviors and fantasies relating to a celebrity., Psychologists and psychiatrists are available in your local area and can be located through the American Psychological Associationand the American Psychiatric Association., This contract will allow you to spell out your goals and time frames. Signing the document symbolizes your commitment to making a change and releasing yourself from your celebrity obsession., Life becomes unbalanced at times. If you are getting too much of one thing, then it is likely you are limiting yourself to possibilities. If you spend the majority of your day, week, or month obsessing over a celebrity, you are missing a lot of potentially worthwhile experiences.


In the days of worldwide education available 24/7, you could explore a new subject every day of the year and never run out of material, and never run out of things to do or people to meet.
Identify three activities you would like to learn more about or participate in. You won’t know if you like something unless you try. These will provide healthy distractions and will help you build new and meaningful relationships with others.
Inform family members and friends that you are trying to find new things to do to learn more about the world. If you are comfortable with telling them about trying to stop your obsession, then do. People may give you suggestions that you haven’t thought of.

