 If you have fillings that need replacement, you’ll likely feel it first. Paying attention to the physical symptoms of old or decaying fillings can let you know if it’s time to have your dentist replace them. One sign that your fillings may need replacing is if you have tooth sensitivity to temperature, sweets, or pressure.Pay attention when you bite into any cold, hot, or sweet foods. You may feel momentary sensitivity or pain after they contact your tooth, which could be a sign of a filling needing replaced.Be aware that your tooth may also be sensitive to touch either by your finger, toothbrush, or other dental tool.;
, In some cases, you may feel pressure when biting down on food.This sensation may last for a few seconds or longer. This can signal a damaged filling or damage to your dental pulp.Chew slowly if you detect any pressure when biting down on food. This may help you more easily identify which filling is potentially problematic.
 In addition to pressure you may feel in a tooth, there may also be a sharp and throbbing pain.It may come when you are eating or drinking or even when you’re not doing anything. Like pressure, the pain may go away quickly or linger for a few minutes. Noticing if you have any sharp or throbbing pain in a specific tooth or teeth can help you figure out if a filling needs replaced, especially if it happens with other symptoms.Winter and cold air can also make your tooth more sensitive than usual indicating the need for a new filling.
 Some people who have fillings that need replacing may experience a toothache.The pain may come and go or be constant. Toothaches are often caused by inflammation in the dental pulp, which can happen as a result of a filling needing replacement. If your toothache lasts longer than two days, see your dentist to prevent a complication with your dental health.If the pain lasts for too long, pulp can develop an irreversible pulpitis, which eventually leads to a necrosis where no pus is involved or an abscess.

