 Most store bought varieties of sausage are loaded with excess fat, nitrates, bread derivatives and other filler ingredients. When making sausage yourself, shop around for organic meats free of hormones or preservatives. Anything else you choose to include, such as fruits, veggies and grains, should also be checked for quality. This way, you’ll know exactly what you’re putting in your body.Look for a seal or label on the packaging that signifies that the meat you’re buying is certified organic.
Processed meats are responsible for a wide range of health problems, including heart disease and even cancer.;
, Pork and other red meats tend to be high in saturated fat. For your sausage, you might instead opt for chicken, lamb, venison or another low-calorie alternative. You’ll cut down drastically on the calorie count when it’s all said and done, and chances are you won’t even be able to detect a difference in flavor.Vegans and vegetarians can experiment with making homemade sausage using plant-based food items like tofu, tempeh, or quinoa., Don’t stop at just meat—feel free to bulk up your sausage with things like carrots, apples, celery, or even dried dates or figs. Mince the fruits and veggies up extra small so they won’t interfere with the texture or structural integrity of the sausage. These types of extras can make your sausage less one-dimensional by creating more depth to the flavor.Fresh and dried fruits will fill the role that processed sugar usually plays in packaged sausage.Incorporating fruits and vegetables is a good way to fortify your breakfast with additional vitamins, nutrients and dietary fiber.
 One of the biggest drawbacks of processed sausage is the excessive salt and carbohydrates used to enhance flavor and make it more filling. The fats in meat already contain a fair amount of sodium naturally, so go easy on the salt and let them speak for themselves. Cheeses are best avoided or used in moderation for the same reason.Use only a pinch of kosher or raw sea salt, then supplement with dried herbs that will play up the savory notes without contributing to the sodium level.Eating lots of fat and salt leads to bloating, which can make you feel sluggish. An all-natural sausage will provide you with beneficial protein and clean energy.

