 Unroll and cut 5 to 6 feet (1.5 to 1.8 m) of deco mesh. This portion will be used for the tail; set it aside while you work on the body of the bow.Deco mesh naturally begins to curl when cut, so you'll need to straighten it. Hold the middle of the piece, then use your hands to straighten the length on either side of the center.
Even after you release the tail, the center bend should still loosely remain in place. Do not straighten this bend.
 Unroll more deco mesh, then pinch the center of the outer edge inward toward the roll, creating a gather.You do not need to cut the deco mesh yet, but you should unroll another 6 feet (1.8 m) or so to work with during this step.
Gather the center using your entire hand rather than your fingers. Place the edge of the deco mesh in your palm, then use all four fingers to grab as much of mesh as possible and draw it back into your palm, bringing it to meet the edge.
 Without releasing your first gather, continue making consecutive gathers down the length of the deco mesh using the same pinching process.

Hold all of the formed gathers in the same hand, and make sure that each gather remains in the middle of the width.
As you gather the deco mesh, the bow shape should gradually form. Continue gathering as much deco mesh as needed to create the level of fullness you prefer. You can usually create a large, fluffy bow with 6 to 7 feet (1.8 to 2.1 m).
 After forming the body of the bow, cut the deco mesh just beneath the final gather, separating the bow from the rest of the roll.

To prevent the gathers from losing their shape, continue holding them with the same hand and use your other hand to cut the mesh.
 Take the tailpiece and wrap its middle around the center of the bow body. Tie the tail into a simple knot at the back of the bow.

Work carefully, wrapping the center of the bow directly where you've been holding it.
A simple knot should be enough to hold the gathers in place, but pull it tightly to make sure that everything remains secure.
Straighten out the wrapped center and the tails as needed after securing the tail to the body.
 Cut 6 inches (15 cm) of craft wire, then insert it beneath the knot at the back center of the bow.

Center the wire beneath this knot, then twist its ends together above the knot once or twice to hold it in place.
 The deco mesh bow is finished and ready to use. You can attach it to the wreath by twisting the craft wire ends directly onto the wreath frame.