 Your crush might linger if you daydream about what could be, but holding onto your fantasies will only lead to more pain. Accept the reality of the situation and your feelings of attraction equally. Gradually avoid thinking about what your relationship would be like if it could only work out.Don't dwell on the past or worry about the future. Instead, ground yourself in the present.Instead of building up a fantasy life, work on improving what you have. Set goals in your work or hobbies, spend time with loved ones, and work on self-improvement to love the life you have.
 Your friendship with this person can still be meaningful, even if you can't pursue a romantic relationship with them. Think about all the good times you've had with this person and the positive qualities they have. Have gratitude that this person is in your life and that you've had the opportunity to know them.You don't have to give up your friendship with your best friend: that relationship can still be important. But spending time with just this person can cause you to dwell endlessly on your feelings., You might need some time away from this person to work through your feelings. Tell your friend that you need space for a while: if you're comfortable, you can tell them about your feelings. If you're not ready to tell them, however, just let them know you're going through a painful experience and need time alone.Sometimes, rebuilding the friendship can take weeks or months. You may not feel completely "over" your crush until you've found someone knew. Take as much time as you need to process your emotions.
Your friend may feel confused or hurt if you're suddenly avoiding them. Let them know that this isn't their fault and that you still care about them. When you're ready to resume the friendship, you can do so without miscommunication., If you want to fall out of love with your crush, set boundaries for yourself and your friend to avoid sparking old flames. You might avoid extended physical contact with your friend, stop flirting with them, or steer away from intimate conversations for a while. Share the boundaries with your friend (if you're comfortable) so they know to avoid those situations.