,


Look for "Eclipse IDE for Java Developers" and on its right hand side, there are two versions of Eclipse available (32 bit and 64 bit).
If you have 32 bit version of Java, choose 32 bit version of Eclipse and if your using 64-bit Java, choose 64 bit version of Eclipse IDE
If not sure about the configuration of your operating system, choose the 32 bit version of Eclipse IDE as it works on both 32 bit operating system and 64 bit operating system
Note: - It is important to choose the same version of Eclipse and Java because if you mix 32/64 bit Java/Eclipse then Eclipse might not work.

The download of eclipse-java-indigo-SR1-win32.zip will begin.
Note: - Save the file to a convenient location like C:/ drive or Desktop.
When the download finishes, proceed to the step 4.
 Find the eclipse-java-indigo-SR1-win32.zip from where you saved it.
2. Double click on it.
3. The file will open with the default extraction wizard(i.e Winzip or Winrar)
4. Once the extraction/Unzipping is complete, you will be able to see a folder named "eclipse".
 Right click on the extracted eclipse folder and select Cut.
2. Go to Computer ---> Local Disk C/: drive.
3. Right click and paste the extracted eclipse folder.
Note:- If Windows displays a dialog box asking for permission, click "Allow".
 Double Click on the eclipse folder.
2.In the eclipse folder, look for an application named "eclipse"; it has a round purple icon with white horizontal lines.
3. Double click on it to run eclipse.
,, Using the mouse, you can explore the welcome page by taking cursor to each symbol, and the tool-tip will tell you what it is.
2. For now Select "Workbench" (the arrow going backward), a place where you could develop java projects.



The Workbench contains various windows and icons, which represent distinct views, tools and choices used in Computer Programming.
Above is the labelled diagram of Eclipse Workbench with some main terms for your reference:-

1. Menus: - It contains variety of options like File, Edit, Run etc.
2. Java Perspective Indicator:- It lets us know that Eclipse has window layout suitcase for Java Programming.
3. Toolbar:- It contains icons that are used to create java projects, classes etc. and acts as short-cuts for menu actions.
4. Package explorer view:- It shows Java projects in process and allows us to open and edit source code files.
5. Problems View:- It reports if there are any problems in your source code, when you try to compile and run program.


Tip: - Don't panic if you do not know how to use everything right now. You will get familiarized with it as you practice more.
