,

The PSU should come right out, and the DVD burner might be anchored down with two small screws. Undo those and it should come right out of place.



 



, The picture above is what the heat sinks look like The second heat sink will be a smaller version of the one shown, it will be placed directly on top of the motherboard, so when you open the computer and take our components out will see a tiny heat sink sitting on top o what looks like a giant microchip, just pull it out. .
 After extracting the sled, you will need to remove the laser diode located in the sled.

The sled should be relatively easy to remove, as it is located on the upper face of the burner.
 You should end up with a lense diode that is captured in the picture above.Most DVD burners will have the same set-up, however, if your burner is different, your diode will still look like the one in the picture, if you need further guidance on how to remove the diode please refer to the following youtube video from user "tingawinga5" :https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ndHKivuU7RQ

, Those can be purchased on eBay for around $3-8 each, and can be easily assembled and re-assembled.,

Your positive IN will show a thick circle around the attachment point so will your PD (unused). However, your negative will show a thinner circle around its entry point, and they will be arranged in the same order as this schematic. Solder your wires into the proper points and your end product should look like figure two above.
 Solder the positive output wire to the 3 ohm resistor, then continue by soldering the second end of the resistor to the output tongue of your lm 371 module(3). As for your diode’s negative wire, solder that directly into the ground tongue of your module(2) and create a wire for running to a negative wire. From your input tongue on your module(1), solder the positive running wire.When soldering i suggest the use of a plastic card as a separating all between elements to avoid run off of the liquid metal, if you are new to using a soldering iron i suggest you practice on some spare wires first by following this video from youtube user "cold restart":https:




, After that, clean the whole form (all metal debris), and insert your laser diode assembly into it, making sure the side with the lense sits flush against the edge of the heat sink. After carefully positioning the diode assembly, use thermal glue to permanently affix it into place. Allow ample time for the finished product to dry. (During this time you will start working on the PSU.),

The PSU can be slightly tricky, so we will break down the following instructions into simple steps:
Clip off all of the white plastic wire connectors.
Sort the wires by colors; this will make the job way easier.
Find the black and green wires, clip them, and then tie them together (make sure you cover the exposed area with electric tape)
The yellow wire will be your (+), the red wire your (-).
Solder the wires to your module wires as directed in step eight.
You may want to glue the second heat sink to the module chip, since this chip might get really hot.
, Turn on the power button and enjoy your new laser. #*The laser can run for prolonged periods of time without getting hot since the heat sinks will help dissipate the heat from both the diode and the module.

