 The use of garlic for pets is very controversial, and some researchers warn of its potential to damage red blood cells in dogs. Do your research before trying it, and err on the side of small amounts. Long known for its immune system benefits for humans, garlic may also be a good option for expelling worms while boosting the overall effectiveness of your dog’s immune system. Grated and combined with fennel, garlic can get rid of worms quickly and efficiently. As always, be careful not to overdo it.


Grate 1-2 cloves and let sit at room temperature for 10-15 minutes to allow enzyme changes that create allicin. Mix with and equal amount of fennel and administer at feeding time (generally twice a day).If you have a tiny dog, use a very small clove. Adjust the number and size of cloves to match the size and weight of your dog.
 Food grade DTE is a talcum-looking powder that consists of fossilized marine phytoplankton. Their microscopic, razor-like edges slice and scrape, dehydrating parasites (i.e. worms) and thus killing them.For small dogs, sprinkle 1t on their food once daily. For dogs over 55 pounds, sprinkle 1T on their food once daily. Make sure you mix it well as it is so dusty that inhaling it can cause irritation in your pooch’s respiratory system.
 The root of this plant is used for a variety of health-related applications and has been scientifically proved to be effective against parasitic worms. This is due to the presence of berberine, an anti-microbial alkaloid. You can get this at your local health food store (it may be labeled as an extract).Administer 12 drops per 20 pounds OBW.
Do not use with diabetic animals, those with acute liver disease, or those that are pregnant or nursing.
 While you’re eliminating worms from your furry friend it’s important to keep in mind foods that, while not qualifying as cures, greatly assist in getting rid of the parasites while simultaneously enhancing your dog’s overall health. Feeding them these foods will help heal their insides while promoting a healthy immune system as well.


Carrots, beets, and turnips. ½ T per day of these root vegetables will scrape the mucus lining of the intestines in a healthy, safe way (worms live in the mucus). The vegetables are neither digested nor absorbed and do not change in pH balance. In combination with a de-worming cure, they help flush away the detritus and return your dog’s digestive system to a healthy, happy state.
Apple cider vinegar will help your animal’s digestive track heal and reduce the irritation left by worms. It also improves their coat, boosts their immune system, and helps them absorb the most nutrients from their food. Feed 1t daily.Add a half capsule of cayenne pepper per 50 lbs of body weight to food daily. This can be stepped up to a half capsule per 25 lbs of body weight twice a day for one week for quicker results.

