 You can make Bombay tea with loose leaf chai tea or tea bags.


For a good cup of chai, buy chai from a high quality tea brand.;
, Full fat milk gives the chai a nice creaminess. But you can also use low fat, skim, powdered, or condensed sweetened milk.If you decide to use condensed sweetened milk, dilute it first with several tablespoons of water.
 Traditionally, you use a mortar and pestle to grind up the pods into a fine powder.If you don’t have access to a mortar and pestle, you can use a bowl and a flat headed spoon to grind up the cardamon. But it will be more difficult to grind them up this way.
 Use a fine grater to grate the ginger.


Grating the ginger will create a stronger ginger flavor to the tea.
You can also mince the ginger or cut it into thin strips. This will create a lighter ginger flavor to the tea.
 Now, some chai makers put the water in the saucepan first and let the tea steep in the water. Other chai makers put the milk in first and let the tea steep in the milk.


For the sake of this example, we are going to start with the water first. If you would like a richer, creamier chai, try starting with the milk first., Then, add in the tea bags or the loose tea. For two cups of chai, use 2 tea bags or 2 teaspoons of loose tea., Then, turn the heat up to boiling.Let the ingredients boil for 3-4 minutes on high heat.
 Once the tea has boiled for 3-4 minutes and has turned a nice brown color, add the milk.
 Stir the tea to combine the milk with the tea.


If you like your chai tea very strong, you can place the saucepan back on the heat and brew it for a few more minutes., Place the strainer on the top of the cup. Hold the handle of the saucepan (and likely an oven mitt as the handle will be hot) and pour the tea into the strainer.Fill the two cups and enjoy your Bombay chai tea with a bun maska' (traditional Indian bread and butter)or your favorite cookie.
 In addition to the ingredients used in a traditional Bombay tea, a masala chai also contains:A small dash of cinnamon
3 cloves
A teaspoon of SOANP, which are small seeds that look like cumin seeds that can be found at an Indian grocery store.
Masala translates to "spicy", so masala is known as a chai tea with more spice and flavor than a traditional cup of Bombay tea.
 Then, add in all the ingredients to the water, including the cinnamon, the three cloves and the teaspoon of SOANP.


Do not add milk to the masala at this point, just the other ingredients.
 Stir the masala to combine the ingredients as it boils.


Warm the milk in a separate pot as the masala boils.
 Then, add the milk and sugar. Adjust the sweetness of the masala according to your preference.

