 The main thing about Bam's personality is that he never seems to be unhappy or depressed. He is completely the opposite, being happy, hyper and VERY energetic! A way to do this is to do all the things you enjoy doing, whether it being skateboarding, reading, game playing etc anything and everything you enjoy doing, do it! Your mood will increase making you feel better about yourself and happier. Also it's a good idea to find a sport you enjoy doing as it will make your mood better and at the same time it will improve your physical health, hence making you more energetic.;
, Bam's reason for his behaviour is simple: in the introduction to Viva La Bam the narrator says "Bam Margera: What will he do next?" and Bam simply replies "Whatever the f*** I want!". Making sure that you don't get yourself into trouble, just do whatever you feel like! Break rules, do the opposite of what people say or ask. Even do something completely random or bizarre, like crushing a chocolate bar in your hands and throwing the remaining on the floor. If you feel like doing something either with or without a reason, then just do it! Be yourself and be proud of it!

, Bam's fashion is one of his trademarks: he wears either a black top hat or visor, wears a lot of HIM-influenced gothic clothing, and has his own brand of Adio skate shoes. Go through your wardrobe and be creative! Try on everything, experiment, and eventually come up with a style that suits you and that you feel comfortable with. And remember, it's your choice what you wear so if someone doesn't like it and complains about it, just laugh in their face and say you don't give a crap, cause YOU like it!

, Bam loves himself and his life, but he doesn't go on about how perfect he thinks everything about him is. Learn to accept and appreciate what you have and love it. And if there's anything you don't like, either find ways to improve it or just leave it. Be positive and smile!

, There are some points in life where you do need to think before you act, but most of the time, don't! Bam just goes along with it and laughs with it. He doesn't think about it. And that creates humour and confidence. Just do whatever you want and don't think about anything! Laugh the through the pain and enjoy your time!

, go crazy!

,