 Write down a list of your online accounts. Include all of the websites you use on a weekly or monthly basis that require a login name and a password. Use a notebook or your computer.You do not need to write down every single website you have ever visited.Keep track of the important ones you use most often and the ones that contain important information.
If you keep this list on your computer, make sure people can easily access the list if they need to. In most cases, you should periodically print out a copy and keep it in a safe place.;
, Separated from your account inventory, write down all of your login names (a.k.a., usernames) and passwords.These should be separate so you do not have all of your important information in one place.


To be extra secure, keep one list with usernames, a separate list with passwords, and a third list with the website information. This ensures that if anyone gets gets one of the lists, it will be useless without getting access to the other two.
 Once you have your lists created and inventoried, take the information somewhere secure. If you have a safe deposit box, keep your updated information there. If you have an attorney, you may be able to leave your lists with them.
 Before planning for death and drafting a will, contact an attorney to discuss your options. You should hire a trusts and estates lawyer who has handled digital estate questions. Start your search by asking friends and family for recommendations. Most everyone has either thought about getting a will or has already done so, so those close to you should be able to help. If that doesn't work, use your state bar's lawyer referral services. For example, in California, an individual will ask you questions and determine your needs. That person will then refer you to a qualified attorney in your area.Before you hire an attorney, be sure you ask them questions about handling digital property. In addition, be sure you know about the lawyer's fee structure.
 Each online account you have is likely governed by a different policy.In order to use their services, you must agree to their terms-of-service. These agreements dictate how online accounts will be handled at death. For example, some online services will deactivate your account, others will turn your page into a memorial, and others allow you to choose., In addition to every company's terms-of-service, some states have laws dictating how digital property will be handled at death. Virginia, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Indiana, Oklahoma, Idaho, and Nevada all have laws about this. Most of these states require "custodians" (i.e., online service providers like Facebook or Twitter) to provide access when they receive a written request by the executor of the deceased.


Some states have a broad definition of "custodian," which may include anyone who stores online data of another person, while other states may define it to only include email providers.
No state has decided what should happen when the deceased does not name someone to manage online assets. This is one reason it is so important to do so.
Complications arise when minors create an online presence without understanding what they are agreeing to or if they are old enough to create the account., Within the will you draft, name an executor of your estate. In addition to a general executor, you should also name a digital executor, whose role you can define within the will. Your digital executor should have the technical understanding needed to take care of your digital things., Within your larger will, which will dispose of personal and real property, you need to include a section pertaining to your digital belongings.


Give clear instructions on how you want each account handled.Do you want your Facebook account deleted or memorialized? Do you want your family members to access your emails or do you want the account deleted? Do you want to pass certain music or e-books to people?These questions need to be answered succinctly and clearly in your will.
Your attorney will help you draft your will if you have hired one. If you haven't, you can always draft a will on your own. If you are on your own, make sure you are following all the laws of your state. If you don't, your will may not be valid and your property may pass through intestacy (i.e., passed down according to statutory standards).
 After you draft your will but before you execute and sign it, make sure you do not have any personal and private information included in the will. This includes your online usernames and passwords. Wills become public documents when they go through probate, which is the legal process of executing a valid will.If you put usernames and passwords in your will, that information will be available for public viewing when you pass away. This type of action could jeopardize your final wishes and put your valuable assets at risk.
 Your financial data, including online bank accounts, online payment services, and online investment banking, is some of your most crucial data and also some of the hardest to access. If you can, specify your beneficiaries directly with the website or service.


You should also print out and keep all of your statements for each account. This will create a hard copy that can be accessed without getting into your online account. This will help eliminate the need for an executor to gain access in order to see how much money is in the account or who the beneficiary is., Read each of your email account's terms-of-service. Some email providers consider your account terminated as soon as you die while others will allow some access in certain situations.


Some email providers only allow access after your death if you consented to it before you died. If you think you may find yourself in this scenario, you need to draft a statement consenting to others accessing you accounts. The statement should be attached to your will., Websites like Facebook and Twitter also govern their relationships with you through a terms-of-service agreement. Be sure you read and understand what you are agreeing to. For example:


Twitter will deactivate your account upon the request of your executor or an immediate family member. Twitter requires that your executor or family member send a copy of your death certificate.
Facebook gives you two options. First, you can turn your Facebook page into a memorial. The account will be locked but others can post on it. Second, you can have the account removed upon special request by your family or an executor.
Google allows you to choose how your account is handled at death. If you do not choose how to handle your account, survivors will only be able to access your account in very rare cases., When you download a song or book using an online account (e.g., Amazon or iTunes), you usually do not own that item. Instead you are considered to have purchased a license to use the download during your lifetime. Before you pass down digital property, make sure you own the property by reading through each service's terms-of-service.


If you are part of a photo-sharing website, download the images from the site and save a copy to your hard drive. This will ensure your loved ones can access the photos without having to login to your account.