 Help them to appreciate the good things about themselves. Being confident is about having self-esteem. By believing in them, they are more likely to believe in themselves. Confidence from adults boosts a child's self-image because they often look up to adults. Use verbal and non verbal cues to impart confidence in your children. For example, when you see them working hard a homework assignment, say "I know it's tough, but you can get through it. Take it one step at a time." Or if they showed organizational skills by putting away toys when you didn't need to ask, give a thumbs up or a high-five and say, "Awesome. Thank you for taking initiative and putting away the toys yourself."
Give hugs. This can help to provide a sense of security and support.;
, Praise beyond their performance or accomplishments. Focus your encouragement by pointing out what specific characteristics or actions they are displaying that are good. Make sure the words of encouragement focus on things that the child can control in their own behavior.Consider saying,"I know it's a tough class, but you are a hard worker and I believe in you."
Focus on their interests and what they have done well in the past. Consider saying, "You've very creative. You draw buildings so well" or "You can do it. I've seen you hit the ball many times."

, No one is immune to failure or loss at some point. Help your child to learn self-compassion through encouragement. Children need to learn resilience despite failures so that they can be able to recover from problems.Your child's self-worth should not be measured by their performance alone. Teach them the importance of their "inner voice" that tells them to be kind to themselves, to be generous in spirit to others, and to acknowledge that each person has faults.Encourage your child to understand that set-backs area part of life and can be overcome. Be a positive motivator for your child, rather than focusing on their faults.
Help your child to plan ahead for the possibility of success or failure. For example, before a soccer match, talk with your child about how they might feel if they won the game and how they might feel if they lost. Provide reassurance that it is not just about winning or losing, but it is about putting in the best effort to help their team. Explain that one game does not determine the future of their team.
Change your child's negative self-talk about their failings into words of inspiration. Consider saying, "I know that you're worried about your grades, but I am so proud of how hard you've worked this semester. Don't be too hard on yourself. You can do this."

, If they fall in love with nature and outdoors, they may want to learn more about forests, animals, rivers, and plants. Cultivate and encourage them to learn and explore their interests further. Take them on trips. Have them attend wilderness classes. Provide them with books. Your child will likely be more confident when they are doing something that deeply interests them.Avoid choosing what you think they'll like. Give them a wide variety of activities to explore. Allow them to guide you. For example, if your child likes to draw while others in your family are into sports, encourage your child to draw things that relate to sports or the types of physical activity that he or she enjoys. Have your child make a book of his artwork to feel a sense of accomplishment.
If your child is more shy or has difficulty connecting with other kids, find ways to connect your child's interest to others. If they are interested in animals and plants more than other kids, maybe they would be interested in joining Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, or a 4-H Club. This may help to teach them how to relate their love of nature to others who share the same interests., Your child may have social anxiety or phobias that decrease self-confidence. Assist your child to understand that their fears are not as bad as they seem. Young children may have imaginative fears of monsters or the dark that take time to overcome.Talk with your child about their fears. Provide reassurance that they are safe. Consider the bedtime routine of tucking them in at night as a way to soothe their fears and make them feel safe. This private quiet time can help to make your child feel relaxed and less anxious about their fears.
Reward brave behavior when they are facing their fears. Use verbal praise that is specific. Consider using a sticker program or other rewards for younger kids.
Assist your child in overcoming anxieties by exposing them to difficult situations in a controlled way for a short time. For example if your child has difficulty saying hello to strangers, help to model the behavior and teach them to say hello for 15 minutes in the grocery store or a similar place. Provide words of encouragement during this time.
 No one is perfect. Accept that your child will do things right, and sometimes make mistakes. Learn that they can grow when you guide them. Express how your love is there no matter what happens. This will make them for safe and more secure with themselves.Tell them that you are proud of them when they are acting appropriately.
Tell them that you love them. Make a point to talk about how you love them often. By using words or hugs to express their love, they will better understand that you care and are feeling supported. People who feel supported are more likely to succeed in life.Avoid making your child think that your love is based on their performance--in school, in sports, or in their other activities.

