 Foxglove seed is readily available in seed packets on most flower seed stands. If you decide to start foxglove from seed, you'll need to be ready to plant it in early summer. If you're planting seedlings, you may plant in spring or fall.If you're starting from seed, use 4-inch seed trays with seed compost. Lightly press the seeds into the compost. Do not cover the seeds with more compost once they are sown, since they require light to germinate.Plan to plant the seedlings when they are a few inches tall.;
, Foxglove prefer full sun or light shade.Find a place that isn't too windy and gets plenty of sun for most of the day. They should be protected from wind as they are easily buffeted about and can change their growth shape if assaulted by wind too frequently.If your climate is very hot, semi-shade is acceptable.
 Foxglove like soil that is deep, moist, and acidic. Look for a spot that drains well, rather than holding too much water. If you see puddles in an area after a heavy rain, it probably doesn't drain well enough to be a good home for foxglove.
 Use a garden rake or hoe to loosen the soil and rake in compost to a depth of about a foot. This will make sure the soil is suitably rich and ready for the foxglove to take root.


You can use fertilizer instead of compost, but be sure to use a light application. Too much fertilizer will harm the foxglove., They should be twice as wide as the root balls of the seedlings, and deep enough so that you can fit the entire rootball underground.
 Set the root balls into the holes and lightly pat soil around the bases of the stems. Water the area thoroughly.
 This will help nourish the foxglove and so they produce big, healthy blossoms. Cover the compost with a 2-inch layer of mulch to prevent weeds from taking over.
 This is especially important if there hasn't been much rainfall, or if you live in an area that gets very hot.
 If you have a plant that grows several feet tall, you may want to stake it to keep it from breaking. Use a wooden stake and some twine to gently tie the plant upright. This is especially important if you live in a windy area.
 The central stalk requires the most water and energy, so removing it will allow nutrients to flow to smaller stalks, making the plant look more even. Cut the spike at its base.
 It's easy to harvest the seeds of foxglove so you can plant them the following spring. Allow the flowers to wither and remove seeds from the tall central stalk. Store them in a cool, dry place and sow them in the spring.


If you removed the central stalk to promote side shoots, you won't be able to harvest seeds.

