 Head to the Geffen tower, found in the middle of the city. Proceed to the top floor to talk to the Wizard Guildsman, Catherine Medichi (gef_tower 111, 37). She will ask you to collect items from one of the two sets:

Set 1 - 10 Red Gemstone (from Driller in Einbroch Field), 10 Blue Gemstone (can be bought from Magical Item seller in Geffen_in 77, 173), and 10 Yellow Gemstone (from Driller in Einbroch Field).
Set 2 - 5 Crystal Blue (from Black Mushroom in Payon Forest), 5 Green Live (from Mantis is Mt. Mjolnir), 5 Red Blood (from Red Mushroom in Prontera Field), and 5 Wind of Verdure (from Grand Peco in Kiel Khary's Academy).
After gathering the requirements, head back to Catherine Medichi to proceed to your second test.
You must be a job level 40 and above Mage to start this quest.
Players with job level 50 can skip the first test.
 Raul is found at the top floor of Geffen Tower; he's standing in the corner (gef_tower 102, 24). He will ask you 10 questions; each question is worth 10 pos. To pass this test, you need to have at least 90/100 points. There are 3 different sets of questions. The answers can be found below.

Set 1: Spell Quiz

Which of the following is not necessary to learn Fire Wall? (Napalm Beat Lv 4)
Regardless of its previous attribute, what does the monster's attribute change to when you cast Frost Drive on it? (Water)
When you completely master Napalm Beat, what is the ratio of the increased MATK using that spell? (1.7 times)
What item do you need when casting Stone Cure? (Red Gemstone)
Which of the following is NOT required to master Safety Wall? (SP Recovery Lv 6)
Without the INT bonus, what amount of SP is recovered every 10 seconds when you have learned Increase SP Recovery Lv 7? (21)
Using Energy Coat, when you have 50% of your SP remaining, how much SP is used when hit, and what percentage is damage reduced by? (Damage 18%, SP 2%)
How much SP is consumed and how many times can you avoid attacks when using Safety Wall Lv 6? (SP 35, 7 hits)
How much SP is needed when using Lv 10 Thunderstorm? (74)
Which skill is most useful training in the Byalan Dungeon? (Lightning Bolt)


Set 2: Monster Quiz

Which monster can you obtain a slotted Guard from? (Pupa)
Which of the following is the easiest monster for a low level Mage to hunt? (Flora)
Which monster will not be affected by Stone Curse? (Evil Druid)
When attacking a Lv 3 water attribute monster with a wind attribute weapon, what is the damage percentage? (200%)
If a Baby Desert Wolf and a Familiar fought, which one would win? (Baby Desert Wolf)
Which of the following cannot be a Cute Pet? (Roda Frog)
Choose the monster that is weak against a fire attribute attack. (Hammer Goblin)
Which of the following monsters has the highest defence? (Caramel)
Choose the monster that's a different species. (Ghostring)
Which of the following is not an Undead Monster? (Deviace)


Set 3: Mage Quiz

Which stat is most important for a Mage? (INT)
Which attribute does not have a Bolt-type attack? (Earth)
Choose the one that does not relate to a Mage. (Good at selling stuff.)
Which town is the home of the Mages? (Geffen)
Which of the following cards has nothing to do with INT? (Soldier Andre Card)
What is the Mage good at compared to other job classes? (Exceptional Magic Skills)
What is the INT bonus at Job Lv 40 for a Mage? (5)
Which item can't be equipped by Mages? (Cap)
Which of the following is the catalyst when making the Mage test solution 3? (Blue Gemstone)
Which card is irrelevant to magic? (Magnolia Card)


After you passed these tests, he will ask you to take some rest before you take the next one.
 Talk to Raul again, and you will be given a Battle Test. Each three room you will be entering consist of 3 types of monsters.

Monster Water Room have Water element monsters; use Wind spells to kill them.
Monster Earth Room have Earth element mobs; use Fire spells to kill them quickly.
Monster Fire Room have Fire element monsters; kill them quickly with Ice spells.
You must kill all the monsters in the room to advance to the next stage.
If you failed the test 4 times, Raul will ask you to bribe him with a Worn Out Scroll in exchange for a pass.
Every time you fail the test, Raul will give you a pop quiz before you can take the Battle Test again. Questions and answers are found below:

Choose the monster with a different attribute than the others. (Cornutus)
Choose the monster that is not a looting one. (Zerom)
Which of these monsters does not recognize casting? (Marina)
Chose the spell that would be efficient against a Marine Sphere. (Lightning Bolt)
Choose the monster that can move. (Frilldora)



, After you pass the Battle Test, talk to Catherine. She will then change you into a Wizard with 6 Blue Potions as reward.