 The world's biggest online marketplace is at your fingertips. Find a popular (sewn) item...blankets, shirts, hats, etc. Check carefully what items sell for. Can you make a profit if you were to sell at that price? Make a sample and add up your costs and time. Usually people double their costs when they set a price. If you think you can make a true profit, then make it and sell it on eBay . Look on Google for popular items you can sew and sell on eBay .;
, Most people in their lifetime pop a button off of their shirt, break a seam, etc. You could mend these items for people to make a profit! You need to know what should be charged for basic repairs or alterations: pant hems, skirt hems, taking in a waistline, letting out a waist. How long will these projects take? How much will you pay yourself per hour? What are your costs? (machine, phone, electricity, publicity etc.) It may require a business license in your town, so check this out first. Also look in the yellow pages to see how many alterations businesses are nearby (who is the competition?). See if a dry cleaner is looking for an alterations person. You may be able to work there and meet new customers.
 Custom sewing is a good way to work at home: weddings, formals, even drill teams and choral groups need custom sewn outfits. Send publicity fliers or brochures to those groups about your new business. Have a nice place for people to come to when they meet you. Have a good room that is well lit and clean for them to fit the garments. You will need to know your expenses: wages, electricity, machine costs, etc. Factor those costs into what you charge for your work. Have a contract form for your customers to sign that lists what they will pay. Before you start any project, have them pay you in cash at least half of the costs. Decide if you or the customer will pay for the fabric (it's better if they do that). Be prepared to ask for money from your clients. Some people will try to pay you less or not pay at all. Other people will ask for all sorts of changes and fit that you did not plan on, so be firm and have a good written contract. When you get good at this, you may find that some stores or bridal salons can use you as a consultant to alter ready-made dresses and garments.
