 Deep condition your hair once a week and consider using a hot oil treatment weekly. Curly hair can benefit greatly from consistent conditioning.;
, Try using a milder or natural shampoo. Regular shampoo can contain harsh ingredients that only aggravate dry hair, making it worse.
 The hot water will strip your hair's natural oils leaving it vulnerable to breaking. Do not wash your hair often, although you can condition it every day. Conditioning will also clean your hair of hair care products but leave it more hydrated.
 Read the labels of the hair products you use; some contain alcohol which will further dry out your hair. The heat from the blow dryer, especially if your hair is wet, will essentially fry your hair, leaving it dry. Try air drying your hair or using the blow dryer on the lowest setting and only on hair that is damp, not wet.
,


Wear a baseball hat or handkerchief on your head when you are out in the sun. Your skin is not the only part of your body that can be damaged from the sun. Your hair soaks in all the sun's rays as well which will dry it out. Beware of the ponytail sticking out the back, though, and tuck your hair up under the hair covering.
Wear a knit hat in the winter months since arid air will dry out your hair. This can also protect it from strong winds.
 When your body is well hydrated, so is your hair. If your body is not getting enough water, when it needs to use water it will take the moisture from your body, which can cause your hair to become dry.
 Your hair is a reflection of your body's health. Eating a well balanced diet helps keep your body healthy so your hair can receive nutrients. Hair and nails are amongst the last parts of the body to receive nutrition from food; your organs are first up. The better your nutrition, the healthier your hair will be.
 Other home herbal remedies include lemons, aloe vera and henna.



Use oil such as almond oil, coconut oil, olive oil.
Take some out in a blow and massage your hair all the way to the roots.
For long hair, keep the oil in for two to three days, for shorter hair just one day.
 Don't go heavy on the shampoo!

