 To start an effective campfire, you must start with tinder, which are the smallest fire-starting materials and burn the easiest. The tinder must be dry, so it’s best to bring tinder with you from home instead of looking for it while camping. You can use a variety of household items as tinder, such as:Wood shavings
Wadded newspaper
Cardboard
Wax
Dryer lint
Commercial fire sticks;
, To keep your fire burning, you’ll need to add some more substantial material to the tinder. Kindling is larger than tinder materials, but not so large that it will smother the fire’s flames. Look around your campground for small twigs and branches to use as kindling.Choose twigs and branches with a diameter between ⅛- and ½-inch, or approximately the width of a pencil.
Just as with tinder, it’s important that your kindling materials are dry. If there are any damp areas on the twigs and branches, use a pocket knife to carefully whittle them off.
 For your campfire to really maintain its flames, you must add larger pieces of wood. These materials, usually known as firewood or fuelwood, can be anywhere from 1- to 5-inches in diameter, so you can use complete logs or split larger pieces of wood into smaller chunks.You shouldn’t break branches off trees to use as firewood or you’ll ruin the trees at your campsite. Instead, look for pieces that have already fallen off.
Look for firewood that bends or snaps easily. That way, you’ll know it’s dry enough to burn in the fire.
You don’t want to use firewood that’s too large because it will take much longer to start burning.
If you’re not sure whether wood is the right size, compare it to your wrist or forearm -- they should be about the same size.
 Once you have the proper materials to build your fire, you’ll need something to light it. Make sure to include some type of firestarter in your camping gear, so you can easily start your fire. Regular matches work well to start a fire, but you may prefer to use a lighter.You can also use a ferro-flint rod as a firestarter when camping. Also known as a flint spark lighter, it generates a spark that helps ignite your fire materials.