 Yes, they really have that kind of thing now. You can shower normally, wash your hands, and even swim. This gives you more freedom, so you won't be stuck in the house all summer with your broken arm.
 Though it may seem like an impossibility with a cast, you can invest in a few items to help you stay hygienic. This way you're not trapped taking bird baths or getting family and friends involved. Instead, try finding a few items like:


An electric toothbrush, or “end tuft” brush to make brushing your teeth simpler. You can also get an access flosser, which will allow you to floss one handed.Spray deodorant. If you aren’t able to use your arm fully, this will save you the pain of trying to put on a stick. Just make sure you apply it while shirtless, as you might accidentally spray it all over your clothes.
Dry hair shampoo. This is a great item if you aren't able to lift your arm fully or get your cast wet. You simply spray it on the roots of your hair and massage it in. It's a quick way to get your hair looking freshly washed, and it won't stain your clothing.If you have the ability, you can even go to a salon for regular hair washing. Some salons may give you a discount if you are only going to have your hair washed.
 One of the most annoying problems with a cast can be situating yourself in bed. For example, it's hard to turn over when you can only use one arm. It can also be painful to keep your broken arm in one position all night.


Try instead to prop your arm up with pillows. You can even build yourself a pillow fortress to make sure you don't roll over onto your arm during the night., If you don't have someone with you to help you cut food, you may have a slight struggle on your hands. However, if you are alone, you can problem solve by eating foods that only require a spoon or fork - or foods soft enough to be cut with either.


You can also use food delivery services like Blue Apron or Fresh Direct which will not only save you from having to carry groceries but also do the food prep for you. A lot of their meals come pre-portioned, so rather than trying to cut up and measure ingredients, you can get straight to the cooking.
If you get really desperate, though, try a pizza cutter instead of a knife.
 It's hard to zip or button up with only one hand. Though it can be done with practice and time, you don't want to exhaust your injured arm in the process.


Try wearing pants with elastic bands, instead. You should also make sure you are wearing shirts that you can fit over your cast.
It’s also a good idea to get dressed cast arm first, so you know what you picked out will work.

