 The size affects the ease of mobility. Trumpets and tubas take different amounts of strength and coordination while locomoting. Some instruments are very difficult to play while marching, however-- French horns are particularly tricky, as they are meant to rest on a leg (thigh) for support while seated in a chair. Band directors often will allow French horn players to use a different instrument during marching band exercises, such as drums or some other percussion instrument. But other instruments can be played with ease if a player is willing to practice moving while playing.
 Prepare to have your lips bumped by the instrument's mouthpiece when you begin to practice marching while playing. It's all a matter of learning to use your arms to control and support the position of your instrument. Arm strength is something you may want to work on with various exercises. But if you practice with your instrument a lot, you'll get a workout anyway., With your sheet music loaded in the holder of your instrument (if your band director is allowing you to use it), begin playing and walking slowly to get the feel for what you'll need to do., When you feel a bit more coordinated, begin to use a marching step while playing your instrument. Again, this is best done on a relatively flat surface in the beginning. If you're only going to march on a football field, you'll always have a flat surface. But if your marching band participates in street parades, you may find that the streets are uneven and have a pothole here and there. This takes more practice to accommodate the unevenness, but it can be done!, Is the sound your instrument produces weak or out-of-tune? This is common in the beginning. You have to get your lips used to a mouthpiece that wants to move with your body. This is why arm strength is important to acquire, so you can keep your brass instrument and mouthpiece in the same place most of the time., Your band director will want the entire group to look polished. Keep your instrument clean and polished. Keep your uniform clean and pressed. Try to show some energy in your performance––don't look as though you're sleepwalking through it. Give the audience a reason to applaud, and you'll go home feeling like you made their day!