 Children often personalize disagreements. If someone does not agree with them, they may feel the person is picking on them or does not like them. Make sure to explain to children they do not need to take disagreements as personal slights.Tell children that, when they disagree, they're mad at an idea, concept, or opinion. They are not mad at the person.
Remind your child everyone is entitled to their own opinion. If someone disagrees with them, it's probably not personal. They just have a different take on a given situation or issue.
 "I" statements are statements phrased in a way to avoid blame and judgment. Teaching your children to talk using "I" statements can help them disagree in a respectful fashion. "I" statements have three parts. They begin with, "I feel..." after which you immediately state your feelings. From there, describe the behavior that inspired those feelings. Then you say why you feel the way you do.Finally, ask them to propose a solution or compromise.


For example, a child is fighting with their sibling over a shared room. The child may say something like, "You know I have a lot of homework on Mondays and it's rude that you play your guitar in our room during that time."
Have your child rephrase that sentiment using an "I" statement. For example, "I feel disrespected when you play your guitar when I'm trying to study because you know how important my grades are to me. Can you play after I'm done studying or go into another room?"

, Children often have difficulty regulating their emotions. When a disagreement surfaces, help your child stay calm during the conflict. Children may get angry or feel passionate. During these times, encourage your children to remember to stay calm.Teach your child to recognize messages from their body that indicate they might be getting frustrated. Do they start clenching their fists or does their face feel hot when they get frustrated? Helping your child identify these signals means they can use calming techniques before they lose control.
Help your children learn techniques to stay calm. Have your child, for example, take a series of deep breaths, count to 10, or make an effort to relax their bodies. You can also remind a child to take a break from a discussion if they're getting worked up. For example, say something like, "You seem to be getting upset. Would you like to talk about this later?"
Teach your child they sometimes have to be a bigger person. If a friend or family member is yelling or disrespecting them, tell your child to walk away instead of getting mad in return.
 Make sure your child knows to listen if they're having a disagreement with another person. Tell your child that listening can help them understand another person's point of view, allowing them to resolve a conflict.Tell your child not to interrupt when another person shares their feelings. Say something like, "You had your turn to share. Now let your brother share."
Let your child know it's okay if they still disagree after listening. However, make it clear listening is important to resolving a conflict. Tell your child that they should listen to other person and then respectfully voice any disagreements instead of interrupting or yelling.
 If your child has a conflict with a friend, family member, or sibling, encourage them to make up afterwards. Being willing to apologize and move forward is key to respectful disagreements.Ask questions like, "What do you think would make your brother feel better about your fight?" Encourage children to explore options like apologizing or doing something nice for the other person.

