 If you want to bathe your newborn puppy, you’ll need to make sure you have a few things you’ll need in the process. Purchase some tearless shampoo intended for use on young puppies. This will be gentler for the puppy, especially if it gets in the puppy’s eyes on accident. You’ll also need some warm towels, a wash cloth, a nonslip mat, and a hair dryer.Never use human shampoo on newborn puppies as most products contain chemicals that could be harmful for your tiny pup.;
, Since newborn puppies have fairly weak immune systems, you need to make sure the bathing area is clean before you introduce the puppy to possible germs. Use a natural cleaning solution to wipe down the area as harsh chemicals found in many cleaners could be harmful to the puppy as well.For example, if you are bathing the puppy in the kitchen sink, make sure you clean up any food remnants or germs that the puppy could be exposed to.
 Brushing your puppy is an important part of getting ready for bath time. Since water can worsen mats and tangles that already exist in their coat, it is important to brush these out before you get your pup wet. Spend a few minutes brushing your puppy’s coat out so that there are no more tangles.Regularly brushing your puppy’s coat will also help decrease the required frequency of baths because it helps keep your puppy clean.
 Since puppies have a hard time maintaining their own body temperature, it’s important that you keep them warm during bath time. The main thing you need to worry about is using warm water (not too hot though) during the bathing process. Use water that is comfortable on your own skin to wet the puppy down and to rinse out the shampoo.Test the water with your hand before getting the puppy wet so that you can make sure it is not too hot or too cold.
 Once the puppy is wet, it’s even more important to take steps to keep it warm. Use towels that are warmed slightly to keep the newborn puppy’s body temperature up while it is wet. You can put the towels in the dryer for a couple of minutes to heat them up a bit.You can also hold the puppy against your skin while it is wrapped in the towel to use your own body heat to help the puppy stay warm.
 After bathing your puppy, you want to make sure it stays inside your warm, heated house rather than going outside where the cold air could drastically affect the puppy’s body temperature with its damp fur. Keep the puppy inside the house where it can stay warm.You also don’t want your puppy to go roll around in something that could get it dirty again after you’ve just gone to the trouble of bathing it.
 Use warm water to get your puppy’s fur wet. Put the puppy on a nonslip mat in the sink and use the dish-spray hose to gently work the water into the puppy’s coat. You should start at the back end and move forward from there so that your puppy gets used to it easier and doesn’t panic.Be careful not to get the water in the puppy’s eyes as this will cause discomfort for the puppy and make it struggle against the bath even more.
 Use a warm washcloth to work the shampoo into your puppy’s coat. Apply a small amount of the shampoo onto the washcloth and gently rub it all over your puppy’s body. Keep the shampoo out of your puppy’s eyes, ears, and nose to avoid discomfort.Be sure to keep one hand on the puppy, keeping it stable, while you use the other hand to rub the washcloth around on the puppy’s body.
Remember to get the dog’s ears, butt, stomach, legs, paws, back, belly, and neck while washing.
 Use the dish-spray hose again to gently spray warm water on your puppy to get the shampoo out. Begin at the rear end and work your way forward, making sure you get all of the soap suds out as you go.Alternatively, you could use a cup that you fill with warm water over and over to rinse out the shampoo.
 Once you are done bathing your newborn puppy, you need to act quickly to get your puppy warm and dry again. Use a warm towel to rub the puppy and soak up any excess water.If you feel comfortable doing so, you can use a hairdryer on the puppy after you have towel-dried it. Make sure you put the hairdryer on a low setting so that it doesn’t get too hot for the puppy and so the sound will be a bit quieter.

