 You may put off telling your family about your eating disorder if you’re fearful of opening up or scared of what they may do or say. Think about how it could help you to talk to them about it. Telling your family can feel like a great relief, as you no longer have to carry the burden of keeping the eating disorder a secret.Reaching out to your family can give you people to talk to and support to lean on. They may be willing to help you in various ways to overcome your eating disorder.;
, If having a discussion with your family face-to-face sounds too frightening, you might choose to tell them in a letter or an email. If you prefer to express yourself through writing, you make sure to say everything you want to say and allow your family time to process everything.If you fear lots of interruptions or disruptions during a conversation, writing a letter may be a better approach.
 You may wish to tell your whole family or you may wish to tell certain family members. Think about who you want knowing you have an eating disorder. You may want your sister to know but you may feel less comfortable with your younger brother knowing.Consider who will support you and help you with your eating disorder.
 It may take some time for your family to recognize what you are saying or to let it “sink in.” Your family may act shocked, surprised, uncomfortable, or worried.Remind yourself that it’s okay for them to have their own reactions. It may take a few minutes, hours, or days for the shock to wear off.


Some people may not think an eating disorder is a “big deal”, or may shrug it off. Communicate the seriousness of having an eating disorder and how it physically and emotionally affects you.
Prepare yourself for different outcomes, and remember that each person will respond in his or her own way. These reactions have nothing to do with you, they are just how your family is processing the information.
You are responsible for your own thoughts, feelings, and actions. You are not responsible for other people behave or react.
 If your family is unfamiliar with eating disorders and the harm they can cause, look up some resources ahead of time that you can share with them.Your family may want to learn more about eating disorders, or you may want to rely on some information to share with them if you’re unsure of how to explain eating disorders to them. Look up some resources ahead of time and share them with your family. Once your family is educated about eating disorders, they will be more prepared to help you.


If you give resources to your family, this allows them to take in the information and process it at their own speed.
Check out some websites such as http://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/eating-disorders/index.shtml and http://www.nationaleatingdisorders.org.
 If you choose to tell your family in person, arrange a time and a place to talk. Choose a time when people are available and not rushing off to other activities. Pick a place that you can comfortably talk and where there will be minimal or no interruptions.You may choose to have the discussion in your home, in your backyard, or on a walk outside.
 If you’re worried about telling your family on your own, ask a friend to come and support you. You may ask a friend you’ve already told to come and sit with you, or encourage you to keep talking. If you’re scared of telling your family alone, having a supportive friend can help., You’ll need to find a way to open the discussion about your eating disorder. Making the first statement may be the hardest part of the whole discussion. Once your family is present, start with saying something general. You may wish to ask for their support up front before you talk about your eating disorder.


Say, “Thanks for making time for me. This is something that’s hard to talk about, so I hope you’ll be supportive. I’m really struggling to balance my health, and I think I have an eating disorder.”

, Eating disorders are not just about overeating or undereating. Complex emotions are involved and are responsible for some of your actions regarding food. Share the feelings you have about food, your body, or having an eating disorder.You may say, “Having these health problems makes me feel scared and alone” or, “I’ve felt isolated and embarrassed dealing with this on my own.”

, Your family may not know much about eating disorders and they may need your help to learn. Talk to your family about the eating disorder you struggle with and let them know what to look out for and what you struggle with. Some common symptoms of eating disorders include:Hiding food, secretive habits around food and eating
Feeling shame, guilt, and disgust about yourself and your eating habits
Denial about the harm the disorder causes your body or that you have a problem
Obsession with food, body weight, and calorie counting
Chewing and spitting out food or vomiting food
For more information about eating disorders, check out How to Find Help For a Suspected Eating Disorder.
 You may need to educate your family on any myths they may believe about eating disorders that are not true, especially for you. Some people assume that only very thin, young women have eating disorders. Others may think that people with eating disorders are vain or self-obsessed. If need be, address these issues with your family and educate them about the myths.It’s important that your family sees the eating disorder as serious and not a “phase.”

, You may want to find a therapist or to seek medical help. Ask your family for help in reaching out for treatment. You may not know where to start or what you need. Ask your family to help you get on a healthy track. You may ask for their help in finding a therapist, getting treatment in a residential setting, seeing a medical doctor or getting nutritional counseling. If you need help, don’t be afraid to ask for it.Say, “I’m struggling to deal with this on my own, and I need help. I’d like to get professional treatment for support and guidance. Would you help me?”

, It can be helpful to tell your family directly how you’d like them to support you. Some families may not get involved at all while others may become overly involved in your care. Clearly tell your family how you’d like to be supported and what that support looks like.


If you want help with meal planning or keeping track of binging habits, say this to your family. Let them know what you do and do not want help with in managing your eating disorder.
 Tell your family that eating disorders often result from a desire to be in control. If you feel out of control of your life, it’s not helpful for someone to swoop in and take control for you. Ask your family not to force you to eat, or trick you into doing something you don’t want to do. Let your family know if you are sensitive to criticism about your eating, and ask them not to criticize your habits.Tell them specifically what you want control over. For example, you may tell your family that you’d like control over breakfast foods or snacks throughout the day. Remind them that engaging in a power struggle is not helpful for you.
 Let your family know you do not want to talk about appearance. While well-intentioned, even compliments can be a trigger for self-criticism. Comments regarding weight or appearance can set you off on negative thoughts regarding your body.Say, “I don’t find comments about weight or appearance helpful to my recovery. I would appreciate it if your focus on me excluded these things. I would, however, appreciate any helpful encouragement you have.”

, It’s not helpful when family members say, “Just eat something!” or, “If you’d just eat, you wouldn’t have any problems!” Let your family know you don’t find this helpful. Instead, ask them to provide you with helpful encouragement.Ask them to say things like, “I’ve noticed you’ve been working hard to get on track lately” and, “You’ve been taking care of your health well.”

