 U-locks are very difficult to open by hammering or using force, but they are weakened and become brittle when cooled by air spray, meaning that they can be smashed open. Buy compressed or canned air at home improvement stores or online.Canned air contains the compressed chemical difluoroethane, which will cool the lock to around -13 degrees F (-25 degrees C).
 If your U-lock is locked but not connected to anything, breaking it will be easy. If the U-lock is locked around a bicycle or a door handle, it will a little more difficult to open, but it will still be doable.


Position the U-lock so that the bar of the U-lock is lying flat on the ground or is against a stable surface like a door or the bar of the bike rack.
 Hold the can of air spray about a foot away from the keyhole. Then hold down the trigger of the canned air and spray it directly at the keyhole., Spray continuously for about 30 seconds. You will notice the bar becoming white as the chemical reacts with the surface of the U-lock and chills it.


Be sure to aim the spray radius at the keyhole, where you will focusing your hammering.
 After about 30 seconds, the bar of the U-lock will have been chilled and should be brittle enough to break. Use your non-dominant hand to hold the U-lock by its loop against the ground or the surface that you positioned it against. Pick up the hammer in your dominant hand and begin to hammer against the keyhole.Keep your fingers away from the place that you are hammering. Also try to keep the U-lock stable and in position as you hammer.
Don’t be alarmed as you see the white powder on the U-lock come off in a mist as you begin to hammer.
 Keep hammering against the keyhole area of the U-lock. You may have to hammer for 30 seconds or so until a piece breaks off of the bar, after which breaking it will become much easier. Focus your hammering against the broken area of the lock. More sections will come off, until the bar breaks completely and separates from one or both sides of the U.Be patient, as it may take several minutes of hammering to break the U-lock.
Dispose of the remains of the lock when you are finished.

