 Some people are more comfortable with natural instead of chemical repellents. Lemon eucalyptus oil has been proven to repel bugs. It is sometimes recommended by pediatricians as an alternative to DEET or Picaridin. Like DEET-based repellents, repellents containing lemon eucalyptus oil are recommended by the CDC (Center for Disease Control) as an effective and safe way to repel bugs.You can buy many repellents based on the oil, such as Repel’s Lemon Eucalyptus Repellent. These are not all-natural repellents, but are based on the oil.
Make your own. A natural, homemade lemon eucalyptus repellent should consist of around 10% lemon eucalyptus oil mixed with a carrier oil, such as witch hazel, vodka, or olive oil. Take a 4 oz clean spray bottle and fill it with 2 ounces of distilled or boiled water. Add 1 ounce of witch hazel or vodka then about 50 to 75 drops of essential oil.Avoid using any product containing lemon eucalyptus oil on children under three years old.
 Other kinds of natural oils may repel gnats. You can purchase either the oil itself or a repellent containing it. Oil of citronella, lemongrass, cedarwood, garlic, spearmint, lemon mint or cinnamon are common and can be sprayed on your skin or in places where gnats gather.


To make a natural insect repellent spray using an essential oil, mix the essential oil with the carrier oil or alcohol, using the same process as for lemon eucalyptus oil. If making a large batch, mix the repellent so it's 5-10% essential oil, or 1 part essential oil with 10-20 parts carrier oil or alcohol. For a smaller batch, use 10-25 drops (total) of essential oils and 2 tablespoons of a carrier oil or alcohol. Rub or spray the natural insect repellent onto skin or clothing, using care to avoid the sensitive eye area.
You can also crush fresh leaves of these plants and rub the leaves on your skin to deter gnats that bite.You will need to reapply oils or leaves about every half an hour, since they provide only about 20-30 minutes of protection.

