 A camera phone will not take good pictures of the moon--they will turn out blurry and distant. It’s best to use the highest-quality camera you can obtain. Lens quality is more important than camera quality, so many camera models will be suitable once the right lens is applied., A high mm measurement on a lens means that the lens can zoom in at a greater distance. Get the highest mm lens you can. More than 300mm is the best, but you can also take good moon photos with a 200mm lens., Stability is very important when photographing the moon. Even the slightest jiggle can result in a blurry photo, so you will need a tripod. Pick a tripod with adjustable legs in case of uneven terrain., Touching the camera to take a picture can wobble it and blur your picture. A shutter release cable allows you to take the shot without touching the camera again once it's set up. If you don't have a cable, use the shutter delay set to 3-10 seconds., The moon can be photographed in any phase except the new moon, which is not visible to Earth. The first quarter, half, and third quarter phases provide high contrast that allows you to see the craters in greater detail, while the full moon is a dramatic choice for a skyscape. What phase you choose is up to your personal preference, but it’s best to have a phase chosen before going out to photograph the moon.
 When the moon sets or rises, it is closer to the horizon, making it appear larger and closer. This makes it much easier to photograph! Check an almanac or a weather app for moon rising and setting times in your area., Clouds, fog, and air pollution will blur your photographs. Check a weather app before leaving for your session and while photographing. A clear night with low smog content and no rain is best for moon photography., The moon appears bright because it reflects the light of the sun, and additional light from streetlights, homes, and cars can make the moon appear duller and blurrier in pictures. It is fine if there is light in the distance, but be sure that you are not photographing close to another light source., Set up your tripod on stable, level ground, and adjust the legs to keep your camera level with the horizon. Make sure your tripod is stable before mounting the camera and lenses. Remove the lens cap and turn your camera on. If you are using a shutter release cable, attach it now., Turn off your camera’s auto-focus feature first--auto-focus is not ideal for night photography and may not produce the best focus. Look through the camera view and manually adjust the focus until you can see crisp details of the moon’s surface. Each camera model has a different method for adjusting the focus, so be sure to consult your camera’s manual beforehand., Shutter speed is also referred to as “exposure time.” A shorter shutter speed exposes the camera to less light, which means that the details of the moon will be sharper and there will not be a halo of light surrounding it. Use the shortest shutter speed your camera has., When you take a photograph, the pressure of your hand on the camera can destabilize it, making your shots blurry. A shutter release cable allows you to stand away from the camera while taking the photo. If you don’t have a cable, use the camera’s shutter timer., Once you have your camera set up and focused, take a series of shots of the moon. This will let you have a selection of photos to choose from. Try a few different shutter speeds and focuses to make sure you have the best possible shots!

