;
, Metal, Heavy Metal & Hard Rock are some examples of what to listen to. No Pop or rap or anything. And definitely no country music. A redneck is the absolute opposite of a Bogan.
 Bogans wear torn Jeans or slightly worn out Jeans, preferably black or dark grey, a band T-Shirt, e.g. Guns N' Roses, Iron Maiden or any band you like. A flannel shirt or leather jacket can be worn over the top. (Doesn't have to be. You can wear just the flannel or leather, but never do up the buttons/zip of your shirt/jacket.) Bogans prefer desert boots but black sneakers can be worn instead.
 Slash, Kurt Cobain and Iron Maiden (The whole Band) are some famous bogans.
 Long hair is essential when you want to be a bogan. Short hair is not acceptable. Old Bogan had dirty, messy hair but the modern bogan tends to keep their hair clean. Not necessarily tidy, but clean. If you want to impress the ladies, clean is a lot better.
 Get a slab of VB and sit in front of the telly watching the footy. Whenever your team loses, let out masculine drunken grunts of rage.
 This could include shortening words to end with 'i' e.g. Uni, footy, barbie etc. also, brush up on insults and names for people generally annoying to the general public... eg Greenies-people that want to conserve forests etc, Wog-anyone not Aussie or from USA, NZ, Asia or England, Kiwi- New Zealander, POM-Englishman, Yank-American

, Bogans tend to walk normally. Not slouched or hunchbacked. Not fully straight either. If you have some loud portable speakers, you can plug your I-Pod in or something and put some music on as you walk with your friends. headbanging is what makes a bogan a bogan. (Well not really, but still, head-bang!) This shows that you are passionate about your music and that you like being a bogan.
 Some bogans get a few bonuses. Such as having an older brother/sister who is a bogan who can help you, some friends or relatives that can also help you. If you play an instrument, it has to be electric guitar, bass or drums. Or even Keyboards. If you play violin or something. Then No! If you play guitar, have it down low.

