 To rule out medical causes of bad behavior in your aging dog, your vet will want to know if you’ve noticed any health problems at home. For example, a painful medical condition can make an older display aggressive behavior to avoid being touched or handled.Arthritis and dental disease can be very painful for dogs.Signs of arthritis include a reluctance to move and trouble standing up.If your dog has painful dental disease, you may notice bleeding gums, missing teeth, and lots of plaque on the teeth.;
, If a dog loses its sight as it ages, it can become easily startled because it can’t see things very well (or at all) in its environment. When a dog becomes startled, it can react with aggression.Look for signs of vision loss in your dog:Reluctance to enter dark rooms
General clumsiness
Enlarged eyeballs
Difficulty finding familiar items (toys, bed, food bowl)

, Just like with vision loss, hearing loss can cause a dog to become easily startled.If your aging dog is losing its hearing, it may take longer to respond to being called. Your dog may not respond even when it’s looking at you as you call its name.If your dog isn't responding to you, or responds aggressively because it feels startled, you may think your dog is behaving badly.
It can be hard to detect hearing loss in dogs until it is severe., House soiling can be due to medical conditions causing increased drinking and urination. Dogs with diabetes or Cushing’s disease (excess cortisol production) tend to drink a lot of water, leading to increased urination.


Dogs with kidney disease urinate a lot because their kidneys no longer work very well.However, they may not drink much water because the disease can make them feel pretty sick.

Dementia can make a dog forget its house training. Also, it may forget where the door is to go outside. Dementia doesn’t cause increased drinking in dogs.
 Digestive problems can also lead to house soiling in aging dogs. Diseases that cause the intestines to become inflamed can cause diarrhea. Examples of these diseases are colitis (inflammation of the colon) and inflammatory bowel disease (general inflammation of the intestines)., Even if you don’t think medical problems are causing your aging dog’s bad behavior, it’s still a good idea to take your dog to your vet’s office. Your vet can examine your dog and run diagnostic tests to rule out possible medical causes.


At the beginning of the appointment, give your vet a full history of your aging dog’s bad behavior, including when it started, if it’s gotten worse, and when it happens (being touched, after drinking a lot of water, etc.)
Don’t wait until you feel like you’re at your wits end with the bad behavior. Schedule the appointment soon after you start noticing the bad behavior.
 Before running any diagnostic tests, your vet will perform a physical exam to detect signs of medical problems. Among other physical exam tasks, they will test the range of motion of your dog’s joints, touch its abdomen, and take a close listen to its heart and lungs.


The physical exam findings will help your vet determine which diagnostic tests to perform.
Even if your dog looks fine on the outside, your vet may still want to perform additional testing to help rule out medical causes of the bad behavior.
If you think your dog has lost its sight or hearing, your vet will perform hearing and vision tests during the physical exam.
 Urine and blood samples can provide a lot of information about your dog’s health and can indicate underlying medical problems. For example, kidney disease can cause abnormalities in the blood (low or high levels of certain nutrients) and urine (diluted urine).Diabetes leads to glucose in the urine, which is abnormal.Abnormalities in your dog’s blood and/or urine won’t necessarily indicate that a medical problem is causing your dog’s bad behavior. Your vet will consider the results along with the physical exam findings and other diagnostic test results.
 If your dog is in pain, your vet will probably want to take x-rays to determine what’s causing the pain. X-rays can reveal various causes of pain, including joint swelling, dental problems (loose teeth), and digestive problems (thickened loops of intestine, intestinal blockages).
 As dogs gets older, their brain function can decrease. This decrease can lead to bad behavior. Dementia is a common neurologic cause of bad behavior in aging dogs.A neurologic exam will help your vet determine if a decrease in brain function is causing your aging dog’s bad behavior.
 If your vet ruled out medical causes of your dog’s bad behavior, further testing will be needed to identify the behavioral cause. Animal behavior experts, such as board-certified veterinary behaviorists and Certified Applied Animal Behaviorists, can perform a detailed behavioral assessment of your dog.Your vet can refer you to an animal behavior expert. You can also visit the website http://iaabc.org/consultants to find animal behaviorists in your area.

