 If you and the girl who likes you aren’t close but it’s clear that she likes you, start small and bring up a common interest. This will break the ice, make things less awkward, and establish a bond that you can progress from.If you’re on the soccer team and she’s on the volleyball team at school, consider starting a conversation about sports.
Start a conversation about a class you have together by saying something like, “I’m so glad that last chapter is over with. What did you think about last night’s reading?”;
, A unique, tasteful compliment can go a long way. Whether you’re referencing a physical characteristic or personality trait, giving a girl a compliment is a great way to express your affection, especially if you remain composed and relaxed when you do this.Complimenting her here and there is better because too often might make her annoyed or uneasy.


If she tells you that she did well on a test that she got back today, you might say, “That’s great! It doesn’t surprise me at all; you’re very smart and hard-working.”
If she has particularly attractive blue eyes, you might say, “I really like your eyes. They’re a very pretty blue.”

, Smiling a lot and looking her in the eye at appropriate moments communicate that you’re confident and interested. This is a good first step in beginning to flirt with her. Be careful not to stare, because excessive eye contact often seems creepy.


Acknowledge her in the hallway by giving a casual wave, smiling, and making brief eye contact.
 Since she likes you, she might lean in closer when talking to you or turn her hips, torso, and feet to face your direction.Mirror movements like these to show her that you like her too.
 Holding a door open for someone is always a nice gesture, but doing it every time seems a little over-the-top, even to someone who likes you. Avoid big gestures like giving her flowers because this might be off-putting and overwhelming. It isn’t an appropriate time in your barely budding relationship to give a gift like this. Wait until you’ve been dating someone for a while., If you’re shy, liking one of her statuses on Facebook, leaving her a sweet comment on an Instagram photo, or even just friending or following her on social media are easier ways to show that you like her and are paying attention to her., Especially since you like her back, it might be tough to not text her several times in a row, write long passages, or confront her about not responding.This usually comes off as clingy, so as a good rule of thumb, stay relaxed and text her as much as she texts you.
 In today’s world, texting has become the norm and calling a love interest is seen by many women as an act of courage.If your conversations in person and via text are long, comfortable, and natural, calling is the next step to take.

