


Two easy medals to work on are the Veteran and the Pet Academy Attendance badges. The former goes up monthly every time you log in, and the latter improves every time you check in at the pet school.;
, The higher your ranking is, the higher your game medal goes up. You meet a certain amount of points on the medal, and it levels up your user most of the time.
 Choose a certain pet and play pet games with it. Every time your pet wins games 30 times, you will get a pet trainer medal and it will level up.
 Press the mini quest button then do the daily challenge once per day. The more you do it the more you level up!

, Your medals improve every time you play.
 You participate in activities and games, and you get a medal for that holiday.
 Every other month, you can participate in invite-a-friend medals event, where you invite a friend you know to play Fantage for an hour, and you get a medal and you level up.
 There are a lot of missions, and you can level up a lot from those. Sometimes you can level up 10 just from doing one.
 If you give rare stickers, you have a better chance of gaining levels. Your sticker medal will go up and you will gain levels fast. You can give normal stickers out too, but have a lower chance to level.
 They are very fun, and they level you up quickly and get you lots of Stars! Participating in Beach fashion shows help as well for a separate badge.
 Whether you want to give good stickers or free ones you have left over from parties, it's a quick way to gain levels--as long as you're a member.
 If you get a lot of guests, you can get a medal.
 In pet town, you can buy pets for 200 stars each, and you have to have a certain setting. Once you put the egg in the barn, check on it every 15 minutes to make sure the setting is correct. It will say if its too hot or cold, or too bright or dark. Whatever. You can buy them with eCoins (aka magic codes) and it will hatch much faster.
 Both of these actions affect your Pet Walking a Pet Treat medals--the more treats and pets you get, the more your medals level up!

, If you do this everyday, you will get a pet attendance medal and it will go up after a certain amount of check-ins.
 Go to the island on Fantage, then go to the underwater tunnel. There you can buy seahorse catching costumes and catch seahorses. The costumes are available for members and nonmembers. By catching three to eight seahorses at a time (depending on the color), you can level up your seahorse catching medal.
 You can enter into fan art, writing, or comic contests. If you win any place in it, you will get a medal and level up. Even if you enter a lot, you will get a participants ribbon(medal) and level up also.

