 Once you start “The Last Straw” you will not be able to finish any incomplete missions. Not finishing some of the party members’ quests could result in them leaving your party.


If you want to keep as many people in your party as possible, work to get 100% friendship with all of them. Only Anders will not stay on your side if you complete all of the companion quests and max out their approvals.;
, After the cut scene where the Grand Cleric dies, you are forced to make a choice. To become Viscount, you must choose “I will support the Templars” when Meredith tells you to pick a side.


You will hear the opinions of most of your party once you make this choice.
 Orsino will tell you to think carefully. Choose “I've already made my choice.” From here on out, everything that happens is a result of the decision to support the Templars, but no matter what you do or who is in your party, you will become Viscount at the end of the game.
 Considering what helping the Templars means for all of the mages in the game, it is actually a very difficult decision to make, but Orsino is not a good man, as you will find out whichever side you take.


You also get Cullen on your side throughout the rest of the game, and consequently the other Templars will help you as you go through The Gallows killing mages.
 If your relationship with Merrill is high enough, she will decide that you are doing what is best under the worst circumstances and will stay in your party. If your friendship is not strong or if you are rivals, she will likely leave your party.
 If you don’t kill him now, you will have to kill him later in The Gallows. You can ask the others what they think before you make the final decision, but you should already know exactly how they feel about this. You can also tell him to join you, but he will refuse.


“Get out of here” allows him to attack you and the party later.
“Then you die” saves you from fighting him later, but he is more than happy to be martyred for his cause.
 If your sibling is a Grey Warden, you will encounter Bethany/Carver after deciding what to do with Anders. You can either accept your sibling into the party or reject the extra help.
 After the first wave of fighting, you will face Anders if you had not killed him earlier. He will apologize for things not working out in response to your telling him you spared his life.


You will also encounter Merrill if she left your side. If you have a decent relationship and you finished her quest, you can persuade her to rejoin your party.
 You will be given the opportunity to spare them.


If you ask for Cullen’s opinion he will bring up what happened in Ferelden, and will say that it was a worse situation, but still mages were allowed to live.
If you say to spare the mages, Cullen will order the Templars to take them away instead of killing them.
It really doesn't matter what you do here as it will not affect your becoming Viscount.
 Meredith will help you kill him after you find out he was helping the man who killed your mother (siding with the Templars isn't as horrible as it at first feels).
 It will be where Meredith will tell Cullen and the Templars to kill you. When they refuse she attacks everyone.
 Once the fight is over, the Templars will bow to you and you will get your title.

