 Coffee is known to be a great fertilizer and soil improver. It’s especially good for acid-loving plants, such as blueberries, azaleas and rhododendron. It’s also good for keeping blue hydrangeas blue. Many coffee loving gardeners keep a pot in the kitchen to store used grounds for use in the garden. To use coffee grounds:


Sprinkle used coffee grounds around the base of your plants, where the grounds will also act as mulch. Avoid putting the coffee over the exposed rhizomes of plants such as iris as this could lead to rot.
Alternately you can add a few cups of used coffee grounds to a watering can (pick one with a wide spout or it will clog a fine watering rose or narrow spout). Cover the grounds with water and let the mixture sit for a few days before using it.
 Seaweed is a great source of plant nutrients, especially potassium, and there is evidence that plants sprayed with seaweed tea can resist insects more effectively than other plants. Seaweed tends to lack other nutrients such as nitrogen and phosphate, so in very poor soils you may like to supplement this fertilizer with other fertilizing agents to balance the soil.Seaweed should be used in the same way you would use manure. However, unlike fresh manure, it does not need to be rotted down first.
Dig it into the garden before it dries out. Chop it up a little if your seaweed is in very long tangled strands. You don’t need to worry about the salt content as it is usually too low to affect your plants and soil.
You can also make seaweed tea in a similar manner to comfrey tea, but leave the mixture to infuse for two months.
 Roses benefit from the potassium in bananas. Once you’ve eaten the fruit, lay two or three strips of peel under your roses and cover with mulch such as a three inch layer of well-rotted manure.
 When potting up tomato plants, improve the soil by using a cup of shredded comfrey leaves and a cup each of crushed eggshells and powdered milk.Stir this into ten cups of compost and use for your plant tomatoes.

