 To start, you'll want to remove the synthetic hair from the bag it came in. This can be difficult, as synthetic hair is fine and often somewhat tangled or bunched up when packaged. Slowly remove small bunches of hair at a time, smoothing them out as you go and removing any fuzzy bits.You may have to periodically use your fingers, or a doll comb, to comb through tangled bits of synthetic hair. It can get tangled easily.
Keep removing small bunches of hair and smoothing them out until you have a long line of synthetic hair.
 Once you've removed and sorted through the synthetic hair, you can now cut the hair to the length appropriate for your doll. Cut the doll hair to the length you desire. The hair will drape over the doll’s head so cut the hair to twice the length that the doll’s hair length will be.Synthetic hair can sometimes be difficult to cut, as it's often unwieldy to handle. Dampening the hair may help it stay together more, allowing you to better judge where to cut.
 Wrap the strands of hair tightly around your pointer and middle finger, with the center of the strands exposed. This means you should wrap the hair so the midpoint of the hair is resting on your index finger. Apply a thin layer of tacky glue vertically across the center of the strands. Make sure you are covering as many strands as possible.If you're struggling to move the glue in a straight line, ask a friend to do this part for you. It may be hard to hold the hair with one hand and maneuver the glue with the other.
 Before the tacky glue dries, place a sewing needle along the line of glue you just applied. It helps to pinch the hair together underneath the needle, as close to the needle as possible. This process is a means to force the glue to seep through the hair, gluing all the strands together at the center. Hold the needle there while the tacky glue dries.Once again, this may be difficult to do on your own. If you're struggling to hold the needle in one hand, and the hair in the other, ask a friend for help.
 Once the glue is dry, carefully remove the needle by sliding it out from the bundle of hair. When the needle has been removed you can flip the hair over. You should have hair with two distinctive halves and a dip in the center where your needle had been.As with the other steps, you can ask a friend for help here. It may be helpful to have a friend hold the hair in place as you slide the needle out.
 Now you need to apply the hair to the doll’s head. Use tacky glue for plastic dolls and hot glue for dolls made from fabric. Be careful not to use too much glue because it will seep through the synthetic hair and create knots in the hair. A small amount of glue is enough to hold the hair in place.Apply a thin line of tacky glue to the center of the doll’s head. Press the center strip of the hair (where your needle was) to this line of glue so the strip looks like the part in the hair. Keep it pressed there until the glue dries.
Lift one side of the hair up at the part and apply a thin line of glue, spreading it around the side of the head. Just a tiny bit of glue is enough. Lay the hair back down and let it dry. Repeat this on the other side.
Press all the hair down so the glue can bond to the hair.
 It's time to style the doll's hair however you want. You can curl it, braid it, put it in a ponytail, or cut it shorter. Since the hair is synthetic, be sure you test the style on a lock of extra hair to make sure it holds correctly and doesn't damage the hair. This is especially important if you're applying heat, as you don't want to melt the hair.

