 Nasal saline drops and sprays have both been shown to be effective in clearing mucus, reducing congestion, and improving breathing.The choice between drops or spray comes down to which your child tolerates better. The type of saline mixture that works best, on the other hand, depends on the nature of your baby’s stuffy nose:


Isotonic solutions have the same salt concentration as human blood and cells.They are better for children suffering from colds or allergies.You can purchase them, or to make your own, combine 1 cup of warm water with ½ a teaspoon of salt and a pinch of baking soda.Hypertonic solutions have a higher concentration of salt than the average human blood and cells.They are better for children with chronic congestion.You can purchase them, or to make your own, combine 1 cup of warm water with 1.25 teaspoons of salt and ¼ teaspoon of baking soda.Hypotonic solutions have a lower concentration of salt than human blood and cells. They usually aren't effective at reducing nasal symptoms.;
, You will be touching both the saline and your child’s nose, and you don’t want to introduce any new germs.Wash your hands with soap and water for about 20 seconds, or the time it takes to sing "Happy Birthday" twice.If you can't wash your hands, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol. Hand-washing is always preferable, though.
 You can cradle your baby in your arm or place him or her on a flat surface. You will need to keep your child in this position for 5 minutes after delivering the drops, so make sure you're both comfortable., Hold your baby’s head back gently but firmly, as you may get some resistance. Place the tip of the dropper or spray just into your baby’s nostril, without actually touching the nose. If you are using a spray, spray once or twice into each nostril; if you are using drops, insert 3 drops into each nostril., This allows the drops to flow into the nasal passage. If your baby starts to cough, help him or her to sit up., After you use the spray or drops, your baby may sneeze, releasing mucus. Sometimes, instead, the mucus simply runs out on its own. Either way, wipe it away with a soft cloth.
 If nothing happens, repeat the process. The second application should produce some response and possible relief.
 Be sure to rinse the tip with warm tap water to remove any germs., Using saline too much can irritate your child’s nasal passages.