 Baby hair has a “mind” of its own. Sometimes insisting on sticking straight up or giving the appearance that the child has put his or her finger in a light socket, wild and crazy baby hair can be both charming but also somewhat disconcerting.

Find a good baby shampoo that will tame fly-aways. Tame that wild hair with some extra special baby shampoo void of toxins and unnatural compounds. Some gentle but effective shampoos in North America include Mrs. Meyers, Johnson’s and Aubrey Organics. For other areas, ask your local pharmacist or health food store for recommendations.
Consider an adorable Mohawk if your baby’s hair naturally flares upward or add small bows for girls. Can’t seem to tame the “wild hair beast?” Go with the flow and let the hair chips fall where they may. Use a soft stretch hair tie to gather wispy baby hairs into an adorable ponytail or pigtails or let your lad look rad with a Mohawk. Don’t add gel or anything unnatural to his hair––simply wash and sculpt, since it most likely sticks up already.
If you aren’t enjoying the bald look, try cute hats or stretchy headbands. Bald babies are cute without the hair, however if you want something for his or her head, consider adorable baby bonnets, a baby baseball cap (with your favorite team) or a stretchy headband.
Gently remove cradle cap with a dab of baby oil. If your baby has cradle cap, remove the flakes using a dab of baby oil on a cotton ball. Gently brush the cotton across the cradle cap until it loosens the flakes. Wash baby’s hair to remove the oil.;
, Baby-soft skin is sweet and tender, so you’ll need to take care when addressing baby acne or other small blemishes. And if there is nothing wrong with your baby's skin, let it speak for itself without adding anything much to it.

Tend to baby acne. Never pick or scrub baby acne has it will clear up on its own in a few weeks. The only way to address baby acne is to wash it with mild baby soap, rinse and pat dry.
Apply sweet smelling baby lotion to keep baby’s skin supple and soft. Even though baby powder smelling lotion won’t help your baby to look cuter, it will certainly address the olfactory senses.

Bathe the baby on a regular basis. Choose a moisturizing baby wash when bathing baby. Make bath time fun time and gently wash between adorable baby fat folds to ensure your child is clean. And stay with your baby at all times; a baby in a bath needs constant attention to avoid mishaps.
 One of the easiest ways to increase the cute factor is to select outfits that will bring out your baby’s sweet little face and mannerisms. The sky is the limit with baby outfits but do keep your budget in mind and be sure to check out the upcycled or recycled baby clothing options in your neighborhood––after all, they grow very fast at this time of life. Things to look out for include:

Adorable accessories. From fun little hats to special bibs, you can dress your baby to the nines with complementary accessories. Bibs with cute sayings on them like "Grandma's Joy" or "Tax Deduction" are a definite must. And bonnets have ever been the mainstay of baby cuteness for centuries––knit or crochet your own, perhaps with large flowers for a girl or with animals' ears for a boy.
Cute baby shoes. Add a crowning piece to your child’s outfit with a cute pair of kicks. Many designers like Converse and Nike make shoes for children as early as birth and offer an endless selection of styles and colors. Try not to spend too much on shoes though––until the baby can walk properly, they're only for looks.
Sweet pajamas and robes. Cute outfits don’t have to stop during the day––make bedtime a charming endeavor and pick up adorable footie pajamas or a sweet, flowing nightgown for your baby girl.
 A cute baby is often a happy baby. While most parents do what they can to keep their baby happy, sometimes the baby isn’t feeling his or her best. By sticking to a schedule and addressing your baby's nutritional and emotional needs, he or she will be happier and smile a little more often.

Attend to your baby's dietary needs. Some babies have specific dietary needs and may be allergic to certain formula or baby food (if you're not breastfeeding). Even breast-fed babies may get a little cranky if mom recent ate something spicy or not within her usual dietary menu.
Make sure that your baby is getting enough sleep. Your baby is growing by leaps and bounds so sleep is a priority in his/her life. Be sure your child is getting naps and a restful sleep at night so that he or she is fresh and happy to face the day.
Play and interact with your baby. Introduce your baby to new people on an going basis so he or she gets used to seeing new faces and reacting to new people.
 Although you certainly don’t want your child to be a one-baby sideshow, teaching your child new skills that may help with motor development can end up being extremely adorable. Some fun things the two of you can learn together include:

Clapping hands. One of the early motor skills you can teach a baby is to clap his or her hands. An easy way to teach your child to clap is to play “patty cake” and guide his or her hands together until it is possible for your child to do it alone.
Saying a few words, but in baby talk. As toddlerhood approaches, your child may learn a few basic words, which typically may come out sounding incredibly cute. Words like “bye bye” or “thank you” are some of the sweetest sounds when uttered by a baby. Encourage the talking by responding with your own talk (baby talk back is not necessary, not even recommended; babies learn from real words).
React to a gesture or sound. From looking surprised in reaction to a loud noise to giggling uncontrollably to a funny face, find the trigger that makes your child squeal with delight for the ultimate in cuteness. Often a funny noisy toy or one that lights up will cause laughter from a baby.
 Finally, but most importantly, take enough photos to remember what will pass all too soon. Your baby is a miracle, a wonder and a permanent treasure in your life. And one day, when your little miracle is refusing to do his or her homework or won't come home until well after curfew, pulling out an album filled with cute baby shots will reassure you that you're doing the right thing and that your child is still the most wonderful person in your world.

In our digital age, you're free to take as many photos as you'd like. Indulge freely and sort out the best when it's convenient.




 Props can make baby seem cuter

Use props. The cuteness factor can be increased through the addition of such items as fairy wings, stuffed animals, laundry baskets, blankets, toys, pets, etc. Whatever you choose, just make sure it's both safe and comfortable for your baby to be on/in/next to/touching, etc.
Photoshop your little work of art. Even more cuteness can be achieved by cropping, changing backgrounds, removing red eye, etc. It's a good idea to do this close to the time you take the photos, when you have the greatest motivation.
Arrange in an album (or several). This is the best way to show off your cute baby. And uploading to a digital photo frame is an excellent way to let guests and friends see an array of cute baby shots every time they visit. You could also consider sharing photos online but that's up to your personal preferences.
 What is cuter than one baby? It's a bunch of babies. Whether for photos or for a get-together with other moms, placing your baby amid other babies will increase the cute factor by however many babies are there. This isn't a competition––it's an awesome baby parade!