 A guy doesn't want to be with someone who complains, is angry, or is really mean towards them. Try to be as nice as you can, but still be yourself. An example on how you can do this is letting him borrow a pencil or pen, holding the door for this person, and so on. But make sure you do this in general as well, or it will seem REALLY obvious.;
, Start by saying good morning, and "see you tomorrow" and also try to sit near him in groups so you can tell jokes, and talk. If your locker is near his, drop the occasional compliment, joke or question. You could ask, "Hey, when do we have that social studies test?" Or, "Nice shirt, I like that band/animal/tv show"

, Walk with your head high, one foot in front of the other, smile, and walk by him with a nice smelling perfume. Wave at him from time to time, but dont' be needy. Flirt by teasing him a bit, stealing his pencil and playing with it, taking his glasses and trying them on, goof around and just have fun! This person isn't another species, think of this person as a friend, so don't be awkward.
 If that dance is coming up, or a movie is coming out that you two might like, be approachable. if you really want to go to this dance, just talk to your friends when you're near him and be like "I can't wait to see this movie. But I don't want to go alone, because then I'll seem forever alone hahaha" And laugh with your friends. This will open an option for him, and he can ask you.
 Don't go up to him and say. "Want to come to the movie with me?" You can do that, but it'll seem needy and kind of weird. When you guys are having a conversation, bring up that you saw a trailer for (insert movie title here) and it seems so interesting. Say when it's coming out, and you really want to go. And if he doesn't ask you then and there, be casual and continue talking.
 Ask him. Like stated before, don't just tell him straight up. While you're talking, just mention the thingy of choice and say that no one wants to come, and ask him. "Hey, you wanna come with me?" Be CASUAL. That's how you don't be needy.
 If you usually wear make up, wear it, if you don't, try to use just lip balm and a little mascara, these two can really make you so cute!

, Sit next to each other on the bus, or wherever you're using to get there, smile, and occasionally look at his lips. This will slightly drop the hint you like him. Graze his hand a few times, and act like it was nothing, and just keep on walking.
 Keep the conversation going during the movie/dance/event bring up would you rather questions, cool facts, and try not to be too weird. Haha.
 If you two are alone, waiting for the bus, at a park, or a movie, somewhere a bit private, and comfortable, talk about your crushes. Ask him if he likes someone. If he says no, then your chances are 50/50 with that one. If he says yes, theres a bit more of a possibility that he likes you. Then say that you yourself like someone. If they ask who, keep quiet and laugh/giggle. Say that if you tell them who their crush is, they tell yours. If it's the other way around, he might think that you like someone else and just want to know who he likes. Doing it that way will make it seem easier for him. "I like you!" just say it. Don't think about the bad stuff if you DO say it, just think that you're in line for a roller coaster and have to say you want to ride it, that's it, just say you like him. flat out.
 you two can date now! Nice Job!

, "My mom says I have to leave now, bye see you tomorrow!" And wave goodbye.

