 There are times when you are so used to doing everything in a hurry that you don’t notice how fast-paced your life has become. Simply reading the words, “Slow down,” will allow you to pause for a moment and notice. This step is mentioned first so you will carry the thought with you throughout this article and beyond.


Avoid multi-tasking. It has become popular, if not clichéd, to multi-task. Research indicates that there is a point where the quality of what you are doing declines when you try to focus on too many tasks at once.Just because everyone is doing it doesn’t mean you have to.
Find your threshold of diminishing return on the number of tasks you can work on. Your goal is to do things well so you can feel good about your accomplishments.
Do nothing as if it were something. There is an art to doing nothing. Many people struggle with taking time to pause and regroup. Even if you take a five minute break to do nothing, do it.;
, If you have current commitments to do something, then follow through until the tasks or events are complete. However, from this point forward take on fewer commitments. You may struggle at first, but focus your intent on simplifying your life, which will bring about peace. Allow the eventual goal to motivate you and quiet your feelings of guilt.


Limit the amount of times you say, “Yes” by keeping a tally on your calendar. First, determine your “comfort level” for how many events you can peacefully manage. Second, stick to that number. No one can always be the good guy who says, “Yes.”
When you are asked to participate in an event, do not quickly answer. Pause for a moment to discern if the event will enrich your life. If it won’t you can say, “Thank you for inviting me, but I need to pass.”
Develop an ability to say, “no” by communicating your intent. There are times when some people will not take “no” for an answer. This is your cue to share a bit more information with the person to set your boundary.Consider saying something like, “You are so kind to think of me, but I’m making some changes in my life that are really important to me, my family and my health so I am going to have to decline.” The person will likely support your decision.
 The concept of conspicuous consumption may describe your life. It entails lavish or wasteful spending that attempts to show others your level of social prestige.Simplifying your life will drastically cut into the amount of “extras” you have grown accustom to. The goal is to cut out the extra expenses so you won’t be tied down by financial obligations.


Question if you really need that third ipad or newest electronic gadget, or twice-a-day trip through the coffee retailer drive-thru. Just say “no” to yourself, and “yes” to your desire to live a simpler and more peaceful life. Each time you are faced with a decision, you can make a good decision.
Find fulfillment in the simple things in life by spending time with friends, in nature, or building something with your own two hands. Intrinsic rewards will improve your motivation and overall satisfaction with your life., People create their world around them and fill it with items. If you want to simplify your life, survey your surroundings and get organized. A well-organized home is a healthy home. Eliminating surplus items that you no longer use will help declutter your home, your emotions and your thoughts.When your exterior world is free of clutter, so is your interior world.


Take a minimum of 10 minutes a day to organize your surroundings.
Use the weekend or your days off to take on bigger projects like cleaning closets, drawers and garages.
Sort your items into three categories: Keep; donate; and throw away. Giving away lightly used items to charitable organizations gives others an opportunity to enjoy the items and provides jobs for the workers who process the donations. With each donation you make you are helping the community, which enhances your self-esteem.