 Although it may seem surprising, it is indeed possible for women who are not or have not been pregnant to produce breast milk. This is usually undertaken by a mother who wishes to feed her adopted baby.


The body's production of breast milk is usually triggered by the complex interactions between three hormones - estrogen, progesterone and prolactin - during pregnancy.
If the production of these hormones can be mimicked through physical stimulation and/or hormone supplements, then breast milk can be produced outside of pregnancy.Prolactin ( the main hormone involved in milk production) is produced in the pituitary gland, not the ovaries. Therefore, it is possible for women to induce lactation even if their uterus has been removed. However, the induced lactation process is usually more successful in women who have previously been pregnant.
The induced lactation process can take several months, so it is a good idea to begin the process as soon as you have an idea of your adopted baby's arrival date. Adoptive mothers have the greatest chance of their baby "latching-on" successfully if the baby is younger than three months.;
, Inducing the production of breast milk is a huge undertaking, so the pros and cons should be carefully weighed before any final decisions are made.



Pros: Obviously the main advantage of producing your own breast milk is the benefit it will have for the baby. Breast milk contains important antibodies, proteins, fats and vitamins that will help your baby to grow and gain weight, and fight off infections and disease. In addition, breast feeding is wonderful, intimate way for mother and baby to bond. This is especially true when the baby is adopted, as the bonding process can take time. This is also the most natural method of feeding your baby, and can eliminate the need to use store-bought formulas which may contain chemicals.Cons: The major drawbacks of induced lactation mainly involve the time and effort required to be successful. Stimulating the production of milk requires huge dedication and commitment, as breast pumping and stimulation needs to be performed 6 to 12 times a day, including night-time sessions which involve waking up in the early a.m. This process can be painful and uncomfortable on your breasts, and if you're using hormone therapies, you may experience mood swings and disruptions to your menstrual cycle., Before you begin the process of inducing lactation, it's important to aware of what will happen to your body, and the possible side effects.


The side effects of induced lactation will be more severe if you are taking hormones, as you are essentially tricking your body into thinking you are pregnant. You can expect enlarged breasts, swollen or sore nipples and irregular menstruation.
You will probably experience fatigue and increased hunger, as your body believes it is eating for two. You should increase your calorie intake by about 200 calories per day, but try to make healthy food choices in order to minimize weight gain.
You may also experience mood swings and periods of depression and anger. This is why it is helpful to have a supportive partner, friend or family member to help you through the process and to remind you of the importance of the end goal. Your sex drive may also be affected by the hormones.

