 Your physical body isn’t the only part of you that can benefit from natural remedies. People take medications for ailments of the mind like anxiety and depression, and essential oils can be used for mental problems as well. The aroma of many different oils can boost your mood and clear your mind.Oils like bergamot, frankincense, and lavender may banish the blues of depression.
Anxiety may be relieved with many different oils, but one reliable mixture is lavender, ylang ylang, and bergamot.
Clary sage may clear your mind and make you feel calm.
The aromatherapy practice of essential oils includes several different mediums. You can put a few drops on a piece of cloth and hold it to your nose; you can place a few drops in an essential oil diffuser, which is a small version of a cool mist humidifier; or you can place a few drop of oil in boiling water or a bowl of dry rice.
 Specific herbs can help you feel better if you are depressed or feeling stressed. Herbs for mental health can be taken as both extracts (usually dropped into a tea) or in pill form as supplements. Not all herbs do this, but if you find the right ones, you may start improving your quality of life.For example, the extract of holy basil (usually available in health food stores) can be added to tea and sipped at home. Holy basil reduces stress by increasing adrenaline and decreasing serotonin levels.
St. John’s wort can help boost mood and relieve anxiety because of the phytochemical hypericin. Just alert your doctor before use because it can interact with several medications.
 Food has a profound effect on the way we feel and think. When you eat a lot of simple sugars, blood sugar spikes may wreck your mood. On the other hand, the complex carbs of whole grains and the steady energy from lean protein levels your blood sugar supply. Likewise omega 3 fatty acids have been shown to reduce symptoms of schizophrenia and depression. In general, what we eat may be an important part of treating mental troubles.Whole grains such as oats, brown rice, and barley may be good for the mind.
Lean protein like chicken and turkey provide amino acids for the brain to use. Turkey’s famous by-product, tryptophan, produces serotonin.
Omega 3 fatty acids can be found in foods like fish and walnuts.
 Low levels of specific vitamins are linked to mood disorders like depression. For example, vitamin D deficiency is key for bone health, but it is also important because the brain actually contains vitamin D receptors and they are located in areas of the brain associated with depression., Exercise in general helps to relieve stress, and when you couple this with the body mechanics that are encouraged at most holistic practitioners, you are assured some release of stress. For example, massage therapy uses human touch to relieve tension in muscles, but also releases emotional tension.