 The longer the blades, the less control you have, so aim for something on the shorter end.If the actual cutting part of the scissors is around 2.5 inches (roughly 6.5cm), that should work well.


Some stylists even recommend using cuticle scissors, but you will likely have more luck achieving this particular style of fringe (i.e. the blunt style) with a pair of scissors that are specifically designed for cutting hair.
If you do use cuticle scissors, ensure that they are not curved, as this will likely make it more difficult for you to cut where you want to cut.
 Make sure it has no product in it. If it is naturally wavy, use a straightening iron on your bangs before you begin to cut them.
 If you already have bangs and are just looking to reshape them into Taylor Swift’s blunt look, ignore this step. Depending on the shape of your head and face, if you pull your bangs into a ponytail that drops down over your face, the part around your bangs (where you can see your scalp) will resemble a rounded triangle, with the wide base of the triangle being where your hairline meets your forehead.


Exactly how long (i.e. how far back on your head) and wide (i.e. how far it spans across your forehead) that triangle is depends on your facial shape. Look in a mirror and experiment with different lengths and widths until you find the section of hair that best works for you.

Be very careful not to go too wide. If you’re unsure, start narrow and move outward. A good rule of thumb is to stick to the hairline on top of your head, and leave the hairline along the sides of your face alone.


Once you find a shape that you're happy with, tie it with an elastic to make a ponytail that hangs down the middle of your face. Pull down on the ponytail very gently (if you pull down hard, your hair will come out shorter than desired), and cut it so that your hair, when out of the ponytail, lands between your eyes and eyebrows (aim for somewhere in the middle).

Ultimately you’ll want your bangs to be just at eyebrow level, but you don't want to cut to that level right away. Give yourself some room to work with!



, Comb your bangs straight over your forehead, and then clip them together so that they don’t get pulled back with the rest of your hair. Pull the rest of your hair back into a tight ponytail. You can also use clips to hold that hair back if you prefer (or if you have shorter hair that can’t all be pulled back into a ponytail).
 You don’t need to clip these into separate sections, but you’ll want to work on the sections moving from one side to the next. This makes your hair easier to work with, and will give you nicer results than if you simply try to cut the whole chunk of hair at once.
 Do not pull your hair outward. Pull it downward. If you pull it outward or pull down too hard on your hair, your bangs will be too short. Remember this as you move to each section of your bangs.
 Hold your bangs between your pointer and middle fingers on one hand as you cut with the other. In small, one-centimeter increments, cut upward into your bangs, with high-quality short-bladed scissors, until you’ve reached the ideal length — so that the bangs hit your eyebrows.
 Once you’ve reached the ideal length, cut straight across your bangs. This is basically just trimming the jagged edges from the upward cutting. This should be a very small trim to the edges — think millimeters, not centimeters, at this point!

, To replicate Taylor Swift’s hair with these bangs, you would either straighten all of your hair with a flat iron for the purely straight look, or straighten just your bangs and then add light wave to the bottom of your hair for the wavy look.


To make the bottom of your hair wavy with a flat iron, start at the top of your hair, pull the iron about 40% of the way down your hair, then, holding the bottom of your hair lightly, twist the iron so that your hair is wrapped around it, with the bottom strand still coming out the bottom of the iron, then drag the iron down the rest of your hair until it reaches the end. Go more slowly for more defined curls.

To make curls with a flat iron that cover more of your head, start higher up on the hair strand — for instance, right away instead of 40% of the way down).



