 If the horse is young or spirited, it is most likely just bored by standing still. Similarly, a horse exposed to a new location, new people or animals, or even just a change in weather will often be less cooperative. The instructions below are only necessary for horses that persistently refuse to stand still, with no simple reason for their behavior.
 If the horse refuses to cooperate, try taking it to a different place. For example, mount in the arena if you normally mount in the stables. Sometimes, a horse may be distracted or agitated by something you do not even notice. If you can successfully train it in the new location, you may try again in other places. If possible, try to locate the issue, so you can either eliminate the problem or train for it.
 This includes the girth, saddle, martingale, breast collar, bridle and anything else you put on the horse. Fit means the right size, shape, and how and where you place them. If you're not sure how to check your tack, have an experienced rider help you.
 If your horse misbehaves when being mounted, he or she may dislike being mounted. Here are some factors to consider:


Do you get better results when you mount from a mounting block, or from the ground?
Does he cooperate better when other horses are around, or when he is alone?
Try to enter the saddle gently, if you currently slam down with force the horse may react strongly.
 A horse may resist being ridden if you are unbalanced, or if you keep yourself steady by pulling the reins. The best way to fix these issues is to enroll in a lesson with a good instructor.
 Some horses dislike certain types of riding. Give them something to enjoy instead:


If you never leave the school, try a ride outside it.
If you train only for one discipline, or spend all your time at one pace, switch it up a little. A horse that sweats and blows a lot is probably overworked, while a horse that strains may want to gallop.
If you spend all your time hacking alone, invite some friends alone.
 A persistent dislike of being mounted may suggest an unsound horse. Although a professional can be expensive, this may be your only option for a horse that hasn't improved after several weeks of training.

