 Don’t place all your worth in your appearance. Instead, think about the things that make you interesting and unique that don’t have to do with how you look. This can help lessen the need to control your eating or over-exercise.


Make a list of your positive attributes. This may be your sense of humor, your intelligence, or your caring nature. List things you are good at, like sewing, painting, or photography.
Keep this list with you. When you start feeling down, read the list to remind yourself that you have worth outside of your appearance.
 One of the worst things you can do with your eating disorder in college is to isolate yourself. It may be easy for you to just go to class and not interact with others. This may lead to skipping meals or binge eating in private, along with obsessive exercise behavior like hours in the gym. Join campus activities, make friends, or study in the student center. Go to the dining hall and sit with people from one of your classes.
If you find that you are isolating yourself, go to a support group.
 Many people with eating disorders exercise obsessively, and college offers that opportunity. It may be easy for you to spend hours in the gym without anyone noticing. However, try to avoid isolating behaviors.For example, use your walk between classes as daily activity.
Take a physical education class. Choose an activity that you’ve never tried, like dance or tennis.
Join an intramural sports team.
 The media has a negative effect on those with eating disorders because they present an unrealistic version of the way a body should look. Work on accepting that the people you see on television, in the movies, and in the news are not realistic. Don’t hold yourself to those same standards.


Remember that many women and men in magazines have been photoshopped or photographed in certain ways to make them look “perfect.” What you see isn’t always the truth of what the person looks like.
 If you have started to relapse, you should try to figure out what has caused the relapse. Is it school stresses? Did you just have a big exam or paper due? Is it due to social pressures? Figuring out what has caused a relapse can help you deal with or remove the source, and then get back on track. A small relapse is not the end of the world. Face your relapse, try to fix any problems that caused it, and then get back on your routine.
Try not to stress too much about relapsing because that could cause additional, unneeded stress.
Relapses can happen during eating disorder recovery. It doesn’t mean you are a failure or that you will never be better. Everyone has trouble from time to time. If you relapse, try to learn from it. Think about what you could have done differently and how you can more positively react to the same situation in the future.
Remember that you should take your recovery one step at a time.

