 If you crave a cold, creamy, and sweet food, frozen yogurt can be a healthier option.


While labeling laws require products sold as "ice cream" in America to be at least 10% milk fat from cream, frozen yogurt is not made from cream and does not have a fat content requirement. It is made from cultured milk.Not all frozen yogurt is created equally, and some varieties can contain as much fat or sugar as ice cream. Be sure to compare labels to ensure that the brand you buy is a healthier choice.;
, A simple but surprisingly delicious treat, banana swirl is made by peeling and freezing ripe bananas, and then blending them in a food processor or blender until they reach a similar consistency to soft-serve ice cream.


Compared to a cup of ice cream, which can contain 300 or more calories, a cup of banana swirl only contains about a hundred calories. In addition, a cup of banana swirl is packed with nutrients like potassium and fiber.
Try adding a pinch of cinnamon or a small squeeze of chocolate syrup to make your banana swirl an even more delectable treat.
You can also use any other fruits you like for a more traditional fruit smoothie, but nothing beats banana for texture and sweetness that mimics ice cream without added sugar.
 If you find yourself craving ice cream consistently, it could be that your body is telling you that you need more dairy or that you have a deficiency in the nutrients in dairy.


An 8 ounce glass of chocolate milk has about 158 calories and 2.5 grams of fat, but also provides you with much-needed potassium, protein, calcium, and Vitamin D.A glass of chocolate milk is sweet and filling, and may make you forget your craving for ice cream altogether.
 When you do eat ice cream, measure out your portion sizes. One serving of ice cream is typically half a cup or one scoop. This serving is acceptable to eat as an occasional treat. You should never eat an entire pint of ice cream in one sitting.

For example, half a cup of vanilla ice cream typically has around 145 calories.This is all right to eat once in a while as a dessert, and it will not necessarily ruin a healthy diet. But if you eat an entire pint (which is two cups), you are eating around 580 calories in one sitting.

