 Is your dog Biscuit on Facebook? Does Vilos Cohaagen, the Mars Administrator villain from the movie Total Recall have a Pinterest presence? If you're feeling bored online, all you need is a free email account to start a new Facebook fan page or some other kind of social networking account. As long as you're not using it to slander, there's nothing wrong with starting a tribute or fan page.


Try to make it as accurate as possible. Update your dog's Twitter account regularly, every time he seems to be thinking something ridiculous: "who's foot is that oh yeah it's mine. #four is a confusing number of feet"

, Got a YouTube account and access to a webcam? Think of a cool video to put on YouTube and start making one. Rummage through your purse and record a "What's in my purse" video, or review a recent candy that you brought, or a television show you watched, or a trailer you saw. Or start vlogging and vent to the camera.
 Do you have opinions? Even if you don't, there's an outlet for venting them online. Open a Yelp account and review something absurd, like Walmart. How many stars is the local Gas Station out of five stars? What about that recent used DVD copy of Jean Claude Van Damme's "Bloodsport" you got? Write up a serious review and post it on Amazon.


From Gummy Bears to Banana Slicers, there are viral review topics on a regular basis. Find something that's getting trolled currently and chip in.
 Have a conversation with an old friend online if you're feeling bored. In all seriousness, this can be a great way to

, If you're stuck at home and have an itch to go shopping, you can window shop just as you might at the mall. Check out your favorite clothes retailers, record stores, or other retailers online and just never click "buy." It can be a fun way to daydream.
 Easy way to pass the time? Cue up some of your favorite tunes and start banging your head. Cue some of the latest up on iTunes or YouTube or start a Pandora account to listen to new sounds that you might not have heard yet.

