 Some foods that provide the nutrients and calories necessary to sustain your pregnancy also soothe morning sickness. But don't be too concerned if your diet isn't as balanced as you'd like it to be during early pregnancy. Many women have a very short list of foods they can tolerate during the first trimester.The starch in whole grains and legumes reduces acid in your digestive tract, making nausea less severe. Combine complex carbohydrates with lean protein for an energy boost that may improve your condition. Examples of whole grains include whole wheat bread and corn. Examples of legumes include beans and peas. Lean protein can include any cut of meat or poultry where the fat has been trimmed, or meat alternatives such as tofu.Bland crackers will settle your stomach when you can't keep other foods down.;
, Fresh ginger is an alternative remedy for all types of nausea, and is safe for pregnant women to consume. Grate ginger root and sprinkle it into tea or seltzer water. You may also bake it into cookies. Store bought ginger ale or ginger candy can help, but read labels to make sure products are derived from pure ginger instead of artificial flavoring., Preparing small meals and snacks, and frequently consuming them, can help to reduce nausea. Overeating or gorging on food infrequently will increase the feelings of nausea right after you eat.Hunger pangs may trigger nausea, so try to start eating before you feel hungry, or immediately after you feel an urge for food.
Do not overeat. Eat until you are satisfied, then wait until the urge for food returns before you continue eating.
 The types of food that trigger nausea change from person to person and can even change throughout the course of your pregnancy. So, it is important to monitor the types of foods that make you nauseous during the different phases of your pregnancy and avoid them.Foods to steer clear of include fatty foods, spicy foods, foods with a strong odor and foods with unappealing texture. Foods you previously enjoyed may seem unappetizing during early pregnancy, and you should avoid eating foods that make you feel nauseous when you think about or smell them.Do not drink alcohol at any time during pregnancy. Besides subjecting the fetus to birth defects, it also exacerbates nausea.
 Doctors recommend that you drink at least 1.5 quarts (1.4 liters) of water per day to keep yourself hydrated and prevent vomiting.If food often seems unappetizing, drink small amounts of water throughout the day. Carbonated seltzer water might be more soothing to your stomach than plain water.
Make sure you are not chugging water first thing in the morning. Try keeping some saltines on the bedside table, nibble them in the morning, and wait at least 30 minutes after waking up to consume any water.
 The nutrients in your vitamins can overwhelm your digestive system and make nausea worse, so make sure to eat before you take the vitamins and drink plenty of water before, with and after taking your vitamins.If your prenatal vitamin still bothers you when taken with a meal, talk to your physician about switching to a less potent vitamin until your nausea spells subside.
Some prenatal vitamins contain extra vitamin B6 to combat nausea.
 Vitamin B6 can help control nausea. Try eating foods rich in vitamin B6, such as chicken breast, beef, chickpeas, potatoes, and bananas.You can also talk to your doctor about taking a B6 vitamin — 100mg twice daily should help with nausea.

Vitamin B6 supplements can be combined with ½ tablet of Unisom (doxylamine) — this combination nearly mimics an FDA approved morning sickness/nausea medication called Diclegis.
Do not use doxylamine if you are still breastfeeding another baby.

