 Before you begin mixing your dough, turn on the oven and set it to 375 degrees Fahrenheit. Allow it to heat up to this temperature completely before you place the cookies in the oven.;
, Measure out 1 cup of powdered sugar and pour it into a large mixing bowl. Then, crack six eggs and add these to the bowl as well. Use a hand mixer or stand mixer to combine the eggs and sugar.








Start out by mixing the ingredients on low and then increase the speed after the powdered sugar is mostly incorporated with the eggs. This will help to prevent powdered sugar from flying everywhere.
Mix the sugar and eggs until they reach a fluffy consistency. This will take about 5 to 10 minutes.
 Next, measure out ½ a cup of melted butter. Add the melted butter to the egg and sugar mixture. You can use a hand mixer or stand mixer to combine melted butter with the eggs and sugar.








Mix for about 30 seconds on a medium speed.
 Pour ¼ cup of milk into a liquid measuring cup, such as a glass measuring cup with score lines on the side. Then, place the milk in the microwave for about 5 to 10 seconds to warm it up.Pour the warm milk into the mixing bowl with the other ingredients, but don’t mix it in just yet.
 After you have added the milk, measure out 6 teaspoons of baking powder, 1 teaspoon of lemon extract, and a pinch of salt (about 1/8 of a teaspoon) and add these to the mixing bowl. Then, turn the mixer on medium speed and mix everything together.Run the mixer for about 1 to 2 minutes.
If you are not a fan of lemon, then try adding a different flavor to your cookies. Vanilla is a safe alternative that has a mild flavor.You could also try something more adventurous. For example, you could try almond, peppermint, anise, or coconut.
 Flour is the last ingredient that you will add to the mixing bowl. You will need to add 6 cups of flour to the bowl, so use a measuring cup and add the flour to the bowl. After you have added the flour, you can mix it in with the other ingredients using the mixer, a large spatula, or your hands.Keep mixing the ingredients until you form a stiff cookie dough.
Some wedding cookie recipes include ground nuts in the ingredients, such as almonds, pecans, or walnuts.If you would like to include nuts in your cookies, then try replacing 1 cup of flour with 1 cup of finely ground nuts. To grind the nuts, put them into a food processor or blender and grind until they reach a coffee ground like consistency.
 Line a cookie sheet with parchment paper or grease a cookie sheet with a bit of non-stick cooking spray. Then, begin rolling out the cookie dough and placing them onto the tray. Make the cookie dough balls so that they are a couple of inches in diameter.








Space the cookie dough balls out so that they are a few inches apart. This will help to prevent the cookies from touching and sticking together as the dough expands.
 Place the cookie sheet in the oven and bake them at 375 degrees Fahrenheit for 12 to 15 minutes. Set a timer to ensure that you do not forget about the cookies.








To check the cookies, stick a butter knife into one of them. If it comes out clean, then the cookies are done. If it has cookie dough on it, then allow them to bake for another minute or two.
Remember to use oven mitts when you remove the cookies from the oven or you will burn your hands.
Allow the cookies to cool for about 15 to 30 minutes before you decorate them. If they are too hot, then the frosting will melt.
 Some wedding cookie recipes include a frosting recipe, while others just direct you to roll the cookies in powdered sugar. If you want to make the frosting, then it is quite easy, but keep in mind that you also have the option of just rolling your finished cookies in some powdered sugar.


Some recipes also include a garnish such as sprinkling cinnamon over the cookies after you roll them in powdered sugar., While the cookies are baking, you can work on the frosting. First, add ½ of a cup of powdered sugar to a medium-sized mixing bowl. Next, measure out ¼ teaspoon of lemon extract and add it to the powdered sugar. Then, add ½ of a teaspoon of melted butter as well. Stir these ingredients together.You can use any flavor you like for your wedding cookies frosting. For example, you could substitute ¼ teaspoon of vanilla, almond, coconut, maple, or chocolate flavoring for the lemon extract.
 Slowly begin adding milk to the frosting mixture. Try starting with about a tablespoon and mix that in with a fork. Then, try adding more milk one teaspoon at a time until the frosting has the consistency of gravy.








Use a fork or whisk to mix the frosting.
If you accidentally add too much milk, then you can add more powdered sugar to balance it out. Add a tablespoon of powdered sugar at a time to thicken the frosting.
 After the frosting is at the right consistency, add in a few drops of food coloring in the color of your choice. You can even do multiple colors by dividing the frosting between a few bowls.








Add just a drop or two of food coloring to start and mix it in to check the color before you add any more.
You can also try mixing colors to create new ones, such as combining blue and red food coloring to make purple frosting, or yellow and red to create orange frosting.
 Make sure that your cookies are cool enough to decorate first. It is a good idea to let them cool for about 15 to 30 minutes before you start decorating. If you made frosting for your cookies, then start dipping the tops of the cookies in the frosting.You only have to dip the top of the cookie into the frosting. However, if you want to coat the entire cookie in frosting, then immerse the entire cookie into the frosting. Then, use a fork or a slotted spatula to pull the cookie back out and place it on a parchment lined tray.
Allow the frosting to set before serving the cookies. This may take up to an hour.
 If you prefer to roll your wedding cookies in powdered sugar instead of frosting them, then you can put about a cup of powder sugar onto a large plate or in a bowl. Then, roll each cookie in the powdered sugar to coat the top. You can use a fork to roll the cookies around in the powdered sugar or toss them around in a bowl of powdered sugar.


The cookies should still be a bit warm if you want to coat them in powdered sugar. Let them cool for about 5 minutes on the cookie tray and then roll or gently toss them around in the powdered sugar., If desired, you can also add a garnish to your cookies. You can garnish your cookies with a sprinkle of spice or cocoa powder, or you can garnish them with nuts or a piece of candy. Make sure that you add the garnish while the frosting is still a bit wet or when the powdered sugar is fresh.


Try sprinkling your cookies with ground cinnamon, nutmeg, or cocoa powder.Place a single nut or candy in the center of each cookie, such as an almond or an M&M.
Roll the cookie in ground nuts, shaved chocolate, or crushed toffee.

