 One of the best ways to help your eyebrows grow back is by refraining from using your tweezers until you have the desired thickness. It can be tempting to tweeze those stray hairs, but you'll only continue to carry on with your current eyebrow shape if you don't let them grow back. It takes about six to eight weeks for eyebrows to grow back so try to be patient. , Use an exfoliating sponge or a soft brush daily to remove dead skin cells from your eyebrows and to stimulate the hair follicles. Taking the sponge or brush, make soft, circular motions on your eyebrows.
 If your diet is lacking in vitamins and nutrients that you need to retain a healthy body, this could be one of the contributions to your lack of hair growth in your eyebrows. Try to keep your diet rich in Vitamin B, omega-3s, iron, protein, and zinc and always make sure you are drinking enough water. You can also take a Vitamin B supplement like Biotin to help hair growth. , Castor oil is an old remedy that helps stimulate eyebrow growth. Soak a cotton swab in castor oil and apply to your eyebrows each night. Leave the oil on overnight and in the morning wash it off with some cleanser. Changes may take place in three to four weeks.
 Coconut oil has many great benefits, one of which is that it's a natural moisturizer, and it also has the ability to speed up hair growth. Apply coconut oil to your finger tips and wipe on eyebrows, leaving overnight. In the morning, wash with warm water. , Olive oil is rich in vitamin E and thus can help stimulate hair growth. Measure out 1/2 teaspoon of olive oil and mix with a few drops of honey. Massage mixture into your eyebrows for a few minutes. Allow the mixture to set on your eyebrows for 30 minutes and then wash off with warm water.
 Because milk is high in Vitamin D, a nutrient that promotes hair growth, it can be beneficial to apply to your eyebrows. Dip a cotton ball in a glass of whole milk and apply to eyebrows, leaving the milk until it has dried. Then, rinse off with warm water. , If waiting patiently for your eyebrows to grow out or using natural methods hasn't produced any results, you can use a growth treatment to stimulate your hair growth. There are a number of growth treatments you can purchase for your eyebrows, so with adequate research you should be able to find one that corresponds to your desired thickness. 








Some growth treatments have been proven to work better than others. If you have done a lot of damage to your eyebrows by over tweezing, you may need to invest in a higher quality product. Latisse, Rogaine, and Viviscal are all popular treatments.
Keep in mind that while some treatments and serums are applied directly to eyebrows, some are consumed. Those consumed may help hair growth in your eyebrows, but they can also stimulate hair growth on other parts of your body so be prepared for this before you begin taking any treatments.
