 If previous attempts to deal with a hostile work environment have failed or you feel the situation is too serious to wait, set up a time to meet with your boss and discuss your concerns. To demonstrate that you are a team player and not a problem employee, try to address these issues in a way that is positive and diplomatic.


Don’t place blame or sound petty.
Instead, recommend concrete steps you would like supervisors to make to address your concerns and improve the workplace environment.
If you feel like your boss is responsible for the hostile work environment, it might be a good idea to talk with human resources personnel in your office or company.
 A human resources employee or representative can serve as a mediator and help resolve the workplace issues.


Remember, it’s to your benefit if you express your concerns in a calm manner and do not place blame.
Provide the documentation you've collected to support your claims.
 If you feel that a change of department, supervisor, or branch might improve your work situation and productivity, talk with human resources about this option. A small change like this could make a significant difference in your situation.Requesting the change in writing also serves as an important piece of documentation that you are trying to be proactive and resolve your situation in a professional manner.
 Meet with an attorney to discuss your concerns and ask them to send a letter articulating your grievances to your boss, a human resources manager, and the company’s legal department. Since many companies do not want to deal with potentially costly lawsuits or negative publicity, they might work harder to correct the problems and address your concerns about the work environment.
 If the letter from an attorney does not result in the changes you had hoped or you would prefer to file the lawsuit, meet with the attorney to explore the possibility of filing a hostile work environment lawsuit. To qualify for a claim, you need to prove the issues you encountered or observed at work were not isolated incidents, but rather occurred regularly, were intentional, and interfered with your ability to work.If the problem behavior constituted harassment, particularly sexual harassment, you do not have to demonstrate that it occurred regularly.Federal laws define harassment as unwelcome conduct based on race, color, religion, sex, age, disability, national origin, or genetic information.A licensed attorney will be able to help you determine if your workplace or work situation qualifies as being hostile from a legal standpoint.
 If attempts to resolve these issues are unsuccessful and you feel that remaining in your position is no longer an option, it might be time to move on. Find a company that respects its employees and creates a more welcoming environment that is conducive to productive work.It can be empowering and productive to begin networking and researching alternative career options or positions ahead of time.