 If your gastric ulcer was caused by an infection, your doctor will prescribe antibiotics. These will kill the bacteria so the ulcer can heal. Fortunately, you won't need to take antibiotics for a prolonged period of time.


You'll probably need to take antibiotics for two weeks.Be sure to take the full course of treatment so the bacteria doesn't return. Even if your symptoms resolve, this doesn't mean you can stop the medication. Make sure you take every single dose of antibiotics as instructed by your doctor.;
, You'll most likely need to take proton pump inhibitors which block stomach acid. Prescription or over-the-counter medications may include: omeprazole, lansoprazole, rabeprazole, esomeprazole, pantoprazole.Proton pump inhibitors do have some long-term side effects which include an increased risk of pneumonia, osteoporosis, and intestinal infections.
 Your doctor may also prescribe antacids to protect and heal your stomach lining.These can prevent stomach acid buildup and relieve pain from gastric ulcers. You may experience constipation or diarrhea as side effect.


Antacids treat the symptoms of gastric ulcer, but you'll need to take other medications to treat the cause of your gastric ulcer.
 Regularly taking NSAIDs (Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs) is one of the main causes of gastric ulcers. If you often use aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or ketoprofen, consider changing pain medications.Ask your doctor about using acetaminophen for pain relief since it's not associated with ulcers. Always follow the manufacturer's dosing instructions and don't take more than 3000 to 4000 mg a day.


Try not to take pain medications on an empty stomach. This can be hard on your stomach. Instead, take pain medications with a meal or snack.
 Smoking can contribute to ulcers by wearing down the protective lining of the stomach. It also increases stomach acid which can cause upset stomach (dyspepsia) and pain.The good news is that stopping smoking will have an immediate effect on these symptoms.Ask your doctor to recommend smoking cessation programs. You might join a support group or take medication to help you cut back on smoking., You should feel relief within two to four weeks after starting treatment, although it may take longer if you smoke. If you're not feeling better after four weeks, talk with your doctor. You may have an underlying condition or a refractory ulcer.


Be aware that many medications will need to be taken long-term. This is why it's important to watch for side effects and talk with your doctor if you have concerns., Although symptoms of stomach ulcers can vary from person to person, pain is a common symptom. You may have pain in the area just below your rib cage near the center of your chest. In fact, you might notice pain anywhere from your belly button up towards your breastbone.Don't be surprised if the pain comes and goes. It might be worse at night, if you're hungry, or it may go away and return weeks later.
 In addition to pain, you may experience nausea, vomiting, or bloating. These can be caused by damaged stomach walls where the ulcer has formed. Then, when your stomach secretes acid it needs to digest food, the acid irritates and damages the ulcer even more.


In severe cases, you may vomit blood or notice blood in your stools., You should be able to spot "red flags" or warning signs of an ulcer.If you have any of these symptoms along with stomach pain, call your physician or 911 right away:


Fever
Severe pain
Diarrhea that lasts longer than two to three days
Persistent constipation (longer than two to three days)
Blood in the stools (which can appear red, black, or tarry)
Persistent nausea or vomiting
Vomiting blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
Severe tenderness of the belly
Jaundice (yellowish discoloration of the skin and the whites of the eyes)
Swelling or visible bloating of the abdomen

, Your doctor will probably want an EGD (EsophagoGastroDuodenoscopy). During this procedure, a small camera on a flexible tube is inserted into your stomach. This way, doctors can visualize the ulcers on your stomach and determine if any are bleeding.X-rays of the upper gastrointestinal tract can also diagnose gastric ulcers, although these aren't as widely used since they can miss small ulcers.
After your initial treatment, your doctor may wish to perform an endoscopy, a procedure during which your doctor will use a tube with a tiny camera and light to examine your digestive tract. This way your doctor can ensure that the ulcer responded to treatment and was not actually a symptom of stomach cancer., Since your stomach is already under great stress, avoid putting extra physical pressure on your stomach. You can wear clothing that doesn't constrict your stomach or abdomen. And, you might get relief by eating smaller, more frequent meals instead of a few large meals.This reduces the amount of acid in your stomach and keeps the pressure off your stomach.


Try not to eat within two to three hours before going to bed. This will keep food from putting pressure on your stomach while you sleep.
 There a number of herbal approaches you can try to treat ulcer pain.Talk to your physician before trying herbal or home remedies. In general, they're all very safe, but you should make sure that none of the herbs will interact with any medications you're taking.


Since some remedies haven't been tested for use by pregnant women, it's important to talk with your doctor about using them if you're pregnant or nursing.
 Research shows that aloe vera can help heal gastric ulcers.Aloe juice decreases inflammation and acts to neutralize the stomach acid, reducing pain. To use it, drink 1/2 cup of organic aloe vera juice. You can sip this throughout the day. But, since aloe vera can act as a laxative, limit your drinking to a total of 1 to 2 cups a day.


Make sure to buy aloe vera juice that contains a high level of aloe vera juice. Avoid juices that contain a lot of added sugars or fruit juices.
 Ginger and chamomile make great anti-inflammatory teas which can soothe an irritated stomach and reduce nausea and vomiting. Fennel helps settle the stomach and decreases the acid levels.Mustard also acts as an anti-inflammatory and as an acid neutralizer. To prepare:


Ginger tea: steep packaged tea bags. Or, cut up 1 teaspoon of fresh ginger and steep it in boiled water for 5 minutes. Drink ginger tea throughout the day, especially 20 to 30 minutes before meals.
Fennel tea: crush about a teaspoon of fennel seeds and steep them in a cup of boiled water for five minutes. Add honey to taste and drink 2 to 3 cups a day about 20 minutes before meals.
Mustard tea: dissolve powdered or good prepared mustard in hot water. Or, you can take 1 teaspoon of mustard by mouth.
Chamomile tea: steep packaged tea bags. You can also steep 3 to 4 tablespoons (44.4 to 59.1 ml) of chamomile in 1 cup of boiled water for five minutes.
 Licorice root (deglycyrrhizinated licorice root) is commonly used to treat peptic ulcers, canker sores, and reflux. Take the licorice root (which comes in chewable tablets) according to the manufacturer's instructions. You'll probably need to take two to three tablets every four to six hours. The taste might take some time to get used to, but licorice root can heal your stomach, control hyperacidity and relieve pain.You can also take slippery elm as a chewable tablet or drink (3 to 4 ounces). Slippery elm coats and soothes irritated tissues. It's also safe to use during pregnancy.