 If you skate, you’re going to fall off your board and get scraped up. There’s no way around it. Even a seasoned skater falls off their board pretty frequently, because attempting a new trick involves a few falls before you land it.


Real skaters are always learning new tricks, and that means falling and getting a little banged up.Real skaters learn how to fall “correctly” to minimize severe injuries, but the little scrapes and bruises are always going to happen.
 Posers often have no (or obviously fake) scratch marks on their boards, while a real skater will have scratch marks on the middle, nose, and tail of the board, depending on their style and tricks. A real skater’s board is going to show obvious wear and tear (unless it’s genuinely a brand new board).


Posers often purchase inexpensive, low quality boards from chain department stores like Walmart. These boards are terrible to ride - which doesn’t affect them, since they don’t ride anyway.
Real skaters save up for a good quality setup because they will actually use it. They need a strong board that rolls smooth and those aren’t cheap., Their shoes never look shiny and new – if you really skate, your shoes are going to get frayed, ripped and beat up from actual use very quickly. Ollie holes (also known as ollie burns) are inevitable for anyone who actually skates.Unless they’re falling apart on their feet, chances are a real skater won’t care that their shoes are ragged. A poser, on the other hand, will buy new shoes very frequently.
Look for signs that they’ve distressed their shoes on purpose. Some posers want to look authentic so much that they’ll strategically damage their shoes.
This is usually pretty easy to spot because the body of the shoe will have rips and slashes but the actual material won’t be faded, beat up or frayed at all.
 If they are wearing head-to-toe skate brand names, that’s excessive and almost always the sign of a poser. Real skaters like brand names and brand gear, but they don't wear brand name clothing every day, and they certainly don’t wear it from head-to-toe to prove their authenticity.

