 Good bakers know that moving quickly and efficiently in the kitchen leads to better cakes and smaller messes. Measuring out ahead of time makes it possible., Use an electric mixer set to medium speed. Add the sugar along the edges and slowly work it in to avoid sugar splatter.
 Mix in well, keeping your beater moving. It is okay if you add them both at once, too.
 In a separate bowl, use a whisk to blend the food coloring into the cocoa.Fun Fact: The original red velvet cakes got their color because imported cocoa was actually red tinted. The food coloring came later., You can also mix the flour, salt, and baking soda in a separate bowl, adding at once. You can also add it all together into the batter one at a time, using the electric mixer to get a nice consistent batter.Add the flour slowly to avoid splatter. It can help to add it with the buttermilk.
 Just a splash is all you need -- it will give it a nice subtle tanginess., You want a thin, consistent batter with not chunks of flour or dry ingredients left. Want a little more red color? Add a few more drops of red food coloring., The cake should take roughly an hour to cook. When it is done, you'll know through the toothpick test -- stab the center of the cake with a knife or skewer-- if it comes out without still-wet batter on it, it's done.
 After 5 minutes, remove from the pan and let cool on a wire rack. Don't frost a hot cake -- the warmth with thin out the frosting and make it difficult, if not impossible, to add smoothly., You'll be whipping the butter and cream cheese up, but that only works if it is soft enough to whip! Set the two dairy products out for 15-30 minutes to get soft.


In a pinch, you can gently microwave them to speed things up, but keep it very brief. You don't want liquid., An electric mixer is best, as it will make quick work of the dairies, but a wooden spoon and whisk work well too. They don't have to be perfectly combined, just well mixed.
 Powdered sugar will want to poof and fly out as you mix it. To avoid a mess, add it in 3-4 parts, mixing almost all of the first part in before adding the second.
 Keep the mixer (or your mixing hand) going until the frosting is nice smooth texture. If you want to thin it out a bit so it spreads better, add 2 tablespoons of cold milk., Place a little pat of icing on the bottom of our plate or cake dish to keep the bottom layer from sliding around.Then frost it and stack another layer on top, frosting the top of that. Don't worry too much about the sides yet.


Do not try to frost the cake while it is still hot. Let it cool completely., Stack the layers up high, frosting between each layer with a 1/4" of frosting or so, adding more to taste.
 For bakery quality frosting, keep the knife clean after every pass, using a little warm water to ensure your frosting knife applies the icing smoothly and evenly. Use big globs of icing at a time and don't try to spread it too thin. By working in small areas, not spreading too thin, and cleaning the knife regularly, you can get a quality frosted cake.


If you've got time, real pros will "double frost." Start with a thin layer of frosting everywhere -- it is okay if it pulls up crumbs. Then freeze the cake for 15 minutes, pull it out, and frost "for real." You'll be astonished how easily it goes on!,