 You'll need the right team to achieve the lift:


One dancer to be lifted- this dancer must have optimal core strength.

Two dancers to do the lifting- they must contain some upper arm strength to provide a base, as well as core strength.
One dancer in the back added to the lifting team to stabilize and help the person being lifted into the air. This girl is optional, but does make things easier.;
,


The lifted dancer should be in the front and middle, with all dancers facing the same direction. Two lifters should be to the side and with the optional one directly behind.
The lifted dancer must stand with their feet in first position.

The two lifters must stand with their feet shoulder width apart, slightly offset.
The back lifter should be standing in second position.



The lifted dancer should have their arms out in a strong second position, pushing the shoulders down and back, to create the necessary opposition to sustain the lift.
The side lifters should have one hand near the armpit, as if creating a shelf, and one hand comfortably between the wrist and elbow.
If the optional lifter is there, their hands should be firmly gripping the lifted dancer’s waist.



The lift should come from the knees. All participants should have set counts in their head for preparation, plié and lift.
The lifted dancer must actively jump into the air as she is lifted, as her own momentum will help her get into the air. She must then hold her body tight and in the proper position.
The side lifters must come from underneath the arms and push up.
 The lift may last as long or as short as desired.


Counts must be agreed upon so everyone is in sync with what they are supposed to be doing, be it walking or holding still.
The lifted dancer must hold their arms and body incredibly tight and in the desired position.
The lifters should hold their arms locked straight, as it helps make the most of their strength and makes the lift easier.



Finishing the lift must end in sync. One side cannot go down before the other.
The lifted dancer must be ready to be put down.
As always, agree upon counts to ensure everyone is on the same page.

