 With your dog in a sitting position, move behind it and crouch down so that you can easily maneuver around the dog's back, sides, and front.


The dog can be in a standing position as long as he or she is standing still and calm, but do not try to do this while your dog is in an excited state, since you or the dog could get hurt.
You will not be able to do this with the dog lying down.
You could also put this harness on from the front, but this position could make a dog more excited or anxious, so it is generally recommended that you put the harness on from behind.;
, Both the bottom and top loops of the harness need to be slipped over the dog's head.


The bottom loop is larger than the top, and the two should be parallel to each other.
Make sure that the snap buckle is undone when you slip the harness over your dog's head.
When done, there should be a vertical support strap running down the center of the dog's chest.
 Aside from the two loops you just slipped over the dog's head, there should be one other loop or hole. Lift the dog's corresponding paw and gently push or pull it through that leg hole.


The other leg hole is not yet a full loop, but you should be able to see the opening where the two buckled ends should come together and get an idea of where the next hole forms.
 The loose strap with a buckle on the end needs to go beneath the other front leg and up along the dog's side. Clip this buckled end together with the other buckled end.


Notice that your other leg hole takes shape when you complete this step.
At this, the harness should be completely on your dog.
 Make adjustments as necessary so that the harness fits right. As a general rule, you should be able to slip two fingers in between any portion of the strap and the dog.


Tug on the buckle. It should not snap apart, and if it does, the harness might be too tight.
Try to slip the harness over the head. It should not budge, and if it does, try tightening the harness further.
Check the front. Tug down on it to make sure that it is not too loose and that the dog cannot slip its paws out of the leg holes.
Make sure that the D-ring is positioned in the center back of the dog. The front loop should also be in the center front of the dog's chest.
 Your dog's harness should now be secure. Once you clip the leash to the back D-ring, the two of you are ready for your walk.

