 Not every Harley is suitable for 'cruising' or riding distances shorter than a few blocks or miles. If you really want to enjoy all a Harley has to offer, find a Harley that runs well, is comfortable, and one that you can handle. If you find the bike too heavy, drop down a level or improve your riding skills on another, smaller bike first. In general, the bike "heaviness" runs in the following order, from heaviest to lightest:


Touring. (Includes Road King, Street Glide, Ultra Classic, Limited and Road Glide).
Softail (Includes Fatboy, Heritage, Slim, Deluxe and Breakout)
Dyna (Includes Street Bob, Low Rider, Fat Bob, Switchback and Wide Glide)
Sportster (Includes 883's and 1200's)

A note about the Sportster: Some consider it the most difficult to ride, despite its lightness. This is due to its relative unbalance and high placement of the gas tank thus raising the center of gravity. Despite this, it remains one of the most fun Harleys to ride, and is exemplified in carrying the honor of being the longest running production motorcycle in United States history.

;
, Sometimes renting or borrowing (provided that you have a motorcycle license) is the best way to introduce yourself to the world of Harleys without a huge financial commitment.
 Look at the subtleties and richness of the chrome, or lack thereof, and special features unique to the design of the particular Harley you are going to ride. Prep the bike for ride by checking the gas level, tires, lights, and any obvious flaws or defects.
 Remember, "right is wrong." Get on the bike from the left side, as it is good etiquette. (BS. Getting on from the right is the only "correct" way. It is how professionals are trained, and if you slip, you will not shove the bike over) Feel the handlebars, feel the weight of the bike underneath you. Pull the choke if need-be. Then.
 Listen to it. Feel it underneath you. Let it warm up as you warm up to the bike.
 See the road scurry underneath you. Feel the wind in your face and on your body. See how it's just much better when on the bike. Feel the rumble in between your legs. Lean back. See the blur of the side road as you look straight ahead.
 Harley Davidson motorcycles enjoy a rich and storied tradition. Riding one is not about the speed or handling of the bike per se, but rather, the enjoyment of the feel and embodiment of the entire experience. Look at the scenery, hear and feel the engine. Look to your right... to your left. Even look up at the sky - all the while making sure to keep another eye on the road to stay safe. Beware of 'cagers' ie. car drivers.
 Then ride some more. Stop at a tavern (no alcoholic beverages,please). Visit a friend. Enjoy the freedom of riding a Harley Davidson. When you're done, bring it back and ride again another day.
!

