 A smile can go a long way if you are trying to make a friend in the line at the grocery store or while playing with your dog at the dog park. It signals to strangers that you are pleasant and that you may be approachable.
 Say hello to people you might like to befriend. Ask them how their day is going or some other icebreaker.
 It is important to show that you are interested in the person you are trying to befriend. Don't just tell them about yourself, instead leave room in the conversation for them to engage. This can be done by asking them questions and waiting for them to answer.
 Nobody wants to hang out with someone who is completely timid, but you also don't want to appear completely self-absorbed. Be sure that you are walking the line between the two.
 Ask the person what they enjoy doing in their spare time. Suggest a common activity that you both could do together., Haven't we all said that we should do something and then the plans were never solidified? If you really want to hang out with this person, make concrete plans to hang out. If you have a plan you are more likely to actually spend time together.
 It may take some commitment on your part to create a new friendship, as people lead busy and hectic lives that don't always lend themselves to new relationships, but don't give up easily. If someone you are trying to befriend cancels plans or doesn't respond to your call or email right away, don't give up. Give people several chances before walking away.
 Friendship is not a one way street. While it may fall to you to make the first steps toward a lasting friendship, you should not be doing all the work.


Sometimes you want to be friends with someone but they just don't make the effort to keep the relationship going. One of the biggest benefits of having a friendship is that you feel that someone else likes and cares for you and that you reciprocate those feelings. If this is the case, it may be best to walk away. Find someone else who will give you the kind of friendship you deserve.

