 Browse a book on Shamanic practices and beliefs. In ancient societies, Shamans would travel into the spirit world to bring back answers. While you visit the bookstore, keep your eyes and heart open. You have already started your Shamanistic journey. This is your first Shamanistic mission. What knowledge can you bring back?


Did you learn anything unexpected?
Did an interesting person speak to you?
Did you notice anything out of the ordinary?
If this bookstore appears in a upcoming dream, enter it.;
, The Shaman believes that the Universe is alive, conscious, and connected; that all objects, even inanimate ones, contain a spirit or soul. Begin to notice proof of these beliefs in your daily life. Does your coffee grinder seem to have a soul? Does the butterfly on your window remind you of someone? Do you feel connected to the plant that needs water in your office? Acknowledge these feelings and connections. This beings may begin to visit you in your dreams.


Each day, acknowledge the “beingness” of animals and objects by greeting them.
Say (silently or better yet, out loud) “Hello, Coffee Grinder. Thank you for making my morning a bit better today."
As you become comfortable finding (and believing in) this proof during the day, it will be easier to continue this practice as you sleep.
 Almost nothing in life is “just a coincidence.” Attending to synchronicity in our waking lives opens us up to messages from the Universe. When you encounter synchronicity, that is the Universe's way of saying that you are on the right track.Synchronicities are often clues for what to look for or where to go during a dream. Examples of synchronicity include:


Seeing the same person as a variety of unrelated locations.
Speaking a word out loud at the exact same time as someone else.
When you experience a synchronistic moment, don't ignore it. Stop and notice it. Write it down.
Pay specific attention to synchronicities that cross the threshold between waking and dream. (Did you see a person in real life and then in a dream? Try to talk to them in your dream!)

, This space is called the “Twilight Zone.”As you lie in bed and prepare for sleep, direct your mind and imagination to fertile places for Shamanic activity. You've already been laying the groundwork for these messages!Think back to the bookstore. Who spoke to you? Call them to mind and imagine a scenario where they give you advice. Picture the outside of the store and imaging yourself entering. This bookstore may be a gateway to an Upper Level.
Recall any "proof" you recently encountered. Bring to mind the coffee grinder who seemed alive. Listen to the sound of its motor. Can you hear any messages through that hum? What could a coffee grinder want to tell you?
Recall a synchronicity that happened to you. Remember the details. What were the circumstances and how did you feel? Can you relive the experience as you drift into sleep?
Use the classic approach and imagine a staircase. Visualize it in as much detail as you can. As you drift into sleep, imagine yourself ascending it. This will enable you to enter the Upper Level as you drift into sleep.
Finally, think about what you want to know. As you pass through the threshold between waking and dream worlds, ask a question about yourself, your future, or your ancestors.
 In order glean wisdom from Shamanic dream journeys, you will need to learn the language of your dreams.Begin tracking common symbols. For now, simply take note of these symbols and notice patterns. There are two types of Shamanic Dream Symbols.Archetypical symbols are images that have transcended generations and cultures. Things like the elements (water, air, earth, fire), celestial bodies (the sun, the moon, the stars), and animals (tigers, bears, reptiles).
Personal symbols are symbols that are specific to you, your experience, and your family. Was your grandfather struck by lighting? Lighting will be a powerful symbol for you.
Sometimes symbols can be both. The divine will communicate using symbol systems you already know. Have you been educated in any forms of religious practice? These symbols may appear to you in your dreams.
 Do you favor one in particular? Do you notice a pattern for when you switch?


The Upper Level is linked to intellectual and spiritual knowledge. Upper Level dreams may feature libraries, sunlight, and open skies.
The Middle Level (or Mid-level) is where most dreaming takes place. The Middle World is very much like the waking world. This level will yield the least Shamanic insight.
The Lower Level (also called the Journey Level) is linked to primal knowledge. Lower Level dreams will be populated by nature and animals.
If you know when you’re prone to dream on a specific level, you can aim to gain specific knowledge when the conditions are right.

