 Often, advance booking will ensure that you will get to choose from a variety of routes and the most affordable fares.
 Even if you only have a general idea of when the air travel will take place it is a good idea to start shopping around. If you plan on flying during a major break period such as Christmas or New Year, the proximity of your travel date to the hectic, heavy traffic days can affect your chances of being bumped, missing a flight or just having an unpleasant travel experience. Book early!

, Most travel sites operate in a similar manner. They will prompt you to enter a destination and a specific date of travel. A list will be generated showing results across a number of different airlines. The results can usually be organized by price. Price may be affected by a number of variables including the number of stops made, the destination or departure airport and the proximity to the date of travel.
 If you have an airline that you prefer you can book tickets online in much the same manner as on any of these travel websites. The disadvantage of this method is that you won't be able to compare prices or routes across different airlines.
 The booking itself will require a valid credit card and you will be prompted to enter the credit card number and expiration date in the payment section. You will also be asked for pertinent personal information such as a full name, address and possibly, a passport number for international travel. Make sure you remember to bring the credit card used to pay for your reservation to the airport with you! You may be asked to produce the credit card if the reservation is irretrievable or to prove identity.
 You will most likely be asked if you'd like an e-mail confirmation to be sent to you. Choose to generate this e-mail confirmation because it will come in handy should you need to reference the details of your reservation. In addition, an e-mail confirmation can be printed and used at airport self-service kiosks for check-in. This step will save you the time and irritation of standing in long queues.

