 There is nothing abnormal about your cat being afraid or anxious in certain situations. The problem comes in when these fears take over your cat’s life and make them unable to function as a happy, healthy cat. You’ll want to work with your vet to determine when your cat’s behaviors begin to cross the line into concerning., Not all cats fit well into all households. Try to look objectively at your cat and determine the basics of their personality. If they are naturally shy, then they would probably prefer a calm, quiet living environment. If they are a bit wild, then a busy household will suit them just fine. Your cat may change with age, but many core personality traits will stay put over time.For example, some cats simply do better when dealing with one gender. If your cat only frightens when men or boys make sudden movements, then you may want to work on that part of the issue, too.
 Your cat may be sending out many warning signals before they finally go ‘over the edge’ with fear. Look to see if your cat’s ears are horizontal or twitching, which indicates nervousness. Your cat may also crawl close to the ground or walk with their tail low to the ground or moving rapidly.Knowing how to read your cat’s body will make it possible for you to understand when you’ve successfully helped them to calm down or cope with their fears through training. The more subtle cues of fear or anxiety, such as the dilation of pupils, may disappear.
Watching for their cues will also let you rescue them from situations that turn stressful. For example, your cat may be fine sitting next to a small child, but your cat’s ears might flatten when the child starts to run around., Does your cat respond negatively to all sudden movements or just certain types? For two weeks, keep a set of notes detailing the specific circumstances that led to moments of stress or fear for your cat. Then, look over your list to see if any patterns are present.For example, your cat may only fear sudden movements from a particular person or group of people, such as children.

