 Slap is usually played with a 52 card deck. Uno decks have 108 cards, with different suits and colors. You can pair down the Uno deck to 52 cards with a few simple alterations.


Uno cards have four suits: blue, green, red, and yellow. Each suit has 10 cards with numbers going from 0 to 9. Keep the four suits numbered 0 to 9 as part of your Slap deck.
Get rid of the Wild Draw Four Cards and the Wild Cards. You do not need these to play Slap as they cannot stand in for cards in a traditional deck.
Uno has 8 "Draw Two" cards. There are 2 "Draw 2" cards for each color suit. You only need 4 "Draw Two" cards to play Slap, so remove one "Draw 2" card from each color. Add these to your Slap deck and set the rest of the "Draw 2" cards aside.
Uno has 8 "Reverse Cards" and 8 "Skip Cards," with two cards of each color in the deck. As with the "Draw Two" cards, you only need four "Skip Cards" and four "Reverse Cards." Remove a "Skip Card" and a "Reverse Card" of each color. Add these to your Slap deck and set the other cards aside.
When you're finished, you should have 52 cards. Your deck should contain 40 numbered colored cards, with 10 cards for each color. You should have four "Draw Two" cards in each color, four "Reverse Cards" in each color, and four "Skip Cards" in each color.;
, In Slap, there are certain rules regarding Aces, Kings, Queens, and Jokers. You'll need to pick a type of card to stand in for an ace, a king, a queen, and a joker from your Uno deck.


In a regular card deck, you have 10 cards per suit. Each suit has one ace, as well as a 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9. In your Uno deck, it makes sense to count the "0" cards as aces.
You can count Draw Two cards as Kings, Reverse Card as Queens, and Skip Cards as Jokers. However, there are no strict rules regarding what Uno cards count as what type of traditional deck cards. If you want to, say, count Reverse Cards as Kings and Draw Two Cards as Queens, you can do this as well. Just make sure all players are on the same page regarding what the non-numbered cards represent in your Uno deck.
 There is no limit to how many people can play Slap. Cards are sometimes uneven when dealt, and players will expect as much going in. There's no need to make sure the number of players is exactly divisible by 52. You can have as many players as can comfortably fit around a table. Once players are assembled, shuffle your altered deck of Uno cards.


There is no set rule for how long to shuffle the deck. However, some folklore dictates shuffling the deck 7 times will yield the most random results.To deal out cards, hand out cards until the deck is gone. Go in a circle, giving one card at a time to each player. Set the card face down in front of each player. Keep circling until there are no more cards in the deck. As stated, the deck may end up uneven and some players may have slightly more cards.
 From here, players should assemble their cards to prepare to start the game. Players do not get to look at their deck in Slap. Each player should form a neat stack with his or her cards, keeping all the cards face down., Slap is a fast-paced game. Essentially, you go in a circle and each player quickly lays down a card. To start, the player to the left of the dealer removes a card from the deck. This player will set this card face up in the center of the circle of players.In Slap, you move to the left. After the first player sets down his or her card, the next player to left sets down a card.
The game continues like this until a non-numbered card, or a 0 card, is played. In the event of a non-numbered card or a 0 card, there are special rules that must be followed that can allow a player to win cards. The object of Slap is to win all the cards in the deck.
 One way to win cards is to slap the pile of cards in the center. If certain sequences of cards are played, you can slap the deck. The player who slaps the deck first gets to keep the cards in the center of the circle. You can slap the deck under the following conditions:If two cards of the same number are laid down consecutively, you can slap the deck. For example, say you play a Green 5. The player to the left of you then plays a Yellow 5. It's appropriate to slap the deck to try and win the cards.
You can also slap in the event of what's called a "sandwich." This occurs when two cards of the same number are laid down with one card of a different number between them. For example, say you play a yellow four. The next player plays a blue seven. The following player plays a red four. You can slap the deck, as the two fours are sandwiching the seven.
When two cards played in a row add up to 10, you can slap the deck. For example, if someone plays a 7, and the next player plays a 3, you can slap the deck.
When four numbered cards are played in a row that go in ascending or descending value, you can slap the deck. For example, you could slap the deck in the event the cards 1, 2, 3, and then 4 were played. You can also slap the deck in the event the cards 4, 3, 2, and then 1 were played.
 In a regular deck of cards, aces, Kings, Queens, and Jokers are known as face cards. In Slap, 0 cards, Draw Two's, Reverse Cards, and Skip Cards will be your designated face cards. There are special protocol regarding face cards when playing Slap.When a face card is played, the next player must draw another face card from his or her deck. With 0 cards, you have four chances to lay down another face card. If you do not produce a face card after drawing four cards, the player to your right collects all the cards in the center of the circle.This can be confusing in the abstract, so look at this example. Say the player to your right plays a 0 card. It is now your turn to play a card. You have four chances to draw another face card (meaning a 0 card, a Draw Two card, a Reverse Card, or a Skip Card) from your deck. The first card you draw is a 6. You then draw a 7. Then, you draw a Reverse Card. As you've matched the face card, the game can move on as normal. The player to your left would play another card from his or her deck.
However, say you played a six, a two, a four, and a seven. You've had your four chances to match the face card and failed. The player to your right, who originally drew the 0, will take all the cards from the center of the deck.
 If you're counting Draw Two cards as Kings, you have 3 chances to match them to prevent the player to your right from collecting the cards. Draw Two cards are also face cards and must also be matched with another face card.Let's look at an example. The player to your right draws a Draw Two card. Now, you have three chances to match it and block this player from gaining the cards. Say you play a 3, and then a Skip Card. You've matched the card, and the game can continue as normal.
However, say you draw a 3, then a 4, and then a 5. You have not matched the face card. The player to your right collects the cards in the center.
 Reverse Cards count as Queens. With Reverse Cards, you have 2 chances to match the card before the player to your right can collect the cards in the center.For example, the player to your right lays down a Reverse Card. Now, you have two chances to match. If you play a 2, and then a 0, you have matched the card. The player to your right does not get to collect the cards, and the game continues.
However, say you draw a 2 and then a 7. You have not matched the card with another face card. The player to your right collects the cards.
 With a Skip Card, you only have one chance to match the card with another face card. If the player to your right plays a Skip Card, you will need to immediately play a 0, a Draw Two Card, a Reverse Card, or another Skip Card to block this player from collecting the cards. If you play another face card, the game continues. If you fail to play a face card, the player to your right collects the cards., In the event a face card is not matched, the player who played the face card collects all the cards in the deck. The player who slaps the deck first at an appropriate time also collects the cards. In these cases, you'll need to start a new round. Whoever won the previous round by collecting all the cards will start the new round. This player will take a card from the top of his or her deck and place it in the center of the circle., Slap can take a long time, especially if you're playing with many people. You will have to continue playing until one player gains all 52 cards. Remember, cards can be gained by playing face cards or by slapping the deck at the appropriate moment., Slap is a fast-paced game. Once all the players have the hang of it, slapping may happen fast. Make sure you know how to determine a tie breaker if you cannot tell who slapped the cards first.Award the cards to whoever has the most fingers on top.
If you can't tell who has the most fingers on top, you can have the competing players draw their hands back. Then, count to three, and allow the players to reach for the cards again. Whoever slaps first this time will win the cards.

