 God loves everyone, and sins don't make you unlovable or unwanted.God practices forgiveness, and you will be more like Him if you do the same.


Bible experts find that the slogan "God Hates F*gs" is not consistent with the Bible., The oft-quoted Leviticus also tells people not to wear clothes of different fabrics, yet many good Christians do this. These are instructions to keep Israelites separate, and do not apply to you today. God won't send you to hell for wearing a cotton-and-polyester shirt, eating shrimp, or shaving., Your job on Earth is not to judge your neighbor, but to make the world a better place in your own way. It is up to God to judge your gay and bisexual neighbors, not up to you. God will weigh the goodness and badness in their hearts and actions, just like He will weigh yours.
 In contexts, some quotes regarding gay people have been found to be in a specific instance (e.g. idolatry), and not condemning gay love in general.Condemnations are often related to the time period and context (for example, condemnation of tax collectors was because most tax collectors were corrupt back then, and it doesn't mean that Jesus hates IRS workers).In Sodom and Gomorrah, they were practicing not loving relationships with other men, but gang rape of them (among other sins such as failing to help the poor).The Bible also tells stories of same-sex lovers: Ruth and Naomi, and David and Jonathan. These passages include romantic promises to each other, such as David saying that Jonathan's love for him was more wonderful than the love of women., Several quotes from Jesus show that he believed that some people were born gay, and that there is nothing wrong with this. He was kind to same-gender couples and stood up for the oppressed.

Jesus suggests that some men are "born eunuchs," an ancient term for being gay, that these people are part of God's natural order, and heterosexual marriage is not the right path for everyone.In one passage, Jesus heals a gay man's lover, and shows them acceptance, without criticizing their love.