 In the New dialog, set Width to 1024 pixels, the Height to 768 pixels, and the background contents to white.
 This has been part of Photoshop since before version 1.0, and pretty much every paint application ever created!


The Brush menu is also home to the Pencil tool, the Color Replace tool, and the Mixer Brush.

The Pencil tool draws lines of varying thicknesses, and while you can use different brushes, the Pencil tool features no antialiasing: everything is very bitmapped.
The Color Replacement tool can be very useful for replacing one color (or range of colors) with another color.
The Mixer Brush. This mixes together different colors, much the same way that an artists mixes colors on a palette.


Pick a color for the brush. Click on the Foreground Color chip at the bottom of the tool list. A color picker dialog will appear. Pick any color that suits you. For this tutorial, we'll choose red. When you've got a color you like, click OK to close the window.





Pick a brush. The easiest way to pick a brush is with the brush picker at the top left of the Photoshop window. Pick any brush. Notice the Size and Hardness parameters. Size sets the diameter of the brush, and Hardness refers to the edges: a 100% brush has a crisp edge, while a 0% brush is feathered for a soft edge. Set the brush size to 30 and the Hardness to 50%. You can use the sliders or enter the number directly.





Scribble a bit with your chosen color. Get a feel for how the brush works. You can also adjust the Opacity and Flow, at the top. Opacity sets the transparency of the color. Flow adjusts how much color is placed on the canvas with each stroke.





To see the difference between Opacity and Flow, set the Opacity to 50%, then scribble over an area repeatedly, without stopping or clicking. If you're using red, you'll notice a nice pink blob. If you lift up your cursor, and then start scribbling again, notice that where the new scribble overlaps the old, it's darker. Where the scribble is new, is lighter. Opacity adds with every stroke—but not during a single stroke. Return the Opacity to 100%.
Set the Flow to 25%, the Opacity to 100%, and scribble again. Note now that as you go over your stroke, the color builds until it's completely red. The opacity is quickly build up to 100%. With a Flow rate of 100%, all the color is put on the canvas immediately.
When you're done experimenting, clear the canvas by pressing Command-Delete (Control-Delete). Your canvas will fill with the background color. Option-Delete (Alt-Delete) will fill with the foreground color.
 By default, it will select the Rectangle Tool. Click on the actual Shape menu, and select the Polygon Tool. This allows you to specify any number of sides, and automatically draw the desired shape.


Note the settings across the top. The Shape menu (shown open) lets you choose Shape, Path, or Pixels. Choosing Shape will give you a filled path (what you created with the Pen tool). The fill color is chosen using the Fill popup menu; the outline color (if any) is chosen using the Stroke popup menu; the stroke width is set with the stroke width menu; and the stroke options—dashed or solid lines and more—are set from the Stroke Options menu.





One other option to be aware of for the Polygon tool is the Sides field. This lets you specify the number of sides of the polygon—from 3 to 100. You can either enter the number directly, or click and hold on the word Sides, and drag left or right to increment or decrement the number.





To create a polygon, click and drag anywhere on the canvas. Your polygon will open out from the center of the click point. Before you release your mouse, it will look something like this:
br>






When you release the mouse button, the polygon will be filled with the fill color you've selected, and the border will have the stroke attributes you set.
Alternately, for quick-and-easy polygon creation, single-click anywhere on the canvas. A dialog will appear on your screen that lets you set the parameters all at once. Here's what it looks like, with the result shown beside it:






, Because this is the second tool in this menu, you will want to actually click on the tool palette icon, as shown, then select the Paint Bucket Tool, as shown:


You are probably familiar with this tool: it's in virtually every paint application on the planet. It will fill any give area with the color of your choice. While most applications require the filled area to be a solid color, Photoshop lets you adjust the tolerance so that any pixel that falls within the range of the original click location will get filled. For example, the right side of this image was filled with blue, using the Overlay mode, and a Tolerance of 165:





Press D to select the default Foreground and Background colors, then press Command (Control)-Delete to clear the canvas and fill with white.
 If the Paint Bucket Tool or 3D Material Drop Tool is selected, press Shift-G until the Gradient tool is selected. The Gradient Tool will let you fill an area with a smooth blending between 2 or more colors.


At the top of the window, click on the gradient palette, and choose the blue, red, and yellow gradient on the top right row by double-clicking on it.





Click and drag from the top left corner to the bottom right corner, and your canvas will look like this:





Like the Paint Bucket tool, you can apply a gradient to an image with different overlay styles. Experiment with those, to see how each one interacts with the gradient blend.
To edit a gradient, click on the gradient palette. The Gradient Editor will appear. Click on the colored tabs to choose a color for each point, and move the points to set the start and end points for each color. Click on the black tabs at top to assign opacity.





Close the Gradient Editor.

