 Turn the oven on to 200 °F (93.3 °C) (90 C). Get out two baking sheets and lay parchment paper on them. Set the sheets aside and ensure that there are racks in the upper and lower racks of the oven., Place 3 large egg whites into a large mixing bowl along with 1/8 teaspoon of cream of tartar. Use a stand or electric mixer with a whisk attachment to beat the mixture on medium-high speed for several minutes. The eggs should become bright white. If you lift the beater away, the egg whites should form soft peaks.If you use room temperature eggs, you'll get more volume when you whisk them.
 Keep the mixer running on medium-high speed and add a total of 2/3 cup (133 g) of sugar one tablespoon at a time. This should take you several minutes to beat in and you'll notice the egg whites stiffen.The egg whites will also look glossy once you've beaten in the sugar.
 Stir and measure 1/3 cup (85 g) of smooth peanut butter. Drop it by spoonful into the meringue. Take a rubber spatula and gently fold the peanut butter into the meringue mixture. Just fold it enough to get streaks. The meringue and peanut butter shouldn't be completely combined.To fold the peanut butter, hold the rubber spatula and use a twisting motion with your wrist to incorporate it into the meringue.
 Take a cookie scooper or two soup spoons and scoop meringue onto the parchment-lined sheets. Each meringue should be about a tablespoon in size. Ensure that they're about 1 1/2-inches (3.8 cm) apart on the sheets. Sprinkle each meringue with some finely chopped salted peanuts.You'll need a total of 3 tablespoons (44.4 ml) of finely chopped salted peanuts for garnishing the cookies.
 Put the meringues in the oven and bake them for 90 minutes. Once the meringues have baked, they should appear slightly dry and crackly. Turn off the oven and let the meringues cool completely while they're still in the oven.Store the meringues in an airtight container immediately, since they will begin to absorb moisture. You can store them for up to two weeks.
You should switch the baking sheets and rotate them after the first 45 minutes. This will ensure that the meringues bake evenly.

