 New perspectives in neuroscience are emerging that emphasize the importance of persistently forging and reworking our relationships with others to support functional brain processes.As such, we will likely be unsuccessful at changing our habits without first realizing the degree to which our behaviors are conditioned by, or in some way dependent on, others around us.If you find that other people are constantly coming to you for advice, but you rarely feel like you have someone to talk to yourself when you’re unhappy, it could be the case that you’ve come to serve the role of nurturer in your group of friends. There’s nothing wrong with helping others, but it’s also necessary to take care of yourself. In fact, sometimes we help others more than ourselves because we’ve gotten used to doing so. Think about why you are inclined to help others and consider the effect it has on you.
 Work on thinking positively about yourself and your behavior. Fight the urge to be negative by identifying two of your strengths every day.


Make sure that you challenge any unproductive thought that enters your head. If you catch yourself thinking negative thoughts like “I am a loser,” “no one likes me,” and “I can’t do anything right,” stop yourself and challenge the thought. Counter it with productive thoughts, identifying two positive things about yourself. The more that you practice this positive thinking, the easier it will become.For example, if you catch yourself having a negative thought like, “I am terrible at math,” reframe the thought in a more productive way by saying something like, "I find math challenging, but I am working hard and improving."

, Sometimes you might feel stuck in a rut, with no idea how to keep going. In these cases, take a deep breath and try to put the present moment in perspective. People too often focus on the negative, which can lead us to ignore good things.Sometimes all that’s required is a change of scenery, or perhaps a disruption in your everyday routine.


If feelings of dread or hopelessness last for an extended period, you might want to consider talking to a therapist or mental health counselor.
Find a way to disrupt your usual routine or behavior. For example, if you feel that you are surrounded by negative people, you could join a sports club or other local group to meet some new people., Procrastinating, or putting things off because they are difficult, sets you up for failure. When you have less time to do a task, you'll rush and miss things. Instead, do things on time so that you have the extra time to do your best! Experiencing the small successes of completed tasks can contribute to believing that you can accomplish greater tasks.


For example, you might have a sink full of dishes to clean but decide to put it off so that you can watch your favorite T.V. show. But before you know it, several other demands might arise, such as the T.V. going out and needing to be fixed or a problem arising with a bill you received, which might end up forcing you to put off the dishes even longer.
Instead of letting everyday life demands pile on top of each other, tackle them as soon as you think about it. It might be unpleasant at first, but after a while it will become second nature and your day-to-day affairs will seem to take care of themselves.
If you are a chronic procrastinator, you might want to consider talking to a therapist or mental health counselor. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) can help you to stop procrastinating., Psychologists have found that we often focus on negative comments about ourselves while ignoring the positive ones.We also tend to assume people are focusing on us more than they are.Try to remind yourself to focus on the positive more than the negative. If you find either yourself or those around you being extra critical, think about making some changes., If we only take the easy route, it can be easy to think that we aren't capable of doing things that are hard. Prove to yourself that you can take on challenges by doing just that: take on challenges. Do things that will be rewarding, even though they'll be hard work. You can do it! Remember that you can always break down a difficult task into a series of small, easier tasks.
 When things are happening around you, and you have an opinion or know a better way to do something, speak up! Don't just accept things the way they are. Take an active part in the situation. This shows others that you are capable of taking control and expressing your needs or desires to them. Speaking up will also help you to surround yourself with people whose aspirations and concerns are in line with your own. These are all things that are essential to becoming more comfortable in your environment, which research has shown a necessary step towards developing confidence in your ability act on your needs and desires.For example, if one of your co-workers often makes inappropriate jokes about women, try to come up with a way to bring your concerns about his jokes to his attention in a productive manner. You could simply say, “I am offended by your jokes because they make light of a very serious issue.” The discussion might become heated, but the more you practice speaking up for yourself on important issues, such a gender equality, the easier it will become.
If you tend to worry about how others will interpret what you have to say and that often stops you from speaking up, try to break that habit. Practice expressing your thoughts and feelings to others without worrying about how they are interpreted, which might mean having to deal with misunderstandings arising when communicating with other people.If a miscommunication happens, don’t be afraid to share your personal history, especially how you’ve learned to communicate with others because of where you are from. It’s important for everyone involved to realize that such instances of miscommunication are not anyone’s fault in, but they can be opportunities for everyone involved to grow and learn more about each other’s unique modes of expression.
 In helping others, we can often get a better view of what we're capable of and feel better about ourselves in the process. Helping others through volunteerism or everyday acts of kindness brings a wonderful sense of fulfillment. It also provides extra opportunities for you to use and develop your skills.By helping others, you will find yourself feeling more confident than ever.

