 Anyone can get hemorrhoids, but people with regular constipation almost always get them. Sitting on the toilet for long stretches and straining to push out hard, compacted stools is a “one-two punch” for hemorrhoid formation and discomfort.One of the easiest ways to battle constipation is to drink more water. Women are recommended to consume 9 cups (2.2 liters) of fluids daily and men are recommended to consume 13 cups (3 liters).Also, add more fiber to your diet. Eat more vegetables, fruits, and high-fiber grains like oats.
Look at the side effects of any medications or supplements you are taking. Constipation may be caused by certain medications. Talk to your doctor about discontinuing or switching your medication if this is the case.
Consider also using a fiber supplement or stool softener as well. Consult your doctor before undertaking any long-term regimen, however.
Keep in mind that to most effectively avoid constipation, you will want to do a combination of these things. Increasing exercise, fluids, and fiber intake, as well as discontinuing any problematic medications, will all work together to ease constipation better than any one treatment done alone.
 Regular, gentle cleaning and drying can help cool and soothe your hemorrhoids. Try, for instance, using pre-moistened (but fragrance-free) wipes instead of standard toilet paper, which tends to be more abrasive and clean less thoroughly.Shower or — preferably — bathe daily and gently clean the area with water alone. Pat the area dry or use a hair dryer on the lowest setting.
You can also use a sitz bath, which is a basin that fits over your toilet bowl and allows you to soak and clean only the target area. Use clean, cool water and sit for 10 to 15 minutes, three times per day (or more as needed).
 The range of treatments and medications available at any pharmacy provides a clear indication of just how common hemorrhoids are. Try various options and see what provides you with relief, but don’t use any hemorrhoid treatment for more than two weeks without clearing it with your doctor first.Hemorrhoid creams or ointments (such as a well-known “preparation”) can help shrink hemorrhoidal tissues and soothe itching and discomfort. Ointments or pads containing witch hazel may also be effective in dealing with itchiness and pain.
On a more basic level, placing a wrapped ice pack or cold compress in your intergluteal cleft (or your "butt crack") can provide temporary relief from pain and inflammation.
Pain-relieving medications like acetaminophen or ibuprofen may also provide some measure of relief from hemorrhoidal discomfort.
 If you have rectal itching and discomfort, can feel small protrusions outside your anus, and/or see small amounts of red blood when you defecate, you more than likely have hemorrhoids; however, in rare instances, more serious conditions ranging from anal fissures to internal bleeding to cancer may be the cause. The smartest choice is to see your doctor and verify that you are dealing with hemorrhoids, then discuss treatment options.While most hemorrhoids can be treated at home, some may require intervention by your doctor. Treatments can range from “banding” hemorrhoids so they wither and fall off to surgical removal (hemorrhoidectomy). The nature of your hemorrhoids, your level of discomfort, and many other factors will come into play as you and your doctor determine your best course of treatment.

