 This is probably one of the easiest because a lot of plants are... green! It's suitable for a St. Patrick's Day meal and for an eco-theme. This meal could consist of:


Peas, beans
Broccoli
Cabbage, Brussels sprouts and variants
Cucumber, zucchini (courgette)
Lots of other green vegetables you have available
Green-dyed mashed potato, or use pesto to make the mashed potatoes green
Green-dyed bread

Green eggs
Meat with pesto or something similar on it
Grapes, green apples

Practically anything flavored with lime
Green apple juice, celery juice;
, An all yellow meal would be ideal for representing a sunny day or something bright and happy. Suitable choices for the plate include:



Corn (whole kernel or corn on the cob is preferred over cream style for a more vibrant yellow)
Yellow bell peppers/capsicums
Squash
Pineapple

Mashed potato or yellow boiled potatoes
Yellow zucchini (sometimes labeled "yellow squash" at grocery stores)
Pasta
Scrambled eggs
Yellow cheeses
Practically any dessert food flavored with lemon
Mountain Dew or similar fizzy drink

, Purple can be good a regal meal, and everyone can dress up as royalty. Items for the plate could include:


Eggplant (aubergine)
Purple cauliflower

Purple potatoes

Purple carrots

Blueberries
Boysenberries
Purple dyed bread/cake (some berries will dye cake naturally)
Blue/purple iced cupcakes
Lavender lemonade

, Red is the color of excitement and entertainment. This would be good for a circus theme or a racing party. When making red foods, remember that beetroot juice makes an excellent edible dye. Here are some suggestions for serving a red meal:


Red bell peppers/capsicum
Red quinoa or rice

Beetroot
Beetroot burgers

Apples, cherries, strawberries
Tomatoes or tomato sauce (for protein, you could use meat with this on it)
Red dyed bread, muffins, etc. (use red fruit juice when baking)
Wine for adults, red grape juice, cranberry juice

, If it's not nutritionally balanced, it's no bother because this is for a special occasion!

, Why not go the whole way and make it a color theme that includes the dining table, the meal, and the diners attending?!

