 There are a number of reasons why it’s best for most people to open a Roth IRA before they open a conventional IRA. While both Roth and conventional IRAs are meant to help save for retirement, there are some key differences. For example:With a conventional IRA, pre-tax income is contributed to the plan, meaning you pay taxes on the distributions when you retire. With a Roth IRA, you contribute after-tax income to the plan, but your post-retirement distributions are tax free. Since most people who are opening an IRA will see their incomes climb as they get older, their tax burdens will rise.
People who make over $132,000 (or $194,000 for couples) aren’t eligible to contribute to Roth IRAs at all. Very few young people make more than $132,000 per year, but people’s incomes usually rise over the course of their lifetimes and many young people will make that much eventually. Therefore, it makes sense to take advantage of the Roth IRA first.
Conventional IRAs have an MRD, or minimum required distribution, that a person must collect at age 70½. Roth IRAs have no MRD, and the distributions are untaxed.
 When you’ve already opened a Roth IRA, and you're maxing out the yearly contribution, open a conventional IRA. Conventional IRAs are ideal for those who expect their tax burdens to decline by the time they receive their MRD, those who make too much money to contribute to a Roth IRA, or those who already have a Roth IRA, and already max it out each year.For both Roth and conventional IRAs, the contribution limit per year is between $5500 and $6500. If you've contributed more than the allowed amount, the excess will be taxed at an added 6%. The contribution limit is the total contribution limit, and not the contribution limit for each IRA. So if you had two IRAs and you funded them equally, you could only contribute $2750 to each.
 The third major kind of IRA is a simplified employee pension(SEP) IRA, which is an IRA for the self-employed. SEP IRAs are advantageous for two reasons: the contribution limits are much higher than the typical contribution limits (up to $53,000), and the contributions are tax deductible.You can also contribute to your employee’s IRAs under an SEP under the same terms. However, most small business owners seem to prefer the SIMPLE IRA for employee contributions. The SIMPLE IRA allows matching contributions up to $12,000, and is easier to add employees to.