 Most successful candidates will practice before attempting to take the driving test. Once you have your permit, you can practice with a CDL holder 25 or older in the vehicle. Most candidates will practice through a driving school or company that offers training to new drivers.
 Call 603-227-4000 at least 24 hours before you wish to take your test to schedule a road test at one of the locations listed on the DMV website.
 In order to take your driving test, you will need to bring your appointment slip if applicable, your DSMV 512 (knowledge exam completion card), and your current valid driver’s license and CDL learner’s permit., You will have to provide your own vehicle for the road test, and it must be in the proper class for the type of license you are applying for. Your test vehicle must have an up to date registration, be in safe operating condition, and be free of cargo. It must be driven to the site by a licensed driver., The road test consists of three parts: the pre-trip inspection; the off-road skills test; and the on-road skills test. You must pass each part, in that order, before being allowed to take the next part. For more information on these test, consult the New Hampshire CDL Driver’s Guide.


Pre-Trip Inspection – You will be asked to do a pre-trip vehicle inspection, using the Seven-Step Method listed in the CDL Driver’s Guide. Explain to your examiner what you are inspecting and why. This test determines whether you know if your vehicle is safe to drive.
Off-Road Skills Test – You will be asked to operate your vehicle through a series of low speed maneuvers involving moving forward, backing up, turning, and parking.
On-Road Skills Test – This test you ability to drive safely in real traffic conditions. The test will include turns, intersections, railway crossings, curves, grades, rural roads, multi-lane city streets, and highway driving. All errors will be marked. Some errors, such as driving over a curb, stalling, or violating any part of the New Hampshire Motor Vehicle Code will result in immediate failure.
 You will be required to register in person at a DMV office, for a fee of $20., Once you have passed the road test, you will be pay a fee and be given your CDL.


If you wish to drive a school bus, you will need to apply for a School Bus Certificate after acquiring your CDL with an S-endorsement. To get the certificate, you will need to be on the roster of a school bus company and then pass a written exam.

