 If your boss is racist, you may notice that he’s treating people of color unfairly. These actions might be direct (such as refusing someone employment because “he wouldn’t fit in”) or indirect (such as insisting that employees have English as their native language.)Remember that the workplace may have a genuine reason for the hiring policy.
The racist action may or may not be directed towards you for your work to be affected.
 If you or someone else you feel is qualified has been repeatedly passed over for a promotion, ask your boss what you might do differently. For example, ask, “I was surprised that I wasn’t considered for that position, since it seems to fit my skills and experience. I’m interested in knowing what I might do to advance in the company.”Don’t ask in a confrontational manner that will put your boss in a defensive position.
Remember that it’s possible your boss doesn’t recognize his own racism. If you’re able to make your observations tactfully, he may realize what he’s doing and change his behavior.
 Rather than accusing your boss of being a racist, you might try offering suggestions for better management. For example, instead of saying, “If you’re not considering that man for a job here, you’re acting just like a racist,” you might consider saying, “I think it would help if we tried to cultivate a more diverse workforce.”A statement format is both assertive and deferential.
Try to explain why you’d like to see changes, so that you’re focusing on making positive change rather than blaming your boss for his actions.
 Certain incidents can result in immediate action. For example, physical threats based on race, hanging a noose in an African American employee's locker or work space, or using "the n-word" constitute harassment based on a single incident.If this kind of behavior occurs in your workplace, you should report it immediately.
Make sure to document this action. Write down exactly what took place, including the time, date, location and anyone else who observed it.

