 If your doorknob is accompanied by a lock, you should see a jagged slit on the outward-facing knob of the door. There should be a locking button on the inside part of the knob. The jagged slit is the keyhole. If you have a key for this door, it should fit perfectly into the keyhole and will allow anyone with that specific key to enter the premises.The inside lock button will usually appear in two forms: a twist-lock or a push-lock. Both buttons are typically made from the same metallic material as the doorknob. The twist-lock button is often circular, with a pointed ridge down the center. The pointed ridge is for your finger to twist the lock. Normally, if you twist it right it will lock the door, and if you twist it right, it will unlock it. The push-lock button is a small cylinder. It isn't the most common type of lock these days, but you will see many of them in public restrooms.
If the doorknob does not have a keyhole or a lock button, then it does not lock. Try replacing the doorknob with a lockable handle.;
, Slide the key into the keyhole of the outer doorknob. If the key will not fit, flip it upside down and try again. The key may have one jagged edge and one smooth edge, or it may have multiple jagged edges. These jagged ridges along the length of the key are what match it to this particular lock. The more jagged the key, the tighter the security., Close the door while you are standing outside. Slide the key into the keyhole and turn it clockwise as far as it will go. If you turn the key far enough, the door should lock. If this does not work, flip the key upside down and try again.

To remove the key, turn it counter-clockwise back to the position at which you slid it in – but no further. Pull the key out of the keyhole.
To unlock the door from the outside, simply slide the key into the keyhole and turn it counter-clockwise as far as it will go. Once again, if it does not work just flip the key upside down and try again. You should feel the doorknob release. It should turn, now. Remove the key from the lock.
 You don't need a key to lock most doors from the inside. Find the push-lock or twist-lock button on the inner doorknob.

If your knob has a push-lock: You should see a small, cylindrical button protruding from the center of the knob. Push the button. This should lock the door. Turn the knob to make sure that the door is locked. To unlock the door, simply turn the knob from the inside; it will not unlock if you turn it from the outside.
If your knob has a twist-lock: You should see a circular button with a ridge down the center. Pinch the ridge and twist the button clockwise as far as it will go--likely a 90-degree quarter-turn. This should lock the door, but turn the knob to make sure. To unlock the door, simply twist the button counter-clockwise as far as it will go.
 Try to turn the doorknob and push the door open. If the knob turns and the door opens, then you didn't lock the door. If the knob rattles, but does not turn, then you have locked the door.