 The international code for making calls from Switzerland is 00. Follow this with 1, the country code for reaching the United States.


On most cell phones, you can use the + button instead of the international code. To reach the United States from anywhere in the world, press +1. On some phones, the + symbol is located on the 0 button.;
, This is the three-digit code specific to the region you are calling.


If you don't know the area code, search online for "area code" followed by the name of the city or county you are calling. You may need to try several options from that area.
 You can now dial the seven digit phone number you are trying to reach.


For example, to call Chicago from Switzerland, you would dial: 001-773-###-####. (773 is the area code for most of Chicago.)

, Many U.S. businesses use a toll-free number with the 800 area code, but block international calls to avoid paying high phone rates. If you're lucky, you can replace this code with "880," an out-of-date alternative which still works in some cases.If this doesn't go through either, you may need to find an alternative number for the company that does not start with 1-800.


Make sure your formatting is correct. These numbers are usually listed as "1-800," but you do not need the 1 when calling from abroad. Start with "001-800" instead.
 If your mobile phone can't get through, try making the international call from a landline. In order to reduce the rates for international calls, buy a calling card at a grocery store or convenience store. Enter the code on the calling card to use the pre-paid minutes for an international call., This is not usually necessary to make a call, but if nothing else works, try seeking assistance by dialing one of these numbers:1141 — international operator
1159 — international inquiries
1144 — national cell phone operator

, VoIP or "Voice over Internet Protocol" lets you make calls using your internet connection instead of a phone network. This is usually much cheaper for international calls. Skype is a popular option for computers, while smartphones have many available apps such as FaceTime, Google Hangouts, or Viber.


In many cases, you will need to pay a small fee for international calls, even if the service is normally free. If you're not sure how to set this up, visit the help section of the service's website.
 The Swiss mobile phone network uses the GSM standard, which is not compatible with many North American phones.If you live in the US and are planning a trip, contact your phone provider and ask whether your phone model will work in Switzerland.


AT&T and T-Mobile phones use GSM, but double check with the provider anyway — other technical limitations may prevent your model from working abroad. Other major US networks use the CDMA standard, which is not usable in Europe, but some will loan their customers a phone while traveling., If your mobile phone is "locked" to a specific carrier, it will not work with a Swiss SIM card. Contact your network carrier and ask for the phone to be unlocked. Once the phone is unlocked, you can insert a SIM card from a Swiss carrier and use the phone to make local and international calls.


Before buying a SIM card, make sure it will fit your phone. Most standard cell phones will work with a standard SIM card, but iPhones and smartphones use special micro or nano SIM cards.Notify your U.S. phone carrier that you are going to be traveling to Switzerland and will be using your phone there with a different SIM card for a certain period of time. This will ensure your U.S. carrier does not suspend or change your service.
 If you do not want to bring your own phone, buy a mobile phone once you arrive in the country. Look for an inexpensive phone if you are only staying a short time in Switzerland and get a pay-as-you-go SIM card plan so you can make international calls easily and cheaply.Swisscom, Orange, and Sunrise are the three major network providers, but there are many smaller providers as well. The most affordable and reliable network depends on the region of Switzerland you are visiting, so ask a local for advice if possible.
Make sure you are aware of the rates for international phone calls using your Swiss phone as well as the data usage rates.
Keep in mind you are required to register your Swiss cellphone in Switzerland by law. You will get your own area code along with a local Swiss number. Your area code may be 076, 077, 078, or 079, depending on your provider.

