 In the U.S., you are probably a member of a particular “health system” based upon the particulars of your health insurance plan. Health care system websites typically have “find a doctor” search pages, and many of these permit you to search for physician assistants as well.


For example, on this health system website, you simply check a dialog box on the search page if you want to include PAs (as well as registered nurses ) in your physician search.;
, In addition to health system websites, there are for-profit sites that list (and often grade) medical providers, including PAs, based upon your selected location and/or other preferences. Enter the metro area in which you want to find a PA, and a long list will likely appear before you.Don’t ignore the PA ratings on such sites, but take them with a grain of salt. It is often difficult to pin down the exact criteria by which such ratings are determined. Use them as a starting point, but not the only determining factor.
 You might think of physician assistants working in primary care physician offices, but PAs can also be found pretty much anywhere else you might find a physician, performing many of the same services. You’ll find them in hospitals, clinics, nursing homes, schools and colleges, military and government settings, and elsewhere.In all 50 U.S. states, PAs are authorized to take medical histories, conduct exams, diagnose and treat illnesses, order and interpret tests, develop treatment plans, counsel on preventative care, assist in surgeries, write prescriptions, and make hospital rounds.
 Some people may worry that they are somehow getting “second rate” medical care by seeing a PA instead of a physician. However, surveys and studies indicate that PAs provide a similar quality of care and produce similar patient outcomes, while achieving the same degree of patient satisfaction. And remember, PAs always work in collaboration with (and under the guidance of) a physician.PAs help to reduce costs, increase service availability, and decrease waiting times, all while providing comparably effective care. Some patients in fact find it easier to feel at ease and make a personal connection with a PA as opposed to a medical doctor. Once you find the right PA, you can feel confident that you are getting high-quality general medical care.

