 When someone has martyr syndrome, they often choose to continue suffering, rather than fixing the problem, because they think that their suffering provides them with the completeness and fulfillment required to lead a meaningful and whole life. More than anything, a person with martyr syndrome longs for recognition and approval from those around him or her., Continuing to suffer, rather than fixing the problem, is a common symptom of those who are in an abusive or harassing relationship. They stay with the person causing them pain because they think that they can change the person’s ways with their unselfish behavior. Even if they have the choice of getting out of their bad situation, they choose to stay in it because they think it is more noble to suffer and if they leave the situation, they may be viewed as selfish.For example, a woman may stay with an abusive husband for two reasons. One would be that she thinks it is her duty to fix him and their relationship, so she suffers in order to be unselfish and mend his ways. The second reason may be that she chooses to stay because she does not want her children to live in a disturbed home. Because of this, she chooses to suffer rather than letting her children suffer, as she thinks they would do if she were to leave her husband.
 People with martyr syndrome often select someone to be his or her role model. This role model is generally someone who chose to suffer rather than confront a situation in order to achieve a goal of some kind. Because of this role model, the person is ruled by thoughts of others and puts themselves on a pedestal of for having taken up the task of rendering selfless services for the sake of others.
 People with martyr syndrome often look and act unhappy because they feel that their sacrifices are underappreciated. A person with martyr syndrome will often feel like the person she has sacrificed for does not really how instrumental she has been in the person’s success.


The person will mostly talk about how difficult life has been for her because she has had to sacrifice so much for the benefit of others. She will never talk about other options that she could have chosen to remedy the situation.
 The person will often remind the person that he sacrificed for that he deserves acknowledgement and appreciation. Even the slightest display of an attitude that they take to be less than respectful will be taken as an insult. Because of this, the person will get offended easily and will be set off by the slightest of triggers.An example of something that a person with martyr syndrome might say would sound like s ‘I did so much for them so the least they could do is involve me in every aspect of their life, in every decision they make. They owe me their respect and acknowledgement for my services to them.”

, The person will always talk about himself as a person who chose to suffer because of a noble cause. He will act as if he is constantly chased by a nagging feeling that people who have benefited from his sacrifices just do not recognize and acknowledge his selfless contributions and services.


The person will also does not hesitate in voicing his displeasure to anyone that is willing to listen. He would like as many people as possible to know how unfortunate he is for having gotten the short end of the stick because of his acts of sacrifice.
 People with martyr syndrome expect others to admire them for their selfless spirit. They greatly enjoy being showered with sympathy for the dreams and aspirations they put aside so that they could benefit someone else.


If anyone tries to challenge the person’s intentions, or points out that the person did not have to sacrifice everything, the person will become very upset and angry. A normal response is to claim that the challenger is selfish, ungrateful, and has no idea what the person’s life has been life.
 When a person with martyr syndrome is in the process of fixing someone else’s life, she will refuse any help, or deem any help that she does get as insignificant in the full scheme of things. She will not listen to advice or suggestions because she thinks that everything that happens is because of her--no one else had a hand in any of the changes that were made.


Wherever possible, the person with martyr syndrome will paint the picture like she was the only one to shoulder any burden in the situation, even if other people helped, or the situation didn’t really need to be fixed in the first place.
 The person will love you and shower you with affection, but in return he will ask for your own outward displays of love and respect. Unsaid actions of love don’t satisfy people with martyr syndrome--they need the most overt forms of expression.They will expect you to talk about their sacrifices and unselfishness to everyone that you come into contact with. They will also expect gifts that show how much you appreciate them.

