 A lender uses credit scores to determine how likely it is that you will pay your debts on time. Your credit score is based on a number of factors, including your payment history, current unpaid loans, history of bankruptcy or foreclosure, and the number of loans you have out.

There are three agencies that collect information and report on your credit score. These are Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion.
FICO scores are the most common type of credit score. They range from 300-850. A good credit score is over 700 while scores under 600 may make it difficult for you to borrow money. FICO requires six months of credit history for a score.
VantageScores also run from 300 to 850, and they will assign a letter grade from A to F on your score. They only require one month of credit history., It’s not a foolproof strategy, but you can sometimes negotiate with a creditor to remove a negative item from your report. Counterintuitively, this works best when you still owe money to the creditor. Try the following:Write your creditor and offer to pay the balance of the account if they will remove the item from your credit report (or at least mark it as “paid as agreed”). If they agree to your offer or you agree to their counteroffer, get the agreement in writing and uphold your end of the bargain.
 If you’ve got a credit limit of $1000, you should be able to charge $1000, right? Actually, if you want to keep your credit score in good shape, it’s best to carry a balance of no more than 30% of your available credit (and no less than 10%). This is called the “amounts owed” section of your credit score, which isn’t the most straightforward name. It means the amount owed relative to your credit limits, and not the entirety of the amount of debt owed. A credit score is based on a variety of factors, including payment history, total debt load, and length of time accounts have been open. The amounts owed is one of the most important components of the score, and it's also one of the simplest to tweak.
If you can’t afford to get your balance down below 30% of your limit right away, one possible fix is to call your credit card company and ask for a higher credit limit.
 If you cancel a card or another line of credit, the total amount of available credit you have will lessen, which will negatively affect your score. If you have one card you don’t use very much, charge a small recurring bill, like a phone bill or a trash bill, to the card. That will keep it active and with a small but manageable balance.(note that their use should be avoided except in emergency)

Avoid using these extra lines of credit unless you absolutely need to because of an emergency.

