 Look for live lobsters tanks at the supermarket or buy them from your local fishmonger. Be sure to look inside the lobster tank for lobsters that look vibrant and healthy. Avoid lobsters that are too still or have holes or black marks on their shells.
 This is the recommended method for prepping a live lobster before you broil it. Boiling the lobster kills the fresh lobster quickly and ensures the meat gets thoroughly cooked, which is harder to do with broiling alone.To parboil the lobster, do the following:


Fill a large pot three quarters full with water. Add 2 tablespoons of salt for each quart of water. Bring the water to a full, rolling boil.
One at a time, plunge the live lobsters into the water headfirst. Cover the pot with a lid.
The length of time you boil the lobsters differs according to how much they weigh. A one-pound lobster should cook for 3 1/2 minutes, a 2-pound lobster for 5 1/2 minutes, and a 3-pound lobster for 7 1/2 minutes.
Submerge the parboiled lobster in an ice bath to stop the cooking.
 Just before you're ready to broil the lobsters, preheat the broiler. If your broiler operates inside the main part of your oven, place the oven rack in the center of the oven to ensure even broiling.
 Use a sharp knife or a pair of kitchen shears to split it form the head to the tail. Remove the coral and tomalley, which look like greenish horseradish. These are the intestinal materials. While they're edible, they aren't pretty, so people often remove them for the sake of having a prettier presentation. Rinse the lobster to clean off the smaller bits.


If you want to broil the claws as well, crack them so that the heat from the broiler can reach them more easily.
 Put the lobster flesh-side up in a roasting pan. In a bowl, mix together 1/4 cup of butter (per lobster) 1 clove of minced garlic per lobster, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour the mixture over the lobster to keep the meat moist while it cooks.
 Place the roasting pan under the broiler and cook it until the flesh is opaque and the butter has browned. Depending on the size of the lobster, it will take 10-12 minutes. Broiled lobster requires about 1 minute per ounce to cook properly. Remove it from the oven.


If the meat starts to look dry while the lobster is broiling, dress it with more butter to keep it from overcooking.
If the meat still looks translucent after 12 minutes, return it to the broiler for another 2-3 minutes.
 Place the whole lobster on a plate to serve. Garnish it with lemon juice and a sprinkling of chipped dill, parsley or chives. Whole broiled lobster is usually served in the shell for a striking presentation.

