 No matter how bored you feel, you always have your creative, incredible brain to keep you company. With a little equipment you can easily pass hours making movies, writing poems, or learning cover songs on an instrument. Not only will the time fly by, you'll get the chance to hone your skills and make something to share with the world.


Write poems, stories, scripts, or comic strips.
Shoot home movies, from quick Vines and YouTube clips to longer films.
Grab free DJ software, like GarageBand, and use it to make original beats and songs.
Look up DIY projects online, like small greenhouses or homemade speakers, and get building.;
, The wealth of media available on the internet now makes it easy to fill entire months without leaving your couch. You can still use the time spent alone to catch up on the shows and songs you may have missed. You can also use this time to expand your horizons, crushing the "best of the best" and becoming a little more culturally literate.


Work your way through Rolling Stone's Top 500 Albums, the AFI's Best 100 Films, or Time's Greatest Novels of the 20th century. They provide hours of entertainment and are often well-read, which means you're guaranteed to find someone with which to talk about each piece.
 Learn a language, a new recipe, or some Roman history. Let your mind wander to whatever interests you the most, learning what you want to learn instead of what a teacher tells you. Learning for learning's sake is one of the best ways to pass the time, and it may open you up to new hobbies or ideas as time goes by.


Head to the local library and check out a few books from the non-fiction and DIY section. Don't worry about the "right" subjects, just grab what interests you.
 It will definitely make your parents happy, and it can actually be a quiet, meditative way to pass the time if you put some good music on. Keeping your room clean, helping out with dinner, and mowing the lawn will pass the time quickly, and it could make you a bit of money if you've discussed an allowance with your parents ahead of time.
 Writing in a journal each day not only passes the time, it helps you organize your thoughts and ideas and provides you with a record of who you were earlier in life. Journals help boost your mental health and have been shown to increase creativity. They are also a lot of fun to reread a few years later, as they offer a unique look into who you were at the time., The internet is full of time passing sites, diversions, and intriguing information. Try out StumbleUpon, which takes you to random sites based on your interests, or forums and message boards like Reddit, where users post interesting content based on their likes. You can peruse the handmade art on Etsy or glue your eyes to the incredible homemade videos available on Vimeo. Or you can simply go to a search engine, type in your interests, and dive down into the rabbit hole of wikiHow, Google, or Wikipedia., The freedom of summer can sometimes feel like a double-edged sword. On one hand, you are out of school. On the other, you've got a lot more free time to fill up suddenly. If you're worried about having too much time on your hands when school finally gets out, talk to you parents about making plans for camp, vacation, and any long-term projects. Summer is the perfect time to work on things you can't otherwise fit into your schedule. Some ideas include:


Plan a summer vacation with your parents. Make a list of things you want to do or places you want to go. Together, figure out ones that are feasible and that your parents would also enjoy.
Find 1-2 summer camps to explore. Your local Parks & Rec Department likely publishes a summer camp guide, offering everything from writing classes to sports camps, that you can pick up from your town hall. Or, go online and search for camps related to your interests
Start a project. You could build a new shed with your mom or dad, begin to write a movie or short story, or decide to pick up a new instrument. Give yourself a goal for the end of the summer and pass the time trying to reach it.