 Ask your doctor what side effects you can expect from a particular drug, and do your own research on the internet to see how other people have reacted to the medication. Knowing what to expect can make side effects easier to manage. To name a few common bipolar medication examples:Lithium is a mood stabilizer that is widely known by doctors and prescribed to patients who have bipolar disorder. If you are prescribed this med, side effects may include diarrhea, drowsiness, extreme thirst, nausea, thyroid issues, memory issues, and weight gain. Most side effects will fade as your body adjusts to the medication. Chronic side effects of lithium include renal toxicity, thyroid dysfunction, parathyroid dysfunction, and cardiac dysrhythmias.
Valproic acid is an anticonvulsant drug that is frequently prescribed to those with bipolar. This drug also helps control the highs and lows of the condition, but may be associated with side effects like nausea, dizziness, diarrhea, tremors, and weight gain. Talk to your doctor to learn more about your specific medication regimen and its side effects.CNS dysfunction is the most common manifestation of toxicity, which manifests itself in the form of mild drowsiness, coma, or fatal cerebral edema., If your medicine makes you feel restless or anxious, look for natural ways to relax. Deep breathing techniques, meditation, and visualization are three good ways to calm down., If your medications make you feel chilly all the time, keep a sweater or a coat close at hand. Consider layering long underwear under your outfit, especially in the winter., Bipolar medications can cause both diarrhea and constipation. Eating more fiber can help fix both of these conditions. Add more vegetables, fruits, and whole grains to your diet, or ask your doctor about taking psyllium, a fiber laxative., If your medicine is causing you to feel hungrier than usual, choose bulky but low-calorie foods like raw vegetables to fill you up while minimizing weight gain. If your appetite has disappeared, focus on eating foods that are nutrient- and calorie-dense to give your body the fuel it needs., Drinks that contain caffeine, such as coffee, tea, and energy drinks, can make you need to urinate even more. It’s also a good idea to avoid alcohol, which has a dehydrating effect.You might be tempted to cut down on your water intake, but don’t do this – it’s important to replenish the fluids you lose throughout the day.

