 You can log in or continue to play as a guest, but some features will be unavailable to you. (Such as chatting in the main chat)

, If you're joining an existing skip the below steps.
 There are two types of games, Classic and Sprint. Classic is where you have to get to a certain space, and Sprint is where you have to get to a certain round.;
,


Free for all. Everyone is alone. First player to go across the finish line (or player closest to the end when the round ends) is the winner.
Teams: one for all. Teams selected by the host work together, first player to go across the finish line (or player closest to the end when the round ends) is the winner for their team
Teams: all for one. Teams selected by the host work together, all players of a team have to go across the finish line (or player closest to the end when the round ends) to win.
Teams: total spaces. As soon as one player crosses the finish line (or the round ends) the team with the total number of spaces accumulated wins.
Teams: Like a boss. Host selects one player to be "The Boss" as well as any number of powers. All the other players are against the boss, named challengers. If one player goes across the finish line the entire team of challengers wins.
 This can be anything you want it to be, but will be shown publicly if you're doing a public game., This can be anywhere from 25 to 1000000000. This is the space one player must get to end the game. Or the round the game ends on, and the farthest player wins., This can be anywhere from 1 to 16. You will be able to start the game at any time, but once the max players has been reached no one else will be able to join the game., It can be public or private. Public will be allowed open entry, and be displayed in the lobby and private will only be allowed with a link., This can be anywhere from 15 to 30 seconds. This is how many seconds a player has to perform a single action on his/her turn. Set it low if you want to have a quicker game and/or stop trolls. Set it higher if you want more time to read through the options., It should be between 12 and 25 rupees., Each game offers a set of classes to pick from. These will give the player special powers and items. You can set whether players

Have three random to choose from.
Have all the options and can choose.
Are randomly selected a class.
 This is a drop of random items given to each player and can be set to none, 1st round through 5th round., Disarmed means a user can not use items, powers, or anything in their inventory. This can be brought on later in the game by special events or items but this option is to set it at the beginning. You can set it none, lasting one round through lasting five rounds., The extra options include.

Instant classes. Get your class on your first round.
Survival. Player can not win a game while dead.
Expert. Sets other special options and makes the game harder. Recommended for experienced users.
, If you're a member it'll automatically go through. If not you'll have to set your user options.
 As long as it's more than 3 letters it can be anything., How the game will refer to you.

I'm a dude!
I'm a gal!
Something else, maybe?
Randomize.


I prefer men!
I prefer women!
I actually like em both!

, Wait for players to join your game. Once you have enough players, start the game or wait for the host to start the game. First player to join is the host. If that player leaves it falls to the next person in line.
 Two six sided dice will be rolled. This plus your total speed will determine how far you move on the board.
 The first player gets to chose which video plays on the YouTube sim in the top left corner. The choice then goes to the next in line when that video ends.
 This is only available if you selected instant classes. If not it'll come later in the game. The classes marked special are only available if the total donation amount is $10 or more. (Meaning if you donated $0-$5 and someone else donated $10. The total donation will be $15 for the game and give all players access to the classes)


Alchemist
Assassin
Barbarian
Succubus/Incubus
Merchant
Necromancer
Paladin
Priest
Quantum Physicist
Saboteur
Sorcerer/ess
Druid (Special)
Enchanter (Special)
Illusionist (Special)
Lawyer (Special)
Time Twister (Special)
Warlock (Special)

, Each turn will be different but an example of one might be. "You arrive at a bank. What would you like to do?"

Put Money in my bank account.
Take out a life insurance.
Transfer money to another player.
Rob the bank (only if you have a gun)

, You arrive at a brothel. What would you like to do. Enter or not. If you don't nothing happens and your turn ends. If you do, you get infected with Herpes. (This is one option for the brothel entrance. There are tens of them), As the others play you can use items and powers. Watch what they do, sabotage people, and fight tooth and nail to the end. It is a huge game of chance and anarchy but there is a strategy to winning., This is done by being the first to cross the finish line and remain there by the end of your turn, or being the farthest when the round ends. While extremely rare there are three other ways to win the game.

Completing a full English breakfast in your inventory with eggs, spam, bacon, and sausage.
Finding the pharaoh's lost treasure in the deadly pyramid.
Obtaining seven kills with the spear of destiny.

