 The goal is to have a short form employment application that takes 5 minutes or less to complete. So, start by thinking about the minimum amount of information you need to determine if a candidate submission warrants a phone screen.;
, Be careful about how much information you request. Do you really need a street address at this point? Probably not, but it might be helpful to know what city/state the employee resides in. Don't ask for personal information such as a date of birth or social security number. Candidates don't want to give this to you at this early stage of the process. If you ask for it candidates will drop out of the process and you risk losing a great future employee.
 For example, if you are involved in hotel staffing, you may want to ask if the candidate is willing to work nights and weekends. If you are in restaurant recruiting, you might want to ask about how many years of sous chef experience a candidate has.
 Often the last two or three employers is enough. Ask for the candidate's position, dates of employment and reason for leaving. You really don't need more information than this.
 Make sure that the system you choose stores this form separately from the application. Hiring managers shouldn't see this information since it's only used for government reporting purposes.
 That approach doesn't work well with mobile.
Ask the vendor if they use their own system when they recruit staff. It's very telling if they don't!
Ask the vendor if they will integrate with any background check or assessment provider of your choosing. You may really like the vendors you're working with now -- or you may want to change them later. Many large mobile recruiting companies only work with their preferred vendors, some of which may be very expensive to deal with.
Ask if the vendor can integrate into a paperless onboarding system, HRIS, or payroll system.
Ask if the vendor can create a career page for you.
Ask if you have to use the vendor's job board or if you can use any online job board that you choose.
Ask if the vendor makes it easy to post ads on Craig's List.
Ask if the vendor supports grassroots recruiting campaigns to source local hourly candidates.
 Don't feel pressured to implement it without testing it first.