 Most of the information that a social worker incorporates into a social work assessment comes from direct reports from all parties involved with a case.


Begin by interviewing the person who is seeking services. If possible, interview family members, former case workers, physicians, teachers, and other people who you can inform you of your client’s situation.;
, You can add to your information by consulting important documents. These might include psychiatric, educational, vocational or medical tests as well as agency records.


Keep a record of all sources used for your assessment. In the assessment you will want to record who you interviewed, any incidents you were able to observe, and any documents you consulted. , The most important part of the assessment process is creating a rapport with your client and other interviewees that would encourage them to divulge information honestly. Focus on obtaining information about the client’s needs and the resources that would help fulfill those needs.Create a safe atmosphere when conducting interviews by explaining the rules of confidentiality to the interviewees. In general, all information obtained in the interview will remain a part of the report and that you will not share the information with people who are not involved with the case.
To elicit positive responses, focus on finding the strengths of the client. Do not apportion blame. Negotiate with the client over a mutually agreed assessment.When you encounter resistance, be optimistic so as not to discourage your client. Continue to be polite, punctual, and attentive. Refrain from using jargon., These require the person to respond with detailed answers. Questions requiring only a yes or no answer will not produce enough information for you to write an assessment that can be used to set goals and determine a treatment plan. For example, instead of asking if the client is angry with another individual, ask them to explain how they feel about them.


Have an assessment form on-hand during your interviews. Assessment forms include specific questions. Using an assessment form will help focus your interview and allow you to take thorough notes. Many facilities have their own assessment forms available for the interview process

