 The purpose of floor time is to provide your guinea pig with exercise, fun and a time to explore new objects and toys all in one. Floor time is also beneficial to your guinea pig's mental health, as it gives them a special time to interact with new objects.


Floor time is an increasingly popular and effective method to keep guinea pigs fit and encourage them to exercise. During floor time, your guinea pig is promoted to move around more and manoeuvre their body to get through obstacles.
Floor time also allows you to play and bond with your guinea pig. The open space allows the both of you to interact better and connect with each other.
During floor time, the purpose is to provide your guinea pig with plenty of toys, huts, tunnels and obstacles to explore and play with on the open floor. This is something your guinea pig probably wouldn't be able to do just as well in their confined cage.;
, It might seem odd reading about floor time as an exercise method and then seeing your guinea pig inactively huddle in the corner of the room. This is normal and every guinea pig starts out like this. The new surroundings takes a toll; your guinea pig will need some time getting use to the concept of floor time just as much as you do.


The open space will scare your guinea pig at first. You can help ease your guinea pig by providing an adequate amount of hidies (or pigloos).
 Floor time should be a weekly activity for you and your guinea pig. However, the smaller the cage your guinea pig lives in, the more floor time you should introduce. A guinea pig can live comfortably in a smaller cage if they get plenty of floor time; which allows them to get the proper exercise and stimulation they need.


Make a schedule of how many days a week, when and for how long you want your floor time to be. Such as every Monday, Wednesday and Saturday for an hour of floor time. Guinea pigs thrive on consistency and schedules., Considering that you will be using an open floor space, setting up a border will help construct a safer and more secure enviroment to play in. However, this is an optional decision. If you are not worried about your guinea pig wondering off around the room then skip this step.


A border should be assembled if your room isn't safe or secure for your cavy to roam around in.
C & C cubes are a cheap and easy material you could use to make a DIY play pen for your guinea pigs.
 There are no limits on where you can go to introduce floor time. Consider arranging floor time directly outside of your guinea pigs cage. This assures that you don't have to go through the hassle of transporting your guinea pig from one room to another.


Of course, some rooms are safer than others. Don't hold back from choosing a safer and more secure room over a room of which is closer to your guinea pig's cage.
No room is off limits. If you feel that a kitchen or bathroom would be a safer place to hold floor time then go ahead! However, take into account of the tiles during the colder months.
Try to select a room that has low traffic where you and your guinea pig are less likely to be disturbed. On top of that, it is suggested to choose a room that is well-lit and well-ventilated (but no drafts)., It is important to ensure that the room you choose for floor time is safe and secure for your guinea pig to play and roam around in. It is your duty to provide a safe environment for your guinea pig. This includes;


Packing away wires sprawled around the room. You can temporarily put these into a box secured away from your guinea pig or put them up somewhere. If your guinea pig chews into the wire it will cause an electric shock. This includes phone chargers too.
Blocking off areas where your guinea pig shouldn't go. Guinea pigs are notorious for getting into places where they shouldn't be. Usually out of fright they will scamper to the first hiding spot they see, which could be anything from under a large wardrobe to hiding behind a sofa. You can block these off with something as simple as a flattened, cardboard box.
Removing pets from the room. Other animals, such as dogs or cats, are seen as predators to guinea pigs. If you have both animals in the same room, your guinea pig might feel threatened and therefore discouraged to come out and play.
Closing the door to the room.
Remove any house plants that are poisonous to your guinea pig. If unsure about a specific plant; remove it. Don't put your guinea pig at risk.
 Fleece is highly recommended to lay down before you start floor time with your guinea pigs. The material should pick up all the droppings and urine; making clean-up easier and quicker for you.


Puppy pads can be expensive whilst fleece is reusable. It would be much more convenient opting for fleece instead.
 Toys are the fun part of floor time. You can place as many toys as you would like, as the space is unlimited. However, do not get sucked into thinking that any toy is safe for your guinea pig. There are a few toys that should be steered away from.


Exercise wheels and balls are a big no! These objects are commonly targeted for guinea pigs in pet shops, when they aren't actually any good. Unlike mice and hamsters, guinea pigs do not possess a flexible spine. Using these balls/wheels on your guinea pig will result in harming their back.
Check for splintering wood. Before you add a wooden toy to the floor time area, examine the wood to check for splinters or splintering which can harm your guinea pig when/if they chew it.
Avoid wire treat toys. Guinea pigs are known to get their head stuck in these. Go for a safer alternative such as a plastic ball treat dispenser.
 When you first introduce your guinea pig to play time, it is common that they feel frightened and may want to hide away. Huts aren't only a great object for your guinea pig to explore, but they serve the purpose of providing a safe place for your guinea pig to retreat to when scared, thus reducing stress levels.
 Guinea pigs are burrowing animals in the wild; they love hiding in tunnels and climbing ramps! You can purchase a safe tunnel from a pet shop or recycle a cardboard tube. Ramps can be made out of almost anything.
 With obstacles, your guinea pig is promoted to do more exercise and manoeuvre around the objects. Obstacles can be anything from toys to tunnels and ramps. Anything lying around the house (and is of course pet-safe) can be used as an obstacle such as blocks, wood, logs, pillows, etc.


You could even construct a maze with the obstacles.
 During floor time, guinea pigs should still be allowed to have access to food whenever they would like. Add a bundle of hay, some plain pellets, water and vegetables.


A water bottle is preferred during playtime to reduce leakage and mess.
It isn't important to provide your guinea pigs with vegetables or pellets during floor time. However, they should continue to have access to fresh water and hay.
 Hay can become a fun toy for your guinea pigs too - place a compacted bundle in the centre of the floor and watch your guinea pigs explore and walk around in it. Alternatively you can collect a bundle of untreated, fresh grass and place it in the centre of the floor. Guinea pigs love grass just as much as they love hay.
 During floor time, it is important that you have full supervision of your guinea pigs whilst they are playing and exploring. Something can easily go wrong in an unconfined, open space where there is no supervision.


Use your time up effectively and wisely. Bond with your guinea pigs. Talk to them or even play with them.
 It's understandable that your guinea pig might be shy at first with the new space and surroundings of floor time. You can try your best to encourage your guinea pig to walk around and explore through the use of treats. Guinea pigs love fresh vegetables, or consider a forage mix.


Fruits make a great alternative to commercial treats which are far too sugary. Fruits are just as sweet but contain less sugar and preservatives.
 Floor time should be a special time for not just your guinea pig but you as well. In the space you are provided you should use your time up effectively. Socialise and play with your guinea pig. Be in the space with them and explore each object along their side.

