 This is the first and most important step in preparing your dish. This allows you to know if you have all the ingredients needed.;
, This is where the process begins.


Preheat the oven to 450 degrees.
Grab the 3 bowls and place in the first bowl 2 cups of flour with salt and pepper. In the second bowl, place your 3 large eggs, and in the third bowl place your bread crumbs. After you have done this, set them aside.
Take your chicken and place it on the cutting board. From here, cut off the unwanted fat.
Lay the chicken on the cutting board with a piece of wax paper over it. Grab the rolling pin, and flatten the chicken so one side is not larger than the other. The purpose of this is to get an even cook throughout the chicken.
Before we take the chicken to bowls, pour a thin layer of olive oil in the skillet and place the skillet on the stove. Turn the stove to a medium heat, and let the oil heat up.
Once the chicken is flattened, take it over to the bowls with the eggs, flour, and bread crumbs. In this order, place the chicken in the flour, then the eggs, then the bread crumbs.
Take the saucepan and add water and salt to it. Then set it aside because it will be used for the noodles.
 Time to start making your meal!


Place the chicken in the skillet with the thin layer of olive oil, and cook it on each side for 4 minutes. Remember, the stove is on a medium to light heat.
Once the chicken has cooked on both sides for 4 minutes, remove it from the stove. The chicken will not be fully cooked at this stage, but it will cook thoroughly when placed in the oven.
Pour pasta sauce on top of the chicken. Make sure to spread the sauce out evenly.
After the sauce is added, crumble up the fresh mozzarella. Then spread it over the top of the chicken and pasta sauce.
When the mozzarella is added, sprinkle parmesan cheese over the top, and garnish with fresh basil. The basil helps give a nice presentation.
Once everything has been added to the chicken, place the skillet in the oven and cook for 15 minutes.
Grab the saucepan with the water and salt in it. Place this on the stove, and bring the water to a boil. Once the water is boiling, place your noodles in the water, and cook until the noodles are done. This should be about 8-10 minutes.



When the timer on the oven goes off, remove the chicken, but be careful because the skillet will be hot.
Take the noodles off the stove and drain them. After draining them, place them in a bowl.
 Put that chicken and noodles on a plate and enjoy!

