 You'll want to make sure that the instrument you are tuning to is in tune before tuning to it. Some instruments, like the piano, stay in tune for long periods of time and are excellent tools for tuning your bass.


The E note on a keyboard can be found by locating the white key immediately after a series of two black keys in a row. Any key immediately after a series of two black keys is E.
Other instruments that have recently been tuned, like a guitar or trumpet, can also be used to tune the E string of your bass.
When you play your reference E note on an instrument, clear your head and try to hold onto the E note's pitch as clearly as possible. This is the first note you'll be tuning to.;
, This string is also known as the E string. As you play this note, hold on to the reference E note you just played on an instrument in your head. You should notice that the notes aren't exactly the same. To tune your E string, you should:









Locate the tuning pegs at the top of the neck of your bass. Each peg should correspond to one of the strings. Find the peg that corresponds to your E string. It should be the peg nearest the body of the guitar.
Turn the E peg to change the pitch of your string to match the reference E note. In most cases, instruments go flat (low) over time, so you'll likely have to turn the peg counterclockwise.
When the reference E note and the pitch made by playing the E string are the same, your E string is tuned., This is also known as the A string. The A string corresponds to the white keyboard note that immediately precedes the farthest right black key in a three black key series. Play your reference note and hold it in your head, then play the A string. Tune the string by:








Adjusting the A string tuning peg. In most cases, the A tuning peg will be the second closest peg to the body of the guitar. Turn this peg to change the pitch made by the A string.
In most cases, instruments go flat over time, so it's most likely that you'll have to turn your A tuning peg counterclockwise to make its sound sharper/higher.
If you are new to tuning a stringed instrument, it's not uncommon to turn your tuning peg to far and have to go the opposite direction. Be patient, and match the reference note carefully.
When the reference A note and the A string of your bass are exactly the same, the A string is tuned., This is the D string of your bass guitar. You're going to have to tune it to D on your reference instrument. On a keyboard, you can find D by locating the key directly in between two black keys. Play your reference note and hold it firmly in your mind, then:









Play your D string. You should notice that the sound of your bass's D string doesn't match perfectly with your reference note.
Adjust the D string tuning peg. This peg is usually the peg third closest to the body of the guitar. Turn the tuning peg until your D string matches your reference note perfectly., This is the G string. To tune this string, you'll need to play a G on a reference instrument, like a keyboard. On a keyboard, G can be found by locating the white note immediately after the farthest left black note in a series of three black notes. To tune the string, you should:









Play your G string. Compare the note to your reference note. It's likely going to be flat, so you'll have to change the sound of the string with its tuning peg.
Find and adjust the G string tuning peg. This should be the peg farthest away from the body of the guitar. Turn the peg until it matches the pitch of your reference note. Your bass is tuned.