 The first chapter begins in an underwater vehicle with your team. Without spoiling anything major, let’s just say that it is a perfect setting the tone for whole campaign - suspense. After the short flashback, then comes the flashback.


After moving out the school, your next destination will be 2 extraction sites. First extraction site combat will take place in an open space with an aid of an ally helicopter support. When going to the second site – don’t forget to load up and collect gadgets from crates.
You will need to fire down an enemy chopper upon reaching the second extraction site.
Second half of the mission begins inside a van driven by Irish. Your mission is to rescue 3 VIPs in a hotel. The action begins when your vehicle crashes. Luckily, you still managed to reach the hotel in one piece.
Make your way up to the rooftop of the building. There will be enemies that will stop you so be sure to work with your men to eliminate the Chinese soldiers. Stairs are perfect for cover and never wander too far from your team mates. Soon you will reach the rooftop.
When an enemy chopper arrives, slide through the collapsing building. Make sure to shoot enemies on your way down. There will be a cutscene after that.
Eventually, you will find yourselves in a car. The enemy chopper will be back so just keep on your track. Irish will be able to destroy the chopper via grenade soon enough. Last scene will be a crash and you need to work your way out of the car.;
, The story continues as your team gets out of the crashed car. Now, navigate your way inside the hotel lobby.


Accessing the lobby will not be possible at the moment so you will need to go to the elevator shaft as an alternative entrance. You will receive a weapon here that will surely be handy when the door opens. Enemies are expecting you outside!
Waves of enemies will come right at you so be sure to keep your ammo in constant supply. When the coast becomes clear, head straight to the VIP room. After an explosion, talk with the VIP and Kovic then head straight to the roof. Get ready for another confrontation here.
After clearing the roof, go straight to the chopper. Unfortunately, you will he shot and then Kovic leaves the scene with the VIP with your team left behind. Enemies will then again spawn so quickly take cover behind the yellow railings. Try to get hold of a sniper rifle too since it will make eliminating enemies easier.
The battle continues on the street. This time you will be up against – a TANK.
Watch out for two scared civilians amidst the fallen bodies. Approach the civilians and follow them until you reach the safehouse. Follow the markers to get outside the waterfront. Tanks will appear and you’ll then need to use C4 and M2 slam mines to destroy them.
Beat the tanks while on top of a building. Don’t let them get too close for they could actually crumble down the structure you are standing on! After you defeat the enemies, you can now escape Shanghai.
 You finally reach home base! Tension is still in the air and the fleet is far from safety. Find Garrison and Kovic to discuss the plan. You then go to the boat to head straight to the USS Titan.


Enter USS Titan through its hull breach while underwater. It is located in the back left corner. Find the hatch and interact with the white circle. Now pull yourself out of the water. Look for the white circle on the computer terminals on the left.
Get ready before you open the next door. The room behind this door is filled with enemies! Use your tactical visor to easily spot enemies despite the lack of sufficient lighting. Combat will eventually move outside the destroyed ship.
Combat outside the ship will be really heavy! Watch when explosives go rolling down on you. But once you survive that – you can now drop down to board an enemy patrol boat. Your destination is at the back of the Valkyrie.
Keep on the engine and never pause even for a bit. Enemies will come at you on every direction so getting past them will save you some bullets. After reaching the Valkyrie, exchange of bullets will continue on its lower decks.
After you wipe out the enemies, go through the door on the right. Your will now be up against choppers so you better equip yourself with a rocket launcher and a stinger to bring down these flying vehicles. Watch out for a helicopter full of enemy reinforcement. Upstairs you will meet Hannah and she will assist you fending off the enemies.
More choppers will come your way. Kovic will eventually fall during this sequence of combat. Again, if you have enough ammo for stingers – you should be fine. Keep shooting those choppers down. Rescue Garrison to complete the mission.
 You immediately board a boat and need to navigate your way to land amidst the furious weather. The minimap will be your best friend in completing this task. Remember to exit the vehicle quickly after it crashes to the land.


Action starts at this point. Use your tactical visor to have a better look on where your enemies are. Watch out for a turret on the left side and a bunch of enemies just behind the rocks. Take cover behind the tank.
This sequence of combat will be too difficult for you to be handled by yourself. Make sure to include your team and all the help you can get in clearing off the highway of enemies. More enemies will come your way when you reach the bridge.
Eventually your allied tank will be shaken up with an explosion leaving its driver out. Now it is your time to take control of the tank – on your own! Make the most of it to destroy enemy tanks and destroy structures, too. Remember to exit the tank when it’s about to explode. Your destination is an underground parking garage.
After leaving the parking area, hop back in to another tank. Watch out for enemies with AT rockets and large enemy tanks. You can temporarily use a hill for cover and take down the tanks one at a time. Don’t even think about battling these tanks on foot because that will be really dangerous.
When your tank gets destroyed, you will now need to fight your way up a restaurant and go to the airport. You will then meet with Irish which will be with you when you find yourself in an encounter. You will be pinned then a cutscene will take place.
Next scene, you will be back with your squad on the beach. The action starts when you reach the hangar. Better reach the storage room first before you make any move solely for you to have cover when fire exchange begins. Again, use your tactical visor to help you finish off enemies easier.
Reach the end of the hangar and your squad will then be in a car. You are in charge of the gunner’s seat. When an enemy truck appears, hold you fire until actual enemy troops appear. Things will get ugly after rockets fall down from the sky. This will eventually lead to your capture.
 While in captivity, you will undergo torture and you main goal from here on is to escape. You will have your chance to escape with your cellmate Dima leading the way.


Just follow Dima and you’ll be fine. You will need to be stealthy not be spotted by guards. You will have your chance to grab a shotgun by successfully eliminating guards silently then getting their weapon. Head to the tower to grab an SMG and then pull the switches to free the other prisoners. Get ready for the arriving guards!
Exit through the green door after the commotion. Rescue Irish and take two ore prisoners with you as you make your escape. Prepare for another cross fire. Make your way to the storage warehouse to bump into more guards.
On the elevator exit, don’t forget to equip yourself with your preferred weapon. Head to the security room and let Dima hack the system. Now go to the computer room and grab mines and a grenade launcher.
When the smoke of battle clears, the gate will finally be open! You will soon be reunited with your team with Hannah. More fighting happens up the hill. Make sure to grab the sniper rifle on the left building for it will really be useful on the battle ahead.
More reinforcements will arrive including a batch of enemies at the bridge to the tram. Get rid of these enemies by simply using your grenade launcher then ride the tram to end this chapter.
 Welcome to the most challenging chapter of this campaign. Your squad will immediately be dealt with hordes of enemies guarding the commanding officer’s headquarters.


Among the obstacles ahead, the tank will prove to be the most dangerous of all. The best way to destroy it is by planting mines on where it patrols. When you finally get rid of the tank, it will make your confrontation with the enemies much easier.
You can use an anti-aircraft tank and drive your way through gates across the fields. Watch out for those rocket emplacements. When you reach the bridge, get ready for another encounter.
There will be enemy tanks on the main road. Destroy them by using launchers while you are tactically positioned on top of the roof. While you are at it, also target the two buildings full of enemy soldiers just across the street. You will eventually reach Old Town.
Go straight to the command headquarters to get your next objective which is to blow up a dam! Now ride the car and drive towards the dam entrance.
From here on, it is best to use your sniper rifle to take down enemies from long range. This will prevent them from alerting more enemies to arrive. Once you reach a white building, use your grenade launcher to create an entry for your team to infiltrate the dam. Save a few rockets.
Find the elevator to reach the dam interior. Soldiers will now come your way so better be alert. Once you clear the wave of enemies, it’s time to plant your charge. After doing so, it’s time to get out of this place!
Outside the dam, here’s where the battle really escalated. Enemy soldiers are harder to hit but eventually, with some tactics, you will push through. Activate the C4 and watch the dam crumble down.
 Your immediate mission on the last chapter is clear: Save the VIP and survive the Valkyrie while it’s under attack. Escape the cargo plane and you’re back in action at the very edge of the ship. Make sure to get all the resources that you’ll need upon landing.


Positioning plays a crucial role in surviving this chapter. Make your way on top of a destroyed helicopter and start doing damage to the enemy troops. Use stingers to destroy their aircraft, too! There will be lots of enemy air support at this point.
Head to the catwalk that leads down to the right. You will be reunited with Pac again and your squad should go to the Medbay to find the VIP. You will receive your final objective after a dramatic cutscene.
Tombstone will lead the charge while aboard his battleship to face the Admiral. Join the charge and drive towards the ship. The charge will then be planted.
You will now have to choose if you wish to go down with Irish or Hannah, since the detonator suddenly malfunctioned. Remember, whoever you pick dies in the story.
There is a third choice which gives you the option to not choose between Hannah and Irish – thus, doing nothing. This might not be a good idea since waiting too long will eventually destroy Valkyrie, killing the VIP in the process.
Regardless of who you choose to go with you, you will then complete the final mission of the campaign. Congratulations and enjoy the final cutscenes.

