 Pathogens are microorganisms that can cause disease. Certain species of bacteria and fungi can cause lung inflammation. Exposure to some of these pathogens is associated with occupational or environmental conditions. For example “Hot Tub Lung,” and “Farmer’s Lung” are common names for two kinds of mold-related lung inflammation. Mold can grow almost anywhere that is moist enough. According to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), “the key to mold control is moisture control.” To help prevent mold in your home, keep the humidity between 30-60%. If you find mold, clean the affected surface with a detergent and dry the surface completely.
Prevent condensation by properly insulating areas. Avoid installing carpet in bathrooms or kitchens, where sink splashes may keep the carpet damp.
Use appropriate personal protective equipment such as masks or respirators when cleaning moldy areas.;
, Influenza is a common cause of pneumonia, which is infection and inflammation of the lungs. Most cases of influenza do not lead to pneumonia, but those that do can be very serious. Influenza and pneumonia can both be prevented with vaccines.


Talk to your healthcare provider to see if you are a candidate for influenza and/or pneumonia vaccinations.
Avoid contact with people with influenza and/or pneumonia.
If you must come into contact with people with influenza and/or pneumonia, wear appropriate protection, such as a mask, gloves, or gown.
 Ambient air pollutants are found outdoors, and originate from natural processes, fires, and industrial operations. Six pollutants are designated as criteria air pollutants by the EPA. These include nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxides, ozone, particulate matter, carbon monoxide, and lead. These are monitored by the EPA and are subject to a number of regulations. Particles smaller than 10 micrometers are particularly harmful, as they can get deep into the lungs. Exposure can be particularly problematic for those with pre-existing lung conditions.


You can monitor the Air Quality Index in the region where you live. This information and some guidelines for exposure are available at http://www.airnow.gov/.
If you are going to be in an environment where there are aerosolized particles or chemical vapors, it is important to wear proper protective equipment.
Get fitted for a mask or respirator. The Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA) provides guidelines about which masks or respirators are best for certain exposures. , Exposure to indoor air pollutants can cause headaches, fatigue, and a number of other non-specific symptoms. This sometimes causes entire buildings of workers to fall ill. Commonly encountered indoor air pollutants include combustion products, volatile organic compounds, and formaldehyde. Ventilate your home properly with clean outdoor air.
Get rid of the source of the pollutants, if possible.
Install a home air cleaner. 