 It’s possible to make bread without buying yeast from the store. To do this, you have to make your own sourdough starter, which is a flour and water mixture that naturally attracts wild yeast. To make your own wild yeast sourdough starter, you'll need:About five days
Plastic or glass mixing bowl
Equal parts non-chlorinated water and spelt flour (you can also use all-purpose, whole wheat, rye, or other wheat-based flours)
Mixing spoon
Lid or plastic wrap

, Measure out 4 ounces each of flour and water. Combine them in the mixing bowl and stir vigorously to combine the two into a sticky batter or dough. Cover with the plastic wrap or the lid. Leave the plastic loose or the lid slightly off on one side to allow air flow.

Place the mixture somewhere to sit for 24 hours. Make sure the temperature stays consistent, and between 70 and 75 F (21 to 24 C).
Don’t use a metal bowl or chlorinated water, because they can both kill the yeast you're trying to grow.If you don’t have a kitchen scale, 4 ounces of flour is equivalent to ¾ cup plus 2 tablespoons, and 4 ounces of water is equivalent to ½ cup.
 Add another 4 ounces of flour and water to your starter and give it another vigorous stir. Replace the plastic wrap or lid in the same manner as before, and return the bowl to its warm place for another 24 hours.

A good place for the bowl is on top of the fridge, where it’s slightly warmer and the temperature stays the same.
 By day three, your starter should have started to form a few bubbles, which are produced when the yeast converts the sugar in the flour to alcohol and gas. As the days go on, the starter will grow more and more bubbles, will grow in volume, and will take on a yeasty and slightly sour smell.Depending on the conditions in your home, the starter may take a few days longer before it’s ready to use.
In general, the starter is ready when it doubles in size since the last feeding. It will also be extremely bubbly, slightly frothy, and smell sour, yeasty, and slightly vinegary.
 To keep the starter going and ready to use, continue with the same process. Every day, remove half the starter from the bowl and feed it as usual. You can either use the portion you removed to make bread, or discard it.If you continue maintaining your starter in this way, you can keep it alive for years.
 Next time you make a loaf of bread, you can use the sourdough starter instead of packaged yeast to make the bread rise. To use the starter in a bread recipe, you can either:

Follow a recipe designed to use a sourdough starter.
Convert a regular recipe to sourdough. To do this, replace each tablespoon of yeast (one package) with a cup of sourdough starter.