 Washing your hands is the easiest preventative measure you can do to avoid the flu. Scrub germs off your hands with warm water and soap as often as possible. Warm water and soap work perfectly fine if you wash your hands frequently throughout the dayHand sanitizers are not as effective as simple soap and water, but you should use them if soap and water is not available.Wash your hands before and after you eat, before and after preparing food, after touching garbage, after shaking hands with or otherwise touching another person, and after you come home from being out in a public location. You should also wash your hands after sneezing (even if you sneeze into your arm or elbow), touching an animal, changing diapers, or helping children use a toilet.;
, The fastest way to get the flu virus and other germs into your body is by transferring them from your hands to your eyes, nose, or mouth. As such, you should avoid touching these areas as much as possible (unless you have just washed your hands)during flu season.Nail biting can be especially conducive to contracting the flu. Viruses and other germs can hide out beneath your nails even after you wash your hands., You might not be able to completely cut off contact with people who have the flu, but limiting your contact with them as much as possible can greatly improve your odds of staying healthy.


Even if someone is sick with another illness and not the flu, it's still a good idea to stay away. If you catch another bug, your immune system will weaken, making it more difficult for your body to fight the flu if you become exposed to it.
 The flu virus can hang around on surfaces, so it can be helpful to disinfect surfaces in your home or office that may host germs. This is particularly true if someone in your home or office has had the flu recently. If you work in a place with a large number of people, sanitizing shared surfaces (such as doorknobs and handrails) can help cut down on contact with germs. This might seem easy at home but harder out in public. Carry around disinfectant wipes and hand sanitizer to use when you're on the go.
 Pregnant women, young children, those with chronic medical conditions that affect their respiratory systems, and the elderly are particularly encouraged to get a flu shot.Flu viruses are continuing to morph and change, but the seasonal flu vaccine is formulated to prevent whichever strains are likely to be most active during a given season.


The ideal time to get your flu vaccine is as soon as it becomes available in early to mid fall. However, getting the shot later in the season can also be helpful.
If you do not care for shots or have a fear of needles, you may be able to get the flu vaccine in the form of a nasal spray.
 You should sleep for about seven to nine hours each night for optimal health.The more well-rested you are, the more effective your immune system becomes.Sleep deprivationcan cause your body to produce more cytokines.These proteins are responsible for producing symptoms during the flu or during a cold., Both physical and mental stress can take a toll on your body and weaken your immune system. Research has found that lower stress levels can actually keep you healthier longer. Consider taking a few minutes every day to clear your head, meditate, or do yoga. Meditation can help calm anxiety and fear.Address job-related stress with your boss; remember that your health is very important, and you should ask for help if you need it.
 If you have a smoking habit, now would be a good time to quit it. Smoking decreases your respiratory abilities, dehydrates your body, and makes your immune system weaker.Smoking also destroys the cilia inside your noses. These hair-like fibers are your body's first defense against invading germs, and having fewer of them makes it easier for the flu virus to penetrate your body’s defenses.
 Exercise could truly be the fountain of youth (and health). Regular exercise has been shown to help fight infection, which may include the flu virus. Exercising creates more white blood cells, which are cells that prevent and fight illnesses.Not only does physical activity help you to sweat out toxins, it also improves your circulation, allowing nutrients to be absorbed into your body more easily..


Walking or running in particular are highly effective forms of exercise that everyone can do anywhere. All you need are a good pair of shoes.
Walk, jog, run, or do another cardiovascular exercise at least 30 minutes, 3 times per week. Ideally, you should try to get exercise every day., This is a great way to get your exercise in and quiet your mind. Yoga is known to soothe the nervous system, thereby greatly reducing stress, while also lubricating the joints and building core strength. When stress is low, your immune system is stronger and can fight disease better.
 Swimming can be done year-around in most places due to indoor pools. Swimming regularly is great for your joints, as the water mitigates impact. Much like other forms of exercise, it builds your immune system so that you can potentially avoid the flu.


If you want an extra boost to your immune system from swimming, consider cold water swimming. The cold water causes your body to interpret the temperature shift as an attack of sorts, resulting in an increased number of white blood cells and other internal changes related to a more efficient immune system.Remember to moisturize your skin and scalp after swimming to reduce the drying effects of chlorine.
Keep up your swimming routine in the summer, even if it’s not flu season specifically. Maintaining your exercise routine has benefits in all seasons!

, To stay adequately hydrated, men should drink 13 8oz cups of water and women should drink 9 8oz cups of water every day.Water oxygenates your blood and works to flush out toxins. When toxins build up, your immune system gets weaker. Flushing your system daily with plenty of water gets rid of harmful toxins in your body. .


Flushing your body out with water will not get rid of the flu, but it will keep your body hydrated, especially when you are dealing with diarrhea, vomiting, and a fever when your body needs fluids the most.
Getting enough water is easy! Just fill a large water bottle in the morning, and sip it throughout the day, refilling it when necessary.
 Alcoholic beverages are bad for almost every part of your body, but they additionally weaken your immune system so that fighting off disease becomes tougher because alcohol dehydrates you. In fact, alcoholics are far more susceptible to an array of diseases besides cirrhosis of the liver.If you don’t wish to cut out alcohol completely, consider limiting your consumption to less than three drinks per week.
Alcohol, although a liquid, actually dehydrates the body, stripping it of important nutrients.
Try to replace harder varieties of alcohol, such as vodka or gin, with red wine.
 In the seventies, sugar became known as the “white death” for a reason: studies show that it leads to premature aging and that it weakens your immune system. Try to cut out soda and sweetened juices completely, but if you cannot, minimize your daily consumption. Diet sodas and artificially sweetened juices should also be avoided.
Stick to fresh squeezed juices and unsweetened tea if you get easily bored with plain water.
Try all sorts of unsweetened teas, particularly green and black tea due to their antioxidant properties, if you want a flavored drink.
 You've probably been hearing this since childhood, but the old proverb is actually true: an apple a day keeps the doctor away. Apples are not the only health-giving food: imagine all the nutrients and disease-fighting boost you can get if you add a variety of vegetables and fruits in your daily diet!Add dark green, leafy vegetables such as spinach and kale to your regular diet.
Try to choose vegetables and fruits in an array of colors. It's the best way to ensure you're getting all the vitamins and nutrients your body needs to fend off disease.
 Omega-3 fatty acids have antioxidant properties, so foods and supplements with high levels of these acids might help ward off immune-busting free radicals.


You can get omega-3 into your system by taking a daily fish oil capsule, or you could eat more fish, nuts, seeds, and beans.
For an even stronger dose of omega-3, add 10 to 15 drops of liquid marine phytoplankton to your water or juice. This is the source that most fish get omega-3 from, so taking it will give you a more direct, concentrated dosage with many health benefits.
 Garlic has antiviral, antibiotic, and antifungal properties.


Try to get one or two servings of raw garlic into your diet to maximize its potential benefits.
To avoid minimizing the negative effect garlic has on your breath, cut one or two cloves into fine pieces and swallow whole with water or tea. Chew on a sprig of fresh parsley immediately after consuming the garlic to mask the garlic’s odor.

