 Spray your garden’s vulnerable plants regularly with a commercial or homemade deer repellent. These repellents typically contain components like sulfur, ammonia salts and capsaicin which deer find unpleasant. Even the store-bought varieties are concocted with natural ingredients and don’t make use of harsh chemicals that might damage your plants’ growth. Simply mist your garden every couple of days.If you’re not inclined to shell out the money for a commercial repellent, try mixing up your own with eggs, garlic, ammonia, and/or hot sauce blended with water.Be careful about using repellents on crops you plan to harvest and eat yourself. Compounds like capsaicin aren’t dangerous, but may influence the taste of edible plants.
 Deer are notoriously skittish creatures and are quite easy to scare off with the right stimulus. One particularly effective strategy is to put in a couple motion-activated sprinkler posts at the far ends of your garden or wherever deer tend to sneak in. When they get close, they’ll suddenly be doused with a unexpected jet of water from the sprinkler, which will send them running.Installing a motion-activated sprinkler system is a pricier option, but one that is guaranteed to have repeated success.
Along with its deterrent benefits, a sprinkler is also a convenient way of making sure your garden or yard is getting enough water.
 Loud, spontaneous noises are a surefire way to get rid of inquisitive deer. Whether it’s an electronic noisemaker on a timer, a set of jarring wind chimes or a simple well-timed clap of your hands, a deer won’t take any chances with what’s generating the noise. Even leaving the back door open to let the sounds of household activity escape can be enough to dissuade a deer from coming any closer.Electronic noisemakers can be programmed to emit regular tones that will scare away deer but won’t disturb the neighbors.
Try fashioning a set of non-harmonic wind chimes from aluminum cans or hollow wood cuttings., Deer often travel in herds at night to forage, mate and play. That means that they might stumble upon the scrumptious treats in your garden in the small hours when no one is around to ward them off. Fortunately, mounting an automatic flood light on the outside of your house or some other structure near your garden can do the job for you while you sleep. When the deer begin to creep up to that squash vine or begonia bush, the flood light will activate and the intruders will run for cover.Most flood lights work at a particular range and angle. When installing a flood light, make sure it’s properly calibrated to come on when movement is detected in the area of your at-risk plants.

