 Try to use a port directly on your computer. Avoid USB hubs, as these will lead to slower transfer speeds.

Windows will usually notify you that a USB drive was inserted, and an AutoPlay window may appear. You can close the AutoPlay window for now.
If this is your first time plugging the USB drive into the computer, Windows may install some drivers. This should only take a few moments.;
, In Windows 10, click the Windows button and select File Explorer. Windows 8 users can right-click the Windows button and select "File Explorer," or press ⊞ Win+E.
 Your USB drive will be displayed in the "Devices and drives" section of the window.


If you don't see your USB drive, check the Troubleshooting section at the end of this article.
 You'll find this in parentheses next to the drive's label, e.g. "(E:)" or "(F:)." Knowing the drive letter will make it easier to send files to the drive later.
 The amount of space available will dictate the amount of music you can store on it. The amount of free space will be shown underneath the drive.


The average MP3 file will range from 3-5 MB in size, but this varies depending on the length and quality of each file. See the chart at the end of the article for a breakdown on the average number of songs you can fit.
You can quickly delete everything on the USB by right-clicking on it and selecting "Format." Start the format process and everything will be deleted from the drive.
 Your music files may be located in a variety of locations on your computer:


Many programs store music files in your "Music" folder.
If you've downloaded music from a website, it will likely be in your "Downloads" folder.
In Windows Media Player, right-click on a music file in your library and select "Open file location" to open the folder containing that music file.
In iTunes, right-click on a track in your library and select "Show in Windows Explorer" to open the folder containing that song.
You can perform a Windows search for "mp3" to search for all of the MP3 files on your computer. Open the Start menu or screen and type "mp3" to begin searching.
 You can send multiple files and folders to the USB drive at once. Click and drag a selection box, or hold Ctrl and click each item you want to select. You can also press Ctral+A to select everything in the current folder.


Check the size of your selection by right-clicking it and selecting "Properties." Make sure that the size of your selection is smaller than the amount of free space on your USB drive.
You may find it easier to move all of your music files into one spot on your computer, organized into folders. You can then copy all of the folders and files at once.
 The right-click menu should appear while everything stays selected.
 This is where knowing your USB drive's label and drive letter come in handy. You'll usually see your USB drive towards the bottom of the list of destinations.
 Your selected files will begin copying to your USB drive. The time this takes will vary wildly depending on the number of files, the speed of your USB drive, and the speed of your computer.


This will not delete the original files. Copies of each file will be made on the USB drive.
If you get a message that your USB drive is full, then you've likely selected more files than your USB drive has room for. Try the copying process again with less files.
 This button has an icon of a USB plug with a checkmark. If you don't see it, expand the hidden icons in your System Tray. When you click the button, a list of your attached USB devices will appear.
 This will unmount the drive from your system, allowing you to safely remove it without corrupting any data.
 Your music is now safely stored on your USB drive.