 Take classes to complete your high school degree, if you have not done so already. If enrolling in school is not an option for you, you will need to take and pass the GED test, which is the professional equivalent to a high school diploma.Use GED.com to find study materials and a test center near you. The test is only administered in person on certain dates, so study with a test date in mind., Choose classes that teach the contract negotiating skills you’ll have to use as a purchaser. The skills you learn will help you understand how to evaluate different vendors and make cost-value calculations. If you’re not sure where to begin, make an appointment with your guidance counselor to determine which degree program is best suited to the purchasing career you want.If you’re interested in being a purchasing agent in the agricultural industry, a degree in agricultural production or science business may be helpful. , Many governments and elite companies require their purchasing agents to have master’s degrees. If you have your heart set on working for a specific company or government agency, it may make sense to enroll in a master’s program in business.A master’s program will teach you more in-depth skills that build on what you learned in college. You may even be able to declare a concentration in purchasing to access high-level classes that are relevant to your career.
 Draft a resume that highlights the skills you have and classes you’ve taken that support a purchasing career. You should list any certifications, relevant course electives, and any work experience where you managed supply or negotiated the terms of an agreement. It can be helpful to outline an objective with the name of the company you’ll be applying to at the top of your resume for a personalized touch.

For example, your objective might say, “Accomplished student seeking purchasing internship with Mark’s Metals that will allow for inventory management, relationship building and excellent attention to detail.”

, Consult your college career counselor and online job engines to apply for an internship while you are in school. Always include a cover letter that explains your course experience and any skills you have that relate to purchasing, such as performing inventory or buying materials. Internships allow you to practice the purchasing skills you’ve studied in real-life business situations. They also create a relationship between you and a company who is training purchasers.


Networking can provide valuable job leads. Chat with professors and other students who know of your purchasing interest to see if anyone knows of an available internship in your field.
 Dress professionally for your purchasing interview, which generally means wearing a suit. It’s better to risk being overdressed rather than risk being underdressed. Bring multiple printed copies of your resume in case the interviewer has you meet multiple people during your visit. Smile, and come ready to discuss your classwork and relevant work experience., After you’ve completed your studies, seek out purchasing jobs to formally begin your career. If you’ve interned, it can be helpful to reach out to your former employer to see if they are hiring purchasers full-time. Even if not, they may be able to provide valuable job leads within the industry.


Use professional networking sites, such as LinkedIn, to leverage the connections you’ve made during your studies to secure a job. Some of the people you’ve gone to school with or worked with may be able to help you in your job search.
 Most purchasing agents get trained in the nuances of purchasing by their employers. Actively participate in any new-employee training programs or workshops to learn as much as you can about purchasing at work. Ask questions of your coworkers and supervisors if you’re unsure how something works or want to learn more. Your company will teach you the specific methods and procedures they favor in the purchasing process.Purchasers manage many business relationships. Strive to cultivate good rapport with any suppliers or representatives you meet so you always have lots of options when making purchasing decisions.
 Advance your career whenever possible by networking with suppliers and other purchasing professionals. You can attend purchasing workshops, ask your boss to coffee for a professional development meeting, attend purchasing happy hours, and more. The more purchasing connections you make, the larger your network will be when you need to change jobs, ask a professional favor, or negotiate a purchasing deal.Volunteering is also a great way to network while doing good in your community.
 Seek out a licensing or certificate program to illustrate your skills to current or potential employers. Whether you have a job already or are out of work, earning a purchasing certificate provides concrete evidence of your level of specialty in the field. Most certificates require a certain amount of work experience, online coursework, or an exam to demonstrate your knowledge.A variety of purchasing certificate programs exist, such as the Certified Purchasing Professional program at the American Purchasing Society. The U.S. Department of Labor has a list of worthy programs to chose from, so you can select the certificate that best aligns with your area of interest., Take courses online to further advance your purchasing skills and knowledge. These courses can teach you about areas of purchasing you want to learn more about or help develop your purchasing skills in an area you are weak, such as supply management. The American Purchasing Society and many other professional purchasing groups offer such courses online., Networking at purchasing seminars allows you to meet like-minded professionals who can create career opportunities. You may also hear speakers or other accomplished purchasers discuss their experience and give professional advice. Some seminars can count toward certificate programs, too.The U.S. Department of Labor keeps a list of top-notch purchasing organizations you should seek out for these kinds of seminars. A few examples are the Institute for Supply Management, the American Purchasing Society, the National Institute of Government Purchasing, and the Next Level Purchasing Association, to name a few.