 You may have heard rumors about the teacher you will have next year, but try your best not to let these stories influence your own opinion. If you start school thinking that you will hate your teacher, you probably will. If you go into it with an open mind, you're much more likely to get along with your teacher., You will not always get along with everyone you encounter in life, and that's okay! It's important to learn how to persevere and deal with people you don't like, so try to view this experience as an important life lesson that it will help you grow into a more successful adult.Remember that you don't have to like your teacher in order to learn from him/her. As long as you are still doing well in the class, do your best to deal with your teacher.If the problem is affecting your grade or causing you to dislike school, it may not be worth it to just stick it out.
 Before you decide you don't like your teacher, it's important to think carefully about what exactly your problem is. If you happen to hate math, it may be that you really don't have a problem with the teacher, but instead with the subject matter. This is an important distinction because getting a new teacher will not help your situation if you hate the subject.If you're struggling with a subject, ask your teacher for extra help or get a tutor. Once you understand the subject matter a little better, you might find that your teacher really isn't so bad after all.
Try to find something that interests you about the subject and focus on that as much as possible. If you have the option to choose your own reading or research material, make sure it's something that interests you enough to keep you engaged in the class.Remind yourself that even if you don't like a certain subject, your grade is still important. Stay focused on doing your best, even if you don't think you'll ever use anything you learned in this class in the real world., If you think your teacher is being mean to you, you might be tempted to be mean right back to her, but this will only make the situation worse! You don't need to be overly cheery when you talk to your teacher, but always be pleasant and respectful. You may find that your good attitude will rub off on your teacher., If you feel that part of the problem may be that your teacher doesn't like you, try making a little extra effort in class to turn the relationship around. This means showing up on time, doing your homework, being attentive, and asking questions.Be proactive about making up missed work and letting your teacher know if you will be missing school.
Don't suck up too much. This will not seem genuine.
 It's important not to be too argumentative with your teacher, as this will only worsen your relationship. It's okay to confront her about grades you don't understand, but don't be confrontational about it, and don't argue over every single point.