 At the heart of postpartum depression and anxiety are negative thoughts. When you think unhealthy thoughts frequently enough, they can become automatic and even comfortable. To overcome your postpartum condition, you will first have to overcome these negative thoughts and the way to do that is to recognize that you are having them. There are many different kinds of negative thoughts. The most common ones that occur with postpartum depression are:


All or Nothing Thinking means seeing things in black and white categories. For example, if your performance falls short of perfect, you see yourself as a total failure.
Overgeneralization means seeing a single negative event as a never ending pattern of defeat.
Mental Filter means focusing on a negative detail and dwelling on it.
Disqualifying the positive means rejecting positive experiences as if they didn’t happen.
Emotional reasoning means believing the negative emotions you feel reflect reality, when really they might not.
Should statements are when guilt occurs because you did not do something that you think you ‘should’ have.
Personalization is when you see yourself as the cause of an event that was actually completely out of your control.
 Doing this will allow you to look at your negative thoughts in a more objective way. Keep a pad of paper with you and when you realize that you are thinking negatively, write down what you have been thinking, as well as what made you think the negative thought.For example:


If you find yourself thinking, “I can’t do anything right because my baby won’t stop crying”, write it down on your pad of paper. You should also write down what made you think this thought, for example your baby being asleep and then starting to cry out of the blue.
 Sometimes, we can’t see something that is right in front of us because we are too focused on something in our heads. This is the case with postpartum depression and anxiety. Try to separate yourself from your negative thoughts and think about the positive things and accomplishments you have achieved. For example:


If your negative thought is, “I can’t do anything right”, think about something large like the fact that you created a beautiful baby, or something small, like the fact that you fed your child successfully this morning.
 Instead of putting yourself down in a harsh, condemning way, talk to yourself in the same way that you would talk to a friend. You wouldn’t cut a friend down and tell her how she is doing everything wrong. You would focus on the positive things she has done, and would compliment her and show her kindness. This is how you must treat yourself if you are going to recover from your postpartum condition., Instead of automatically blaming yourself for problems, consider all the other factors that can affect a situation. By doing this, you will recognize that you are not responsible for all of the mishaps in your life. For example:


If your baby is sleeping and wakes up in the middle of the night, do not think “I am a bad mother because I can’t get my baby to sleep through a full night”. Instead, think about the reasons that you baby might have woken up. Is he hungry? Did a loud noise startle him?
It is not your fault that your baby woke up, but it is your responsibility to get him back to sleep by figuring out what he needs.

