 Sometimes revealing past traumas can be damaging if you have not yet developed a strong connection and trust with the person you are speaking to.Think about how you might feel once you have revealed this information.
 If you are speaking with a therapist, it is important to provide useful background information on yourself. This will help give context to your story.


If you meet with a therapist she will most likely already have a list of background questions for you to answer.
Some information you might want to include could be: age, culture, family, housing situation, employment, education, and legal history.
 People who talk about negative emotional experiences feel better than those who do not try to express themselves.Try to be honest and open with the person if you feel comfortable.
Express your emotions such as anger, sadness, grief, anxiety, and fear.
Talk about the severity of these emotions, and how often you experience them. For example, you could say, “On average, I feel angry daily for about an hour. It is about a 7/10 in severity.”

, Talk about how you experience your emotions in your body.For example, some people experience anger by way of shaking hands or feet, clenching the jaw, tenseness in the body, or sweating.
Also, discuss other physical symptoms you might have such as: headaches, stomach aches, excessive hunger/thirst, or tiredness.
 Everyone has negative thoughts from time to time. Discuss what situations and thoughts resulted in you feeling emotional pain.


It can be helpful to tell a narrative or story to illustrate the situation.
Avoid ruminating out-loud about the same thing over and over. This can get tiresome for the listener. If you find yourself ruminating, a therapist can help you worth through your repetitive thoughts.
Ask the listener for feedback or help identifying alternative ways of thinking about or looking at the situation. This can help reduce the negative emotion.Focus on the positive thoughts you have as well, including what you think you could do to fix the situation or heal from the pain.