 This is a simple step, but a really important one. Stickers or tags from flights you’ve taken before can confuse airport baggage scanners.Peel them off, and scrapbook them if you’re really going to miss them.;
, In recent years, many airlines have stepped up their game when it comes to reimbursing travelers for lost luggage. The policies will vary from airline to airline, but should be accessible from the company’s website. However, most airlines don’t reimburse for valuable items.If you want to bring things like cash, jewelry, and electronics in your checked baggage, know that you might be responsible for their replacement., It’s best to travel without very delicate objects, but sometimes you just can’t resist picking up a souvenir. If you are bringing home something somewhat sturdy, like a bottle of wine or box of chocolates, wrap them carefully in bubble wrap and place them in the middle of your suitcase. Extremely fragile things, like blown glass, should be wrapped in soft cloth or bubble wrap, sectioned off with hard items (like books), and placed in your carry-on., Any item you can’t survive without should go in your carry-on bag. This way, if your checked luggage is lost, you will still have your basics. What counts as an essential item? That depends on what you personally need. If you need any small liquid items, like eye drops, make sure to pack them in a clear quart-sized plastic bag.Some common items include:


Medication
Wallet
Traveler’s checks
Change of clothes
Electronics and chargers
Empty water bottle

, Mark down all the things you take with you, noting brands or colors if applicable. In the case of lost luggage, the airline will want some type of proof of loss, and they may still deduct a percentage of the cost depending on the age of the article. Obviously, don’t put this list in your luggage. Stash it in your carry-on instead.
 Before you go to the airport, make sure your carry-on luggage has a spot to put your ID or passport, boarding passes, and luggage receipts. This will keep you from scrambling when you’re at the airport.Furthermore, if you have stashed your receipts in a safe place, they’ll be easier to access if your luggage is delayed.
 Using either a built-in or store-bought tag, neatly label every single piece of baggage you bring to the airport. You’ll want to note your name, home address, and phone number, at the very least. You can even slip in an extra note behind your permanent address with your hotel’s address and phone number., You want to mark your luggage to make sure the airline can keep track of it, but decorating your luggage is more about making sure none of your fellow travelers walks away with it by mistake. The decorations are actually functional, but they’re also fun to choose and apply.


If you’re buying luggage, pick suitcases in bright colors or prints. Most baggage is a dark neutral, like black, navy, or olive, so yours will stand out. Alternately, some companies will monogram your initials onto your bag.
Tie a bright ribbon or scarf around the handle of your bag.
Attach eye-catching tags or charms.
Use fabric-safe spray paint to stencil on your initial, or a simple shape.