 You must be between the ages of 19 and 32. You also need to have a college degree and be a U.S. Citizen. You must hold a 4 year degree from an accredited college.Applicants between the ages of 32 and 34 will need a special waiver to gain entrance into OCS.You must also be eligible for “secret security clearance” upon completing a background check. These background checks vet a candidate’s honesty, sexual history, drug and alcohol use, and ties to foreign entities.;
, Complete the application and SF-86 (national security questionnaire). You will need your past employment, school and address history, 3 personal references, police, medical and financial records, as well as information on immediate family members. You will also need to gather your vital records including your birth certificate, driver's license, school transcripts, and social security card for yourself and your dependents. You will need marital, custody or divorce documents documents as well.As a civilian, your application will be named “DA Form 61”., You will review your medical information, be tested for alcohol and narcotics, undergo hearing and vision tests, perform tests to determine joint function and receive a general physical.In addition to your physical, you will also be required to complete the Armed Forces Vocational Aptitude Battery (AFVPB). This exam has replaced the specialized “officer test”., You will have to take the Army Physical Fitness Test, which consists of a 2 mile (3.2 km) run, and the number of pushups and sit-ups you can do in 2 minutes. Medical waivers have currently been suspended, so you will need to be prepared for this test., Proceed with an interview with the local recruiting battalion board regarding such inquiries as to why you want to be an officer and how you qualify. Write out your reasons in advance so you will be ready to answer the questions.If recommended by the local board, then your application will be reviewed by a national board for acceptance into OCS. If you are not selected the first time, then you can resubmit your application for the next national board.