 A drill motor and a vise are essential, and if you don't have these, you will need to either borrow or buy them.;
, In the project pictures, a dead limb from a red cedar is used, since it is attractive, lightweight, strong, and available. You will most likely not want to use green woods, very hard woods, or knotty woods, since they are difficult to machine. Here are some things to look for in selecting your wood:


Availability. Of course you will need to be able to obtain your stock. We simply walked in the yard and pulled down a dead limb from a tree there.
Machinability. The wood you choose should be cured and soft enough to machine. Green wood has too much moisture in the wood to sand easily, and will shrink and crack when it cures. Very hard woods are difficult to machine, drill, and shape.
Soundness. The wood you will use should be sound, with no cracks, checks, loose knots, or holes in it.
Appearance. A wood with nice grain and color will give you a better finished product if you do not intend to paint it.
 The project we undertook was done on a 2 X 10 piece of lumber set on a chair's armrest, This is not recommended. A good work bench is the best choice, but a good, strong table will work, if its surface is protected.
 This is done by nailing a vertical piece of lumber to the work surface, then attaching a diagonal brace to make it secure.
,,, It should go deep enough to get a good bite (or grip) on the wood, and needs to be centered as closely as possible. Cut the head off this screw, so it can be chucked into the drill motor.
 Again, make sure the screw has a good bite, at least one inch, into the stock piece. This screw will support the stock while the stock is turning, and if it fails, it can injure the person working the stock, or damage the drill motor.
, Vibrations and torque from the turning process cause a lot of force on the vise and drill motor if it is not closely aligned.
 You will notice it is not turning true to begin with, but if the screws that form the axle are aligned closely enough, it will true up as you remove material.
 Move the sander/sandpaper slowly toward the stock, so that it removes a little material each time the stock rotates. The speed of the drill should start out slow, since the stock is not a true cylinder, and therefore is unbalanced. As material is removed, it should become more and more round, until you have a cylinder.
 You will want to stop the drill and make sure there are no defects in the wood once this is done. Also, mark the places you will remove material to actually shape the yo yo.
 You will probably want the stock to be turning about 250-300 RPM for this process, and be careful to apply pressure gradually and lightly to accomplish this cut. Remember, you are supporting the workpiece on improvised centers!

,, Cut to within 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) of the center while the piece is turning, then shut the drill off and finish the cut the conventional way, using the saw.
 Tie on a suitable string, and test it out!

