 Looking for immediate gratification through eating processed foods is an easy habit to fall into. The desire to move away from a “quick fix” dining experience into a more transcendent, evolved relationship with food is the first step toward becoming more culinary mindful.


Evaluate how you physically feel. If you feel sluggish or are dealing with weight issues, you may have been a slave to a diet rich processed foods that may be chock full of sugar, sodium and fat. If you are tired of feeling tired or not well, make a commitment to revise your diet, knowing that a nutrition plan derived from nature will heal your body, providing you with more energy and zest for living.
Consider if you’ve developed health issues. Some health problems are linked directly to having a poor diet. According to a 2006 study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 32% of Americans are considered to be obese with the majority of those individuals becoming diabetic as a result of consuming an “American-based” diet (a diet filled with processed, high fat foods).
Determine how your eating patterns impact your family. With a growing number of Americans becoming overweight and obese, do you want to pass this cycle of eating onto your children or are you ready to break out and start something new?;
, This means to choose fresh produce, meat and the like. Some people may want to select organic produce or hormone-free meat.


Grow your own. Even a small patio in a condo building can be the basis for a small garden. Choose your favorite vegetables and plant seeds in pots.
Participate in a farm share. Whether you live in the suburbs or in an urban environment, nearly everyone has access to a farm share cooperative where you can obtain fresh, pesticide free produce for less than what you would pay at the market.
Invite your children to assist with meal preparation. Even the youngest children can help with washing the vegetables or even tossing a salad. Giving them a job teaches them about the importance of not only eating well, but also being together and having fun.
Set aside at least one meal per week where everyone gets involved. In some cases, slowing down to make a meal can create stress for some families because they are running at such as fast pace--grabbing fast food is the easiest way to provide nourishment. However, part of trying to enjoy life and eating well should be a priority so, while you may need to make it to a 6:30 soccer game, try to set aside one evening when no one has an activity to play together in the kitchen.
Ask family members to try new recipes. In order for everyone to feel involved, everyone needs to make recommendations regarding “what’s for dinner” ( or lunch or breakfast). Assist children with preparation and try new flavors and foods--you may stumble across a recipe or new food you never knew you loved.
 If your family is one who eats in the car or mindlessly consumes food while answering emails or texting, it’s time to put down the phone, park and go inside the house for an old fashioned family meal.


Invite everyone to eat at the dining room or kitchen table. Enjoying food together is part of culinary mindfulness. Sharing stories and laughter around the family harvest table not only allows you to eat dinner but strengthen your family bond.
Shop together. Shopping for the food is a huge part of being culinary mindful. Discuss the food you see at the market and share ideas on how you could prepare an eggplant, for example.
Set a pretty table. Make the entire experience more inviting by taking the time and care to set the table with more than just a fork and a plate. Consider getting out the tablecloth and even grandma’s fine China (when else but the holidays do you use it?). Making every meal special and important will help to inspire conversation and the desire to eat well.

