 If you've never played before, consider your level of dedication and whether you plan on sticking it out for the long run. If you're just curious about the saxophone, then renting one from a reputable music store is cheaper and will ensure that it is in good working condition.However, long-term rental fees can become incredibly expensive, and the condition of a rented saxophone will be worse than buying a new one.The price of a new saxophone can range from $300 to over $3,000.If you are just starting off with the saxophone, buy a beginner sax that's less expensive before investing in a high-quality sax.;
, An alto or tenor sax are the best options for someone who is new to the saxophone. Alto saxophones are usually the starting point for most beginners because they require less air than the tenor, and have a smaller key scale which makes them easier to handle for young adults or children.Tenor saxophones are the most closely associated with jazz music.
The majority of classic music is written for the alto sax., A damaged saxophone won't produce a good sound and may cost you a lot of money in repairs. Make sure that you choose a reputable music store or saxophone shop in your area when you are looking to buy or rent. Avoid off-brand saxophones because you may have a hard time finding someone who can repair it in the future.


Some reputable brands include Keilwerth, Yamaha, Selmer, and Guardala.If you are still unsure about the brand, reach out to the music store and inquire about brands in your budget.
If you are purchasing a sax online, make sure there is a return policy or warranty.
 Other accessories that you'll need are a hard saxophone case, neck strap, extra reeds, cork grease, and music stand.The neck strap supports your horn and keeps it close to your body as you play. Reeds are necessary and can break easily, so it's a good idea to pick up extras. Cork grease is used to help move your mouthpiece on your sax, which will affect its pitch.Finally, the music stand enables you to sit sheet music upright, which is critical when playing a song.


Music stores will often offer a beginner saxophone with all the accessories included. Ask the salesperson if they offer these types of packages.

