 The garden will need some tender loving care after winter to encourage new healthy growth.


Plants differ in what they need at this time of year, so know which plants in your garden need a spring pruning or tidy-up; some may need dividing and now might be a good time to take cuttings.
Have a good look around the garden to see what jobs need doing and to check whether new mulch and compost layers are needed and whether there are weeds to be removed.

Plant flowers. The local gardening center will start to get deliveries of lovely new annuals and perennials in bloom that you can plant straight in the ground, or you can wander in and check out the available flower seeds. Sunflower seeds are a great beginner's flower if you're stuck for ideas.
Think about planting flowers in local community planting events -- a great way to meet others and beautify your local environment.
Don’t forget about your lawn. It may never be as beautiful as your flowers, but it can use some love after a harsh winter as well. Fertilize, reseed, and/or aerate to prepare it for the hot sunshine of July.
 Now is the time to start thinking about your summer harvest. Which vegetables grow well in your area and are great spring or summer crops? Do some reading up of gardening books or ask a green-thumbed neighbor if you need advice.


If your compost has become a big sluggish, give it a good stir and start afresh.
If you are unable or prefer not to maintain a garden yourself, get someone to do the work for you. Just looking at a tidy and happy veggie patch will make you feel good.
If you don't have a garden, you might be able to join a community garden or a start a yard share. Spring is a great time to get involved in shared gardening and you'll meet lots of new friends.
 You aren’t the only one emerging from a long wintry slumber. Signs of life abound outdoors, so soak it in.


Build a birdhouse and/or birdfeeder. Bring those cardinals and blue jays in for a closer look. Or just go to the local pond and feed the ducks your stale bread. Keep an eye out for ducklings.
If you’d rather go to the birds than bring them to you, go birdwatching. Even a beat-up old pair of binoculars will help. Or just take a nature walk and see what you come across.
Take your dog on long walks. All winter, you’ve probably been walking Sparky only long enough for him to do his business. Go further, and see what he discovers. (But watch he doesn’t find a skunk!)
If you really want to maximize your springtime animal viewing, visit the zoo.You’re still outdoors, still exercising, and you’ll see a wide variety of animals responding to Spring. You’ll probably spot some exotic baby animals.
 Sadly, it will be Winter again before you know it, so give yourself some happy reminders of this time of year.


Take your camera when you go walking.Look for signs of Spring emerging everywhere and take photos that you can use for collages, decorations, and photo projects; or, you can just share the marvels of Spring through your photos with people online.
Try painting or drawing "en plein air" (the French expression for 'paint outdoors'). You'll be surprised at how much brighter your colors are in the spring sunshine and how many beautiful things there are to paint or sketch nearby. When sketching birds or animals from life, don't expect them to hold a pose - be more of an Impressionist. A painting isn't a photo - capturing the right “feel” is more important than accuracy.
 Yes, you’re doing yardwork and taking walks, but make the most of this time of year -- not too cold, not too hot, just right for an active Goldilocks like you.


Dust off the bicycle and start seeing your neighborhood again from two wheels. Gather some friends and spend the day biking. If you want to explore, bring a phone with a GPS installed in it. You can discover some secret places, and get back home on time!
Take the kids down to the local park or reserve with some balls, rackets, kites, and a picnic basket. Spend an hour or more letting them charge about playing games and finish up with a lunch or dinner meal on a rug.
Enjoy springtime sports like golf or, perhaps the most Spring-y sport, baseball. Watch them, sure, but play them too. Heck, go down to your favorite ball team’s Spring Training and really feel the warmth of the season!
Check out the festivals in your area. There are many festivals and other community events held during springtime, including perhaps cherry blossom or tulip festivals. Find out what's happening in your local area or even where you're prepared to travel to and enjoy the festivities on offer.
 You’ve spent the Winter looking out the window, dreaming of the chance to head back outside without having to pull on layer after layer of clothes. Get out there whenever you can, and when you can’t, bring a little of Spring into your home.


Open the windows.It sounds so simple, but we’ve become so used to climate conditioning that the simple pleasure of a springtime breeze lofting up your drapes and brushing your face is often lost. Take advantage of this time of year when you can give both the furnace and the A/C a rest.
Bring flowers into the house. Spring flowers will bring joy into the house with their bright colors and lovely fragrances. Aim to have new, fresh flowers in the house every week during Spring. Read How to arrange flowers, How to make homemade flower food for cut flowers, and How to stop cut flowers turning smelly for more ideas.
Do indoor tasks outside.Spare the dryer and hang your laundry on the line. Wipe off that old picnic table and have dinner al fresco. Read a novel or even balance the checkbook on a blanket instead of the couch. Feel the sun on your face, smell the blooming flowers, see the world colorizing like it’s the Wizard of Oz, and hear the birds sing. Spring is here and now, and so are you.

