 These include acetaminophen (Tylenol), ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) naproxen sodium (Aleve), and aspirin. Never take more than the amount recommended on the package, and use the lowest dose that relieves your headache.Keep in mind a combination of over the counter (OTC) headache medications and caffeine can cause liver damage if used in high doses or for a long period of time, especially if you also use alcohol or have liver problems.
Talk to your doctor if you take over the counter headache medication for more than a week and are still having tension headaches.
Don't take OTC headache medications for more than a few days a week, and don't take them longer than a week or ten days without consulting your doctor. Overusing pain medications can cause rebound headaches, which occur with long-term use of headache medicines. You can become reliant on the medication and have headaches if you stop taking it.;
, If your tension headaches do not go away with OTC drugs or lifestyle changes, your doctor may prescribe stronger medication. These include naproxen, indomethacin, and piroxicam.These prescription medications can cause side effects such as bleeding and upset stomach and raise your risk of heart problems. Your doctor should tell you about any side effects or complications before prescribing these to you.
If you experience chronic tension headaches and migraines, your doctor may prescribe a triptan to relieve the pain. But opiates and narcotics are rarely prescribed because of their side effects and the risk of addiction or dependency., Acupuncture involves the insertion of fine needles into specific points in your body. The needles are then manually stimulated or stimulated electrically. This increases blood flow to the area around the needles and releases any tension or stress.Studies suggest that it may be helpful to relieve chronic tension headaches.Acupuncture causes very little pain or discomfort and should only be performed by a certified acupuncture specialist. When performed correctly, acupuncture is proven to help reduce tension headaches.Dry-needling is another type of treatment that involves acupuncture needles. However, it is not based on the principles of traditional Chinese medicine, as acupuncture is. It involves inserting acupuncture needles into trigger points to stimulate the muscles to relax, lessening the tension that can cause headaches. It can be performed by healthcare professionals trained in the procedure, such as physical therapists, massage therapists, and doctors., Studies suggest that spinal manipulation therapy performed by a licensed chiropractor may help treat tension headaches, especially if they are chronic.You can find a list of Chiropractic Licensing Boards in several countries at the Federation of Chiropractic Licensing Boards website. Always have treatments performed by a trained, licensed chiropractor.
 Medical massage therapy is a little different than massages given just for relaxation. Targeted massage therapy for the neck and shoulders has been shown to be effective at treating tension headaches and reducing their occurrence.Ask your doctor for a referral for medical massage.


Health insurance companies may not cover massage. However, they are more likely to do so if you have a doctor's referral. Speak with your health insurance provider to determine whether this option is covered.
You can find licensed and certified massage therapists with the directory search provided by the American Massage Therapy Association here.
 Eye strain is a common tension headache trigger. If you have frequent headaches (two or more per week), schedule an eye examination. Difficulty with your vision could be contributing to your headaches.


If you wear glasses or contacts, consider contacting your eye doctor for a new exam. Your vision can change, and if your prescription is no longer what you need you could be straining your eyes.

