 Handle the break-up maturely and with grace. If he broke up with you, respect his decision and give him some time to see things more clearly. He will appreciate your understanding and respect you all the more for handling yourself with dignity.


The last thing you want to do is make a scene. Crying or getting angry with him won't get you anywhere, in fact, he'll be more likely to run in the other direction.
By accepting the break-up calmly, you are leveling the playing field. He was probably expecting a different reaction from you, but now he .will be curious as to why you're not more upset. This may plant the first seed of doubt in his mind.;
, After a break-up, emotions run high and people don't always make rational decisions. For this reason, it is advisable to cut all communication with your ex for a while.


Don't harass your ex with phone calls, texts or Facebook messages. This will have the opposite of the desired effect. Wait until he contacts you first.
It will be tough, but try not to contact your ex for at least 2-3 weeks. Give him time to miss you.
 Break-ups can be rough. Harsh words are exchanged and feelings get hurt. You need to give both yourself and your ex time to cool down, reflect and heal. Only then should you consider resuming the relationship.


Getting back together while the wounds are still fresh will cause the same old issues to resurface and your efforts to revive the relationship are sure to fail.
Wait until enough time has passed that you can think about the break-up objectively and can speak to your ex without getting upset or angry.
 Take this time apart to honestly assess your relationship, think about what went wrong and what went right. Try to pinpoint the exact problems that led to the end of the relationship and figure out whether they can be fixed.


If you believe that the problems in your relationship are fixable, and both you and he are willing to put in the effort to make that happen, then your relationship stands a chance.
If, on the other hand, the circumstances which led to the end of the relationship are not likely to change, or if you or your ex are unwilling to modify your behavior for the sake of the relationship, then getting back together may not be the best idea.
Use your head for this decision, not just your heart.
 Towards the end of the relationship or during the break-up, you might have said some things you didn't mean or that you now regret. It's never too late to be the bigger person and apologize.


If the break-up came about as a result of your actions, then you should definitely make the first move to apologize. Your ex will appreciate the gesture and may feel warmer and more sympathetic to you as a result.
You will never be able to move on from the past if you don't own up to your mistakes.

