 Give them a simple pet to take care of depending on their experience with animals. You should ask yourself some questions:


Is your child quite young or is he/she a bit older? Taking on the responsibility of caring for a large pet such as a dog is quite a task and isn't suitable for little children who won't be able to control the pet, let alone care for it. A fish or a hamster is a suitable pet that is easier and more reasonable to take care of.
Has the child suffered from animals in the past? Ask the child if he/she has ever been harmed by an animal before. It doesn't have to be a big bite from a dog, it could just be a simple nip from a mouse. No matter how small the injury, always let the child have the choice to care for the pet instead of forcing the chore upon them.
Does the child have a fear of the animal? You could always try curing this fear, but no matter what you do, the child could still become anxious around the pet. As always, ask if he/she is okay with taking care of the pet and say that it is alright to not be okay with it.;
, If it's either to give your child responsibility, give them a chore or even if it is because you are bringing a new pet into the household, you should explain to them calmly and in a quiet area.


Leave the topic open for discussion. Do not refuse to listen to what your child has to say, let him/her give their own opinion and always be willing to answer any questions that they have.
 Even if these are big mistakes, be understanding and do not give them harsh consequences for treating the pet wrong, everyone makes beginner mistakes!

, This is a great organizer for both you and your child. Whenever he/she does the job properly, put a sticker on their chart to encourage them to do all the jobs properly. It will also make caring for the pet fun.
 If s/he has never seen the pet before, a nice introduction is a nice start before the child starts to care for the pet.


Give him/her time to get use to the pet. Let her play with the pet for a while, unless it is a pet that is not to be played with such as a fish or bug. Remember to supervise your child and the pet to make sure that s/he or the pet doesn't get hurt or that the pet doesn't escape.
Give your child some helpful information about the pet. Tell him/her what the pet cannot eat, what the pet likes and tell him/her what to expect of the pet.
 If their job is to feed the pet, tell them how much food they should get and when they have to feed them.
 Even if it is a small animal like a bird, it can still escape and you will have to spend time trying to catch it. If you are going to give them a hard task, help them with it.
 Such as feeding the goldfish too much, the fish will over-eat and kill itself.


Do not leave them to do all the work by themselves. Give your child plenty of free-time and help them when they need help.
 Let him/her take care of the dog without help or let them take on some harder jobs such as walking a dog or grooming a cat (with supervision).
 If they have continuously been taking care of the pet without fussing or having to be asked, giving them a little reward is always great encouragement for the child.

