 Start an account by clicking on Play Now.;
, The non-member animals are the wolf, bunny, fox, panda, monkey, turtle and tiger. The wolf is the most popular nonmember animal in the game.


Note that the picture of the animals on the choosing selection screen look fairly different to what they look like in-game.
, This is essential, as she will explain most things to you, however, it may get a little boring and slow (you can't skip the intro).
 Test out as many games as you can to find the ones you are best at. Popular ones include Best Dressed, Jamaa Derby, Sky High and Falling Phantoms since you can win a great deal of gems easily.
 Dress up your animal to what you want it to look like.


To put clothes on, there's a bottom left you can see a button that looks like you click that and at the left there's the clothes that you buy.
 Everyone will start off with the Small House den. You'll be able to buy other dens, however, only if you're a member (non-members can still purchase Small Houses). Dens can range from 2,000 to 7,500 gems and even cost you many diamonds.
 The button is next to the bottom that looks like you shows two animals with an arrow in between them click on that and click on the button that looks like a paw print next to your animal.
 Be friendly and enjoy your times with your buddies. You can also buy some cool den items or clothes from different kinds of parties.


If you're a non-member, you'll be able to get a banana tree from the Monkey Party, a full moon window from the Wolf Party, a chair made of ice and a penguin rug from the Penguin Party and a bunny rug from the Rabbit Party.
Recently, Animal Jam introduced the Cloud Party which has rainbow armour. Unfortunately, the party is only available for flying animals (Owls and Eagles) which are only for members.
 When doing adventures in hard mode, you'll be able to obtain Rares. However, it's not common—most of the time you'll get random items (such as Horned Leg Pads, Round Glasses, etc.) that you won't want.
 Put out some of your hard-earned items on trade (don't put Jam Mart items on trade as people will definitely not trade you). You may want to do some advertising so other Jammers will have a look at your items and consider trading with you.


If you have some items that you don't like the colour of (but you like the item), ask others if they have another colour of it.
 Find some buddies and pretend to be things. You could start up a clan, school, daycare, or whatever strikes your fancy. Use your imagination!


Pretend that Animal Jam is like real life; ask people for directions and when you get to the place you (Maybe Crystal Sands) pretend to swim in the pool and maybe invite some of your friends.
 You could be a doctor at the Medical Center or sell drinks in Captain Melville's Juice Hut.
 Don't allow anyone to pressure you into buying one though. A membership will not make you cool. It will only give you access to more items. Ask your parents if they're able to give this to you as a birthday or other gift.


Don't go looking for websites that say "free Animal Jam membership" as they will not work and could download malicious software on your computer. An Animal Jam membership costs money and there is no way you can get it for free.
