 Remind your teen to do important tasks first, then move onto smaller or less important ones. Have them write down everything they need to do, then number them in order of importance. That way, your teen will know how to attack the list of things that needs to get done.You can help your teen set priorities on weekly basis, or help them tackle their homework this way each day after school. This is also helpful in planning projects.;
, Help your teen build their discipline by learning cause and effect. For example, they must complete their chores before they go out with friends. Have them use a schedule to plan their time so that they know what’s next and what to anticipate. Getting into a routine can help with discipline.Joining a sport, taking music lessons, or doing other activities can help your child build discipline through practice, repetition, and sticking with something even when it’s difficult.Help your teen understand that they don't need to resist every unpleasant activity and emotion. Resisting emotions only intensifies them. Instead, help them practice dealing with them in a moderate way., Help your teen brainstorm ways to stay motivated on tasks. Less exciting tasks may be easy to push off or forget about. Keep your teen motivated by having a reward for getting tasks done. For example, they are allowed to watch television once they complete their homework or can go on the computer once their chores are completed.Get feedback from your teen as to what motivates them. They may want to finish homework to watch television, play on their tablet, eat a snack, or get dessert.
 If your child is motivated by competition, devise ways they can beat their past performance and improve their stats, so to speak. For example, if your child cleans the bathroom in 30 minutes, see if they can make it just as clean in 25 minutes. If they complete five chores in one week, see if they can complete six or seven the next week. Have your child be competitive with themselves, their time, and their performance.You can use competition for homework as well. For example, your child might want to see how many math problems they can finish in 10 minutes, then try to beat their record the next day.
Don’t encourage siblings to compete against each other, as this can damage their relationship.
When possible, try to make things genuinely interesting. Stimulate their sense of natural wonder rather than having them rush through everything.

