 Make an appointment to have your cat examined. After the examination, talk with your vet about the vaccinations that your cat currently has or needs. Ask them about their approach to vaccinations and boosters. Do they believe in spreading them out or lumping them together in combo shots?If you move to a new area, make an appointment with the new vet as soon as possible. They will be able to help you to register your cat with local officials. They can also provide advice regarding that vaccinations that your cat is required to get.;
, Vets will usually hand you a card showing the vaccinations completed as well as those that will need to be done in the future. Make sure to place this card in a secure area where you keep your pet’s other records. If your vet does not give you a card, you can go online and search for a “printable cat vaccination card.”Many boarding facilities require that your vet provides a signature for each vaccine update. Your card should have a place for signatures on the back or bottom.
 These are the vaccines that all cats should get, unless their health prevents them from doing so. The vaccines for the Feline Panleukopenia Virus, Feline Viral Rhinotracheitis, Calicivirus and Panleukopenia (FVRCP, and Rabies virus will protect your cat from these more commonly spread illnesses.These vaccines are often suggested because the illnesses that they prevent can be life-threatening to cats. For example, a cat infected with rabies may suffer from brain swelling and hemorrhaging.
 Depending on your cat’s age and lifestyle, your vet may suggest that you add extra vaccinations into the core schedule. These vaccinations are optional, but can protect your cat from certain commonly spread diseases. The vaccines for chlamydia, leukemia, Bordetella, and FIV, can save your cat a great deal of pain in the long run.These non-core vaccines are particularly important for cats who will have contact with a wide variety of other animals, such as in a boarding facility.
 Not all vaccines are the same, even for the same illness. Talk to your vet about the exact brand and type of vaccine that your cat is getting. Some vaccines are single-shot, but include coverage for a combination of illnesses. The type of vaccine will also determine how often your cat will need a booster shot, whether in a year, three years, or not at all., Once the vaccination schedule is set, do your best to stick to it. Make a mark down on your calendar or create a note on your phone indicating when your cat needs another vet visit. This is especially important to do with the first round of vaccines, when your cat will require a shot every few weeks.