 Real estate is a heavily regulated industry. If you belong to a realtor’s association, then there may be a form you can use.Your association also probably requires that certain information be included in your broker listing agreement, so make sure you follow all rules.


Brokers are also regulated by the state, and your state law might require that certain information be included in a listing agreement. Make sure to contact your state’s real estate commission to check. They may also have a form you can use as a guide.;
, Open a blank word processing document and set the font to a comfortable typeface. You want your listing agreement to be legible so that the client doesn’t claim you hid information using tiny font.


Times New Roman 12 point works for most people, though you can pick something equally legible.
 You can title your agreement “Listing Agreement—Exclusive Right to Sell” or “Listing Contract—Exclusive Right to Sell Real Estate.”, At the top of the contract, you should list the brokerage agency’s name, address, and phone number. Also include the name and contact information (phone, fax, email) for the licensed broker.


You should also name the seller and state their mailing address, phone number, and email address.
 You should identify the property by address and zip code. You can also provide the following additional information:


school district
zoning area
present use
identification, such as parcel number, tax ID number, or the location of the deed (book, page, and recording date)

, You should state what price the client wants to list the property for. You can also state that you might sell the house at a price acceptable to the seller.


For example, you could write: “Seller grants to Broker the exclusive right to sell the Property, within the terms of this listing, at a price of $350,000 and on the terms herein stated, or at such other price and terms as shall be acceptable to Seller.”, Be sure to include when the relationship begins and when it ends. Sample language could read: “This Agreement begins on July 1, 2016 and terminates at midnight on June 30, 2017.”, You can calculate the fee as a percentage of the sale price or as a fixed sum. The seller may also choose to pay both: a fixed fee and a percentage of the sale.


Sample language could read: “Seller agrees to pay a commission equal to of the total sale price of the Property and $1,000, as and for the compensation of Broker, in any of the following events….”, You have to state what events will trigger payment of the brokerage fee. For example, the seller will have to pay the broker if he or she finds a buyer and closes the sale during the duration of the broker listing agreement. However, there are other situations where the broker is probably entitled to a fee:The property is sold or exchanged during the duration of the agreement, whether procured by Broker, Seller, or a third person.
The property is sold within a certain number of days after the termination of the listing agreement, if the buyer is someone the broker negotiated with or showed the property to during the duration of the agreement, provided the seller doesn’t relist the property with a different licensed real estate broker.
The broker finds a buyer ready, willing, and able to purchase at the price and terms set by the seller. This covers situations where there is a buyer but the seller backs out because they get cold feet.
The property is sold to someone who rents or leases the property during the terms of the agreement.
 The broker probably needs to do many different things to sell the property. The seller should explicitly authorize the broker to take certain actions to sell the property. For example:The broker can place a “For Sale” sign on the property and remove all other similar signs.
The broker can post information about the property on the Internet and advertise the property using appropriate means and methods, such as taking color photographs.
The broker can obtain information about the present mortgage.
The broker can obtain a key to the property and furnish keys to others as necessary to show the Property.
The broker shall have access to the property for the purpose of showing it to potential buyers at a reasonable hour.
 A Multiple Listing Service (MLS) allows brokers to share information about the property with other brokers. You should include a provision stating whether the broker can use an MLS or not.
 If the broker lists the property with an MLS, then the broker might want to place a “Lock Box” with a key on the property so that other brokers can access the property. If the broker wants to use a lock box, then you should include a provision in which the seller authorizes the broker to install it.


A sample provision could read: “To facilitate the showing of the Property, Seller grants Broker permission to place on Seller’s Property a ‘Lock Box’ containing a key that gives access to the Property at times when the Broker is not present. Furthermore, Seller acknowledges that Broker has recommended that all valuables be removed from the Property for safekeeping. Seller has been advised that neither the Broker, the MLS, nor any Association to which the Broker belongs, will assume any responsibility for the acts of any other person for any loss sustained by Seller through entry or use of the key deposited in the ‘Lock Box.’ Seller assumes the risk of loss.”, A seller needs to furnish certain documents to a potential buyer, and the broker listing agreement can identify those documents. For example, a seller may need to provide the following:Certified abstract of title showing merchantable title
Mortgage inspection certificate
Uniform Commercial Code Search Certificate

, The taxes will probably be prorated based on the date when the property is sold. You should include a provision explaining what taxes will be prorated and which taxes must be paid., A seller might need to contribute to closing costs if the buyer has an FHA or VA loan. You should include a provision stating that the seller will pay whatever excess closing costs are not covered by the buyer’s loan.


A sample provision might read: “If the Property is single family, condominium, or multi-family, then seller shall pay the closing costs and fees in excess of what the Buyer is allowed to pay by FHA or VA.”, If the buyer’s financing is from Veteran’s Affairs, then the buyer will need to pay for a HUD-approved infestation report. List this requirement in the broker listing agreement.


For example, you could write: “If the purchase of the Property is a VA-financed transaction, Seller will pay the cost of a HUD-approved infestation report performed by a licensed extermination company.”, State and federal law probably require that the seller make many different disclosures to potential buyers. You should include a provision listing the disclosures that the seller must make.


For example, the seller must make a Disclosure and Acknowledgement of Lead-Based Paint if the property was built before 1978.Check with your real estate commission to see what other disclosures the seller must make.
 You can decide to have the broker accept the earnest money and deposit it into an escrow or trust account. If so, then you should include a clause giving the broker this power.


You could write, “Unless provided for otherwise in the contract, Broker shall receive and hold all earnest money deposit in Broker’s trust or escrow account.”, This is a major part of having a broker: the person accepts all offers and counteroffers. In short, he or she stands between the seller and the buyer and helps facilitate the sale. You should lay out the broker’s duties:To receive all written offers and counteroffers
To reduce these offers or counteroffers to a written form upon request of any party to the transaction
To present these written offers in a timely manner

, Sample language could read: “Broker shall timely account for all money and property received by the Broker.”, The purchase and sale of a house requires negotiation, and successful negotiation often requires that people mask their true motivations. However, they may need to disclose those motivations to a broker. Accordingly, a broker listing agreement might require that the broker keep certain information confidential unless authorized to disclose it. The confidential information could include:That a party is willing to accept less or pay more than what is being offered.
That a party is willing to agree to financing terms different than those offered.
The party’s motivations for selling or purchasing the property.
Any information a party declares is confidential.
 This clause helps put the client at ease that the broker will use his or her best efforts to sell the property. For example, you could write:


“Broker shall use best efforts to sell the Property during the duration of the Agreement.”, A broker listing agreement should also require the broker to abide by all rules. These rules include the state’s Real Estate License code and any state disclosure act., The buyer might back out of the sale after signing a purchase and sale agreement. In that situation, the buyer is usually not entitled to having their earnest money refunded. Your broker listing agreement should explain how the seller and broker will divide the earnest money.


For example, you could write: “Forfeited earnest money shall be divided equally between Seller and Broker. However, Broker’s portion shall not exceed the agreed commission.”, You don’t want one side to claim that there were prior oral agreements which should trump the written broker listing agreement. Accordingly, you should include a provision stating that this is the entire agreement between the seller and the broker.


Sample language could read: “This Agreement is the entire agreement between Seller and Broker. Any prior verbal or written agreements are not a part of this Agreement. All changes to this Agreement must be in a writing signed by both the Seller and Broker.”

, You might want to include a provision stating that neither the seller nor the buyer will be liable for the actions or words of the broker. For example, you could write:


“Neither the Buyer nor the Seller may be held liable for the actions or words of the Broker or licensees affiliated with the Broker’s firm.”, Both the seller and the broker should sign and date the agreement. If there is more than one seller, then all sellers should sign the agreement.
 This article describes a basic broker listing agreement suitable for real estate. There are many different kinds of broker listing agreements. In order to fully understand what else might need to be in your agreement, you should meet with a qualified attorney.You can find an attorney by contacting your local or state bar association and asking for a referral.