 If you want to permanently get rid of a perm, you can do so by using a perming kit to reverse the chemical process that caused the perm to set. Before you use a perming kit, however, make sure to keep condition your hair. If possible, do so the day before you use the kit.Wash your hair with shampoo and then towel dry it. Comb your hair and separate it into 4 to 6 sections. If you have thicker hair, you'll need more sections.Apply the conditioner to your hair, one section at a time. Start at the root and move down to the tip. When you finish with all the sections, but your hair in a shower cap. Apply heat to your hair. You can use a hood dryer, with the heat set to medium, for 20 minutes. If you don't have a hood dryer, you can throw a towel in the dryer and wrap it around your head for 20 minutes.Once your done applying heat, remove the shower cap and rinse your hair in cool water. Towel dry your hair and then brush and style as normal., When you're ready to use the perm kit, wash your hair. Then, apply the waving lotion found in the perm kit.


Comb the lotion through your hair. Use a wide-tooth comb for the process. Comb for about 10 minutes, until your hair is fully saturated with the lotion.Check your hair in the mirror. Hopefully, the curls should be relaxing a bit. If this is not working, comb your hair for another 5 minutes or until you notice this effect., Once your curls begin to unfurl, rinse your hair. Use very warm water for this process and rinse your hair for at least 3 minutes. You want to make sure you get all the lotion out of your hair., Blot all the excess water from your hair. If necessary, squeeze your hair inside the towel. However, do not rub your hair as this can cause damage. Once your hair dries, apply the neutralizer from the kit. Repeat the process you used with the waving lotion. Once you're done, rinse the neutralizer out using very warm water. The neutralizer takes longer to rinse than the waving lotion. You will need to rinse for at least five minutes., Once you're done with the neutralizer, pat your hair dry again. If successful, the process should leave you with straighter hair and remove some of the perm.The products used in perming kits can be hard on hair. Make sure to use conditioner when you shower after using this method. This will revitalize any moisture your hair lost and prevent further damage. Even if you don't shampoo, use conditioner each day for about a week.