 This is the best place to start because you'll be able to flip through the existing books and decide which styles suit your cooking preferences the most.


There are also vegan magazines that you can find at your local library.
If you have trouble finding the books, ask a librarian for help. If the library is missing vegan cookbooks, the librarian may be able to get some brought in for you.
If your library has eBooks, check out their vegan cookbook selection on your digital reader.;
, These sites will list all of the latest vegan cookbooks on offer and some will also have reviews. Once you feel more familiar with the styles of recipes you like, you might consider buying some books of your own to add to your cookbook shelf.
 This is probably one of the easiest way to find recipes quickly. However, it will take time before you know which sites have your favorite recipes, so it's a good idea to keep a log/set of bookmarks of sites you like when you come across them.


When searching, focus on what you like rather than just simply asking for "vegan recipes". For example, search for "vegan meatloaf" or "vegan macaroni" or "vegan cake", etc. That will make the returns a lot more specific to what you're after.
 Sites such as Pinterest allow individuals to make their own collections of anything, including vegan recipes. Use search terms such as "vegan recipes", "vegan meals", "vegan seasonal", etc. to see what collections others have made online. You can either follow their collections or be inspired by theirs to start making your own.
 There are many great blogs filled with vegan recipes that include step-by-step images and lots of useful tips discovered by the bloggers as they test out many different vegan recipes. Follow your favorite bloggers and you might even leave them comments about how you found their recipes after trying them.
 There are many websites dedicated to veganism as a lifestyle as well as a way of eating. They usually have a set of recipes, or a forum where recipes can be shared. As well as vegan sites, check out animal welfare sites, cooking sites with vegan sections and raw food sites.
 This will allow you to keep your existing cookbooks and turn your favorite recipes into vegan versions. You'll find out how to do this by reading How to veganize recipes. The more innate this becomes, the more you'll be able to transform almost any recipe into a vegan one using substitute ingredients; try it, it's a lot of fun!

