
Clothing, shoes and accessories
Books, especially currently popular ones in sets
Toys.;
, There is no point selling things that don't work, have scratches or glitches or that are broken. You could try selling those things but you'd need to point out all the faults and expect little money in return. There are some exceptions. For example, old laptops or consoles that don't work can be cannibalized for parts but you won't earn a lot and you must explain what is broken about them., If selling door-to-door, you'd need to sell to the right people. Retirement community residents would hardly be interested in Eminem CDs. Also, do you intend to sell beyond your local area? If so, you'll need to go to online sites and be prepared to ship the items somewhere else.


If an item is too large for shipping, consider offering "pick-up only" and at a time when someone responsible for your welfare will be at home.
If delivering, plan how to deliver the items to the areas advertised. Don't advertise that you'll drop the items off in areas that will be too difficult to get to.
 Fine tune the lists and post them (with permission, of course) on community boards in supermarkets and apartment buildings. Place an advertisement in newspapers if helpful List online on sites such as Craigslist, eBay, etc.––use an adult's account with their permission for auction listings. Provide a way for people to contact you, but limit the amount of personal information on the posting. Include your first name, phone number and best times to call.


Be sure to talk with your parents and show them the the advertisement before posting it.
Don't forget to tell your friends and extended family!

, Descriptions of items and services offered that sound better than they really are will likely result in disappointment. When it is time for the transaction, the potential buyer may want to pay less than a previously agreed price, or even decide not to buy at all. It can also result in bad feedback if you're using a site such as eBay and your parents or older sibling won't like that smirch on their account.
 Do not sell your goods or services if you are offered a price less than the minimum amount that you want. It is better to "walk away" and find another interested buyer. The more interested the potential buyer is, the more likely you will be to get the full asking price.


It is also better to get something than nothing. If the counter price offered seems fair for your used item, give it good consideration.
 Be timely about this, wrap well and ensure that the item arrives in one piece, at the time promised.

