 Exercise not only helps your overall health, but it also helps reduce stress. Exercise has also been shown to boost moods, help with depression and anxiety, and boost the immune system. If you experience fatigue as part of your ulcerative colitis, exercise will also help by giving you a needed boost of energy. To get the best stress-relieving benefits, you should exercise regularly at whatever level is comfortable for you. The symptoms of your UC may influence what activity you do, so do what is comfortable for you.For example, going for a 30 minute walk three to four times a week can have stress reducing benefits. Biking, swimming, and other light aerobic activity are all good options.
If you are experiencing abdominal pain from your UC, try exercises that don't strain the abdominals.
You may need to talk to your doctor about the proper type of exercise for your condition.
 Yoga is a common activity that helps to lower stress. Yoga helps focus the mind and control the breathing, both of which are needed to reduce the stress response. Yoga can help calm your mind when it’s overwhelmed with images, and yoga routines encourage you to breathe in a rhythmic, deep, controlled manner.If you have a colostomy, make sure you don't attempt any poses that put pressure on the stoma.
You can take yoga classes at a gym or yoga studio. You can also find many yoga routines online.
Make sure to learn the basic poses before trying to do something beyond your current fitness level. There are many beginner videos available that teach basic yoga technique and poses.
 Tai chi is another physical activity that can significantly reduce stress. Tai chi focuses on relaxation of the body, mind, emotions, and nervous system. Tai chi uses gentle stretches to help reduce tension in the muscles and body. Because tai chi uses gentle movements, it may be a good exercise that won't aggravate your ulcerative colitis. Most tai chi poses or movements won't put extra pressure on your abdominal area or stoma. Tai chi also helps you develop awareness of your body so you can spot tension and stress.You can take tai chi classes at local studios. You can also find videos to buy or online to lead you through tai chi routines.
 Ulcerative colitis causes fatigue, so getting enough sleep is important to help prevent flare-ups. Sleep helps renew your body and mind. Too little sleep causes stress due to your body and mind being run down. Getting enough sleep every night can help reduce stress and keep you healthy and energized. You should get on a sleep schedule to ensure quality sleep every night.Adults with UC need eight to nine hours of sleep each night. Try to fall asleep and wake up at the same time every night.