 Organize your obligations into “Do,” “Don’t Do,” and “Delegate.” Instead of trying to do it all, figure out which household tasks need to be done (your “Do” list), and which can wait (your “Don’t Do” list). If there are things you could get your partner, your kids, or a hired hand to do – washing the dishes, walking the dog, and so on – separate them into your “Delegate” list.This will rebalance your family’s time in such a way that you all have the ability to spend more time together, instead of you and/or your partner taking on a disproportionate amount of housework.
Be realistic and honest when evaluating your time. Don’t add something to your “Do” list just because you feel guilty.
Organize your work tasks, too, so that you can identify which things need doing and which you can delegate to a coworker.;
, You can lose a lot of time that can be spent with your family (or on yourself) by searching for misplaced keys, remote controls, and other essential belongings. Choose a convenient location for your wallet or purse, your keys, and your glasses. Get in the habit of placing these essentials – especially the things you seem to lose frequently – in the same place every day.For instance, you might choose to always put your glasses by the bedside, and your keys by the door.
 Look for ways to save time and use them whenever possible. For instance, if your dry cleaner offers free pickup, or you can get your pizza delivered instead of picking it up, spring for these convenience services. This will help you maximize your family time.If you’re enrolled in university, use the campus gym instead of trekking from school to the gym and then home., If you’re the type of person who rises to a challenge, you might benefit from trying to make and meet unique family-related goals. Set a minimum amount of time to spend with your family each week – for instance, 15 hours. Or you could try a qualitative goal like making your child smile at dinner.Change your family-time goals regularly to keep the contest fresh.
 Instead of checking email, working on projects, and texting friends or coworkers when you’re home, turn your phone off and shut down your computer. This way, your family will get your undivided attention. After your kids and partner are asleep, you can log back on.This is especially important during family outings and meals.
You can also use your computer and phone early in the morning, when your kids and partner are asleep., Some people get discouraged because they think, “I could never maximize my family time in the way that my neighbor did.” This is defeatist thinking and will not help you maximize your family time. Instead, organize your time as well a possible without passing judgment on yourself.Remember, nobody can spend all their time with their family.

