 The shaft of a boot refers to the portion of the boot that rises above your foot and over your calf.


When you only see a measurement for “boot shaft,” it is safe to assume that the measurement refers to the height of the shaft and not the circumference.;
, Place one end of a tape measure at the middle of the boot arch, directly above the boot sole. Extend the tape measure vertically along the outside of the boot until you reach the very top of the shaft. This length is your boot shaft height.Note that in the United States, boot shaft sizes are described in inches even when the shaft extends beyond a foot in height.
When a manufacturer lists the shaft height of a boot, the heel height is not usually included in that measurement. There is still some risk that some shops will include heel height as part of the shaft height, though, which can throw this measurement off completely. When buying a pair of boots you cannot measure yourself, try to verify whether or not heel height is left out of the shaft measurement.
 If you are not able to measure the boot, you can estimate how tall a boot shaft might be simply by noting the style of boot.


For a size 8.5 women's boot:Ankle boot shafts range between 3 and 8 inches (7.6 and 20.3 cm).
Mid-calf boot shafts range between 8.25 and 13.25 inches (21 and 33.7 cm).
Knee-high boot shafts can be 13.5 inches (34.3 cm) or taller.


Boot shaft estimations can vary depending on the size of the boot. A size smaller than 8.5 will have a slightly shorter shaft, while a larger size will have a slightly larger shaft. The change in shaft size is usually about equal to the change in foot length when you compare your size against an 8.5 sized boot.
 Typically, heel height is not included as part of the boot shaft height. Since this separate measurement does play a part in the overall height of the boot, though, it can still be worth knowing.


Measure the heel height by extending a tape measure from the bottom of the heel to the point at which it meets the sole of the boot. Place the tape measure against the center side of the heel as you measure.
Common heel heights based on heel type are:

Flat heels, with an average height between 0 and 0.75 inches (0 and 1.9 cm).
Low heels, with an average height between 1 and 1.75 inches (2.5 and 4.4 cm).
Mid heels, with an average height between 2 and 2.75 inches (5 and 7 cm).
High heels, with an average height at 3 inches (7.6 cm) or above.



