 There are a number of national and regional companies that can ship your motorcycle, but you want to make sure you get a good deal from a reputable business. Start by looking up local shipping companies online or in the phone book. Once you find some you like, contact them to get a price quote on shipping your motorcycle.You should try to get at least three quotes to ensure you have an understanding of a reasonable price.
The distance you are transporting the motorcycle, the size and weight of the motorcycle, and the timeframe will all affect the price of shipping a motorcycle.
 Open and enclosed shipping options refer to the type of trailer your motorcycle will be housed in as it travels. Enclosed trailers will protect your motorcycle from the elements and from dirt and grime on the road. Open trailers offer less protection, but often come at a significantly lower price point.Consider the time of year and region your motorcycle will travel through when choosing between enclosed and open trailers. If your motorcycle will be exposed to extreme heat or inclement weather, you may choose an enclosed trailer option.
Remember that an open trailer may be left out in the elements for hours or days, regardless of weather.
 Some shipping companies tout door to door delivery service, while others expect you to come pick up your motorcycle at a designated location. Having the motorcycle shipped directly to your house may be more convenient, but will also likely cost more.Remember that the motorcycle will likely be transported by tractor trailer, so door to door shipping may not be feasible if the end location cannot be accessed by a truck of that size.
Shipping your motorcycle to the closest major city will likely cost significantly less than shipping it to your door.
 While the motorcycle is being transported by a shipping company, their insurance or bond should cover any damages to your bike, as well as theft. However, different companies have different policies and you may be left responsible for a deductible if something were to happen to your motorcycle. Ask to see the shipping company’s insurance agreement and inquire about what to do if damages were to occur.Make sure to ask about any deductible you may be responsible for if the motorcycle is damaged while in transit.
If the shipping company does not have insurance, you should consider seeking a different shipping company.
 When your motorcycle arrives, look it over for any signs of damage and address it with the shipping company. The company may reimburse you for the cost of repairs or pay for the repairs at a designated facility, depending on the situation and their insurance coverage. Make sure to take pictures of the damage to substantiate your claim.Contact the shipping company directly to discuss the damages.
Make sure to keep copies of any paperwork you complete regarding the damages until they have been repaired.

