 While quiet, private places may be ideal for some people, human productivity varies for everyone in different settings. In fact, some people focus better with lots of people around and a bit of noise.


Try studying in different environments to find the one that allows you to focus the best.
Avoid screens, especially TVs. This includes your phone. Put your phone in your bag and leave it there. Only check it during scheduled breaks.Wear headphones (or earplugs). Whether in a library or coffee shop, headphones will help reduce the frequency of auditory distractions. Choose music that does not have lyrics, and is more ambient than bass-driven. Think “background music” when you’re making your selection, but know that you can still listen to music you enjoy.
If you’re studying at home, try to use a room in which you won’t be interrupted by family members or roommates. Let others know you intend to work on homework for a certain amount of time, and ask them to let you be.
 If you have another friend that needs to get work done – perhaps even the same assignment – work alongside one another. Working beside someone else may actually increase your ability to focus on your homework.


The company of a friend can keep you from wondering what everybody else is up to, and can even make doing your homework feel like hanging out.
Avoid studying with friends who tend to interrupt a lot, or who have trouble focusing themselves. You can hang with whoever you want once your work is done!

, This includes your organizational materials, any textbooks or resources, and the equipment you’ll need to complete an assignment – even if it’s only a writing utensil and some paper or your computer and charger.


Include a healthy snack, as well as a water bottle. Not having to get up for sustenance will keep you grinding through your homework for a longer period of time.
Don’t forget sticky notes. They’re weirdly helpful. Use them as visual reminders of important things to remember, and to keep pages in books you’re studying or otherwise referencing frequently.
 Computers have increased human productivity immensely. You can research, write, and edit much faster by using a computer. However, don’t allow all of the non-productive stuff you can do on a computer to distract you from your homework.


Computers can also help you organize. Familiarize yourself with web-based storage systems like Google Drive and Dropbox. These will allow you to save and access files from anywhere you have internet access.Use a flash drive too. Save all electronic files to both a web-based storage system and a thumbdrive. Keep the drive with you at all times. (Get a thumb drive with a keychain attachment!) This way, even if you forget your hard copy, you can print another at school and eliminate the unfortunate “I forgot my homework” scenario.
 When you sit down to work on homework, commit to working for a certain length of time, and schedule yourself a short break. This will keep you from getting overwhelmed or burnt out during long study days. It will also help keep your mind focused.


Try a 10 minute break after every 50 minutes of focused work.Use these breaks to go for a short walk, use the washroom, do a brief physical exercise (like stretching, push-ups, or jumping jacks), or to get a simple chore out of the way.
Do not allow yourself to get distracted by activities that will prevent you from going back to work or will get your mind out of study mode. For instance, don’t call someone you haven’t spoken with in a while or sit down with friends who are hanging out but not studying.
Reward yourself when completing assignments – but not before. If you’ve been itching for a bowl of ice cream, don’t dive into the freezer during a break. Instead, enjoy the ice cream once your homework is done for the evening and you can focus all of your attention – or none at all – on every bite.

