 Maintaining a yard is important for people, but finding the time to do so can be difficult. If you are old enough to do the maintenance around your own yard, offer to do work for neighbors at a reasonable price (either hourly rates or a flat-rate for duties). Fortunately, the different times of the year will leave various jobs and tasks for you to do.Rake the leaves and clean gutters during fall.
Shovel snow in the early mornings during winter.
Water and mow the yard during the hot seasons.
 Sitting services for your family and neighbors often means watching after people, pets, and things. Each form of sitting takes a lot of responsibility and experience that usually starts at home. Pick the sitting that you have the most comfort and experience with.If you have all the responsibilities of the family pet, offer pet sitting to neighbors, especially during holidays; you can also help with taking dogs for walks.
House sitting is common during holidays as well. You can take out trash, check mail, turn on/off house lights, and other house-care jobs for a neighbor or relative who is out of town.
Baby sit younger siblings for your parents or sit for your neighbors and family. This type of sitting takes a lot of responsibility and trust. Be sure to pick this option with proper guidance and experience.
 Assisting others with house work can earn you some cash. Check with neighbors who are very busy to see if they'd be willing to pay you for services; anything from house cleaning to taking out the trash can be a good help to others. Also, check to see if any elderly individuals live in your neighborhood. Many elderly need extra help for very common tasks such as checking the mail, cleaning dishes, or tiding up around the house.Try to be creative with the types of services to offer (buying groceries, repainting rooms, hanging up pictures, preparing meals, decorating for holidays).
 Trying to earn cash can also mean helping out the environment. Even though some cities have a regular recycling pickup for aluminum cans, several other metals and items can be sold to recycling yards. First, figure out what you wish to recycle. You can collect different metals such as copper, brass, and steel. Some companies buy used batteries and computer parts, too. Once you figure out which good or goods to recycle, get your services out to people. Go door to door, put up signs, hand out flyers, set up bins at school, or create a website. 