 Your username is going to be the first thing people see when they interact with you online. Make sure that you like your own username, because you’ll be seeing it a lot.;
, Different places online may call for different styles of usernames. If you are registering for a professional website, you’ll probably want to use a different username than the gaming forum that you regularly post on.


You may want to break down your internet usage into two different categories: professional and personal interest. You can then use one username for all of your professional websites, and then use one username for all of your personal interest sites. This will make it easier for you to remember your usernames.
 Avoid using any personally identifiable information when creating your username. This includes your first or last name or your birthdate.


Use a variation of your name that is easy for you to remember but difficult for others to associate with your name. Use your seldom-spoken middle name, for example, and spell it backwards.
 Most major online services will already have most standard names already taken. If you are joining an older community, there is a strong chance that the name you want will not be available. Instead of settling for whatever replacement they try to give you, get creative!

, If you're passionate about Brazil, for example, search the net for the names of flowers, warriors, or folk tale characters from the Amazon. If you like fixing up old cars, base your username around your favorite engine or car manufacturer.
 Use a combination of your interests to help you create a unique username. Combine two or more different words together to create a single username. This will help make your name more unique, and increase the chances that you will be able to use it.
 Look up words in other languages. Maybe the username "Writer" wasn't available, but its French equivalent "Ecrivain" is. You could also use a word from a fantasy language, such as Elvish or Klingon.
 If you’re going to be typing in your username on a regular basis, you’ll appreciate a shorter name! Shorten long words (e.g. turn Mississippi to Miss or Missi) and try to keep the username easy to type.
 Most websites won’t let you use a space in your username, but many will let you use the “_” character to mimic a space. You can also use certain numbers to replace letters, such as “7” instead of “T” or “3” instead of “E”. This is known as “leet speak”, and is typically found in online video gaming circles.


Periods are often used to separate words in usernames as well.
Don’t use your birth year at the end of your username, especially if you are a minor, as it makes it very easy to identify how old you are.
 There are a variety of random name generators available online. These will take various inputs and return a list of randomly-generated names that you can choose from. While this is less personal than creating your own, they work well if you are banging your head against your keyboard trying to think of something original.

