 Use the USB cable that came with it to connect it directly to your computer.
 This will occur if you are connecting to the computer for the first time.,, You will need the latest version of iTunes in order to jailbreak your device.

OS X - Click iTunes and select Check for Updates...

Windows - Click Help and select Check for Updates.
 When jailbreaking iOS 8, you'll need to restore your device to a fresh install of iOS 8 first. Creating a backup will allow you to restore your data and settings after the jailbreak process is complete.

Select your device in iTunes.
Click "On This Computer" to select your computer as the backup location.
Click Back Up Now.
 You will need to restore your device and set it up as new before you start jailbreaking. This is essential if you updated to iOS 8 or 8.1 using the Software Update utility on your device, and is highly recommended for any iOS 8.x device that that you want to jailbreak.

Select your device in iTunes.
Click the Restore iPad/iPhone/iPod... button.
Click Restore to confirm.
 Once the restore is complete, you'll be able to setup your device as if it was new. You can skip most screen since you will be restoring your settings later, but pay attention to the following:

Connect to a wireless network during the setup process.
Do not enable a passcode lock. You can enable this after jailbreaking your device.
Do not enable Find My iPad/iPhone/iPod. You can enable this later after jailbreaking.
You can safely skip all the other setup steps.
 You should see your connected device in the Pangu window., Swipe up from the bottom of your device's screen and tap the Airplane icon. This is required in order to start the jailbreak., This will begin the jailbreak process., This could take up to 20 minutes or so. Your device will reboot after it is complete.

Do not touch your device's buttons or disconnect it during the jailbreak process.
The reboot when finished will take longer than a normal reboot.
 You can find this added to your Home screen. Cydia is the package manager for jailbroken iOS devices. you will need to run it once the jailbreak has completed so that Cydia can configure the filesystem.

Your device will reboot once Cydia finishes configuring.
 You will need to install any available updates to ensure that the jailbreak works as intended., The refresh may take a few moments to retrieve everything., It is crucial that you install these updates immediately, or you may find that your jailbreak isn't working properly., Once Cydia is finished configuring, you can restore the backup you created to retrieve your settings and data.

Open iTunes and select your device.
Click the Restore Backup... button.
Select the backup you created earlier.
 The upcoming update to iOS 8.1.1 will close the exploit that is used in the jailbreaking process. Avoid updating in case your jailbreak is rendered unusable.