 Before seeking a referral to a spine specialist, you should consult your insurer to avoid unexpected costs.


Ask, “Does my policy cover specialist care, like a chiropractor or physical therapist? Can you provide me with a list of in-network specialists in my area?”
Be sure to ask if any specialist care or procedures require prior approval from your insurer. Ask, “Do I need to get prior approval to have my cortisone shot covered? What are your company’s procedures for getting prior approval?”
When you call your insurance provider, ask whomever you speak with for their name and position. Write down their information and save it in your records.
 If your pain is severe or does not respond to self-management techniques, first make an appointment with your primary doctor. You shouldn’t rely on them alone, since they likely don’t have specialized training in spinal care. However, they can provide you with a referral to a spine specialist, chiropractor, or physical therapist.
 A physical therapist can recommend exercises that may help your condition. They will teach you how to do the right exercises with good posture and proper movement. They will also warn you about which exercises and movements you should avoid., A chiropractor will manually reposition your misaligned SI joint. For best results, a series of adjustment appointments is typically recommended. Your chiropractor may also assist you with controlled physical exercises to strengthen your SI ligaments., A wide, belt-shaped orthotic brace is sometimes used to stabilize the SI joint. Using the brace while exercising or stretching will help keep the joint in correct adjustment while you strengthen the surrounding ligaments. This support is especially helpful if your work requires you to move in ways that might aggravate your joint pain., Most cases respond well to moderate rest, ice, proper exercise, and manual realignment. If, over several weeks or a few months, your SI dysfunction doesn’t respond to these, your doctor or spinal specialist might suggest a variety of other procedures. They’ll help you decide which option is best for your particular circumstances.Corticosteroid injections reduce inflammation and pain, but can only be administered a few times a year because they weaken joints and tendons.
An electrical stimulation implant can help reduce pain associated with SI dysfunction.
Surgery is rarely used to treat SI dysfunction, but in extreme cases a joint fusion procedure replaces the joint with metal hardware.  
Remember to call your insurer ahead of time to ask if any special procedures require their prior approval.

