 If you are being bullied, it's important to tell somebody you trust. Talk to a teacher, a coach, or a parent. It's their job to step up and help you deal with a bully, so tell them what you know.It's always good to talk to an adult. However, it's especially important if the bully has already gotten physical with you or you think the person might be violent towards you in the future., The adult should help to stop the bully. However, the adult should also be able to help you make a plan about how to deal with the situation. Ask them to walk you through ways to deal with a bully.For example, an adult may be able to assist you in finding ways to not be alone in the hallways., Bullies often isolate people to bully. If you're often alone, it makes you more of a target. Try to walk to classes with friends, or stay in places where teachers are on guard.Stay away from places you know will be empty. For instance, if you know the gym is usually empty after school, try going to the library instead.
 Making friends can be difficult if you're not very outgoing. It's okay to feel shy when you're trying to make new friends. Having friends, though, can make you less vulnerable to bullying, and it gives you someone to pal around with between classes.Try talking to someone in your classes or in a club you're in. You can use what you're doing to start a conversation. For instance, you could say, "Hi, I'm Kay. This problem we're doing is really hard, don't you think?"Make a habit of talking to the same people. Over time, you'll get to know that person more. For instance, if you see the person in the cafeteria, ask if you can sit with him or her. You could say, "Hey, we're in math together. We were talking about that awful problem the other day. Do you mind if I sit with you?"
One way to get to know a person is to get them talking about themselves. The best way to do that is to ask questions. You can ask about what they like or what their family is like. You could ask what their favorite subject is or what they like to do for fun.Don't forget to be nice to the person. Doing nice things for people makes them like you more. For instance, offer your notes if the person misses a class, or help someone understand their homework if they're struggling., If your situation is particularly bad, ask about transferring schools. This step may be difficult if you go to a zoned public school, but it can be done.Ask your parents to appeal to the school board to let you go to another school in the district.Going to a new school can give you a fresh start.
You might also be able to transfer to a charter school, though it may be difficult in the middle of the year. Ask your parents to help you look for options.

