 These kits are specifically intended to repair small scratches or pits in your granite by filling the afflicted area with a hard drying clear acrylic patch. For this kind of treatment to be effective, you'll need the scratch to be deep enough for the acrylic to take root.


Scratches that you can feel obviously with your fingers are good candidates for acrylic repair. Very light scratches and etching can best be remedied with a polishing agent or light buffing.
There are many different kinds of acrylic granite repair kit, including gels specifically formulated for counter tops. You'll have to follow the instructions labeled on yours carefully when applying it to the scratch.
In some cases, the application of your acrylic may be as simple as administering it to your scratch, chip, or pit, waiting a designated period of time, and wiping away excess., A color enhancer can brighten the color of your granite to its original hue, but a color enhancer can also hide small scratches that appear over time. This treatment can work especially well for scratches that are invisible when wet.You should follow the directions that came with your color enhancer, but generally you should:


Make sure the area you are about to color enhance is clean and free of any residue. The surface should also be dry unless otherwise indicated by your enhancer.
You may want to test your color enhancer before applying it to a highly visible part of your counter. Use a small amount of enhancer on an out of view spot to make sure the enhanced color is to your liking.
Use a clean rag to administer your color enhancer. Allow the enhancer to sit on your counter top for the time indicated in the instructions - usually about 15 minutes. Then wipe away any remaining enhancer with a clean rag., This works especially well for black granite. Scratches often leave behind a color that is lighter than the surface of your stone, but these can be rendered invisible with a permanent or paint marker matching the color of your counter. All you need to do is...


Color in the scratch with your permanent or paint marker until the scratch is no longer clearly visible. Then wipe the area with a cloth dampened with denatured alcohol to erase any unnecessary color.