 A clicker is a small noise-making device which emits a sharp cracking sound when squeezed. These are available at your local pet store or online. When your dog performs a positive action, you should squeeze the clicker, then immediately administer a dog treat and/or fulsome praise.It’s alright if teaching your dog to play shy is the first trick it will learn with the clicker. However, if he or she has been trained with the clicker before in more basic tricks such as sit, play dead, or lie down, your dog will learn to play shy through clicker training much faster.
 A target, in dog training, is the place or position you want the dog to be in. Targets will evolve in difficulty for the dog as the training process proceeds. A starting target for training a dog to play shy could be a a ruler or short stick.


Lay the stick on the floor about 10 centimeters in front of the dog.
Beckon the dog forward with a treat. When the dog sets his or her paw on the stick, squeeze your clicker and administer the treat. Repeat seven to ten times, alternately administering either a dog treat, or praise (“Good boy/girl!”)

, Instead of clicking and rewarding your dog when it steps on the stick, life the stick with your hand about halfway up the dog’s body. Hold it close enough that the dog does not need to move forward to touch the target, but can simply reach its paw out to make contact with it.


If your dog is 30 centimeters tall, hold the ruler or stick in front of him or her at a height of approximately 15 centimeters. When your dog places its paw on the target, squeeze the clicker and administer either a dog treat or generous verbal praise.
Your dog should recognize that stepping on the target stick is still the goal even though it has changed position. However, you may need to demonstrate to your dog how to step on the stick. Take its paw in your hand and place it on the stick directly one or two times, then click your clicker and administer a treat when after it has held the position for two or three seconds.
 Bring the target stick further up the dog’s body. If your dog is 30 centimeters tall and you moved the stick from the ground to a point 15 centimeters up, after seven to ten successful attempts by the dog to place its paw on the stick, move it up to 17 centimeters. Just as before, each time the dog places its paw on the target, squeeze your clicker and administer a treat to the dog. Seven to ten successful attempts later, raise the target up to 19 or 20 centimeters.


As you elevate the target, shorten it as well. Instead of a ruler or stick, use a straw. After each elevation cut it a bit shorter.
 As you elevate and shorten the target, bring it closer to your dog’s snout, aiming for an area just below its eyes. Once you bring the target object close enough to make contact with the dog’s snout, deploy your cue phrase (“Play shy” or some variation) just before you raise it to the point near your dog's eye. Your dog should, in the final stage, be raising his or her paw to a point where he or she covers or touches this point near the eye. Repeat seven to ten times.
 When the dog learns to associate your command to play shy with its action and subsequent reward, you have properly conditioned it. Once conditioned, you can take away the target and practice playing shy with only the clicker and dog treats. After a week or so, begin to phase out the clicker as well. Use it every three out of four times instead of every time, then every one of two times after another week or so.


If the dog cannot perform the trick without the target object or clicker, you may need to go back to an earlier stage of training to reinforce the steps you taught your dog initially. Keep practicing until the dog understands how to play shy.

