 If you do not have access to your vehicle or if you do not want to go looking around the vehicle for the VIN, there are several different pieces of paperwork that should include the VIN. Some of the documents that you can check include:title
registration card
owner’s manual
insurance documents
body shop repair records
police reports
vehicle history reports;
, The easiest place to find the VIN on your vehicle is right on the lower left corner of your dashboard. You should be able to read the number by looking through your windshield on the driver’s side of your car., The VIN might also be located in the driver’s side doorjamb or on the doorpost. Open your driver’s side door and look around the edges of the doorjamb for a little white sticker.If your VIN is on the doorjamb, then it should be on the area of the doorjamb just below the level of the rearview mirror.
The VIN number may also be on the opposite side of the driver’s side doorjamb, near where the driver’s side seatbelt latches., If you haven’t found it anywhere else, then you can pop your hood and look at the front of the engine block. The VIN number may be written on the front of the engine block., Sometimes the VIN is written on the front of the vehicle’s frame, somewhere near the windshield washer fluid container. Go to the front of the car, pop your hood, locate your window washer fluid container, close the hood, and then inspect the vehicle’s frame near this area of your vehicle for the VIN., If you have a spare tire in the back of your trunk and you haven’t found the VIN anywhere else, it might be back there. Pop your trunk, remove the spare tire, and look in the space where the spare is usually kept. The VIN may be written in this area., Another place you can check is under your rear wheel well. Go to the back of your vehicle, get down on the ground, and look up at your wheel well. Check both sides to see if the VIN is recorded here.You will probably need a flashlight to see the VIN if it is written here.
 After you have found your VIN, make sure that you write it down and keep it in a file for easy access the next time that you need it. Keep the VIN number in a physical file, save it to a file on your computer, or email it to yourself.
 Remember that the chassis number is made up of the last six digits of the VIN.Look at the VIN that you have written down and circle the last six digits of the number to identify your vehicle’s chassis number.

