 Take the time to discuss with your future spouse what the two of you would like. Plan something that fits your budget and that you both can agree on. Compromise, because this is a trip about both of you.


Fall is the least expensive time of year to travel. Travel deals are easiest to find in the Fall because just about every destination is "On Sale" in the Fall. Once Labor Day hits, the tourist season winds down and stays slow until Christmas.
Travel when it's least expensive. To avoid paying the most for your trip, avoid the week between Christmas and New Year's. Starting about December 16th and until January 3rd, the rates are highest for "Fun in the Sun" places, and ski destinations. The next time to avoid: The week leading up to Easter Sunday - almost as bad as Christmas for getting "gouged" on the price. Spring Break happens at different times throughout the world, from about the mid-March to;
, Also, avoid Thanksgiving week like the plague. If planning a short getaway, avoid all government holidays, such as Columbus Day and President's Day. Due to the number of federal employees that get this time off, demand is higher and prices rise.


Pick "hidden holidays" for traveling, especially since you might want to be away from the touristy crowds on your honeymoon! Not all holidays drive up the price of travel. There are even some that are ideal to travel since pricing is lower than normal. When you think a bit about people's habits, it starts to make sense. The week of Memorial Day is a good one. It's the first BBQ holiday of the year and most people want to stay home and gather with friends and family. Mother's Day and Father's Day are slow travel weekends, because being away keeps lots of people home forcing hotels and airlines to reduce prices to induce people to leave loved ones behind. Labor Day weekend is THE best holiday weekend for finding a bargain in travel, since the focus is on "back to school."

, If you dream about going "somewhere different, that not every one else has gone to for their honeymoon," there is a reason why. Such places are always harder to reach from where you live and require a commitment to spend additional time traveling to get there. Are you committed enough to your dream destination to take a connecting flight? Are you committed enough to spend 12 or 14 hours getting to this place? With all the cutbacks in flights, the number of nonstop schedules have dwindled making it much harder to get to "some place different."

, You can get off the well-worn path and delve into nearby areas that offer the unique and unusual setting you crave, and all for a lot less than you'd pay for places that take an entire day to reach. For example, one of the easiest beach destinations to reach is Cancun, Mexico, but for many, it's not unusual enough. Consider flying into Cancun and taking the ferry to the island of Isla Mujeres to stay at a resort that can only be reached by boat.
 Some good ideas are bike tours around the city, so you can even go to the less-explored or reachable areas, pottery or sculpting classes and even home-run cooking classes or dining with locals., You only want to plan one honeymoon, so make sure you do it right. A good travel consultant will seldom cost more than if you "do-it-yourself," but can often save you money. They have an insider's knowledge about the fares and deals that are circulating around. They know how to get you "wholesale" prices for your honeymoon. They have contacts for problem resolutions that you are not likely to have. They know the places to avoid and the places that are the best in their category. A good Travel Consultant wears many hats on your behalf. They act as a personal shopper, your accountant, and sometimes even a therapist when you need a shoulder to cry on!

,, You will find they range from the most basic (3 squares and a hot shower)to limited gourmet dining and then to unlimited luxury where every possible option is yours to enjoy. Note: Some of the most heavily advertised All Inclusive Resorts are not the best deal or the best resorts. They just spend a lot to make themselves seem like they are. There are many hidden fees that your travel consultant knows about and can recommend to save you money and give you the best honeymoon possible!

