 The pain can vary in severity and duration, lasting anywhere from a couple of minutes to several hours. It often occurs between meals as your stomach empties, and could be described as a burning, stabbing or aching pain.


Often pain caused by ulcers can be temporarily relieved by eating foods that buffer the acid in the stomach, or by taking an over-the-counter antacid medication.
If your stomach pain is caused by ulcers, flareups may occur at night and whenever you are hungry.;
, All of these symptoms don't occur for all people, but you may experience a combination of any of them.


An increase in the amount of gas and burping.
A feeling of fullness and an inability to drink a lot of liquids.
Being hungry a couple of hours after eating a meal.
Mild nausea, most common on first waking in the morning.
An overall feeling of being tired and not feeling well.
Loss of appetite.
Weight loss.
 If left untreated, ulcers can cause internal bleeding and other problems, leading to a medical emergency.


Vomiting, especially if blood is present, can be an indication of advanced ulcers.
Dark, tarry or pasty stool may also be a sign of severe ulcers.
Bloody stools.
 Ulcers are a serious condition that require medical treatment. Over-the-counter products may provide temporary relief, but they do not treat the condition.
 While stomach ulcers can present for any number of reasons, to most any individual, people most at risk to develop them include:


People infected by the H. pylori bacterium.
People who regularly take non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen, aspirin, or naproxen.
People with a family history of ulcers.
People who regularly drink alcohol.
People who have illnesses or diseases associated with the liver, kidney, or lung.
People older than 50 years of age.
 While most stomach ulcers will heal on their own, some severe stomach ulcers will needed to be diagnosed and treated with an endoscope. An endoscope is a small, lighted tube that is fitted down your esophagus. Only your doctor can perform this. In the meantime, try some of these quick fixes before you see your practitioner.
 An acid-blocking medication is sometimes recommended by doctors to see if symptoms improve. That is because stomach ulcers can be caused by an imbalance between the digestive fluids in the stomach and duodenum.
 Stop smoking, drinking, and taking NSAIDs. Smoking and drinking can both cause imbalances in digestive fluids, while NSAIDs can disrupt the balance if taken in high dosages. Discontinue all three while you are waiting for a diagnosis from your doctor.
 Drinking milk may provide temporary relief, but it's like taking one step forward and two steps back. Milk will coat the lining of your stomach wall for a short while. But milk will also stimulate the production of more stomach acid, which ultimately aggravate the ulcers even more.

