 This is especially important if you are new to magnetic false eyelashes as you will apply them less gracefully when initially using them. Put all your other makeup on first before applying your magnetic false eyelashes. Otherwise, the lashes could smudge your other makeup during the application process., Magnetic false lashes only cover the outer corners of your eyes. Apply mascara to the lashes on the inner corner of your eye before applying false lashes. This will balance out the look.Opt for a mascara tube that comes with a smaller brush. This makes it easier to target only a small portion of your lashes.
 Liquid eyeliner tends to stick to false eyelashes. This can decrease how long they last. If you wear eyeliner, opt for pencil eyeliner when wearing magnetic false eyelashes.In general, any liquid-based makeup should not be used around your eyes when you're wearing false eyelashes.
 Be very careful not to get mascara on your false eyelashes. Keeping false eyelashes clean will help them last longer. Remember to only apply mascara before applying your magnetic lashes., Wherever you're applying your lashes, lay a microfiber cloth down in front of you. Set your magnetic false eyelashes on this cloth. If they fall while you're applying them, they'll be easier to find if they land on the cloth., The top lash strip should be labeled with a dot or other marking. Refer to your package's instructions to figure out how your top strip is labeled. Remove the top strip and place it just over your eyelashes near the outer corner of your eye. Get the top lash strip as close to your lash line as possible., The bottom lash strip will be marked by a different color dot. Use your thumb and index finger to pick up the bottom lash strip. Place it just underneath the top lash strip. The magnets should click in place., When you want to remove the lashes, gently grab them between your thumb and index finger. Shift them between your fingers until you feel the magnets come apart. Then, carefully pull the magnetic lashes away from your eyelashes.Magnetic eye lashes are reusable and can be used multiple times before they need replacing. When you take them out, put them back in their original container for later use. Keep the container in a safe space where it will not get damaged.
 Any time you're touching your eyes and eyelids, you should wash your hands. Wet your hands with clean water, lather them with soap, and then scrub them for about 20 seconds before rinsing. Dry your hands using a clean towel., You may need to adjust the eyelashes a few times to get them in the right position. Allow your other eye makeup to dry and set before applying the lashes. It may be a good idea to wear minimal makeup around your eyes until you're used to applying your lashes., It can take awhile to get used to using magnetic lashes. Practice before you wear the lashes out, as they may look awkward the first few times you put them on.