 Outdoor weddings can be beautiful, but there’s always the risk of bad weather disrupting the ceremony. One common solution is to put up a large tented covering, or have one on hand just in case.You could also have large golf umbrellas on hand for guests in rainy weather or, if you know a cold front is coming, buy some heavy fleece blankets to pass out to guests.Ask your venue if they have a backup generator on site. If a storm knocks the power out, there should be a plan in place to restore it immediately.Even indoor weddings can be affected by bad weather if parking isn’t located near the venue’s entrance. Have several large umbrellas on hand and task two people in the wedding party with possible valet duties.;
, Ask friends and family for vendor recommendations rather than blindly seeking out unknown companies on your own. Whenever you can’t get a recommendation for a needed vendor, research each company you are considering carefully before making a final decision. Look over their website and get a solid idea of what the company provides. Check their social media pages and search online for customer reviews, as well.Choosing local vendors is a good idea for several reasons – you can go talk to them in person before you hire them and, in the event they forgot something at their facility, making a quick run back won’t take them very long.
 Make sure a contract is drawn up and signed for each vendor you book. The contract should specify exactly who is providing the service and what that service is. Try to add a clause to contracts that allows you to terminate services before the wedding if the vendor proves unreliable. Keep receipts for down payments and any other expenses., If a vendor arrives late, it could throw off your entire wedding schedule, especially when it comes to crucial entities like the officiant, the caterer or the DJ/musicians. Figure out when vendors need to begin setting up and then ask them to arrive 30 to 45 minutes before that time. That will allow plenty of time for set up and give you a small cushion of time to deal with any last minute issues.Make sure the DJ or live band tests the sound system before the reception begins., Speak with your caterer to prepare for the amount of food needed for the reception. The most important information to relay to your cater is the number of guests you're expecting and the length of the event. The number and size of food item selections also factors in. When making a final decision, always round up to avoid the embarrassing situation of running out of food.Include options for guests with special dietary needs, like vegetarian or gluten-free food.
 There are insurance companies, such as WedSafe, that specialize in wedding insurance policies. These policies are fairly affordable and will reimburse your expenses in the event a vendor or venue breaks a contract or no-shows. For about $300 dollars you can purchase a policy that will insure a $35,000 wedding.