 Although you will most likely have submitted a copy of your resume already as a part of the application process, be sure that your resume is completely up-to-date with all relevant employment history, skills, and educational history. Your resume should be clear, concise, typo- and grammar error-free, and possess a consistent format.Bring 2-3 copies of your resume printed on resume or linen paper in case something happens to the first copy or you end up being interviewed by multiple people at the same time.;
, Hopefully you knew a little something about the company before you threw your resume out there, but in case you didn't, get to know them before you interview. Look them up on a search engine for a history and more information. Look for a business profile on LinkedIn, Glassdoor, or the company website to get a feel for what the business is about and how current or former employees feel about working there. You can even look for them in headlines in the news to find out what current projects they might be undertaking.Before you go into the interview, you should know who founded the company, when it was founded, who the current CEO is, what industry the business is in, and what the business's mission statement is.
Take notes about key information you find while researching and review it repeatedly so that you'll have it memorized before the interview.
 Although you cannot know for sure what questions you will be asked on an interview, you can take a guess. There are numerous websites that have compiled the top 10 all the way up to the top 100 questions asked in interviews. You can familiarize yourself with questions such as "Why do you want to work for us," and "What is your greatest weakness," instead of being blindsided by them.Some websites will even give you tips and concrete examples for how you can try answering them.
 Once you have in mind the questions you might be asked, you can start formulating answers that are unique to your individual experience. Put them in writing to help yourself make your thoughts concrete and succinct. Practice saying them aloud so that you can iron out lengthy pauses, filler words (more on that later), and awkward phrasing.


It might also be helpful to look for a partner who can ask you questions, especially if they have industry or hiring experience.
 Before you even open your mouth, you are making a first visual impression, so it's critical that you are sending the message that you are serious about this position. Although there is no exact formula for what to wear, it's generally agreed upon that you should dress for success. Wear clothes for a position one or two steps above what you're aiming for: a crisp dress suit will very rarely steer you wrong.Make sure that your clothes are clean, pressed, and as close to wrinkle-free as possible.
If you wear a skirt, be sure to wear hose with it.
You do not need to wear designer clothing by any means, but be sure that what you're wearing fits properly. If it doesn't, take it to a tailor.
If it's been a long time since you last went on an interview, consider going shopping to see what the current styles are, or seeking the help of a styling expert to be sure that your look is appropriately fresh., Although it may turn out to be just fine to have body piercings in places other than your ears, visible tattoos, or non-natural hair colors, you won't know that until you have the opportunity to discuss office dress code. For the interview, you should aim to show that you can appear professional when need be, and that means removing or hiding casual expressions of individuality.


If your job is for a non-traditional work place like a tattoo or piercing parlor, this may not apply.
 Although it should be obvious to do so, make sure that you have taken a shower, washed your hair, brushed your teeth, and are wearing deodorant for your interview. If you suddenly realize as you're walking into the office that you smell bad, you're probably going to lose your confidence before you actually shake hands with anyone. Worse, you may give your potential employers the impression that you're an unkempt individual.


Be sure that if you usually wear perfume or cologne that you keep it very light: some people are very sensitive or have allergies to strong, artificial scents.
If you smoke, consider avoiding doing so before the interview. Some people are allergic to it or dislike the smell, and it is strong enough that it can linger on you and your clothes hours afterwards.
 Maybe you're not used to wearing high heels, or perhaps you don't usually wear makeup, or maybe you forgot that your pantsuit has a tear in one of the legs. No matter the case, practice makes perfect, and you'll want to make sure you know exactly how everything actually looks on you before the day of the interview.


Make sure that the clothes you're wearing are clothes you will be comfortable and capable of moving in; you don't want to wear shoes that you can't walk in or pants that are too tight to sit down in.
 Use a computer or your phone to map out your route to your interview in advance. You'll want to know how long it will take you to get there. Waze, Google Maps, and Map Quest will all work; if you use Google Maps on your computer, you can change your start or arrival time to figure out how long it will take there at the approximate time of day you'll be traveling.


Be sure to give yourself an extra 15 to 30 minutes to arrive. There's an old saying that you should always aim to be five or ten minutes early and if you're on time, you're actually late; this is especially true for interviews. Plus, if you're running late due to traffic, an accident, or getting lost, you'll be adding a lot of avoidable stress.
If you end up early by 30 minutes or more to your appointment, wait in your car or a lobby area and use the time to prep yourself for the interview. If you show up too early, you may end up inconveniencing the office.
 Both directly before and during the preparation in the days before you go to the interview, start to talk yourself up for it. Tell yourself that you're the best candidate for the job, and tell yourself why, like citing your years of experience in the field or your willingness to work hard.By focusing on the positives and refusing to give into the negatives, you can give yourself a genuine confidence boost that only you can.


Tell yourself things like, "I'm an employee that works well under pressure and is extremely adaptable. In the five years I've worked in the financial industry, I have never missed a deadline and been trusted with important accounts and projects. My last boss told me I saved the firm."
You can draw on your resume for skills, strength, and past experiences.
Write down a list of positive traits about yourself.
Ask friends, former coworkers, or fellow peers from school what qualities they admire about you as a person and a worker.
 On the drive to your interview, listen to music that makes you feel inspired or confident.It's very difficult to feel nervous when there is an upbeat tune with positive lyrics playing in the background. It will make the trip more fun and help you to get rid of the negative, nervous attitude that understandably can crop up during the job hunting process. It may be especially helpful to sing along.


Alternatively, listen to inspirational quotes or watch funny videos on youtube--do anything that will help you to relax and feel more upbeat before going in.
 A lot of nervous energy comes from feeling like a situation is out of our control. So finding something that you can easily control can be very soothing. Breathing is one such thing; by focusing on the act of breathing and controlling exactly how you want it done, you can take your busy mind off of your other stresses and start to relax.


Take a deep, slow breath through your nose, and release it slowly through your mouth, not unlike breathing techniques used in labor.Repeat this action at least three times, if not more, while trying to center and calm your thoughts.
Because this action is not very noticeable, you can actually use it during your interview if you start to feel anxious again.
 Back when you submitted your resume, at least one, if not several, employees in HR looked over your resume and saw potential in the listed qualities.Hiring managers usually receive dozens if not hundreds of resumes for positions, so if you have been selected for the opportunity for the interview, realize that someone already believes in you. If it doesn't work out, you haven't "failed," you've simply been given another opportunity.
 Remember that whether or not you succeed in getting an offer for this job, you have an opportunity to practice here. If you don't get things perfect, you've been given an opportunity to see what works and what doesn't work and refine your presentation. It is not a life or death matter, and especially if you live in a big city, there will be more opportunities.

