 An area's temperature and climate factor greatly in the plant's chances of success. If you live in a northern region, for example, you'll have trouble growing a plant native to a tropical rainforest. When you pick out seeds to plant, do a little research to make sure the plant species does well in your area.


If you have a greenhouse or plan to grow your plant indoors, you may be able to plant a seed even if the species is not native to your growing region.
A good way to figure out what plants grow well in your area is to visit a local nursery and talk with an employee there. He or she will be able to help you pick out hardy seeds that have a great chance of germinating and growing into healthy plants.
Some seeds are easy to plant in many growing regions and under a lot of different conditions. Look for "easy seeds," which are hardy and simple to grow for the beginning gardener.
In the US, you can look up your USDA hardiness zone. Find a seed that grows well in your zone.;
, The time of year you plant seeds is determined by both the plant's needs and your growing region. If you live in a place with long, cold winters, you may need to wait until mid-Spring to plant your seeds. If you live in a place that warms up early in the year, you can probably start earlier. Check your seed packet for information on how early to start your seeds.


Starting seeds too early or late can prevent germination from occurring, so it's important to figure out the right time to plant to ensure success.
If you are starting seeds indoors, you should keep in mind that most vegetable seeds need to be started at least two weeks before the last frost, and some as early as 2-3 months before the last frost. Even if you live in a cold area, you'll need to plan ahead to make sure you start your seeds in time for the growing season.
Some seeds should be planted directly in the soil outside. Always research your specific seed and plant to understand how best to start it.
 Most seeds need similar growing conditions when they're first starting out. When the seeds sprout and grow into plants, they'll have more specific needs in terms of soil, sun, and temperature conditions. To get ready for planting seeds, you'll need the following supplies:


Seed containers. Each seed will need 1–2 inches (2.5–5.1 cm) of space to germinate and take root. You can grow them all together in an open flat, or choose individual seed containers. Try making your own containers out of recycled yogurt cups or egg cartons.
Seed growing medium. Seeds contain all the nutrients they need to germinate, so there's no need to use a growing medium that has been enriched with nutrients. Don't use potting soil, since it's too dense for fragile new roots to penetrate. Use a mix of vermiculite or perlite and either peat moss, coir, or compost.Nurseries sell bags of seed-starting mix if you don't want to make your own.
Depending on what you are growing, you may need equipment to provide enough light and heat. Some seeds do much better with a heat mat under the soil, and many require overhead lighting. When considering grow lights, research what how much light a plant requires and how intense the lighting should be.