 Tell them nicely but seriously that you need to be alone, and thank them as they leave. Be kind. Don’t push your siblings out of your room or slam the door in their faces. Your siblings are more likely to be respectful to you if you’re respectful to them.Try saying, “I like spending time with you, but I have to study right now, okay?”;
, Consider your sibling’s point of view. Breathe calmly and listen to what your sibling says. Think about what you can do to get along better. You won’t have to worry about the stuff in your room if you and your siblings can reach a peaceful agreement.For example, don’t assume your siblings are trying to annoy you on purpose. They might be lonely or just bored. You could say, “I’ll hang out with you in one hour if you let me be alone now.”

, Despite how annoying they can be, they may only be looking for your attention. Play with them, and don’t exclude them from every activity. They might bother you if they’re feeling neglected.Find a hobby that you and your siblings enjoy. For example, if you and your siblings like playing board games, you can make a plan to play board games together every Sunday afternoon.
Ask your parents if you can join a hobby class with your siblings. For example, you can attend a crafting or pottery class with your siblings. Having familiar people around when you’re starting something new with a group of strangers can help you and your siblings to bond.
 This will encourage them to play with only what you allow them to. Consider changing some of the items in it once a week or so. Tell them that they have to clean up after themselves whenever they use it, or you won’t add new items to the bin., If talking to your siblings directly doesn’t help, try discussing it with your parents when your siblings aren’t around. If you’re having a real problem with your sibling taking your things, for example, your parents may want to know about it. You can ask your parents if you could have a lock on your bedroom doorknob.


Try saying, “Could you give me some ideas on how to get my siblings to respect my privacy?”Try asking, “Can you make a ‘knock first’ policy?” If your parents agree to a knock first policy, and your siblings forget, give them gentle reminders., Ask your parents to have a conversation with you and your siblings first separately, and then all together as a family.Tell your parents exactly what your siblings are doing that really bothers you. Family meetings can help everyone feel heard and understood.Ask your parents if you can all come up with some family rules about boundaries during your family meeting. Encourage your parents to enforce those rules if there are times your siblings aren’t following them.