 A traditional fast involves fasting from food, but you can also fast from media or different habits.An absolute fast or water fast requires you to abstain from all solids and liquids aside from water.
A liquid fast requires you to abstain from all solid food, but you can still drink any liquid you want.
A partial fast requires you to abstain from certain foods or from all foods during a portion of the day. This fast is especially common for Catholics during Lent.
A traditional Lenten fast is a partial fast. You should abstain from meat on Fridays and Ash Wednesday. On Ash Wednesday and Good Friday, you should limit yourself to one full meal and two smaller meals that should not be large enough to equal the size of another standard meal. All drinks are acceptable.
A bread and water fast permits you to consume bread and water, but nothing more.
A media fast requires you to abstain from media. This can include all media, or it can include a certain form of media, such as television or the Internet.
A habit fast requires you to abstain from a certain type of behavior. This could be anything from raising your voice to playing cards. This is another fast commonly practiced during Lent.;
, You can fast anywhere from one day to several weeks. Settle on a length of time that is both healthy and spiritually challenging.


If you have never fasted before, it is recommended that you fast for no longer than 24 to 36 hours.
Do not fast from fluids for more than three days.
Consider easing yourself into an extended absolute fast. Begin by fasting from one meal for several days. After your body has adjusted, fast from the next meal, and finally, fast from all meals.
 In your prayers, ask God for guidance on what the objective of your fast should be. This objective will provide your prayers with focus and direction as you fast.


Spiritual renewal is a common reason for fasting, but you can also fast if you desire guidance, patience, or healing.
You can also fast for a specific cause that extends beyond your personal spiritual needs. For instance, if a natural disaster strikes, you could fast and pray for those impacted by the disaster.
Fasting can be done as an expression of gratitude, as well.
 Repentance is a key element to successful fasting and successful praying.With God's direction, make a list of your sins. The list should be as comprehensive as possible.
Confess these sins to God, seeking and accepting forgiveness.
You should also seek forgiveness from those whom you have wronged and express willingness to forgive those who have wronged you.
Ask God for guidance on how to make amends for your wrongdoings.
 That said, you can tell those whom you believe will provide you with spiritual support during your fast.


Pastors, significant others, and spiritual partners are usually good options.
Ask God for direction on whom to go to for support.
 In addition to preparing spiritually, you also need to prepare physically.


Start slow, especially if you are new to fasting. Eat small meals before your fast to prepare your body.
Avoid caffeine a full 24 hours in advance, as caffeine withdrawal can cause and intensify headaches.
Slowly remove sugar from your diet a week or so before an extended fast, since people who consume large amounts of sugar usually find fasting difficult.
Consider eating a strict diet of raw foods several days before an extended fast.
 While you can pray for anything during a fast, determining an objective for your fast beforehand provides you with a focal point to center the majority of your prayers around.


Be open to a change in focus. It is possible that you will feel called to fast for one reason, only to discover that God wants you to meditate over another objective, instead.
 You can follow a Bible study guide or turn through the pages of your Bible in whatever way you feel called to do. Take notes on what you read and pray for a fuller understanding of scriptural lessons.


Note that if you are not a Christian, you should meditate over whichever holy text lies at the heart of your faith.
You can also meditate over spiritual books that you are reading during the time of your fast.
 The majority of your prayers will likely be impromptu, personal prayers in your own words. When you are lost for words, however, consider switching to a scripted prayer in order to guide your communication with God.


One of the most common scripted prayers is the “Lord's Prayer,” also called the “Our Father.” Any scripted prayer can be used, however, especially if it calls to you.
 The use of prayer aides can be controversial for some faiths, but they are acceptable for many others.


Common prayer aides associated with Catholicism include rosaries, saint medals, and crucifixes. For non-Catholic denominations of Christianity, you could consider listening to instrumental versions of common hymns or using non-rosary prayer beads.
 While most of your prayers will likely be done on a personal, individual level, you can consider praying with others during your fast, as well. Praying in a group is thought to petition God to be among you, making group prayer a powerful tool.


You can pray aloud or silently. If praying aloud, however, avoid comparing your own prayers with those of the people around you.
Good prayer partners during a fast usually include the people you have informed about your fast and anyone who is fasting alongside you.
 You can pray at any time of the day, regardless of where you are or what is happening around you. During a time of focused prayer like a fast, though, it is important that you find silent time to spend with God in a one-on-one manner.


You could use a quiet spot indoors. A bedroom is often a good place, but any quiet corner of your home or office is appropriate. You can even pray when you find yourself alone in your car.
Alternatively, you can pray outdoors, as well. A quiet spot in the woods allows you to spend time in prayer with God while also admiring God's creation.
 Making a prayer schedule can be useful, especially for extended fasts, but you should not obey your schedule so strictly that you prevent yourself from praying spontaneously as the Spirit calls you.


Pray during your newly-created free time. The time you would usually spend on eating, watching television, or performing a habit you decided to fast from can be spent in prayer.
Make a point of starting and ending your day with a time of prayer.



Shower or bathe every day, especially during these first three days.
Brush your teeth more than usual during these first three days to ward off foul breath.
 Fasting is a time of close, personal communion between you and God. By appearing to others as though you are suffering, you invite pity and admiration, which could inflate your pride and make it difficult to approach God in a state of humility.
 You should not go more than three days without water.


You can abstain from other fluids, such as juice or milk, but you should continue to drink water during the majority of an extended fast. Otherwise, you run the risk of causing serious dehydration, which is likely to result in severe health problems.
 People who skip a meal tend to feel grumpy. As such, it is to be expected that skipping many meals will make you even grumpier. Mind your emotional state, and if you feel ready to snap at the next person who approaches you, find a solitary space to pray and reflect instead.
 Casual walks are acceptable and encouraged, but fasting drains you of a great deal of energy, so you need to rest as often as you can.


To the same end, you should also avoid any vigorous exercise.



Note, however, that you should not stop any prescription medications without your physician's approval and supervision.
 You may have learned a lot during your fast, but there may yet be other lessons you can take away from your fast that you can only discover after it ends. Ask God to guide you as you reflect and as you move forward so that you can make the most of your fasting experience.


If you committed to a partial fast, media fast, or habit fast, focus on your successes rather than you failures. Many people falter on these fasts at some point, especially if they are unaccustomed to fasting. Instead of deeming the experience to be a failure due to your weak points, focus on the lessons learned and spiritual strength gained during your strong points.
Express gratitude. Above all else, reflect an move forward in a spirit of thanksgiving. Give thanks to God for the completion of a successful fast and for any spiritual direction you received during your time of fasting.
 If you only fasted for 24 hours, you can return to a normal eating schedule the following day.


Similarly, if you only fasted from a certain type of food or from a single meal, you can safely reintroduce the food or meal into your diet without taking extra precautions.
 If you fasted from all food and liquid aside from water, you should gradually reintroduce food to your diet with solid fruit.Watermelon and other fruits that have a high water content are best.
You can also drink fruit juices to re-accustom your body to food matter other than plain water.
 If you continued drinking fruit and vegetable juices during your fast, gradually break your fast with a slow, steady intake of vegetables.


On the first day, eat nothing more than a raw salad.
For the second day, add a baked or boiled potato to your diet. Do not use butter or seasoning.
During the third day, add a steamed vegetable to your diet. Again, do not use butter or seasoning.
From the fourth day onward, you can reintroduce your normal diet in a way that feels convenient and comfortable for your body.
 As you return to regular eating, consume several small snacks or meals for the first few days instead of immediately jumping to large meals.

