 Curling lashes always helps them look longer. Crimp as close as possible to your roots as possible without grabbing skin. Hold for eight seconds and then move halfway up your lashes and then to your tips while pressing each section for another eight seconds. This prevents your lashes from having a rigid 90 degree angle appearance.Rotate the curler to increase the intensity. Start by holding the curler with your hand below your eye, and as you move up the lashes, bring your hand gradually above your head to help guide the curler and lashes upwards.Warm the curler with a hair dryer beforehand. This will help your lashes conform to the curler better and set them, almost like a perm., A double-sided eyelash brush has one side of thick bristles and the other side has a few thin plastic teeth.The plastic teeth help to eliminate clumps of mascara and separate lashes to make them look thinner, slender, and long.A clean toothbrush is an option instead of a specialized comb.
 Take a regular table spoon and hold the edge of the spoon to your roots with the concave side facing out. Use your thumb to press your lashes up around the edge of the spoon. Move your thumb upwards on your lashes like you would a wand to smooth them out to look longer.You can use this method anywhere and anytime during the day for a quick lash pick-me-up.
Spoons have dual mascara purposes. Place the convex side of the spoon underneath your bottom lashes. This way you can brush each lash the whole way, subsequently making them look longer and protecting your cheek from smudges.
 If you have a special event or performance that you need a quick and easy boost of lash length, grab a pair of fake ones. Follow the instructions on the package since directions can vary per brand. Apply the glue onto the fake lashes with a Q-tip or bobby pin or directly onto your eyelid to make application easier.This isn’t a cheap method if you use fake lashes every day, but they’re a quick alternative once in awhile if you're budgeting.
Blend the seam of the fake lashes into your natural lash line with a similarly colored eyeliner.Put a mirror on a counter and look down into it rather than straight into a mirror. This will give you a better vantage point.
Prop your elbows and arms up on a counter of sink to stabilize yourself when applying fake lashes so that you can be precise.

