 Hang your clothes up to let air circulate around them and blow away bad smells and fumes. Hanging your clothes up is good way to help ensure that they smell fresh and clean when you put them on in the morning. If you can hang them up in fresh air, such as in your yard or on your balcony, then you will get the most benefit.You could also hang your clothes up near to an open window.
This can be a good way to ensure that they are exposed to lots of fresh air even if you have to keep them indoors.;
, Even if you can’t hang your clothes up outside or with exposure to fresh air, you should still hang them up overnight. You won’t get the same amount of freshness as you would if you hung them up outside, but it is definitely preferable to leaving your clothes in a heap on the floor.Hang them up in your closet or on a clothes rail.
Try to ensure that there is some circulation around the clothes.
Be wary of putting your closet in a dark and damp corner of your room.
 Once you have hung your clothes up in the closet, there are a whole host of things you can add that will help your clothes smell fresh in the morning. One of the most popular methods is just to spray a couple of cotton balls with your favourite perfume, or other scented product, and hang the balls up in your closet.


You could use some scented essential oils rather than perfume.
You can also just place the cotton on a shelf in your closet.
The scent will transfer onto your clothes overnight.
This method will effectively cover up bad smells with good ones., Give your clothes a quick spray before you go to bed to help them stay fresh and smell good in the morning. You can use all sorts of different things to spritz your clothes, and it depends on what kinds of smells you like. There are a range of products you can buy to freshen up stale clothes by spritzing them, but you can also easily concoct your own at home.


Add a few drops of an essential oil to a spray bottle of water.
Some good choices are lavender, grapefruit and lemon., Coffee grounds are known to absorb unpleasant odours, and you can use them to help keep your clothes smelling good overnight. Take a pot of coffee grounds, and make a few small holes in the top of the container. Tuck this container of coffee grounds in your closet, and leave it to soak up the bad smells.


You should generally replace the pot of coffee grounds once a month.