 This should only be done under the advisement of your veterinarian. This drug will help reduce the risk of your horse pulling away and being too active. A playful horse that pulls away has a higher risk of re-injuring itself.


Once again, never use Acepromazine on a breeding stallion. If administering ACP to a male horse ensure that his genitals are fully retracted to ensure penile paralysis does not ensue.
 Once you have outfitted the horse in proper equipment, it's time to take them out. Choose a quiet time of day when not a lot of activity is occurring. Feeding time, when there are lots of people out riding, or when other horses are being lead in and out, are not ideal times to be taking your injured horse out for a walk.
 Recall how the horse behaved when being lead before the injury. If it is a quiet, older horse, it should be easier then a younger, more energetic horse. Lead both kinds of horses slowly and deliberately; older horses will be slower to begin with, while younger horses may appear overeager but risk re-injury with forceful leads.
 If your horse is more active, then you need more control than a halter offers. Instead, fit his regular bridle since the bit will give you more control than a halter. If the horse is particularly active try carrying a dressage whip. This long whip offers you the option to block the horse's shoulders by holding it across the front of the horse's body, and effectively blocking the path ahead which can help stop him from barging forward.If the horse barges, use your weight against his left shoulder to push the horse in a circle to the right. This stops his forward movement, prevents him blocking your path, and asserts authority over him.
 This is very important. You want to demonstrate to your horse that you're the boss, however much you respect it and care for it.


If the horse you're leading is going too fast ahead of you, simply stop in your tracks with the lead line locked in your hand by your side. Face the horse and lightly tap on the front shoulder until the horse stops walking. Carrying a dressage whip can help you with this. Do this each time the horse passes you. You're teaching the horse that it'll have to stop each time it gets ahead of you, and that you're the boss.
 Stand beside the horse's left shoulder, with the horse to your right. If you carry a dressage whip and the horse is reluctant to move forward, you can gently tap their rump with the whip to encourage them to step forward.
 Follow the directions exactly. If you are not sure, ask the vet to clearly explain how long to walk them and where. It is a good idea to write this down so you can refer to the instructions later if you forget.


It is very important to follow the exact instructions, as there is a big difference between 5 and 15 minutes, which could result in re-injury and additional setbacks.
Sometimes you can graze your horse for longer, if your horse will graze quietly while you hold him. Ask your vet if this would be okay.
 Injuries can often take several months to heal, leaving you in rehabilitation mode for a significant period of time. Continue checking in with your vet to discuss how your horse's injury is improving, and what you can do to help.

