 It helps if you get the important information together before beginning the process. To determine your eligibility for SNAP, you will need to have the following information or documents available:Earnings
Rent or mortgage
Utility bills
Child support (that you pay or receive)
Day care expenses
Medical bills
SSI, social security, or VA payments you receive;
, The U.S.D.A. provides a Pre-Screening Eligibility Tool that you can use to see if you qualify for SNAP.This is a nationwide eligibility tool, so you will first be asked to select the state where you live.
 Provide information about your household as required. Be as complete and as accurate as you can. This eligibility tool is only designed to estimate your ability to receive assistance; the actual decision will come later. But the more complete and accurate you are with this test, the better idea you will have of your eligibility when you submit your formal application. Questions on the eligibility test will ask you:


Number of members of your household, their names and their ages
Earned and unearned income for each member of the household
Regular utility expenses
List of assets (cars, money in the bank, other property)
Mortgage or rent payments
Child support payments

, You will be notified immediately on the final screen of the eligibility test if you qualify for the program after completing the questionnaire. You will receive an amount, but remember that this is only a preliminary estimate. You will also receive notice if you appear to be eligible for “expedited service." Families with monthly income of less than $150, assets less than $100, or monthly income and assets that are not enough to pay the monthly expenses qualify for expedited service.This would enable you to speed up the process to receive assistance.
 If you have access to a computer with an Internet connection, applying online is probably the most efficient method. Before you can apply online, you need to register for an account at https://mydhr.alabama.gov/. You can then complete and submit the application form directly.
 As an alternative to applying online, you may visit a DHR office to apply. Speak to an DHR representative to see if you qualify for the program and fill out an application. If you do not know where the nearest DHR office is in your county, a list of DHR offices and phone numbers is available online., Instead of applying online or in person, you can speak to a DHR representative about qualifying for the program by calling the Food Assistance division at 334-242-1700 or 800-382-0499. The DHR representative can also mail you an application to fax or send by mail. If you have internet access, you can visit the DHR web site to view a list of all DHR office addresses and phone numbers., Your final option is to print a copy of the Alabama SNAP application, complete it and fail or fax it to your local DHR officeTo find the nearest DHR office in your county, visithttp://dhr.alabama.gov/counties/county_select.aspx to view a list of all DHR office mailing addresses and fax numbers.
 After your application has been processed, you will receive notice of a date and time to meet with a case worker for an interview. This interview is designed to prove your eligibility, so it is an important step in receiving the assistance you need. Make sure to look for the notice and attend the meeting on time. If you cannot make the assigned appointment time, be sure to contact the case worker in advance to reschedule.
 You will need to take with you to the interview all the documentation that you used in completing the application. Contact the Food Assistance division at 334-242-1700 or 800-382-0499 if you have questions about the types of documentation you will need to bring to your interview. For every member of your household, you will need to demonstrate:


Proof of income
Current proof of rent or mortgage expenses
Proof of child care expenses
Social security numbers
Proof of obligated child support payments that you pay to someone outside of the house.
 Relax, but at the same time treat this seriously. The case worker is there to help you, but he or she needs to make sure that everyone’s application is genuine. Arrive on time, be prepared with your documentation, and be prepared to speak openly about your situation. The more open and honest you are with your case worker, the more he or she will be able to help you.
 After your interview is complete, your case worker will let you know how soon you will receive notice of your award. In any event, this will be within 30 days from the date you turned in your application. If you are eligible for expedited service, the decision will be within seven days.
 Your food assistance benefits are provided through an Electronic Benefits Transfer, or EBT, card. This is similar to a credit card, which you can use to make purchases and which the state can update periodically with additional award amounts. To understand when your account will be updated, visit http://dhr.alabama.gov/services/food_assistance/Documents/EBT_Issuance_Schedule_07122013.pdf.
 Your EBT card will carry an account number, just like a credit card. You can use that number to review your account and the benefits that you have received, and also to monitor your current balance. Use this link to keep up with your account: https://www.ebt.acs-inc.com/.

