 In your quest for thicker hair, you might have an array of shampoos and conditioners promising to help your hair grow longer and thicker. Unfortunately, many of these products may be exacerbating the problem. Take a look at the ingredients and toss out the products that have unpronounceable names. To grow thicker hair, you need to avoid dousing your hair with harmful chemicals.


Sodium laurel and laureth sulfates are found in many shampoos. These cleaning agents are also found in dishwashing detergent, and are much too harsh for your hair.
Conditioners with silicones can be useful for people with thick hair, but they build up on the hair. For those with thin hair, this build up can weigh the thin hair down, making it look flat and thinner than before. Silicones can only be completely washed out with strong stripping shampoos, which can be damaging.
 There are a variety of natural shampoos, conditioners and styling agents out there with ingredients that can help your hair grow thick and healthy. Look for the following ingredients, or buy the pure versions and apply them to your hair:


Aloe. This is known to stop hair loss and help your hair grow healthy.Avocado oil. This contains vitamins that are absorbed into your skin, promoting healthy hair growth.Growth Factors. These are signals like the ones you naturally make telling hair to keep growing. If for some reason, like stress or aging, you produce less of these, adding topical hair growth factors could help.
 Avoid dyes, bleaches, chemical straighteners, and other harmful treatments, and embrace hair treatments that make your hair thicker instead.

Give yourself a deep conditioning treatment by applying olive oil to your hair, covering it with a shower cap, and letting it sit for a few hours or overnight. Shampoo your hair as usual and enjoy your thick, well-conditioned hair.







Dye your hair using honey. If you want to go a few shades lighter, use honey, which conditions your hair instead of drying it out like most dyes.







