 There are a lot of aspects of your appearance that you cannot control. Luckily, however, attraction is based more on those parts of your appearance that you can control.Staying neat, clean, and paying attention to your appearance will attract your husband more effectively than undertaking any drastic makeovers.Be sure that you:


Brush your teeth twice a day
Shower regularly
Shave or trim as appropriate
Keep your hair combed and neat;
, You shouldn't have to change your style to please your husband. However, having clean clothes that fit your body are key to seeming attractive.It also helps to wear clothes that are a bit more formal, so avoid sweatpants or ripped jeans.Look for comfortable, natural fabrics that are easy to care for such as cotton, wool, and silk: this will help you keep your clothes in great shape.


If you struggle to find clothes that fit, consider finding a store that specializes in your body type. The clerks should be able to guide you to well-fitting clothes that suit your tastes.
 Men tend to be more attracted to women wearing red than women who wear other colors.Red evokes passionate feelings and emotions, so buy some special red clothing, undergarments, and lingerie if you want to make an impression.
 Age does not do the human body any favors. You don't need to be supermodel skinny or have a six-pack to look attractive to your husband, however.Simply manage your weight through a nutritious diet and moderate exercise to keep yourself healthy and in shape.


Maintaining a healthy and moderately fit physical appearance will also help you feel more self-confident. Self-confidence is often an attractive quality.
A little will usually go a long way. Take a brisk walk 20 minutes each day. Cut back on portion sizes and high calorie foods.
 Good posture makes your body look its best and inspires feelings of attraction in others.Stand up straight, sit up straight, and resist the urge to slump or slouch. Keep your head up and your shoulders back in order to appear your best.
 Once in a while, buy some sexy lingerie or a similarly sultry piece of clothing. Show it to your husband and let him know that you made the purchase with him in mind. You can also consider purchasing something eye-catching in his favorite color.


The way you deliver the message can have just as big an impact as the message itself. For example, casually slip your newest piece of lingerie into his hand, then silently walk away with a slight sway in your hips. Your body language can convey more meaning than the words alone would.
 You don't need to completely transform your appearance: changing even one quality in a subtle way can be enough to catch your husband's eye again.Consider getting a new hairstyle, adding highlights to your hair, or treating yourself to a day at the spa to give your skin a new glow. If you don't want the expense or permanency of a bigger change, try something as simple as buying a new shade of lipstick or eye makeup.
 Smiling is one of the most significant acts you can do to catch a man's eye when you're single, so it's little wonder that smiling at your man once you've married him will move him in the same way. Looking friendly, pleasant, and happy are keys to making your husband feel attracted to you.