 At the top, make five symbols that are very simple, very easy to remember. These will signify the basic sounds for A, E, I, O, and U, which make up the English language.(for the purpose of making this easier, we will use English as our example, but it's not limited; just make sure you put the basic vowel sounds in your grid);
,(hard c, b, h, whatever you can think of; don't forget ñ if you think you may need it)

, How this translates is completely up to you. The consonant sound might be the beginning sound,("ta") or the ending sound.("eb") While you're at it, you'll need to make an ending or beginning sound symbol, for those words that end in consonant sounds. You can make a new symbol to add to your five vowel symbols, or you can make your consonant symbols so you can leave them on their own and tell them apart fine. It's up to you.
 You can use the standard 10-base everyone does... OR you can make your own set of numbers! Here's how: Choose a base. I'll use base-8 for this, which means I'll have the numbers 0,1,2,3,4,5,6, and 7. After 7 is 10, which actually equals eight. For 9 I have 11, and for 10 I have 12. And when I reach 17, my next number will be twenty, which will actually equal 16. Get it? Just make sure it's 10 or below, unless you want to figure out how to make a base-13 number code.(my first choice)

, Notice how I didn't tell you any specifics about my code? With the exception of the example in step four, this is as one-size-fits-all as I could do! I don't use base-8, either. The main idea is not to go bragging about your oh-so-great-code or showing your grid to anyone you don't want to learn your code. Otherwise, don't bother, 'cause it won't really be a secret, will it?

, This is almost as important as keeping it a secret! You don't want to go back to your cheat-sheet every time you want to write an encrypted message. As with any code,(or a foreign language, hint hint) try to memorize it as best you can. Make sure you're friend knows it too, if this is your friendship code or something. Write a little every day. Think of it as an extracurricular activity if it helps.

