 In order to prevent your cat or dog from getting marijuana poisoning, you need to keep marijuana out of its reach. A pet can easily ingest marijuana that is accessible to it due simply to curiosity. Not only should it be kept in a sealed container but that container should be kept in an area that your pet cannot physically get to.A sealed container is not a guarantee that your pet will not become interested in your marijuana and ingest it. Many dogs, for instance, will investigate and chew on items that are new to them. If your dog gets its teeth on a container of marijuana, it could easily ingest a harmful amount.
Dogs are much more likely to get marijuana poisoning than cats are. Because of this, you need to be especially adamant about keeping marijuana away from dogs.;
, Many cats and dogs that get marijuana poisoning do so by eating foods that have been infused with marijuana. Many pets are quickly attracted to food and will eat any food they can get their teeth on indiscriminately. If you have marijuana foods in your home, make sure that your pets have no way of accessing them.


If your pet accidentally ingests marijuana food, you need to think about the other ingredients that could affect its health as well. For example, eating marijuana food that also contains chocolate could be very dangerous for a dog.In this case, you need to take your dog to a veterinarian immediately.
Your pet can become very seriously ill from ingesting butter that is infused with marijuana, as the THC level of infused butter is very, very high. If your pet eats butter with THC, then you need to take it to a veterinarian immediately. This could cause serious illness or death due to the level of THC., If you have marijuana paraphernalia laying around your house, that could be a risk to your pet's health as well. Smoking apparatus such as bongs and pipes may contain a significant amount of marijuana. If somehow consumed, this could give your pet marijuana poisoning.


For example, if you have a bong out in the open, your dog could decide to drink the water contained in it.
 Pets can also be affected by marijuana when it is smoked in their presence. If you are concerned about the effects of marijuana exposure, as well as the health risks of second-hand smoke, do not allow your pets to be exposed to the smoke.


The level of exposure that creates marijuana poisoning, meaning a risk to your pet's life, is not possible just from inhaling smoke. However, marijuana smoke can have a negative impact on your pet's health and happiness.Remember, while you can make the consensual choice to be around marijuana smoke, your pet cannot give its consent. It will not anticipate or understand the effects of the drug and can be negatively impacted.

