 Either store your food in locked containers or keep your food in the fridge. Make sure that the containers have a lid that seals well. Covering food with plastic sheets or tin foil isn’t a good idea because rats can easily bite through the paper or tin foil and infect your food.


Do not keep any food outside, like in your garage or in your backyard, because it will most likely attract rats.
 Most canned goods are stored in storage units that rats can get into. These rodents may urinate or defecate on the cans. While the food inside the cans is still safe, it is important to wash the cans before you open them so that the bacteria left behind by the rats gets washed away.


Wash the cans with warm water for two to three minutes before you open them.
 Unpasteurized milk can contain the bacteria that leads to rat bite fever. Because of this, you should try to purchase pasteurized milk that has been boiled to get rid of any bacteria. If you have buy unpasteurized milk, boil it before you drink it and do not drink it straight out of the carton.To boil the milk:


Pour the milk into a pot and bring it to a boil on the stove. Once it is at a boil and bubbles appear on the surface, let the milk continue to boil for another minute. Remove the pot and milk from the stove and let it cool down before you drink it.
 This is particularly important to do if you live in or are traveling through an area that is known to have rat bite fever. Always wash your hands before handling food, after handling food, and after you go to the bathroom. To properly wash your hands:


Wet your hands with soap and water. You can use hand sanitizer if there is no soap available. Create a lather and rub your hands together, palm to palm. Interlace your fingers and lather the insides of your fingers. Rub the back of one hand against the back of the other hand. Lather your hands should take about a minute.
Wash your hands off with water. Turn the faucet off with a paper towel so that you do not have to touch the faucet. Dry your hands with a paper towel.
 If you are in an area that has had rat bite fever problems in the past, it is important to practice safe water habits. When bathing, make sure to avoid getting water in your eyes, ears, mouth, or nose. If possible, decontaminate the water before using it to bathe. The same goes for drinking water—if you not positive that is safe to drink, you should decontaminate it. Ways to purify water include:


Boil the water for at least one minute.
Use chemicals to purify your water. Substances like chlorine and iodine can be dissolved in water to remove parasites. However, this is not 100% accurate all the time, so you should boil the water first and then add the chemicals.
Use a portable filtration device. This is particularly handy when hiking or camping in an area that is known to have rat bite fever. Filter the water and then add purifying chemicals.
Stick to bottled water if you are not sure about the local water. Always wipe off the top of bottled water with a clean rag before drinking.
 Your rat may be sick and in need of medical help if he starts acting strangely. Take him to a vet to get checked out—he may need a vaccination or might begin taking a medication. Symptoms that you should look out for include:


Sneezing.
Loss of appetite.
Bloody urine.
Missing fur.
Lack of energy.

