 Just like the rest of the characters of the game, you are required to go through a qualification quest before you can choose one of the three advanced classes.


In order for the quest to be available for you, you must use Aisha and must be level 15 and above; otherwise, the quest won't appear in your Quest Log.;
, Do this quest first before anything else. Enter the Underground Waterway under Very Hard Mode to collect 10 Dead Tree Branches and 30 Runic Power Crystal from the Ghost Magician and White Ghost Magician.


The task is fairly easy, especially if you're in a party for a quick raid.
 This can be bought from the Potion NPC in Elder Village.
 This area can be found in the Elder Village map.


The rest of the qualification quest can also be cleared in the very same dungeon.
To complete these quests quickly, enter the dungeon under Very Hard Mode instead of clearing it at low-level difficulty.
You must kill 14 Jangos and 14 Kid Phorus.
You must clear the dungeon with a B rank.
You must collect 3 quest items from Bomber Mongs and 1 Special Nut from William.
 As stated above, you must complete the Magician Quest in order for you to open the next phase of the chain quest. After completing the Magician Quest, you get to choose either of the three classes for Aisha: High Magician, Dark Magician, or Battle Magician.


Each higher class has different kinds of specialties, sets of skills, and combos.
 You can alternatively accept it through your Log Quest, which can be found at the lower right-hand side of your screen.
 For the first part of the quest, you need to enter Suburbs of Wally's Castle to hunt for the boss William. Kill him and obtain a quest item (Necklace) under the Very Hard Mode difficulty.


Most of the time, you have to do reruns before this item drops from the boss.
Being in a party is highly recommended to clear up monsters quickly in each level.
 The rest of the quest requires you to enter Wally's Castle, the last dungeon found in Elder Village, to collect 2 quest items from Crossbow Soldier and then clear the dungeon without taking more than 50 hits. Otherwise, you have to rerun in order to complete it.


Before you enter the dungeon, make sure you have set the difficulty to Hard Mode.
A full house party is recommended for this.
Keep your distance away from the mob, and use any of your AoE skills to protect yourself, especially when you reach the boss level.
 After completing all the quests, head to Elder Village to see Echo the Alchemist. She's a white-haired young lady found at the northeastern part of the village, just a few steps away from the East Portal. Talk to her to complete the chain quest.


If your class didn't change after talking to Echo, log off from the game and then log in again. This can happen when the server is too busy, especially if there are a lot of players online.
 Every time a character of Elsword successfully changes his/her class, a new combo skill will become available for the players to use. One of the four new combos for High Magician creates an explosion, which can cause more than 200% Magic Damage to enemies within the range based on your character's Mag DMG rate.


To execute this combo, the player must press X on their keyboard twice, followed by the Down arrow key and then X two more times. Execution must be done quickly, without being hit by the enemy, which cancels the combo.
 Fireball is mostly used in PvP because of its no-MP use and the ability to stun enemies, which enables High Magicians to follow their attack with combos or cancel the enemy’s combo attack. Tap X on your keyboard twice and the Left arrow key (if your enemy is at the right side of the screen) or right (if the enemy is at the left side of your screen), then press X again.


This skill can be spammed, especially if you can execute the combo continuously.
 This is a simple Fireball Dash compared to the Fireball mentioned above. Instead of throwing two small fireballs before a larger one, Fireball Dash requires you to run then throw one large fireball.


This skill is great for escaping from melee players, especially from classes that use Grab.
To execute this combo, dash by tapping the Right arrow key twice, then X twice.
 The High Magician is not just a class for mid-range; they can also do close combat. Expert players use this quite a lot to stun and even juggle enemy players. Tap the Z key twice to attack in close combat and to stun your enemies, and then tap X twice to throw Fireball.

