 Don't feel alone in your feelings. Avoid the desire to ignore your feelings of depression. You will likely find greater relief about what you're thinking and feeling when you seek support from someone you trust.


Identify a friend or family member that has been supportive in the past. Talk with them about the things that are triggering your feelings of depression.
Be open with them and listen to what advice they may have. The people you trust are there to support you.
 If your feelings of depression are persisting for weeks or months, seek help from your health care provider or a therapist. Professional support will help you in the present and the future. They can help you to learn effective coping skills for depression triggers.


Find a therapist who is trained in helping people to cope with emotional triggers such as depression, anxiety, or anger. Ask if the therapist has experience in using Cognitive Behavioral Therapy.
Contact your health insurance about behavioral health providers that are covered under your insurance. Some therapists may be in your healthcare insurance network.
Contact a counseling center about low cost options in your area.
Talk with your school about counseling options, or your employer about if they have an employee assistance program that may cover the cost of a few counseling sessions.
 If you have been diagnosed with depression, your doctor may be able to prescribe medication to help you manage symptoms during episodes. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are first line therapy for depression. These include fluoxetine (prozac), escitalopram (Lexapro), and sertaline (zoloft). You can also request a referral for a psychiatrist for further medical evaluation. Often a combination of therapy and medication can work best to address depression symptoms. Discuss with your primary care physician about any current medications or a family history of depression or anxiety.
Understand that medications may not work overnight, but if you stick with them, you will be able to see the effects. For example, SSRIs can take six to eight weeks to work. Any side effects should be discussed with your doctor.
 Getting support from other people who are dealing with depression can be reassuring. Sometimes when a trigger has recently occurred, it is important to reach out quickly to someone who has been through the same feelings. There are many support groups and peer support phone lines to help you.Support groups may be available through counseling centers, places of worship, or mental health organizations.
There are also hotlines and "warmlines" when you need additional support through a difficult time.
If you are in immediate crisis and have thoughts of suicide, call emergency services, such as by calling 911 in the U.S. You can also call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 in the US or Good Samaritans at 44 (0) 8457 90 90 90 in the UK.
 Remember that this is your life and your body. Love and cherish it each day. Be compassionate with yourself. Avoid being too hard or critical of yourself. Often our biggest critic is ourselves.Be confident that you can overcome these emotional triggers of depression.
Remind yourself each day of at least three things you like about yourself.

