 If you absolutely can’t stomach the shame and anger of being cheated on, retribution may be your most tempting option. Post flyers up around town announcing what the cheater has done, mail herpes medication to the other guy or girl to get them panicking or hide a bag of shellfish in their car on a hot day. It may seem childish, but revenge is a strong, instinctual urge, and it can be very satisfying once it’s been achieved.Make sure you don’t do anything that could get you in bigger trouble when exacting your revenge. If something you’re considering doing sounds illegal or unethical, it probably is.
Taking revenge may just escalate the hostility between you and your cheating partner.
 Trade a breach of trust for a breach of trust. Let everyone know that your unfaithful lover is a bedwetter or that they cry after sex. Carrying on with another person behind your partner’s back sends the clear message that the values of trust, loyalty and faithfulness are no longer being respected in your relationship. That means all bets are off.


If you’ve been dating someone for a while, chances are you know a few embarrassing things about them that they would be mortified to have get out.
Make up a damaging rumor about the cheater and let them deal with the gossip. Who says you have to play fair?

, If you want to really wound their pride, don’t just tell the cheater’s friends or Twitter followers what they’ve done, tell their mother, father, siblings or grandparents. There’s no shame like the shame one feels when they’ve let their family down. This one can come as a real shock to their system and make them rethink the consequences of their actions.Because most people learn their morals from family, exposing their transgression to a loved one can be a powerful way of reminding them that they’ve done wrong.
This may be difficult to do if you’ve grown close with your partner’s family.
 Be up front with your partner about how much they’re hurt and disappointed you. There’s no need to act scornful or petty. Instead, be direct and unflinching and force them to confront the emotional backlash of betraying the person they were supposed to care for. Guilt is a powerful antidote for infidelity and deception, and they’re more likely to feel guilty if you don’t justify their harmful behavior by seeking out more destructive methods of retaliation.Don’t let it turn into a fight. A cheater will make excuses and do everything they can to make it seem like your fault, but don’t be fooled. Stay strong and let them know that what they’ve done isn’t okay.
If you talk to your partner earnestly and they still don’t feel any remorse, they’re probably not the kind of person you ought to be with in the first place.
 Many couples decide to remain together after one partner has been unfaithful. If you decide that working things out is for the best, make sure to lay down strict guidelines for what types of behavior are acceptable and what is now expected from your cheating partner. This might involve monitoring their calls, texts and emails, forcing them to follow an agreed-upon schedule and limiting the time they spend out socializing. Let them know that they have one last chance to prove themselves to you, and that they'll have to work hard to rebuild your confidence in them.Cheating changes things. Your relationship might never be the same again, but that doesn't mean it has to be over. Sometimes, dealing with the fallout of an affair constructively can bring two people closer together than they were before.If they're serious about fixing the relationship, they'll tread lightly and show you more consideration going forward.

