 Start by playfully pushing or bumping into your partner on purpose. Whether she’s concentrating profusely on a task, or just simply standing idle, approach her and nudge her gently. Carry on with this action until she responds with either pushing you away and telling her to leave her be, or she joins in on the fun. Either way, do this in a style that shows you’re only clowning around and want her to participate – she’ll hopefully get the gist and engage.


Be mindful not to nudge her in areas that she has been complaining are tender or sore.;
, Now that the combat has started, it’s time to attack or retreat. Tap her somewhere on the shoulder and say “Tag”, immediately run from her or motion that you’re going to chase her. By inducting a game of tag, your hope is to either get her or the both of you on the floor in a comfortable position to continue the tussle.
 While you’re both romping on the floor, recall the areas that she is most prone to responding to touch like her stomach, back of the neck or feet. Once you’ve spotted this area, go ahead and tickle her.


Beware, you’re certainly not immune to her planning her defence.
 Depending on the state of the flooring and the safety of your location, try scuffling with each-other’s strength by wrestling one another to the ground. It’s a given that you might have more strength than her, so ensure that you aren't too rough and imperious when it comes to this more physical step. Change roles for a while and let her have a crack at dominating you.


Avoid sitting on her with your full weight.
Also be cautious of items around you that could potentially be damaged or injure you both.
 This will be just as entertaining to you as it is for her when she realizes how ludicrous you are as a playful boyfriend. Playing pranks are extremely effective when it comes to play fighting. It can initiate the skirmish from the start, or aid in compelling the harmless exchange to more demanding feats.


You could try purchasing mock insects from a toy store and plant them around the house before she comes home to set up the scare. This might eventually end up in a full blown warfare with each-other, which, is exactly what you're aiming for.
 Once you both have agreed on a champion and are recovering, give one another a kiss and a hug to share a mutual remission for each other’s foray. If you feel the time is right, take the opportunity to let her know just how much she means to you.

