 This is one of the most important things that sets pop stars apart. They never shy away from big crowds and paparazzi, and they always walk with a certain swagger that denotes confidence. Always be willing to stand up and show everyone who you are.;
, Own a cell phone and laptop and spend a lot of time calling and texting your friends. Use different social media apps like WhatsApp, Facebook, and Twitter in addition to your normal texting. Interact with as many people as possible so that you can build a large social network. Have a wide range of friends, but don't forget to build special relationships with a couple best friends - even though you want to cultivate your popularity, you should never abandon your besties.
 Pop stars are not always smart, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't be. Being well-educated will also help you learn about other countries and cultures, and you can use your knowledge to try to gain popularity with them as well as with your own. Pay attention in class, stay organized, and if you need help, ask a teacher or a tutor.
 If your idol is a pop star, then use their story and their image as guidance for cultivating your own. Try to follow in their footsteps to become a true pop star. Your idol doesn't have to be a pop star, however. Still, having someone to look up to will motivate you to keep striving after your dreams, whatever they are.
 Whether it's playing the guitar, dancing, cheerleading, or math, find a couple of things you are good at and are passionate about. Cultivate these things and develop the confidence in them that a pop star has in singing.
 Exercise for about 30 mins a day and cut down on processed foods to eat healthy. This will help you look and feel better and have a healthier lifestyle throughout your life.
 Take care of your skin. Moisturize your body every day, and use a pimple cleanser or special face wash if you have acne. Wear small amounts of makeup to highlight your best features and make you look cute and cool, but be sure not to overdo it. Take care to shower and brush your teeth regularly, and practice good manners, especially while eating, to emphasize your cleanliness and sophistication.
 Have good fashion sense. Build up your wardrobe with cool, trendy, fashionable clothing, and match clothes to create the perfect outfit for any occasion. Use accessories to top off any look. Start with a couple cute graphic tees, jeans, skirts, and patterned leggings. Get a variety of dresses and two nice coats. You'll also need formal shirts and flats, heels, and casual shoes or sneakers, as well as a couple of sweaters, patterned or plain. Round out your wardrobe with a couple of handbags and cute hats. Shop with friends to build the perfect wardrobe.
 If someone needs your help or is feeling down, comfort them. Part of being a pop star is having the ability to touch other people's lives through music. Even if you can't reach quite as many people as Beyonce, reach out to those you can, and try to comfort them and bring them joy.
 If someone teases you, get them back, but by your wit and knowledge rather than brawn. If you get bullied, walk away and tell someone about it.
 Develop a unique personality that will define what kind of pop star you want to be.
 You're practically a pop star; enjoy it!

