 Determine where you'd like to put your makeup mirror with vanity lights. Measure the space where you want the makeup mirror to go. Be sure to get exact measurements for width and height of the mirror. Buy a mirror that fits your dimensions from a home goods store, home improvement store, or even thrift store.Make sure that the mirror you choose has a border that's wide enough to attach your vanity light bars to.;
, You probably have several things you need already lying around your house. Find two extension cords, scissors, and picture hanging strips (the ones with adhesive that pull off). You may need to go to a hardware or lighting store for vanity light bars and light bulbs. Use the type of light bulbs that your vanity light bars' manufacturer recommends.You can also find vanity light bars online in a variety of sizes.
 Take the two light bars out of their boxes. Remove the caps that surround the sides of each socket. Set the caps aside and take care not to lose them since you'll need to reinsert them after you install the light bars.








These are usually reflective like the mirror so they hide the bases of the light bulbs when re-installed.
 Set the light bars on opposite sides of mirror. Place the bars where you ultimately want them so they lay flush against the frame. Depending on which light bars you purchase, you'll see holes for screws in several places. Use a screw driver or a drill to secure the light bar to your mirror.


Your vanity light bars will probably come with the screws you need to attach the bars.
 Take a pair of scissors and cut off the adapter end of your extension cord. Do this for both extension cords and take care not to cut yourself while using the scissors. Make a 1








You should cut in between the two thin cords that are connected.
 Once you've cut in between the cords, hold one cord in each hand and carefully pull them apart. Keep pulling until you have about 5 inches of separated wires. Use your scissors to cut just the plastic covering the copper wire about an inch from the end. Once you've made the cut, slide the plastic off the end so you see the copper wire. Do this for both of the wires on both sets of extension cords.








Take care not to cut into the copper wire while you're cutting away the plastic covering.
 Lift off the top bar of the vanity light bar. You should now see copper wiring (covered in black plastic and white plastic). Feel the copper ends of the cord you split. Take the one that feels smooth and twist it together with the black vanity cord. Take the one that feels rough and twist it together with the white vanity cord.








You can simply twist the cords by crossing them over repeatedly like they're twist ties.
 Your vanity light bars should come with plastic wire nuts (these are usually orange or yellow and cone-shaped, with internal threading). Take one plastic wire nut and firmly place it onto the exposed copper wire that you just twisted. Twist the wire nut until it's affixed securely. Repeat this for each connection between the light bar and extension cord wires so that all the copper wire ends are covered.The wire nuts are necessary to securely connect the wire and reduce the likelihood of electrical fires, so it's important to use them.
 Make sure the wire nuts for both the white and black wires in the light bar are affixed firmly. Set the cover back onto the vanity light bar so that all the cords are covered.








When doing this, try to keep the white and black wires separate from each other within the light bar. Separating the cords can prevent the cords from touching, which can cause the circuit breaker to trip, or even cause a fire.
 Take the metallic caps that you set aside earlier and set them back into place around the sides of each electrical socket. Screw one light bulb into each electrical socket so that it's firmly in place. Plug the extension cords into power outlets and turn on your vanity lights.








If you're using a wireless remote control, you may need to follow the manufacturer's instructions regarding setup.
 Mark the back of the mirror where you'd like to screw in hardware. Some mirrors already come with hooks attached to the back, so you simply need to hang the mirror on the wall. Measure the distance between the hooks. Measure the same distance on the wall where you're hanging the mirror and make a small mark. Use a drill to attach hardware (like a wall anchor or screw) to the wall so you can hang your mirror.Make sure you weigh the mirror and use hardware that supports that weight. Otherwise, your makeup mirror may damage your wall or fall down.

