 The Discord icon looks like a white game controller in a blue circle on your Apps list.
 It's in the upper-left corner of your screen. This button will open a list of all your servers and chats on the left-hand side of your screen., Select a server from the list of all servers on the left-hand side of your screen. This will open the list of all text and voice channels on this server., This option is located below the server name at the top of your screen. It will open a new page to create your invite., This button will let you select a chat channel for your invite on this server. You can invite users to the #general chat, or another channel on the same server., You can set your invite link to expire in 30 minutes, 6 hours, or 1 day.

If you select Never, your invite link will never expire. This means you can use this link anytime in the future to invite and add users to your channel.
 You can choose to set your invite to expire after 1 use, 10 uses, or 100 uses. Your invite link will not work after it's been used for the set number of maximum uses., When temporary membership is set to On position for an invite, invited users will be automatically kicked from the chat when they disconnect., It's located at the top of your screen. Tapping will copy the invite link to your clipboard. You can paste it into a direct message if you want to invite your Discord friends to your channel., It looks like three dots connected by two lines in the upper-right corner of your screen. It will bring up a pop-up menu to select an app for sharing your invite., You can share your invite link on messaging and social media apps such as WhatsApp, Facebook, Messenger, and Signal. It will open your selected app and bring up a list of your contacts., Scroll down your contacts list and tap on the friend you want to invite to your Discord chat channel.

If your contact doesn't have a Discord account, they will have to sign up for an account before they can join your channel.
 Tap the Send button in the app you're using. Once your friend receives and clicks the link, they will be able to join your Discord chat channel.