


BBC America is your best bet if you have access to it, but PBS occasionally shows reruns as well.






Netflix also has seasons one through six available to stream.






You can even buy boxed DVD sets of entire seasons in case you don’t want to watch anything else but Doctor Who DVDs, which is perfectly acceptable.






Bonus points are given in this step if your favorite episodes are also the ones to make you cry, because you need to express the sadness that your long wait for a new season brings. It’s okay to sob mercilessly over “Doomsday” or “The Angels Take Manhattan” for the thousandth time, knowing that Rose or Amy is never coming back to the show. Eat lots of chocolate. It’ll be okay eventually.





;
, If you’re feeling indulgent, invest in several. This is probably the best way for members of fandoms (groups of people that like a specific book, movie, or TV show) to spot each other and instigate conversation.


Doctor Who T-shirts are available in many online stores. The BBC online store (or the BBC America online store for non-Brits) is the best source for licensed material, but ThinkGeek, Redbubble, and Etsy are also great for more artistic tees.






TeeFury hosts a brand-new shirt design every day that’s only available for purchase within a 24-hour time span, and many of their shirts are designed with Whovians in mind.
 Wear it until the threads are fraying and it begins to get bunched out of shape. Display it with as much pride as your fandom warrants. Make sure that any potentially passing Whovians can see it and appreciate it for what it is.


If you purchased more than one T-shirt in step two, rotate them frequently so people can see the full glory of your Doctor Who wardrobe. The eventual goal at this stage is to become known as “that geek who wears nothing but Doctor Who shirts.” That’s when you’ll know you’ve made it.
 There is a ton of available Doctor Who merchandise to match any budget size. Almost anything you can think of can be marketed and sold to Whovians. There are necklaces and bracelets available with Gallifreyan symbols on them. You can also buy pendants in the shape of sonic screwdrivers. Phone cases are practical--and slightly more subtle ways to display your attachment to the series.
 Cosplaying is a term for dressing up and acting like your favorite character from the show. Because Doctor Who has been around for so long, there are more characters to cosplay than you’ll have the time or budget for, so pick one and go to town.


Many forums and blogs offer advice to amateur and serious cosplayers alike and can provide scene-by-scene references so Who enthusiasts can match their character’s costumes down to the stitch.






Cosplay is generally worn to Doctor Who conventions, or to broader fandom conventions like the yearly Comic-Con in San Diego, California. But if you’re feeling adventurous, why not stroll into work as the Doctor or River Song one day?







,


You’re at a formal event and someone’s wearing a bow tie? Don’t hesitate to point out to them that, in fact, bow ties are cool.






Someone’s annoying you by talking too loudly while you’re trying to read, study, or watch TV? Command their obedience by saying, “Silence will fall.”






If you’re feeling particularly villainous, run at them while yelling, “EX-TER-MIN-ATE!”






Regretfully inform your roommate that you’d unlock the door with your sonic screwdriver if you could, but unfortunately it doesn’t work on wood.






Take note of all recurring catchphrases from the Doctor’s incarnations over the years and make it a competition to see how many of them you can use in a single day--examples to get you started are “Geronimo!” and “Allons-y!”

, Your classmate or coworker could be a quiet fan and you might never know it. During a lull in your day, start up a conversation and see who takes you up on it.


If you can’t find a Who fan in your immediate vicinity, forums and chat rooms are great ways to find more distant, but no less awesome, Doctor Who friends. Because the show is so widespread, you might even make friends in other countries. E-mail, Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr, and even phone calls make it easier than ever to keep in touch with long-distance friends who can talk you down from the brink of a hiatus breakdown.







