 Everybody wants a coveted spot closest to their terminal, but these will almost always come at a high price. You’ll have better luck leaving your vehicle somewhere off-site and taking a short shuttle trip to get you where you need to be. Don’t forget to account for extra driving or walking time when scheduling your day.Look into online parking services like BestParking.com and LongTermParking.com that will help you locate the most convenient parking solutions in the area for little or no cost.
If possible, have a friend drop you off in time for your flight, or hire an Uber or Lyft driver. Both of these options are cheaper than airport parking.
 Rather than waiting until you get to the airport to swap out your money for a foreign currency, take it to a bank and have it done ahead of time. There, they’ll provide you with the currency you need without demanding outrageous service fees. This is especially helpful if you’re traveling on a budget.There may be charges for exchanging currency at a local bank, but they’ll rarely be as high as at the airport.Be sure that you convert enough money to pay for transportation and other basic services when you arrive in another country.
 Hygiene products and other belongings that don’t meet security requirements often go straight into the trash. You’ll then have no choice but to purchase replacements later, which can drain your wallet quicker than anticipated.Familiarize yourself with the types of items that are forbidden by the airline you’re flying with so you’ll be clear about what is and isn’t okay to bring.
 This is the culprit of most airport spending. It’s also the worst kind, because you’ll be losing money on things you don’t need. If you’ve got some time to kill before takeoff, use it to read, plan your itinerary or call your loved ones instead of window shopping.To be on the safe side, it’s often best to avoid temptation and stay out of airport stores altogether.
Get your souvenirs from small local shops after you reach your destination.

