 To prep your hair for styling, use a moisture rich shampoo and conditioner on your hair to wash it. Then, dry your hair by gently squeezing your hair with a towel. Do not try to wrap your hair up in a towel to dry it, as this can damage your hair.


If you have curly hair, you may want to use spray gel after towel drying your hair to maintain your curl. Put a few dollops of the spray and run it through the bottom section and the roots of your hair.If you have straight or fine hair, you can use a large dollop of volumizing mousse in your hair to give it some body.
If you have medium to thick hair, you can apply a styling cream to help control any flyaways. Use your fingers to comb it through your hair for easy, even application.
 You should then use a diffuser dryer to dry your hair until it is about 85 percent dry. Avoid touching your hair a lot as you dry it, as this will create more frizz.You can try flipping your hair and run the dryer through your hair to dry it quickly and efficiently.
 Use a hair tie or a clip to lift up the top section of your hair, from your hairline, to secure it so it is out of the way. If your hair is short enough that you do not have any layers in your hair, or layers long enough to tie back, you can skip this step.
 Make sure you protect your hair from the heat of the curling wand by using a heat protectant. You can find heat protectant at your local beauty supply store or drugstore.Look for a heat protectant that is also a styling spray, as this will allow it to protect your hair and make it easier to style.
 Alternate between holding the wand vertically and horizontally, as this will create more messy look. You should curl one small section vertically and then switch to curling the next small section horizontally.Start by curling your hair vertically, wrapping your hair on the wand, away from your face. Release it after about five seconds. Then, turn the wand so it is horizontal and wrap the hair around it, away from your face. Release after five seconds.
Follow this sequence, alternating between vertical and horizontal, all the way around your head.
 Once you have finished curling the lower section, take out some of the hair from the small ponytail at the top of your head to create a middle section. Then, repeat the alternating curls all the way around your head for the middle section.If you have a lot of hair left in your ponytail, you may be able to create a top section of hair that you would then curl in the same way. If you only have the small pieces that frame your face left in your ponytail, take them out and curl the small pieces in alternating directions.
 Finish your messy hair look by spritzing your hair with sea salt spray. Use your fingers to scrunch up the ends of your hair to create a nice, matte texture.