 Nothing will distract you and keep you unfocused more than checking your telephone for messages every two minutes. Texts, emails, Facebook updates and other little messages will be just as compelling an hour from now.


When you're with friends or family, put your phone on silent and keep it tucked away somewhere. Better yet, keep it in the car. Don't look at it. Make a rule at your next get together that the first person to check their phone picks up the tab. Stay focused on your phone and have a simple evening.
Increasingly, people are experiencing a phenomenon known as FOMO: the fear of missing out. What if you don't get that status update before everyone else? What if someone beats you to a witty comment stream message? What if your crush texts and you can't respond right away? Don't let "convenient" technology create complicated stress in your life. Be willing to miss out momentarily to enjoy the moment you're experiencing in the real world.
 Other people's advice about living can often be a source of distress. Simplify by giving up the idea of perfection. Be confident that you're a good partner, a good parent, and a good person. Trust yourself more and do what comes naturally.
 For many people, having a little guide through the day makes it a whole lot simpler. Come up with a manageable to-do list and stick to it as closely as possible. What do you hope to accomplish by the end of the day? By the end of the week?


For some people, it might even be helpful to come up with more substantial lists of long-term goals and plans, to help prioritize accomplishments. Simplify your long-term career and life prospects by outlining where you'd like to be in your job in five years, or where you'd like to be living. What do you need to do now to get there?
Record your day if you're not sure where the hours are disappearing to. Keeping a calendar can also simplify your day because you don't have to rack your brains to remember everything continuously.
Celebrate each accomplishment of the day. Working from a to-do list can be a lot more enjoyable if you take a bit of time to celebrate what you've done. Cleaned up the kitchen and straightened your room and done your work for the day? Time for a glass of wine in your sparkling tidy kitchen. Treat yourself., Unplug! Do a massive purge of the things that are cluttering up your computer, start keeping things simple and maintain a regular purging regime.


Place timers on electronic things that suck your time without you noticing. If you can spend more hours than you'd like online, install a timer, and use it. You might be surprised at your level of intensity. Even if you simply add in enforced regular breaks, your use of the technology will instantly simplify.
Try to keep your email box empty. Answer, file, or delete emails upon reading.
 Multi-tasking should be avoided, if possible. It is a myth that a person can focus on more than one thing and do so well. While sometimes you have to, or (as the Zen story below illustrated) want to, one at a time should be your ideal.


Focus on doing the best possible (or "good enough" ) job at this moment.
Savor what you are doing, even if it is something mundane. Washing the dishes can be pleasurable, if you reflect on how the soapy water feels, your pleasure from your favorite teacup, and how good it feels to have clean dishes.In an old Zen story, an elder monk chastised some novices for talking while they were supposed to be doing their work. "When it's time to talk, just talk," he said. "And when it's time to work, just work." The next day, at lunch, the novices saw the elder monk eating lunch and reading the paper at the same time. They approached him to remind him of his lesson. Why was he not just eating, or just reading, as he had instructed them? "When it's time to eat lunch and read the paper, just eat lunch and read the paper," he said.
 Don't let the complication of your work day mess up your after work life. Don't bring any work back to the house to complete later–stay until you can finish for the day. If you're feeling stressed out after a work day, do something relaxing the minute you get home so you don't have to burden your housemates with complaints about the day. Don't spread the complicated stress around. Simplify.


Cut down your hours as much as you can afford to, if your job is a significant source of complication in your life. If you want to simplify, cutting back on work is one of the easiest ways to do it. Less money, less clutter.
Stop working weekends. Even if you love your work, dragging work into your weekends starts unbalancing the proportion in your life. You might not feel it right now, but eventually, this will lead to burn out and/or passion reduction. Block off every weekend for the next six months. Not a single one of those weekends can include work from now on.
 Just fifteen minutes. It's half a sitcom, or half a wait in line at the DMV, but it can help to make all the difference in your stress levels and your ability to simplify your life and remain calm. Take the small step of spending quiet time, just sitting, in a comfortable space. Focus on your breath. Relax your body and let your mind calm itself. Watch your thoughts.

