 Most diamond retailers hire their own gemologists and appraisers, but many consumers find it more desirable to request third party appraisal from an independent gemologist who specializes in the appraisal of diamonds. If you're going to invest in a stone, or are curious about a stone you already own, you'll want to be sure that the stone you've got is appraised accurately.


An appraisal involves two basic steps: first identifying and evaluating the stone in question, and then assigning value. When looking at independent appraisers, it would be ideal to select an appraiser with a Graduate Gemologist (GG) degree issued by a Gemological Institute in your country, who isn't involved directly in the sale of diamonds.This way, you can be sure that the science is sound.
 Aside from finding out whether or not the stone is fake, a good appraiser can answer a variety of questions about the quality of your stone to make sure that you're not getting ripped off. This is especially important if you've already purchased or inherited a stone. The gemologist should be able to tell you:


whether or not the stone is man-made or natural (Note: man-made diamonds are diamonds, just not "natural". See the section on detecting man-made diamonds for more detail.)
whether or not the stone has been color-altered
whether the stone has had permanent or temporary treatment added
whether a stone matches the grading documentation provided by a retailer

, Whatever tests you choose to have performed, the best and most reliable way to tell if a diamond is real is to check the paperwork and speak to the gemologist or the appraiser. Certification and grading assures you that your stone has been "proven" real by experts. Proof is especially important if you're buying a stone sight-unseen, like from the Internet. Ask for a certificate.
 The certificate should be from a grading authority (e.g. GIA, AGSL, LGP, PGGL)or an independent appraiser who is affiliated with a professional organization (like the American Society of Appraisers) but not with any one retailer.


Certificates come with lots of information about your diamond, such as carat weight, measurements, proportions, clarity grade, color grade, and cut grade.
Certificates may also come with information that you might not expect a jeweler to give you. They include:


Fluorescence, or the tendency of the diamond to give off faint glow when exposed to ultraviolet light.Polish, or the smoothness of the surface.

Symmetry, or the degree to which the opposing facets mirror each other flawlessly.
 Once you know for sure that your diamond is real, whether through independent appraisal or grading lab, take your stone to a lab that can register and fingerprint your diamond. This will ensure you that you have your real stone, and that no one will be able to switch it out without your knowing.


Just like humans, every diamond is unique. New technology is allowing gemologists to quantify that uniqueness by producing a "fingerprint" of your gem. Registration usually costs less than $100, and can assist in insurance purposes. If a stolen diamond of yours with a fingerprint shows up in an international database, you should be able to retrieve it by showing documentation that proves it is yours.