 If you don’t usually turn on any music, it may help to start doing so. Many times feelings of sadness or anger lie beneath worrying. Music can trigger these emotions so that you are able to process and get rid of them, which can help you stop worrying. Find music that makes you feel strong emotions.Look through your old CDs or digital music player to find music that you used to enjoy.
If you’ve never collected any music, try signing up for internet radio stations like Pandora or Spotify.
You can always tune your car radio or satellite radio, even a radio app on your phone, to a station that you find enjoyable. ITunes even has a radio feature.
There are many things you can do with music. You don’t have to just sit there and listen. Consider singing along, dancing, playing an instrument yourself, and so on.For music that relaxes you, try choosing songs that are slow and have an easily identified pattern.
To identify feelings of sadness, turn on a sad song (such as the Blues). To release anger, try hard rock.
 Stories distract our minds by engaging us in someone else’s problems. Stories usually end with a solid conclusion, something that worriers crave. Stories contain certainty and pleasure, two things that you don’t get when you are obsessing over a fear. When you feel panic coming on, turn on a movie, a TV show, pick up a novel or short story, even a magazine, and start forgetting about your life as you follow a character’s life.
 Getting involved in a game can also help you forget your problems. You can try a physical game like basketball or soccer with neighborhood friends, or you can find a game at home. Try cards or a board game with family members. You could also try a video game on the computer or gaming system. Playing by yourself or online with friends can be fun and distracting.
 Try to lose yourself in the moment with a task that requires your hands and focus. For example, knitting or sewing requires careful attention to detail. Any number of crafts or art activities can do the same thing. The important thing is to lose track of time. When you feel worries coming on, turn to this hobby you have developed.You could also get involved in gardening. If you don’t like getting messy, try rock gardening.

