 The label should indicate machine temperature and/or cycle setting, such as "Gentle Cycle."


If the label includes a water temperature, but not a cycle setting, you can assume the regular cycle is appropriate.
Consider always using "Gentle Cycle" setting in order to protect the fabric fibers from too much agitation in the machine and to extend the life of your brace.
 Be sure to move with care and attention to your injury, as your wrist will no longer have the support of the brace.
 This will prevent damage to the metal splint inside the brace that is used for stabilizing and splinting the wrist. Additionally, removing the metal splints will protect the fabric from damage caused by any shifting of the metal components during the agitation cycle.


Take note of the proper location for the metal splints so that you can replace them correctly after washing., Fasteners may catch on other fabrics in the wash or become twisted, which may stretch the brace components and impair the support structure of the brace.


Consider putting the brace in a mesh lingerie wash bag or a pillowcase to protect the it and other wash items from becoming entangled or twisted.
 Most powdered detergents are designed for use with warm water, and warm water is recommended for man-made materials.


Avoid using hot water, as it can shrink and damage the brace.
You can also try a coldwater detergent as a more eco-friendly option, as a number of coldwater alternatives are equally efficient at cleaning fabrics., Strong detergents or bleaches may harm the integrity of the brace and impact the effectiveness of the support.


If your brace is particularly malodorous, you can add 1/2 cup of baking soda to the wash to freshen the material and increase the cleaning power of your detergent., Avoid "wringing," or twisting while squeezing, in order to prevent damaging the brace. Twisting can pull the fibers of the fabric apart and weaken the brace significantly.Lay the brace flat on a dry towel, then gently roll the towel and brace together to remove more water.Avoid hanging to dry, as the weight of the water may stretch the fabric. , Place the brace somewhere shaded, with good air flow, to promote quick drying.Do not dry the brace in direct sunlight, as the artificial materials of the brace can shrink when exposed to hot temperatures, and the UV rays of the sun may bleach or lighten the colors of the brace., The synthetic fabric will dry quickly in just a few hours, although be sure check interior of any splint pockets to ensure they are thoroughly dry. Dampness in those slots could damage the metal components and decrease the long-term usability of the brace.

