 There are three main types of grout: sanded, unsanded (or wall), and epoxy. They each have different benefits and downsides but it mainly comes down to how big the gaps (called grout joints) are that you are filling. Grouts contract as they dry, so using the correct one to minimize this effect is important.


Sanded grout is used for joints that are 1/8" or larger. Sanded grout should not be used on polished marble or other easily scratched surfaces.Unsanded grout. Unsanded grout is for joints 1/8" or smaller, although once you're above 1/16th it's best to use sanded grout if at all possible.
Epoxy grout is much harder to apply because it dries so much faster but it lasts much longer and does not stain. This is a better type of grout to use, for example, with kitchen countertops. If you want an epoxy grout, it may be better to hire a professional.;
, Seal your tiles before grouting them if they are a porous material, like natural stone or certain types of ceramic. Your local hardware store should be able to advise you if you are unsure.
 Mix the grout according to the manufacturer's instructions using a margin trowel or other acceptable tool. The best way to do this is to start with the 2/3-3/4 of the water already in your mixing container, add the grout compound, mix it, and then add the rest of the water a little at a time until the consistency is correct.It is at the correct consistency when you can roughly form it into a ball.


There are also many additives that you can buy and mix into your grout. These can help combat staining, prolong the life of the grout, or have other helpful benefits. Talk with your local hardware store about what is available to you.
Giving the grout (after it's been mixed) about 10 minutes to cure and then remixing it can help reduce problems with shrinkage. You'll have less time to work with it though, so plan ahead.
Epoxy grout dries incredibly quickly. If using epoxy grout, leave out only a small amount and put the rest in the freezer. It will freeze, but it should thaw quickly when removed.
 Using a hard rubber float (found at your local hardware store), hold the float at a 45° angle and spread the grout across the surface of your tiles. Move the float in angled arcs to work the grout into the gaps.


Do not try to cover the whole area at once; instead, work in an area roughly between 4-9 square feet (2x2' or 3x3'). Once you've finished applying it in that area, move to the next area. Just don't allow too much time to pass before you do some cleanup work.
Do not apply grout to any expansion joints. These are the gaps at the edge of a floor or wall, and especially at spots exposed to water, such as the edge of a bathtub.
 Using a squeegee or your rubber float set at a hard angle, wipe the excess grout from the surface of the tiles. Be careful not to remove it from the joints, and be especially careful at the corners.


Another option is to use a sponge designed especially for grout. Get it damp, and gently wipe the excess away, cleaning the sponge after each short wipe.
 Give the grout a couple of minutes to begin to set.
 Clean the remaining grout off of your tiles. Use a grout sponge, get it wet (but not dripping), and wipe over the whole work surface.


If your grout is particularly stubborn about cleaning up, after one or two rounds of basic sponge cleaning go over the tiles with a low pile towel. Use a lightly damp sponge to get the tile surface just a little wet and then finish it off with the towel.
 Allow your grout to set completely, according to the manufacturer's instructions. Give it a little more time than they recommend, to be safe.
 Use caulk to fill the expansion joints, using your finger to achieve the necessary rounded shape., It is a good idea to apply a grout sealant once the grout and tiles have sat, completely dry, for at least 24 hours. This can help prevent mold growth.

