 That way, you won't feel the urge to keep updating with faddish pieces of fashion.;
, Chances are the basic 'necessity pieces' of the clothes that are coming into store are practically identical to items you already own. How many black skirts do you really need anyway? Spend a few hours looking through and organising your closet; you'll get to see what you have and where any new pieces you really need would fit in––most likely you'll find a few gems you forgot you even had!

, The best way to see what you like to wear is to try clothes out, play dress up in some of your current clothes putting together looks. Why not have an evening party or even sleepover with a friend and see if they have any pieces that you really like?

, If you know that realistically you spend 99 percent of the time you like wearing jeans, get yourself several good fitting pairs of jeans. If you already have items that you feel comfortable in and love to wear then wear these, you'll have a smile on your face and no doubt look better than you would in any of the latest trends!

, Whilst trends come and go, having your own unique style will be a far better way of looking stylish and saving your cash. Think about what you really like to wear and plan out outfits that you feel represent you as an individual.
 Don't impulse buy, you're only wasting money on clothes you're never going to wear! If you go into a store and feel tempted to buy something don't hand over the money until you've had a good look in the mirror. If you're not 100 percent in love with an item, put it back. Don't listen to friends trying to tell you "you look great in that!"––if you don't feel great in it, it's a waste of money!

, Think about how to recreate some of your favourite past looks. If you had a bob when you were 14 and loved it, why not bring it back?

, If you want to stand out from the crowd and have your own sense of style, then don't shop in the same shops as everyone else. Think about possibly designing or making your own clothing. There are lots of workshops and classes and it's a chance to make friends as well as making some pieces that you really love!

, Often the trends involve a revival of fashion from a previous decade, so if you love rocking a 20's flapper dress or a 60's beehive, then embrace it! It will give you the edge over everyone else and presents a chance to learn a bit about historical fashion.
 If you are unsure what you feel most comfortable wearing, or what best suits you, or even if you just like trying something new, then experiment! How else are your going to know how you like to look?

, From your elderly neighbour to your baby cousin, other people's style ideas can be fantastic influences, more personalized than those from the broad-sweeping fashion trends. Ask yourself these questions: Do I like what they're wearing? If yes/no, then why? Would I like to wear that? How best could I? Use the answers to help you develop your ongoing sense of style.
 Your money should not be spent on magazines if they make you feel unfashionable or frumpy. Rather, think of magazines as an idea of how some people may want to look, not what is normal or compulsory. They are also marketing vehicles, made to sell clothes; this should help you to realize that if you don't like a trend, it is never a personal reflection on your fashion taste.
 Often when too many people wear the same thing, it looks embarrassing and as though they can't think for themselves. Don't be a sheep.
 Pride yourself on knowing you have created your own style and are wearing what you like to wear and what isn't being worn by the masses.
 Don't compare it to anyone else's; unless, of course, you can reinterpret what they're wearing as you love it so much!

