 Many sporting goods stores and big-box stores sell manufactured cornhole sets of varying degrees of quality. Buying a set is the simpler route, but potentially more costly. If you don’t want to buy a set, build a cornhole game yourself and customize it any way you wish.


If you want to throw together a quick game, cut two 2ftx4ft (.6mx1.2m) pieces of cardboard for makeshift boards. Cut a hole near one end of each board that is six inches (15 cm) in diameter. Prop the boards up so the hole end is six or eight inches (20 cm) off of the ground.;
, Choose the distance depending on the skill level and preference of those playing the game. Set the boards in a straight line with each other.Regulation rules state that boards should be 45 feet apart, but casual players may opt for closer to 30 feet (9 m) apart.
For younger players, set the boards 10-15 feet apart.
 Cornhole is played with either two players or four players. For a singles game, players stand at the same board and throw to the opposite board. For a doubles game, one player from each team stands at each board and they throw back and forth.Designate a bean bag color for each team. For singles, each player should have four bags of the same color. For doubles, each team should have four bags of the same color.
 Choose one player to start the first round and alternate so that each player on that side throws one bag at a time. Players must stay behind the the front of the board or the throw does not count. Once all eight bags have been thrown, count up the score for that round.


Bags that hit the ground before they hit the board do not count. If the bag is hanging on the edge of the board and touching the ground, it doesn’t count.
Players aim to get bags in the hole, but they also get points for bags that land on the board.
 For every bag that a player gets on the board, they get one point. For every bag that a player gets in the hole, they get three points. Add up each team’s total and subtract the lower number from the higher number. The player with the higher score gets the points that remain after the lower player’s score is subtracted.For example, one team uses blue bags and one team uses red bags. The blue team gets two bags on the board and two bags in the hole for a total of eight points. The red team gets one on the board and one in the hole for a total of four points. Subtract four (red team) from eight (blue team) and the blue team scores four points that round.
 Continue to add each round’s score to each team or player’s total. The game ends when someone has 21 points at the end of a round. If a round ends and a player or team has over 21 points, they must go back to 11 and the game continues.Players who know their opponent is over 21 often throw their bags away from the board on purpose to make their opponent bust.

