 You will be making enough foot scrub to last you several treatments, so you will need to store the extra scrub in an air tight container, such as a jar. Look for something that is wide enough for your to reach into. The jar should be able to hold at least 10 ounces (295.74 milliliters).;
, Foot scrubs are meant to scrub away the dead skin cells, leaving your feet feeling refreshed and silky soft, so you will need 1 cup of Epsom salt, sea salt, or sugar. Here are the benefits of each exfoliant:


Epsom salt contains magnesium sulfide. It not only scrubs away dead skin cells, but it also soothes muscles, reduces inflammation, and makes skin feel soft. It is perfect for tired feet.Sea salt has coarse grains, which makes it great at exfoliating away dead skin cells and buffing calluses. It is also rich in minerals and helps remove toxins from the skin.Sugar smells sweet, so it won't leave your feet feeling as refreshed, but it also has the smoothest grains, which makes it more suitable for those with tender skin., Without oil, the scrub will be dry and harsh. You can make it moisturizing by adding ¼ cup (56.25 milliliters) of sweet almond oil, coconut oil, or olive oil. Slowly stir the oil into your salt or sugar until you get a wet, grainy consistency. If your scrub is too wet, add more salt or sugar. If you exfoliant is too dry, add more oil. Here are the benefits of each type of oil:Sweet almond oil helps clear dead skin cells. You might want to pass on this oil if you are allergic to nuts, however.
Coconut oil is extra moisturizing. It comes in solid form, so you will need to soften it by heating it in the microwave for a few seconds.
Olive oil is the most readily-available oil. You might even have it in your kitchen. Full of beneficial vitamins, it is also moisturizing, which makes it perfect for those with dry skin.
 How much essential oil you add will depend on how fragrant you want your scrub to be. The best types of essential oils for foot scrubs are those with clean, refreshing smells, such as eucalyptus, lavender, lemon, mint, orange, and peppermint. You can even combine essential oils to create new and unique fragrances. Here are some ideas:Cinnamon powder and peppermint essential oil will remind you of Christmas, and are best paired with sugar and olive oil. Avoid using peppermint oil if you're pregnant, however.Lavender and vanilla would work especially well in a sugar-based scrub.
Citrus and mint smell refreshing, and would work especially well when paired with coconut oil. This will give you more of a tropical feel.
Lemon and rosemary smell refreshing, and would work best in salt-based scrubs.
 Your foot scrub will be either white or a pale-golden color (depending on the oil you use). You can make it more interesting by adding a few drops of food coloring. Keep in mind that the food coloring will only add color to the scrub, so if your scrub has a golden tint to it and you add purple food coloring, you will get brown instead. Try matching the color of the scrub to the scent. Here are some ideas:


If you have a lemon-scented scrub, either leave it white or use a few drops of yellow food coloring.
If you have a eucalyptus, mint, or peppermint-scented scrub, leave it white or add a few drops of green food coloring. If you do not have green food coloring, then use yellow and blue food coloring instead.
If you used lavender essential oil in your scrub, then tint it with some purple food coloring. If you do not have purple food coloring, then use red and blue food coloring instead.
 Stir everything with a spoon until everything is combined. The scrub will be wet and grainy.
 If you mixed everything in a bowl, transfer your scrub into a sealable container. Make sure that you can put the lid on tightly so that your scrub does not dry out.


Consider decorating your container with a homemade label and some twine tied around the lid.
 You can use your bathtub, or you can use a small plastic basin that is large enough to comfortably fit both of your feet. For a more pampering effect, you can purchase a footbath; these foot baths are just the right size for feet and often include a massaging jet stream.
 Use a temperature that is comfortable for you. The water should come up just past your ankles.
 If you are using your foot scrub in the bathtub, you can just sit down in the tub or on the ledge. If you are using a basin, then you can sit down in a comfortable chair and place the tub on the floor in front of the chair.
 Soak your feet for a few minutes. If you are wearing long pants, be sure to roll the cuffs up so that they don't get wet.
 You will need a small handful—enough to cover your entire foot. If you use too little, the scrub won't be thick enough. A thinly-spread scrub will not be very effective., Gently rub the scrub over your feet using circular motions. Do this for about five minutes.If you wish, you can also use a pedicure brush or pumice stone to buff away calluses.
 Gently lower your feet back into the water, and massage them with your hands to get the scrub off. If your water became dirty, then you will need to rinse your feet off in the bathtub using fresh water. There may be some oily residue left on your feet from the scrub, which is normal.
 Once your feet are clean, take them out of the water and gently pat them dry with a soft, clean towel. Apply some moisturizer to help keep your feet feeling soft and smooth.
 You can use this scrub 2 to 3 times a week. Keep in mind that this scrub is abrasive, so if you use it too often, it may begin to irritate the skin on your feet.
 This recipe makes just enough scrub for one treatment. With ingredients such as sugar, honey, and vanilla extract, this sweet-smelling scrub smells almost good enough to eat. Here is what you will need to make this delicious-smelling scrub:1 tablespoon sugar
1 tablespoon raw honey
2 to 3 drops of vanilla extract

, If you need a little extra boost in your morning to help you feel a little more awake, this coffee-based foot scrub might be just the thing for you. Here is what you will need to make this scrub:½ tablespoon sugar
½ tablespoon coffee grounds
1 tablespoon olive oil

, Made with coconut oil, sugar, and peppermint essential oil, this foot scrub will leave your feet feeling (and smelling) minty-fresh. Here is what you will need:1 cup coarse-grained sugar
½ cup (112.50 milliliters) of warmed coconut oil
10-15 drops of peppermint essential oil
2 – 4 drops of green food coloring (optional)

, Made with the fresh zest of one lemon, this scrub is sure to leave your feet feeling refreshed. Here is what you will need:1 cup coarse sea salt
½ cup (112.50 milliliters) sweet almond oil
2 teaspoons lemon zest (about 1 lemon)
8 drops peppermint essential oil

