 For a few people, stretching and corrective exercises are not necessary; these people are able to maintain a good posture just because it makes sense and they are constantly aware of their posture. For the rest of us, stretching and doing corrective exercises consistently may keep the posture muscles strong over the course of your lifetime. To practice good posture, have a good posture in all situations: standing, sitting, walking, playing, working, and lifting.


Good posture consists of keeping the spine straight and carrying the shoulders neither rounded nor pulled back.
Maintain this posture even when bent over at the waist while working, playing or lifting.
Occasionally check your posture in the mirror. Try to learn the way your body feels when you have good posture vs. bad posture, so you can identify when you're slipping into a bad pose simply by the way your body feels.;
,


Mechanically, it is easier on your lower back if your weight is not shifted forward such as it is when you round your shoulders.
Your joints will hurt the least, or not at all, if they are seated properly.
Anatomically, your spines have holes (foramens) that house nerves, so you do not want to damage those nerves by bending or twisting the spine excessively. The spine, for the most part, was not really designed for bending or twisting a lot. Bending is best done with the knees and at the waist (hips). Look at a skeleton and muscle chart of the inter-spinal muscles, and you will see that they are small and short.
The long and bigger muscles, such as the latissimus dorsi or "lats or wings," facilitate wide ranges of movements. The lats pull the upper arm towards the body in a downwards motion and is a strong muscle. But once the upper arm passes body, the lats no longer come into play because muscles can only contract. The smaller muscles like the rhomboid and back deltoids pull the upper arm further back.
 Think of a joint as an electric, telephone, and cable utility pole standing with guy wires on either side. If the tension is too great on one side, there will be stress on the pole. A shoulder joint has chest muscles normally shortening and pulling the shoulders forward. To correct the shoulders from hunching forward, stretch your chest muscles and/or strengthen the muscles of your upper back that pull your upper arm beyond the center line. These muscles are the rhomboids and posterior deltoids.

