 In fact, learn your opponents' movesets as well. Knowing all your characters' options will give you the best chance to counter your opponents' strategies.


Learn the smash attack. To perform a smash attack, flick the left control stick either up, to the side, or down and press the A button at the same time. You can charge your smash attack by holding A.
Alternatively, you can use the C-stick to throw out an uncharged smash attack, which is usually easier, faster, and therefore safer.;
, Special moves often add essential tactics to your character -- for example, Fox's Down Special (Down + B) reflects projectiles.


The Up Special (Up + B) is a particularly important move, since (for most characters) it acts like an extra jump to help get back onto a stage. If knocked off, it doubles as an attack, but not effectively.
Use your shield (press the L or R button). Shields block all attacks, except grabs (Z, or Shield + A). Warning: Your shield will break after too much use, leading to free damage or even a KO. Your shield regenerates automatically, so if you use it wisely, shield breaking will not be a problem.
 Grabs are a powerful tactic since they always beat shield. In addition, throws often can be combined or strung into other attacks, leading to additional damage.
 These are powerful moves because they let you attack your opponent while you are in the air.
 Simply running up to your opponent and throwing out attacks is easily countered. Sometimes, it's more effective to sit back and let your opponent come to you.
 Find out ways to counter them. (Example: If they shield a lot, grab him, since grabs always beat shields) Always look for opportunities when your opponent has few options.


For example, if you hit your opponent off the stage, and use their third jump, you have a chance at free damage and KOs because your opponent cannot dodge you.
 This is an obvious tip, but meaningful. You always want to have less damage than your opponent, since greater damage means greater knockback.
 (Pressure: controlling the match by being in a more powerful position than your opponent.) For example, if have a throwable item, keep it. Your opponent will know that you can throw it at any time, and will try to avoid it.
 (Juggling: attacking your opponent while he is in the air and above you, usually to the effect of sending your opponent back into the air.) This is a subset of pressuring. You are empowered whenever you opponent is above you, because you have many options, and your opponent has few. Take advantage of this.
 Note that this is also a subset of pressuring.

