 Hasbro has some very specific guidelines that your event will need to meet in order to qualify as an official Monopoly tournament.Any advertising material must first be sent to Hasbro for approval, and whenever the word 'Monopoly' is written referring to the game, it must be written in all caps, like MONOPOLY, with a ® sign.
Make sure to have at least 24 participants. With 24 participants, there will be six tables with games going on, each with four players.
All games must be officially licensed Hasbro Monopoly games. All players must play according to the official Monopoly rules.
Have at least two rounds at the tournament. The last game should be played with six players.
Get approval from Hasbro for any advertising or promotional materials you wish to use for your event.
Register your event and get formal written approval from Hasbro to be considered official.;
, Print and complete the official Monopoly Tournament Registration packet.This packet is required if you want your event to be considered an official Monopoly tournament. Making your event official will make it easier for you to promote your event and raise money for your cause.
 When you have completed the event registration form, you will need to send it to Hasbro along with all of the required supplementary materials. Double check the event registration form before you send your packet to make sure that you have provided the correct information., It can take up to four weeks for Hasbro to send you a letter granting or denying your request to hold an official Monopoly tournament, so send your forms in as soon as possible. When you get your approval letter, you can start preparing for your event., Start preparing everything that you will need for the tournament well in advance of the tournament. Putting together a Monopoly tournament is a lot of work and it takes time. You should allow yourself a few months to get everything ready., Make a list of questions to determine what you need to do to get ready for the tournament. For example, you will need to know where you will hold the tournament, how many participants you will have, how many Monopoly games you will need, how many tables and chairs you will need, what types of refreshments you will provide, how you will raise money at the event, and so on.Write down everything that you need to figure out to help yourself stay organized.
If you are organizing this event with other people, you may want to hold a planning meeting to figure everything out. Doing so will help you to keep track of what is taken care of and what still needs to be done.
 The best place to do this is indoors, in a gym, cafeteria, school, or popular local gathering such as an indoor pavilion. Make sure your location has:enough room to hold your participants, volunteers, and spectators.
good ventilation and emergency exits.
 You will need lots of things to run an official Monopoly tournament, so start getting things together as soon as possible. For example, you will need to have enough chairs and tables for your participants. You will also need to have enough Monopoly games for all of the participants.Make a list of everything that you will need to gather before the event and check it often to see how you are doing.
 There are several ways to raise money at a Monopoly tournament. You can require participants to pay an entry fee to participate in the tournament, you can ask businesses in your community to contribute a set amount of money or to provide services at the event, or you can request attendees to make a donation.Try using a combination of fundraising techniques to raise as much money for your cause as possible.
 Hasbro has to approve all promotional materials for an official Monopoly tournament. That means that you can use any of the promotional materials that you included in your event registration packet, but nothing else unless you also get those materials approved by Hasbro., You will need to g some volunteers to serve as refs, bankers, and head judges. At your tournament, each game will always need a judge or referee, and banker present. In an official Monopoly tournament, the banker may not play the game in addition to acting as the banker.Make sure that you hold a meeting prior to the event to explain the tournament rules and procedures to all of your volunteers.
 Before people are allowed into the tournament, you and your volunteers should get everything set up and ready to go. You will need to prepare the tables, chairs, games, refreshments, judges’ table, and anything else that you will require to host your tournament., As participants arrive, you should have them check in with your volunteers to make sure that everyone is registered. You should also provide name tags for all of your participants., Before the tournament begins, you should have one of your volunteers review the official Monopoly rules for the participants. Most of your participants will be familiar with the rules already, but reading them out loud will help to head-off some potential disputes over rules and act as a nice refresher for the participants as well., A Monopoly tournament should have at least two 90 minute rounds. The last round should include six participants playing the same game. This last game will determine the winner of the tournament., It is important to let players know how much time is left in each round. Therefore, you should plan to announce the time remaining every 30 minutes and then again when there are 15 minutes left in the round., Players and spectators will be interested to know who won the last game. After the last game has ended and your judges have determined the results of the last game, you can announce the winners and award their prizes.Make sure that you thank all of the tournament participants and let them know how much money was raised for your non-profit organization.
 Hasbro requires tournament organizers to send a tournament results form to them along with some details about the winner and his or her picture. Complete this form right after the tournament and send it to Hasbro as soon as possible.Make sure that you snap a photo of your winner before he or she departs from the tournament.

