 Certain medical problems can make even the most gentle horse upset and difficult to manage. Many horses avoid the bit because their teeth and mouth hurt. Often, fixing their issues solves the problem overnight.


If your horse throws their head when you touch their ears, you may want to have them checked for ear mites.Keep an eye out for tooth or mouth abscesses. If your horse has never had their teeth "floated"(filed smooth), it may be the problem., A horse communicates through certain elements of body language. By learning how to interpret their body language, you might be able to figure what it is that is bothering your horse. It may take a few weeks to understand your horse’s unique body language, but in general, horses tend to demonstrate the same physical cues.If the ears are pointed backwards, it may mean that they are distracted by other sounds. If the ears are excessively twitching or swiveling, they may be either anxious or distracted.
Your horse's head should be lowered if they are relaxed. If the horse holds their head high but still, they may be distracted by something. If their head is low but they are shaking it from side to side, they are demonstrating aggression.
A horse that is leaning back and splaying its forelegs may be scared or spooked.
If your horse paws the ground, they may be bored. If they forcefully stomp, they may be becoming annoyed.
 Ill-fitting or worn equipment can be uncomfortable for your horse, and it may explain why your horse is so reluctant to be bridled. In addition to the bridle, you should check your saddle to make sure that there are no protruding parts that might make your horse grumpy.Check the bit to make sure that there are no cracks or sharp edges. These might hurt your horse.If your horse does not like to have their ears touched, you can use a bridle with bit clips. This will make it easier for you to put the bridle over their head without touching their ears., Some horses don’t like particular types of bits. They may dislike the taste or be uncomfortable with the size. If your horse is reluctant to take the bit, you might want to consider switching to different material or thickness. Test out different bits to see which one is best for your horse.


Some horses prefer the taste of copper bits over that of stainless steel or nickel.Some horses may do well with plastic bit.Bits that are too small may be pinching the horse's mouth while bits that are too big may hang out of their mouth.Rubber bits with large diameters may work well with younger, more inexperienced horses.