 Pain might be an inevitable of your child’s hospital stay, whether it’s due to their condition or to invasive procedures that need to be done for their treatment. Providing gentle, calming touch can help ease anxiety and redirect their focus to good, rather than painful, sensations. Rock or cradle younger children, stroke their hair, or gently rub their back. Hold hands with older children and tell them to squeeze your hand as hard as they can., Starting an IV, having blood drawn, and many other procedures may be frightening and uncomfortable. Try to be present for procedures to provide comfort, and give your child a big hug afterward. Tell them that they’re brave and did a great job – positive reinforcement can make them feel less afraid of the next procedure.Do not tell your child that something won’t hurt if it will. Instead, talk to them about ways of coping with fear and discomfort. You can say something like, "It'll probably hurt a little like a bee sting, but it will be over in just a second and because you're so brave it won't be a big deal."

, Deep breathing relaxes the body, eases anxiety, and lessens pain.If your child is old enough to cooperate, teach them to breathe in deeply and exhale slowly. It can help to have them count during inhalation and exhalation. A good general plan is to exhale for twice as long as they inhale.


With young children, you can use a pinwheel or bubbles to get them to exhale deeply.
 Help your child redirect their thoughts and attention away from their pain and onto something else that’s more pleasant. Music, books, movies, toys, games – anything that takes their mind off the pain is helpful. The more they have to focus on the task, the better. Older children might benefit from challenges like chess, crossword puzzles, or Sudoku. Distract young children by telling them a story or singing their favorite song.Most children will likely have a TV in their room that can use when they feel well enough to watch it.
 Mimic the role of guided imagery as a relaxation technique by engaging your younger child’s imagination. Have them read or make up a story and focus on very fine details, recall their favorite TV show or movie and tell you its plotline, or have them remember in detail a time or place that they really liked.Older children can use visualization during deep breathing exercises. Tell them to imagine breathing in bright, healing light that fills up their whole body. Then imagine exhaling out feelings of tension and discomfort.
 Young children learn and grow through play, and this shouldn’t stop when they’re in the hospital. Playtime may be a much needed distraction, a way to release emotions, and will make their day feel more normal.