 Rapidly changing hormone levels may cause your breasts to become swollen, sore, or tingly as soon as one to two weeks into a pregnancy. They may feel heavier or fuller, or tender to the touch. The area around your nipples, called the areola, may also darken or grow in size., Nausea, often referred to as "morning sickness," affects 70 to 85 percent of pregnant women.Despite the "morning sickness" label, nausea can occur at any time of day, though morning is most common. The exact cause of this common symptom is unknown, but pregnancy hormones likely play a leading role. You may find yourself craving (or repulsed by) certain foods. You may also find yourself more sensitive to smells.If you find yourself experiencing this symptom, you may experience relief around weeks 13 or 14. Unfortunately, however, some women do experience nausea throughout their pregnancy.You may lessen your symptoms by using a variety of tactics:


Eat small, frequent meals. While this may seem counterintuitive, eating something may actually help to calm your stomach.
Rest as much as you can.
Choose bland foods without strong smells. Saltine crackers, oyster crackers, or unsweetened dry cereals may be good choices for snacks.
Drink ginger tea or suck on ginger candies., Pregnancy may make you feel more tired as soon as one week following conception. Pregnancy hormones will direct your body to start increasing its blood volume so you can provide for both you and your baby. This can lower your blood pressure and your blood sugar levels -- and leave you feeling exhausted., Pregnancy causes your kidneys to work harder. Your increased blood volume means they must filter extra fluid. As a result, even early in pregnancy you may find yourself making extra trips to the bathroom.


If you have a burning sensation with urination, then this may be a sign of infection.
 Pregnancy hormones slow your digestive cycle so that additional nutrients can reach the fetus. Hormones can also relax the muscles that push waste through your digestive tract.
 Pregnancy hormones can take a toll on your body, resulting in mood swings over the course of your first trimester. While these changes in your mood may feel similar to symptoms of premenstrual syndrome (PMS), persistent mood changes without a period following are a potential sign of pregnancy. You may experience mood swings both due to physical changes and for emotional reasons.Consult your doctor if you find that changes in your mood are damaging your ability to cope with daily life.
 Your blood vessels dilate during pregnancy as your blood volume increases. This can contribute to lower blood pressure or blood sugar, and cause you to become dizzy or faint.