 The first step to successfully managing a restaurant is drawing up a comprehensive management plan. The management and organization of your business should be a part of your larger business plan. The management section should clearly indicate the responsibilities of the respective parts of the management team and the procedures you use to maintain clear communication and co-operation across different part of the business.


For example, if you have a separate finance manager, or marketing manager, you should detail the structures that ensure that everybody is working to the same goals and with the same strategies.
It should be completely clear who is responsible for what, and the oversight procedures in place.
It can be a good idea to consult with your staff as you write and revise this, and be sure that everybody knows their own responsibilities and understands each other's roles.
You can access examples from other restaurants online., An important element in a well-managed restaurant is the existence of a clearly defined, well-understood, and consistently applied architecture of policies and procedures. These are the basic backbones of you restaurant that will help with the daily decision-making and enable all your staff to better understand their roles. Think of this as an operations manual that records and shapes how the business works.You will need to include:


Clear Human Resources and Personnel procedures for dealing with staff.
Ordering procedures for stock so that you do not run out of anything, or get an excess of anything.
Procedures and codes of conduct for staff behaviour in the kitchen and front of house.
Financial reporting procedures so that the financial health of the restaurant is always well-known. These should clearly record all in-comings and out-goings.Procedures for handling money, emptying tills, and opening and closing the restaurant
Procedures for ensuring food safety and compliance with all relevant legislation. You can find food safety plan templates to use online., Part of reason to develop clear business and management plans, as well as determined policies and procedures for daily operations, is to create a clear identity for your restaurant. How you manage your business will go a long way towards shaping its development and that of you and your staff. Consider writing out a statement of your vision and values for the business. This could be a guiding group of statements that you refer back to.


For example, if you want to be a vegetarian restaurant, or only use organic local ingredients, write this up into a mission statement.
Having statements like this can help you keep sight of why you started the business in the first place. Especially during tough periods.
You could have a mission statement that delineates your founding purpose and a vision that describes where you want to reach.