 Though most land animals aren’t at risk of sand flea infestation, dogs and cats with thick fur may carry them into your home unknowingly. Spread your pet’s fur with your fingertips and look for bites or swelling. It may be difficult to spot sand fleas themselves depending on fur color, but their red, inflamed bites will almost always be visible at skin level.Pay attention to behaviors like excessive scratching or licking. These could be warning signs that your dog or cat may be carrying sand fleas.
Though tedious, being vigilant about checking for pests is the best way to keep them from setting up in your home.
 Give your pet a bath using warm water and shampoo, then towel or blow them dry completely. Once you’re finished, apply an anti-flea medication to prevent sand fleas from coming back. The life cycle of adult sand fleas is around 48 hours, so it may be a good idea to keep your pet indoors during this time.Dab a little antihistamine cream on your pet’s bites to reduce itching and redness.Take your pet to the vet if you suspect that it may be a host for sand flea eggs.
 Vacuum any objects with soft, porous surfaces to ensure that unseen sand fleas won’t immediately return. This includes things like dog beds, blankets, pillows and soft fabric toys. Steam cleaning has been shown to effectively wipe out sand fleas lodged in clothing and other objects.Consider treating pet areas with an organic pesticide or diatomaceous earth. Be sure to vacuum and clean them afterwards so that your pet doesn’t accidentally ingest any harmful substances.
 Sand fleas are most commonly found in warm, humid marine conditions. They tend to be most active between late night and early morning. If you often walk or play with your pet in these types of places, schedule your outing for daylight hours and stick to the sidewalk or tall grass to minimize their chance of contracting sand fleas. Dogs are at especially high risk of picking up sand fleas due to their tendency to roll and dig.
Cover up or spray yourself with insect repellent before spending time in places that are natural habitats for sand fleas.