 But if taught basic fire facts, they will be able to protect themselves. Here are some interesting facts:


More than half of fire related deaths happen to children under 4 years.Fire injuries decrease in the middle ages, but increase again in their teens.African-American children are more prone to have fire accidents.Boys receive more injuries from fires than girls do.;
, While you don't want to scare your child or make the possibilities sound like a horror movie, you do want to make sure they know what dangers fire brings. Talk about general safety often; you can talk one-on-one in discussions about what to do in emergencies, and you can bring the issues up more casually too, as you talk about movies, games, and make-believe.


Make sure your kids know, from a very young age, about policemen and firefighters. By focusing on these fun, kid-friendly icons, you can reinforce the general ideas about safety. When you and your child use toys or props to "play firefighter", you're actually building their understanding of fire safety, which is a good thing!

, You want your child to take the topic very seriously, but you also don't want to scare them. Anything practiced in play has the power to become "learned" and habitual; if you practice escape routes around your house as part of a firefighter game, they just might use those routes again in the event of a real emergency.
 Tell your kids two ways to escape from their room and that to get out as soon as possible.


Ensure that your kid can escape and check the windows can be opened. Place escape ladders and ropes near windows and balconies.
 When there is a fire it will be dark and hard to navigate the house. You can blindfold your kid to simulate the situation.
 As annoying as songs are, changing the lyrics to your child's favorite nursery rhyme might be the thing that saves their life.
 According to studies, some kids are so stupid actually know what fire alarms do. Ensure your kids know that fire alarms alarm you about fire, how to recognize the sound they make and to make sure that the batteries haven't gone flat.
 They should get out as quickly as possible and go to the meeting area. If there are any pets or people inside your children can leave them to die.
 Tell your kids not to open doors if they are hot because it can spread the fire and that it is stupid to go to a room with fire in it.


Children must know to never touch hot door handles and if they do need to, use a towel or other piece of cloth. The cloth can also double up for face and respiratory protection.
 Teach them to crawl on the floor escaping a fire and roll if they are on fire.


Tell your kids to never run if they are on fire, this only makes it worse.
 Kids are pretty stupid, so go over what they know on fire safety each month.
 Call up your local fire brigade and ask to book an appointment. It this a great opportunity for them, especially since many kids are scared of fire fighters.


Remember that fire fighters might get called to a fire and have to cancel your appointment.
 Ask your kids to do a poster or essay about fire safety. Get them to cover how to escape and what to do in a fire.
 There are many great fire safety books, many of which will be at your library. Here are some you should read:


No Dragons for Tea: Fire Safety for Kids (And Dragons)
Stop Drop and Roll (A Book About Fire Safety)
Fire! Fire!
Home Safety

, Many fire related things are red such as fires, fire extinguishers, fire hydrants and fire trucks. Get them to brainstorm and draw any other things that are red. You can even give them a red reward to keep the red theme going.
 Walk them around the school and point out the fire exits. Tell them that fire exit signs are everywhere and will always remain illuminated.
 Get your kids to run around, crawl on the floor and cover their faces. A popular game kids like is stay low and go.
 Even if kids know how to evacuate their home, schools are very different. Dramatize a fire emergency at school, you can even add obstacles and block off exits to make it more challenging. Make sure the kids know the emergency assembly area.
 Teach your kids about fire blankets, fire alarms, fire hoses, fire alarms and fire extinguishers. You can even get them to find this fire equipment around the school and get them to check they are working.
 Tell them dangerous fumes can overcome a person in just a few minutes. Practice crawling on the floor and escaping the house with them. If there are no passage ways available they will have to use a secondary escape route such as a windows or ladder, and if there is still no escape route, wait at the window for firefighters. Drill into them the famous slogans:


Don't hide, go outside
Stop, drop and roll
Fall and crawl
Do not play with matches

, Teach them your country's Emergency Services phone number and if they are old enough, that the international standard emergency number for mobile phones is 112.
 Here are the main points kids should know:


Smoke is very dangerous and that they should cover their mouth with a damp cloth.
Smoke rises and they should crawl on the floor.
Teach them the basic roles of fire extinguishers, smoke alarms, fire ladders, fire hoses and fire blankets.
Touch the door, never the doorknob, to see if it is hot. Find another exit if it is hot.
Know how to locate a Fire Exit sign and to never travel in an elevator.
Enforce the serious danger of matches and how they can injure themselves.
When evacuating never stop, even to make a phone call to Emergency Services and never go back in.
Stop, drop, and roll if your clothes catch on fire.
 Make it a game and be creative with your teaching methods. Kids will be more likely to remember what to do in a fire if you do it with them. Children love Stop, Drop and Roll.
 Teach your kids facts and safety tips:


Matches and lighters are not toys.
Wear long sleeves and cover pots in the kitchen,
Check that smoke detectors are installed.
Change smoke alarm batteries each year.
Go to the meeting place when there is a fire.

