 Unless you're a savant, reading will be limited to the speed you can think. Anything beyond that is skimming.
Vocalizing is just a bad habit. When speaking, people lower their tone to indicate a new phrase or thought is coming. You vocalize to find the phrases.
Reading fast is best for light reading. Reading for pleasure should be savored. Gulping it down is as fun as watching a movie in fast-forward.
Push your speed and wait for your comprehension to catch up. Concentrate on improving your comprehension. Your speed will increase on its own.;
, Are you reading for pleasure, or reading to learn something?


If you are reading for pleasure then slow down and enjoy it. Appreciate the word choice, the rhythms and cadence, the concepts and mental imagery. The goal is to enjoy this reading, not to finish it as fast as possible.
If you are reading to learn, then you want to concentrate on comprehension and you want this comprehension in the least amount of time. Some reading will be a combination or somewhere between these two types, and you will adjust your reading accordingly. You may even want to read 'light' material quickly just to practice reading fast.
 Do not say or think of the words. Glance at the phrase and think of what it means. Quickly picture it in your mind. For example, look at the following phrases:


It was the best of times, — it was the worst — of times — it was the age of wisdom, — it was the age — of foolishness.
 At first this may take some effort, but if you've learned to read words without thinking of each letter, you can learn to stop thinking of each word. Words are just symbols, and only when strung together into a phrase do they form a unique thought. You are reading thoughts, not words or letters.
 The goal is to imagine the concept of each phrase. Pushing your speed without getting the meaning, is meaningless. This is the opposite of everything else you'll hear about learning to read fast, but it is the same principle as learning to type; if you slow down and concentrate on accuracy, the speed will follow. Your goal here is to read 'ideas' or phrases rather than words. Sometimes you need to 'slow down' to go faster.

