 After you’ve looked over your task list, make plans with any service professionals who can help you to create your wedding vision. Even though you are choosing a brunch wedding, the standard needs of a photographer and entertainment will need to be arranged well in advance., Look over the space and try to envision it during the late morning hours. Estimate whether or not the lighting will be sufficient or if you will need extra illumination. Consider what the temperature of the space will be when filled with people – will it be too hot or too cold? If you are considering an outside space, begin to think up a back-up plan in case the weather turns bad., Brunch weddings are often considered less formal, as they are early daytime events. However, use the décor to send a message of festive formality by including fine china or specialty linens. Go with high-end, natural items, such as rattan chairs.Also, don’t be afraid to embrace rich colors that fit the season. For example, for a fall brunch wedding, consider incorporating deep reds and rich brown tones., If you want to include a dance floor or DJ, go ahead and do so. However, it may take some additional persuading to get people out on the dance floor and some just won’t participate at all. Give your guests other activities to do, such as completing a customized scavenger hunt, working on personalized crossword puzzles, or posing with funny props in a photo booth or against a backdrop., On the invitations, encourage your guests to dress up by mentioning “Mid-Day Brunch Formal” or “Garden Party” attire. The wedding party can go as formal as black tie or as casual as you choose. Coordinating on the basis of colors or patterns is always a fun idea with everyone wearing a shade of red or a type of polka dots., Transitions in brunch weddings can be difficult as guests do not always know where they should be and when. To address this, have a clear plan regarding how you would like the party to unfold and on what timetable. When you and your partner decide to leave it might be a good idea to suggest additional afternoon activities for your guests to pursue, such as taking a tour of the area.