 Similar to packaged food that is labeled “natural,” shampoos that are labeled “natural” can still contain ingredients that will irritate your yorkie’s skin and hair. Shampoos that are promoted as natural often list “coconut base” as their first ingredient. But not all coconut bases are created equal.For example, the ingredients cocamidopropyl betaine and cocamide DEA/MEA are derived from coconut oil. However, they have been chemically altered to the point where they are environmental toxins that affect the immune system and disrupt hormones., Many dog shampoos that claim to be “herbal” contain artificial colors. Artificial colors can be very harmful. Artificial colors are associated with many forms of cancer, and should be avoided.Examples of artificial colors are Yellow 5, D&C, FD&C, and others.
 Try to avoid shampoos that contain ingredients such as sulfates, formaldehyde, isopropyl alcohol, parabens, methylchloroisothiazolinone, polysorbates, polyethylene glycol, and propylene glycol.Many of these ingredients are by products that can irritate and disrupt the pH balance of the skin and fur, or cause serious illnesses and diseases in dogs.
 A great way to avoid shampoos containing harmful ingredients is to make a homemade shampoo for your dog. When making the shampoo, look for alkaline ingredients, i.e., ingredients with a pH of 7 or higher. Most soaps and soap bases have their pH level listed on the packaging. Here is a simple recipe for a safe and all-natural dog shampoo:In a large container, mix two cups of apple-cider vinegar, two cups of a natural or organic dish soap with a pH of 7 to 8, and four cups of water.Then, add four ounces of vegetable glycerin. Mix and shake well. Shake again before each use.
Avoid dish soaps with strong scents and additives. Choose an all-natural, organic dish soap with simple ingredients.
When making a shampoo for your dog, be sure to balance acidic substances (like vinegar) with alkaline substances (like baking soda) in a neutral base (like water). Shampoos that are too alkaline will not be a problem. However, shampoos that are too acidic can cause skin problems.

