 Stand with your feet shoulder width apart with your legs slightly pointed out. Bend down into a squat until your legs are at 90 degrees, lightly grabbing onto your thighs. Jump up, bringing your feet together and landing with your legs side by side, almost like a jumping jack. Jump back out into a the squat position to start the next rep. Do 20 reps.


This workout incorporates cardio as well to help burn fat and promote lean as well as strong muscles.
As an advanced move, instead of landing with your feet side by side, crisscross your legs. This adds extra stretch and difficulty., Standing in front of a step, bench, chair, or other stable surface strong enough to hold your weight, place your right foot on top of the bench. Step up onto the top of the bench, bringing your left leg to rest beside your right. Step back down with the left leg, returning to your starting position with your right leg still on the step. Do 10 to 12 reps with each leg as lead.


To add intensity, try holding hand weights to add weight for each leg to lift. You can also increase your speed to add a cardio element.
The size of your step depends on your level of comfort and ability. Start at a height that is comfortable and increase it as you get stronger.
 Hold a five pound weight down in each hand, resting against your thighs. Stand with your hips over hip width apart. Slowly bend your knees 90 degrees as you move into a squat, keeping your knees from going over your toes. Move your arms straight down toward the floor. Stand back up to complete the rep. Repeat for a total of 15 reps.


Try to increase your number of reps as you increase your strength. , Stand with your feet hip width apart. Step far out with your right leg, squatting down and bending your right knee 90 degrees with your knee over your toes. This will pull your left leg straight. Place your hand on the floor in front of you for support and balance. Stand back up, bringing your right leg back to rest beside your left. Do 15-20 reps on each leg.


For a more advanced move, bend your leg behind you and touch the bottom of your foot each time you stand back up from the lunge. You can also increase your speed to add cardio to this step.
 Lie on the floor and place your legs hip-width apart on a bench, chair, or couch. Bend your knees between 70 and 90 degrees, toes pointing at the ceiling. Press your heels into the bench and lift your hips toward the ceiling, clenching your butt muscles. Drop your hips back to the ground to complete one rep. Do 15 reps.


Do as many sets of reps as you feel comfortable. If you can only do one set of 15 at first, try to work up to more sets as your muscles strengthen.
For a more advanced workout, do this exercise with a single leg on the bench instead of both., Stand with back, shoulders, and butt pressed against a wall and your feet slightly away from the wall. Keep feet hip-width apart. Slide down until thighs are parallel to floor. Hold for one count, then slide up. Do 12 reps.


To intensify this exercise, try using an exercise ball or holding the counts for longer periods of time. The exercise ball isn't nearly as stable as the wall and will engage your butt and abs more. Holding the counts longer will add intensity for your legs and butt muscles., Stand with your feet as wide apart as you feel comfortable with your toes pointed out away from your body. Hold one 3 to 10 pound hand weight or kettlebell in your hands with your arms straight down in front of you. Bend your knees until your thighs are parallel to floor, legs pointing out toward your toes and away from your body. Hold for 2-3 seconds, then straighten legs, keeping heels flat. Squeeze thighs and butt as you come up. Do 15 reps.


Make sure your knees stay over your toes, pointed out, when doing these squats. Otherwise, you might twist your ankles and injure yourself.If you want to add a cardio element to this step, when you raise back up to starting position, jump in place, returning to starting position before heading into the next squat.
 Lie flat on your back, knees bent in front of you and arms and hands flat on the floor. Raise up your butt, bringing your torso into a bridge shape and using your arms still on the floor for stability. From here, lift your right leg until your knee is pointed at the ceiling. Bring the leg back down. Do the same with your left leg to complete one rep. Do 15 to 20 reps.


To increase the cardio aspect of this exercise, raise your legs faster.Make sure your back stays straight and your arms remain engaged. You don't want to injure yourself by straining your back or losing your balance.

