 Most universities will give you the option of either purchasing or renting academic regalia. For most people, renting academic regalia is more cost effective. However, if you are planning on becoming a professor, you might be expected to wear regalia as a faculty member at future events. In that case, purchasing your own regalia might be more efficient., Many universities have a specific provider of academic regalia and will not permit you to purchase regalia elsewhere. Other universities will allow you to buy or rent regalia from any provider you choose, or perhaps borrow regalia from an alumna. Always adhere to your specific school's regalia requirements so that you are allowed to participate fully in commencement exercises.
 Different types of degrees require varying academic hoods. To make sure that you acquire the correct kind of hood, inform your provider whether you are earning an Associate's degree, Bachelor's degree, Master's degree, or Doctoral degree.


An Associate's degree hood is usually worn flat against the back like a cape or cowl. Note that Associate's hoods are not as commonly worn as graduate degree hoods--you might not need a hood to be a part of your regalia.A Bachelor's degree hood is 3 feet long and does not end in a sharp point. Note that Bachelor's hoods are not as commonly worn as graduate degree hoods--you might not need a hood to be a part of your regalia.A Master's degree hood is 3.5 feet long and comes to a point at the bottom.A Doctoral hood is the longest hood at 4 feet long. It has the sharpest point and also the largest trim of all hoods., If you’re not using the university provider, it’s important to double check that your regalia adheres to school standards. Make sure that your regalia provider has all the relevant institutional information so that you match your fellow graduates., American universities have a standard set of colors that indicate your field of study, rather than just your degree. These fields determine the color of the velvet trim that lines your hood. European universities are not standardized in the same way as American universities. Check with your institution to make sure you are purchasing the correct academic hood.Law students, for example, wear hoods trimmed in purple, while all Ph.D. students wear hoods trimmed in royal blue.

