



Instructions:

Preheat oven too 400ʡF (204ʡC).
Split the muffins in half with a fork, and spread each half with 1/2 teaspoon of the oil and 2 tablespoons of the tomato sauce or mashed tomatoes.
Sprinkle each muffin half with a little of the oregano and basil.
Top it off with a slice of mozzarella cheese and some of the grated Parmesan.
Put the other toppings on (pepperoni, sausage, mushrooms, etc.)
Arrange the pizzas on a cookie sheet and bake 8 to 10 minutes, or until cheese melts.

;
,
1/3 cup chopped nuts or seeds, such as almonds, pecans, pumpkin seeds, sunflower seeds or walnuts (optional)
Milk or plain vanilla yogurt
Honey or sugar for sweet taste (optional)
Gummy worms (optional)



Instructions:

Pour the oats and barely into a mixing bowl.Stir in the dried fruit. You can use one type or fruit, or more for a total of 1/2 cup. Add the nuts if desired. Stir these together until well mixed, and store in an airtight container.
Serve the cereal in a bowl and top with milk. You can add a small amount of sugar or a teaspoon of honey to sweeten it. You can also serve cereal with plain or vanilla yogurt. Fresh fruit makes a nice addition, too. For a warm cereal, heat the milk before adding to the bowl.
For extra fun, add a gummy worm to the bowl for your child to find. In this case the early bird really does get the worm!



, Boil for 2 minutes, stirring constantly.
Remove pan from heat and stir in vanilla and oats. Mix well. Allow to cool for a bit so your child won't get burned while making the paws. Batter should still be warm, though, when you move on to the next step.
To make a paw, drop a tablespoon of batter on wax paper. Press five almond slivers into one side of the paw to make the claws.
Allow to cool completely before digging in. Makes about 15 cookies.

Fill the hole of the apple with peanut butter using a butter knife or spoon. If the peanut butter is too stiff, pop it in the microwave for a couple seconds to soften it.
Sprinkle sunflower seeds and/ or M&M's on the top.

Pour into a glass and serve.
Remember: These ingredients only make 1 drink, double or triple for ingredients for 2 or 3.



