 Do you want to spend only a little on a radio? Or are you willing to spend a lot?
, The 1993-1995 Jeep Grand Cherokees use a DIN-and-a-Half style radio, which is not a common size of radio, so you'll have to purchase a single-DIN style radio (the most common size of radio). Also, radios that have a front screen that folds in and out won't fit your Jeep because the screen will hit the dash of your Jeep when it opens., If the words 'AccuSound by Jensen' or 'Infinity Gold' appear on either the radio itself or your Jeep's front door speaker grilles, then your Jeep is equipped with the premium sound system (you'll also have an amplifier mounted under the rear left seat). You'll need to connect a remote amplifier turn-on wire to turn on the factory amplifier when power is supplied to your Jeep's sound system. If you don't have the words 'AccuSound by Jensen' or 'Infinity Gold' on your Jeep's front door speaker grilles, and you don't have an amplifier mounted under the rear left seat, then your Jeep does not have the premium sound system, and you don't need to connect an extra wire when installing your new radio., The employees at your local car audio shop or consumer electronics store should be able to help you determine this., Do you travel cross-country and want uninterrupted music, news, talk, sports, and more wherever you go? Then you'll want satellite radio. Do you like to talk on your cellular phone while driving? Then you'll want Bluetooth. Do you want to send music from your cellular phone without wires? Maybe you like to listen to Pandora? Then you'll want Bluetooth Stereo capabilities. Do you like to listen to your iPod or other portable device while driving? Then you'll want either an auxiliary input jack or iPod/USB port on the front of the radio. Do you fear of your radio being stolen? Then you'll want a radio with a removable front faceplate. Finally, if you don't find yourself listening to CD's frequently, then you'll want a Digital Media receiver that doesn't feature a CD player, and only Bluetooth, Bluetooth Stereo, and iPod/USB and auxiliary input jacks., Installation services of car radios usually cost, though you can ensure that your new radio will be installed correctly the first time. If you don't mind a little bit of work and disassembling and reassembling your Jeep's dashboard, then you'll want to save money and install your new radio yourself.