 Most venues offer a party room with dance floor, tables, chairs, place settings, table cloths. Normally, you can change minor details in the dinner and dessert menu, along with amount of chairs and settings at each table and tablecloth colors. Make sure you go over what your theme is before planning ahead;
, Get the invitations in a black white and red pattern. Some are white paper with black lettering and black damask pattern along with a red ribbon and monogram. Order extra invites just in case you need to send to family or if too many people RSVP negatively, you can send out more. Make the RSVP date a month before your party, request the guests to dress in white and black attire, the invites are a great place to include a request to join your court of honor, or to escort you to the party.
 Roses are a classic choice but may seem a bit mature for a sweet 16 party and a more youthful alternative is daisies which come in both red and white. For my personal arrangement, 4 bouquets of 6 red daisies and 3 bouquets of 6 white daisies. The flowers are straight in a cylindrical vase which is inside a round fish bowl vase and anchored by black natural rocks. For the red arrangements, a black betta fish will swim in the fish bowl vase and for the white arrangements, a red betta fish will swim. This gives the effect of a fish in with the flowers without subjecting the fish to the dangerous chemicals on the flower stems. I have already determined each fish home after the party, each with an experienced fish owner.
 Ask your girls to wear red dresses and all your guys to wear black pants, a white dress shirt, a black blazer, and a black tie. Ask your escort to wear the same with a red tie.
 A couple of options:
square, 4x4 vases with a single floating blossom.



5 square vases in a row, outside 5x5, the next two in are 4x4 and the center is 3x3. if you've used other flowers along with the daises maybe put a red daisy bloom in the 5x5, a white cymbidium orchid in the second two inner two and the center a red rose bloom.
 Ask your florist if she could make the daisy into a hair clip or onto headband. Red if you're having a black and white dress and white if you're having a red dress.
 Give each of your court guys a red daisy boutonniere so they stand out, consider giving your girls a white daisy corsage. Give your escort a white daisy boutonniere .
 if you decide on a floor length, go for a red or red black and white print, if you go for a shorter go for a black white and red print or a black an white print and purchase a red silk sash from a dress boutique.
,,,