 Use the information gleaned about the person, the context, and how an outsider might view the insult to determine your reaction. , Choosing to ignore an insult can give you power over the offender. People make offensive remarks for some sort of reaction--perhaps to embarrass you or get under your skin. When you ignore the slight, as if you didn't even hear it, they don't get the satisfaction of seeing you react.


Consider insults like a game of tennis. Someone can serve you the ball, but it's up to you if you choose to hit it back. When you don't, the person eventually gets bored and moves along., Humor can serve to undermine the insult, bring the audience on your side, and remove tension from the environment.For example, your coworker insults your idea on how you should handle a client. You might respond by saying "Ha! Here I was thinking you actually had a solution".
 Think of the insult as the other person's opinion only. We're all entitled to them, but it doesn't necessarily mean the opinion is true or shared by others. However, if the person is genuine and has no reason to offend you or get a rise out of you, you might consider whether you want to consider his words as constructive criticism rather than an insult., This is generally the route you don't want to go. Getting angry doesn't do any favors for you or the person you're upset with. And, frequently, becoming defensive can put the audience on the side of the person who did the insulting, making it seem as if you can't handle criticism.


A better angle to responding with anger or defensiveness is to aim for acceptance. Remember, you can always learn from another's perspective of you, even if the opinion is erroneous. Take advantage of criticism to further enhance your understanding of yourself and the world around you., If you have decided that the person meant you no harm - or, if there was some truth to the insult despite the sting - you may make decision to forgive the offender and move on. It's up to you to forgive, as forgiveness cannot be successful if it is half-hearted. Keep in mind, however, that choosing to forgive releases bitterness and anxiety and helps you better connect with people around you.Are you unsure how to forgive? You can forgive by taking an active role in the situation and stepping out of the victim role. Acknowledge your part, if you had any, in the comment. Choose to not let the insulting remark have power over you anymore.

