 Have the graduate select clothing to reflect their personality. Take pictures of the graduate wearing a few different outfits.Darker colors work better than light colors on camera. Busier patterns can also be distracting.
V-necks and swoop necks look great on camera, and a turtleneck can be flattering if the graduate has a longer face.
Try mixing and matching formal and informal outfits. The graduate can wear something like a suit or dress as well as their favorite casual top and jeans.;
, Graduation photos should capture who the graduate was during their school program. Go with their regular hair style that they wear every day. Have them avoid trying fancy new styles during the photo shoot. If they wear makeup, keep it basic. A light layer of foundation and small amounts of eye makeup and lipstick photograph best.Focus on lightening imperfections with makeup rather than applying it to their full face. Use concealer to get rid of dark spots and circles under the eyes, but do not use concealer and foundation to do a full on contoured look.
 It can be awkward to figure out what to do with your arms while taking graduation photos. Make sure the graduate does not hold their arms straight at their side, as this can look static. Instead, have them pose their arms.Have them put their arms on their hips.
Have them loosely cross their arms.
Have them place their arms in their pockets.
Have them hold their arms against something, like a wall or a fence.
 Holding your legs too stiff in a photo can look unnatural. Have the graduate bend one leg at the knee. Have them hold their legs at different lengths and angles, as this can look more natural and relaxed., Props are a big part of graduation photos. Have the graduate bring in props that showcase who they were during their school years.If they play a musical instrument, have them bring that in for photos.
If they're on a sports team, have them bring in something that showcases that. For example, have them bring in a hockey stick if they're on the hockey team.
If they're academically inclined, take pictures of them reading books.
 If you're responsible for taking photos at someone's ceremony, or are taking photos of your own before the ceremony, capture the small details of the day. This will help you remember the mood for the coming years.For example, take pictures of the graduate getting ready. Have a few photos of the graduate trying on their cap and gown.
If there are any decorations up, take pictures of these. For example, photograph the line up of congratulatory cards.
If family members are doing things like cooking, cleaning, or shopping for graduation day, get a few photos of these moments.
 Graduation ceremonies typically take place at the high school or college the graduate attended. Take some pictures of the school on graduation day.Take pictures of the school from the exterior. Get a shot of the building, as well as any signs with the name of the school.
Take pictures of any special places in the school, such as murals, trophy cases, or classrooms. You can get a picture with the graduate standing in front of such places.
If your graduate has favorite teachers or professors, try getting a picture of them with their teachers.
 If you're taking photos during the ceremony, do not hesitate to get close. Get up out of your seat before the graduate's name is going to be called. Try to get close up photos of the graduate walking on stage and accepting their diploma. If your camera has a zoom feature, use this to get a close up shot.Do not be shy about getting up close during photos. Chances are, many family members and parents are doing the same. Graduation is a special time and it's natural to want to capture it on film.
 After everyone has received their cap and gown, take some broad pictures of the class. Take photographs of the class seated in their caps and gowns. Take action shots of graduates throwing up their gowns after the ceremony. Also, take some cap and gown shots after the ceremony. Get pictures of your graduate with their friends, family members, and teachers wearing their cap and gown., After the ceremony, step back and take some picture as the graduate chats with friends, teachers, and others. Pictures of the graduate laughing, smiling, and enjoying the day will capture the mood. A solid mix of posed and candid pictures can really capture the details of graduation day., Most cameras have a white balance filter. Gymnasiums are often very bright, and it can be difficult to set the white balance properly. Get their early and take a few pictures with different white balance setting filters on your camera. See which filter gets the clearest photos so you'll get high quality shots during the ceremony., Outdoor photos are popular for graduates. However, on very bright days, the light from the outdoors can affect a picture's quality. On such days, have the graduate stand in the shade. The natural light will highlight their features without obscuring the photos.It's a good idea to take a few test shots with outdoor photos to make sure you're happy with how they turn out.
 When the ceremony is underway, make use of your camera's manual settings. You do not want to miss important moments fiddling with your camera. The camera should adjust as necessary based on things like lighting and exposure. You can focus on taking pictures alone.However, if you know your camera very well, feel free to adjust it as necessary. If you can smoothly switch the settings without too much distraction, it may make for higher quality photos.
 A downward angle is great when taking pictures in the weeks before the ceremony. A downward angle is flattering for everyone and can help slim someone's face. This works especially well for close-up photographs of a graduate's face., Photographs of someone staring directly at the camera are rarely flattering. Instead of taking close up photographs of someone's face, have someone look to one direction or another. Not only does this slim the face, it tends to look more natural.