 You will likely need to seek veterinary care following a traumatic injury, but you may be able to perform first aid to help stabilize your dog. That said, an injured or frightened dog is much more likely to bite you unexpectedly, so apply a muzzle before touching or moving your dog.If your dog has clearly been injured but you're unable to identify specific injuries, take great care when moving them. Moving their body as little as possible, position your dog on a stiff, flat surface and get them to a vet.
If the dog is bleeding, you will need clean bandages or cloth to slow bleeding and protect the wound for travel to the vet. If someone else is available to help, have them grab these supplies while you apply a muzzle.;
, If your dog has been bitten by another animal, suffered from blunt trauma or burns, or fainted unexpectedly, bring them to the dog immediately. Likewise, if their heartbeat or breathing stopped, get them to the vet quickly and safely.Any breathing complications require especially quick veterinary attention. Surgery may be needed as soon as possible.
Blunt trauma, such as a car accident or fall, may lead to injuries including internal bleeding, organ rupture, skeletal fractures, and head injuries.
Animal bites can cause both deep wounds, as well as spinal injuries or breathing complications that result from being thrashed around. Bites need to be professionally drained, cleaned, and inspected.
 Use a clean towel, and maintain pressure for fifteen minutes. This should stop bleeding from minor injuries. Immediate veterinary care is necessary for injuries that continue to bleed.Consider elevating an appendage that continues bleeding. Do not do this, however, if bones in the affected limb may be broken. Continue to apply pressure to an elevated limb.
 If you are far from a veterinary facility and a wound is still bleeding, there are additional steps you may take to help reduce the bleeding. Do not remove a pad or bandage that has soaked through with blood. Instead, preserve the clot that may be forming and add additional layers of bandages or cloth.Cut blood off at the artery. Use your thumb or finger to compress the main artery supplying blood to an injured limb. These arteries can be accessed from the dog’s armpits or groin.
From the dog’s underside, push into the armpit or groin on the side corresponding with the injury. You will likely be able to feel the artery running down the center of the limb. Press hard enough that blood cannot flow.
 Using a tourniquet is dangerous, and should only be done if you are unable to stop a dog’s bleeding. Use a 2-inch wide piece of material to wrap the severed limb twice and tie the material in a knot. Slip a short stick under one layer of the strip and twist the trick until the tourniquet is tight enough to stop the bleeding. Tie the stick in place and record the time your applied the tourniquet.Loosen the tourniquet every twenty minutes and leave it loose for about twenty seconds.
 Though you may feel as though your dog is alright following a potentially traumatic injury, it’s important to watch them for signs of internal bleeding, which may take a while to develop. If for any reason you are concerned your dog may be suffering from internal bleeding, bring them to the vet immediately.Specific signs of internal bleeding include pale or white gums, skin that is cool to the touch on the legs, ears, coughing up blood, increasing weakness, or tenderness in your dog’s abdomen.
 Once you get your dog to the vet, answer any of the vet’s questions as accurately as you can and provide any medical history you have. Once the dog is stabilized, the vet will perform a thorough analysis of the dog’s nervous system, chest, abdomen, and skeletal system to rule out injuries that may not be apparent. Specific blood and urine tests, as well as x-rays, may be needed.Be thorough in your description of any injury for instance, instead of saying, "My dog was hit by a car," say something like, "My dog was hit on the left side by a car traveling about 30 mph. After they were hit, they walked into the yard and passed out."
Following most significant injuries, expect your dog to stay with the vet for at least 24 hours. Many injuries following a traumatic incident do not make themselves immediately apparent. Accordingly, plan to have your dog stay with the vet for a while for continued monitoring.

