 Raw garlic is an antifungal, and can be used to kill Aspergillus niger.


Raw garlic contains allicin, a natural compound that has strong antifungal properties and can kill a wide variety of fungus, including Aspergillus niger.
Eat 2-3 raw garlic cloves every meal to sufficiently treat Aspergillus niger.
You can also take garlic as a non-odorous capsule three times a day.
It's fungicidal effects become apparent when the allicin is absorbed by your stomach and intestines, and then into your bloodstream.
 The root of golden seal is commonly used as a wound disinfectant for minor cuts, but can also be used as an effective antifungal.


Golden seal can treat Aspergillus niger when taken orally, or applied topically on infected skin.
Golden seal also enhances the antifungal effects of other antifungal agents, making it sought after as an antifungal herbal remedy.
Golden seal is taken as a capsule, usually one capsule twice a day.
It can also be used as a tincture for infected cuts and wounds in your skin.
 Olive oil contains a strong antifungal compound, derived from olives, called oleuropein.


Oleuropein is a strong agent against fungus like Aspergillus niger.
Olives are special as an antifungal agent because instead of killing Aspergillus niger immediately, the oleuropein first disrupts the reproductive ability of the fungus.
This quickly halts the spread of Aspergillus niger.
Then, it cuts off the food supply of the fungus, eradicating Aspergillus niger.
Olive oil can be taken orally, by mixing it with your food, or as a topical treatment on skin wounds.
A safe and effective intake of olive oil is 25 to 40 mL in a day., Coconut oil contains lauric, capric, and caprylic acids, which have potent antifungal characteristics.


Regular intake of coconut oil also acts as a mild natural laxative that can kill and flush out Aspergillus niger in your digestive system.
A recommended antifungal dose of coconut oil is 3 - 6 tablespoons a day or 45 – 90 mL of coconut oil integrated in your food as part of your diet.