 In a large mixing bowl, combine 1 cup (90 grams) of rolled oats, 1 cup (125 grams) of all-purpose flour, 1 ½ cups (300 grams) of white sugar, and ¾ cups (60 grams) of flaked coconut.Mix the ingredients together with a large spoon or whisk.


Flaked coconut can also be called desiccated coconut.;
, Place a small sauce pan on the stove over low heat. Next, add ½ cup (4 ounces) of butter and 1 tablespoon of golden syrup. Allow the butter to melt completely. Stir the mixture well to incorporate the syrup into the melted butter.


If you can’t find golden syrup at your local grocery store, consider buying it online. Otherwise, substitute an equal amount of honey., Use a small bowl or cup. Mix together the boiling water and the baking soda to form a paste. Use the back of a metal spoon to crush any lumps in the baking soda. If you leave the lumps, they may not mix into the dough properly.


If you’re worried about lumps in your baking soda, sift the baking soda into the cup or bowl before adding water.
 Immediately spoon the baking soda and water mixture into the melted butter and golden syrup. Use a whisk to completely incorporate the ingredients. Keep stirring until a layer of white foam forms on the surface of the mixture.Turn off the heat.


If the mixture begins boiling, reduce the heat. Otherwise, you may burn the butter.
 Pour the butter mixture directly into the dry ingredients. Use a baking spatula or spoon to scrape the sides of the saucepan clean. Next, use a large spoon to gently mix everything together. Continue to stir until the mixture is uniform.The dough will cling to the spoon and the sides of the bowl but hold its shape.


If your dough is too dry, add a few drops of water.
If your dough is too wet, sprinkle in some flour.
 Many people believe that Anzac biscuits are best when freshly baked. However, if you’re preparing a large batch of biscuits ahead of time, you can freeze the dough for up to three months. To do so, lay out a large sheet of plastic wrap. Next, spoon the dough onto the plastic wrap in a long line. Roll the plastic wrap around the dough to create a log of biscuit dough and place it in the freezerWhen you’re ready to bake the biscuits, simply cut off small disks of frozen biscuit dough from the log with a serrated knife.
Let the log thaw for an hour or two before slicing it.
 Set your oven to 350 Fahrenheit (175 Celsius) for ten to fifteen minutes.If your oven has an automatic “Preheat” function, follow the manufacturer instructions when preheating your oven.
 Choose two large 26 by 18 inch (66 by 46 centimeter) baking trays. Next, grease the pans with a stick of butter and dust them with flour. Alternatively, cover the trays with wax paper or a silicon baking mat.


If you make a smaller batch of biscuits, you can use smaller baking trays.
 Use a spoon to scoop out a small amount of dough into your hands. Next, roll the dough into a walnut-sized ball. Set the ball on the corner of the baking sheet. Leave about two inches (five centimeters) of space around each ball of dough.Dip a fork in a cup of water and press the tines onto the top of the biscuits to create a traditional Anzac biscuit pattern.
 Check on the biscuits periodically. Let them cook for eighteen to twenty minutes or until the top surface of the biscuit is golden brown.If you like crunchy biscuits, allow the biscuits to bake for an extra minute.


If your oven doesn't have a glass panel on it, you will need to open the door to check the color of the cookies. Check quickly and sparingly to avoid letting all the heat out of your oven.
If you used frozen dough, you may need to bake the biscuits for an extra minute or two.
 When the biscuits are done cooking, remove the baking trays from the oven. Next, set out a large wire rack over a dish towel or clean baking pan. Use a spatula to transfer the biscuits to the wire rack to cool completely.Once the biscuits are cool, serve them or store them in an airtight container for up to two weeks., You can enjoy these delicious biscuits even if you aren’t able to enjoy gluten products. To do so, use an equal mixture of brown and white rice flour instead of all-purpose flour.


For example, if your biscuit recipe calls for a cup of all-purpose flour, use half a cup of white rice flour and half a cup of brown rice flour instead.
Rolled oats are naturally gluten free. However, if you’re especially sensitive, buy brands that are processed in gluten-free facilities.
 Many Australasians will frown on any sweet additions to their most patriotic biscuit. However, the crunchy golden notes in Anzac biscuits can be enhanced with a variety of flavors. Blend in any additions last, just before the final mixing of the dough. For example, consider adding:


Chocolate chips
Orange zest and a tablespoon of freshly squeezed orange juice
Maple syrup instead of golden syrup
Raisins

, If you prefer crunchy, toffee-like biscuits, simply add an extra tablespoon of golden syrup to your biscuit recipe. The extra golden syrup will enhance the toasted notes in the biscuit and create a shiny glaze on the outside crust.