 Use your fingers and feel the wax, whether at the tips or at the roots. If the wax is soft, it is best to use the shampoo method. However, if the wax has hardened, it will need to be melted in order to be removed.


You can always get a friend or relative to check for you, whether or not the wax is hard. Sometimes it can be hard to see/feel for yourself, and in that case get a second opinion.
 Try and position the paper towels exactly where the wax is. Grab the section of waxed hair, and wrap the paper towel around it tightly.Only do this one section at a time, otherwise the paper towels will become hard to manage and might fall out.
You may want to dampen your hair, or the paper towel in order to help the paper towel stick in position.
 Plug the hair dryer in and turn it on to high heat. Feel the heat with your hand to make sure that it is not too hot, which would damage your hair follicles.Hold the paper towel in place, and run the hair dryer over the area. Make sure not to get too close to the paper towel, which might result in burning.
Make several passes through the area and over the paper towel. You should start to see/feel the candle wax melting, and soaking through the paper towel.
If you have a hard time managing this step, you can always use a friend or relative to run the hair dryer for you as you hold the paper towel into place.
 Press on the paper towels with your fingers. Feel the wax through the paper towels. As you pull the paper towels off, hold onto the wax. Do this slowly, as to pull off as much of the wax as you can get off.


Run your fingers through your hair. Try and pull off as much of the excess, now melted, wax as you can. If you cannot do this by yourself, get a friend or family member to do so.
Determine whether this section still has wax that needs to be removed, or whether this section is now relatively clean.
 If you are moving on to a new section, or redoing an old section, apply new, clean paper towels. Repeat the previous methods over and over again until the wax has been mostly removed.


Try and take breaks in between sections. Your hair can receive damage if it is heated for too long.
 Turn warm water on in your sink, and run it through your hands. You can also lather them with soap. Run the water and/or soap mixture through your hair. Use a comb or brush and go through your hair. Try and get out any excess wax that remains after you have melted it., The final step is to clean your hair. Make sure your hair is wet with warm water. Apply shampoo first, and then conditioner. Between sessions, pull out excess wax with fingers to make sure the wax does not run down your drain.

