 Some shampoos leave behind a lot of residue, which can weigh hair down. Use a shampoo that's labeled for volumizing, as this will leave as little residue as possible and help return your hair's natural lift.
 When you apply conditioner, apply it only to the mid-to-ends of your hair. Leaving conditioner at your roots will reduce your hair's natural lift.









A light, leave-in spray might be best if your hair has very little lift, as this will create the least amount of strain on your hair.
 You might hear the advice that if you dye your hair, you'll make it thicker. This is true, but includes a "but". Only dying your hair a darker color than your natural color will make the hair shaft thicker.This is because the hair absorbs the dye, making it marginally thicker than it would normally be. When you dye your hair a lighter color, this strips away at the strand of hair, actually making your hair thinner and reducing volume.









You can also try highlights and lowlights to make your hair appear thicker. This will create the illusion of depth, making your hair look thicker even if it is not., Hairspray is the most basic tool in your kit when it comes to adding volume to your hair. Don't neglect it or write it off as just for Jersey girls and your mom. Used sparingly, it can add volume without making your hair look like a helmet. The key is to just apply it at the roots, paired with techniques like back-combing and going against the grain.
 You can use either temporary or longer lasting hair extensions to get more volume. Clip in sections hidden under the upper half of your hair will add plenty of volume. You can also get extensions which weave into your normal hair and last longer. Price and quality will go hand in hand here, so expect to spend some money if you really want your hair to look good.









You're probably acquainted with weaves, which are the more common way of doing extensions, but you might want to look in to micro-ring hair extensions. These are less damaging to your hair, making it a good option for people with thinner hair.

