 To keep your skin looking its best, you should wash your face in the morning when you get up, and at night before you go to bed. Use a facial cleanser (not regular soap) and gentle, circular motions. Never scrub your skin, as this can damage it. Focus on the areas that tend to get the most oily and dirty, such as your nose, forehead, neck, and chin.When you are done, splash your face with cold water. This will help tighten and minimize your pores.


Avoid using hot water, as this can cause your skin to become dry.
Always remove your makeup before you go to bed, no matter how tired you are. Leaving makeup on will lead to clogged pores and the dreadful pimples.;
, What works for your best friend or sister may not work for you. Take a look at your skin. If you skin looks oily, then get a facial cleanser that says "For Oily Skin" on it. If you have dry skin, look for something that says "Moisturizing" or "For Dry Skin" on it. Remember, you can always visit a makeup counter and ask the sales person there to help you find out what type of skin you have.


Your skin type may change depending on the time of year and the time of the month. Many girls find that their skin gets really dry during the winter season, and more oily while they are on their period.
Consider a cleaner that has salicylic acid in it if you have oily or combination skin. It's great for managing acne too!, Toner is important, because it helps seal your pores and restore your skin's pH. Moisturizer is important, because it helps make your skin soft and smooth. It also helps prevent your skin from looking flaky when you put makeup on! Use a lighter moisturizer with SPF in the morning, and a heavier one in the evening.You may have to change the type of moisturizer you use throughout the year. For example, you might want to use a heavier one in the winter, and a lighter one in the evening.
Even oily skin types can benefit from moisturizer! Choose a lightweight, gel-based moisturizer intended for oily skin. If you have sensitive skin, try one without any added fragrances., A lot of people love that sun-kissed glow and tanned skin, and for good reason: it makes you look healthy! Too much sunlight, however, can damage your skin and lead to wrinkles and skin cancer. This does not mean that you have to avoid sunlight like a vampire, however. Simply put on sunscreen that has at least 30 SPF on it every day before you go out, and try to limit your sunbathing.


You can always add a healthy glow to your skin with bronzer.
Many moisturizers and liquid foundations contain sunscreen. Consider getting one for the summer.
Try to avoid the sun between 10am and 2pm, as this is when the sun's rays are at their strongest and most damaging. If you must step out for long periods of time, put on some sunscreen or at least a long-sleeved shirt!, It can also help you feel good about yourself. It can, however, clog your pores and potentially lead to acne. If you wear makeup on a daily basis, try to go makeup free every so often to give you skin a change to breathe.
 If you notice your skin looking dull and grey, it is time to whip out that loofah or scrubby. Get into the shower, and gently buff your face, neck, arms, and legs. This will scrub away the old, dead skin cells, and reveal the healthy, soft, glowing skin underneath.
 They not only smell great, but they are great for your skin! Scrubs can be used on your face, arms, and legs to exfoliate away dead skin cells. Body butters can be used all over your body just after a shower to lock in moisture. This will help your skin feel soft and smooth.


Avoid using body butters on your face. Use facial moisturizing creams instead.
 Looks are a big part of being beautiful, but smell also plays a big part too! Be sure to wear deodorant (you may have to reapply it throughout the day). You can wear some perfume or body spray, but don't overdo it. Too much of a good thing can quickly become a bad thing!


Oftentimes, the body washes, shampoos, and lotions that you use are more than enough to keep you smelling great!

, If you cannot afford to go to a dermatologist, look for products that contain benzoyl peroxide. Use these products sparingly at night before you go to bed. Focus on your forehead, chin, nose, and cheeks—all areas that tend to get breakouts. Don't just spot-treat pimples as they come up. You will need to use the product for at least a month before you start to see the results you want.