 Place the potatoes (peeled and cut) into a large pot, and fill it with enough water to cover the potatoes. Bring the water to a boil, then cook the potatoes until they become tender, about 15 to 20 minutes.
 Don't let the potatoes burn. Letting the water evaporate will keep the potatoes from getting too soggy., Don't worry about making them perfectly smooth. You actually want there to be some clumps. Set the potatoes aside when you are done., Place a large skillet on the stove and add 1 tablespoon of oil. Turn the heat up to high and dice the onion. Add the onion once the oil gets hot, then cook it until it turns soft, about 4 to 5 minutes., You can add just one or two of these, or even all three. Cook your optional ingredients with the onions until they turn soft.
 Use a wooden spoon to help break the meat up and mix it in with the onion. For even more flavor:In a small bowl, whisk together: 1 teaspoon fish stock, 2 teaspoons sugar, 1 tablespoon sake, 1 tablespoon Mirin (or sweet rice wine), and 4 tablespoons of soy sauce.
Stir the sauce into your beef and onion mixture.
Let it simmer for 5 minutes.
 You just want the dry, beef-and-onion mixture. It might be a good idea to put the beef-and-onion mixture into a strainer to drain out any liquid before adding it to the mashed potatoes., Beat the egg in a small bowl using a fork or mini whisk, then pour it into the mashed potato mixture. Stir everything together using a wooden spoon or rubber spatula.
 Roll the mixture into oval-shaped balls, then flatten them slightly with your palm. You want them to still be thick and "plump," but flat enough so that they don't roll around.


You can also make round ones that are 3 inches (7.62 centimeters) wide and ¾-inch (1.91 centimeters) thick., This will help the mixture set up, and prevent it from falling apart in the pan., Make sure that you coat each ball evenly with each ingredient. To make things easier, put the flour, eggs, and Panko into shallow dishes, and arrange them in a row. This way, you can just move the balls from one bowl to the next without making a big mess.
 Heat some oil in a wok or large frying pan over medium heat. When the oil reaches 350°F (180°C), add the korokke balls.Fry the korokke balls for 3 minutes on each side, or until they turn golden-brown.You will need 2 tablespoons for every 6 korokke.Add more oil as needed.
You can also bake the korokke in the oven at 400°F(200°C) for 10 to 15 minutes. Bake them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper., As you finish frying the korokke, place them onto several folded paper towels so that the excess oil can drain.
 They taste great with tonkatsu sauce, but you can also use ketchup instead. They also taste great alongside any beef dish or salad leaves.

