 To make the chocolate peanut butter eggs, you’ll need a large, rimmed baking sheet. Line the sheet with parchment paper to ensure that the eggs won’t stick to it.You can line the baking sheet with wax paper or a silicone baking mat if you prefer.;
, Add 1 cup (250 g) of creamy peanut butter, ¼ cup (57 g) unsalted butter softened to room temperature, ¼ cup (50 g) of packed, dark brown sugar, ½ teaspoon (2 ½ ml) of vanilla extract, and ¼ teaspoon (1 g) of salt to a medium saucepan. Stir the ingredients together so they’re slightly mixed.Be sure to use creamy peanut butter for the eggs. Crunchy peanut butter will give the eggs’ center a chunky texture.
 After you’ve combined the peanut butter mixture, place the pan on the stove. Heat the mixture on medium until it fully melts, which should take approximately 5 to 10 minutes.Stir the mixture constantly as you heat it to help it melt more quickly.
 Once the peanut butter mixture is melted, take the pot off the heat. Mix 1 ¼ cups (156 g) of powdered sugar into the pot, but add it ¼ cup (31 g) at a time and stir well after each addition to ensure that it’s fully incorporated.It may be easier to mix the powdered sugar into the peanut butter mixture if you use a handheld electric mixer.
 After the powdered sugar is completely incorporated into the peanut butter mixture, leave the filling in the pot to cool. Let it sit until the mixture comes to room temperature, which should take 15 to 20 minutes.It’s important to let the peanut butter filling cool because it will be too difficult to form eggs if the mixture is very soft. As it cools, it will set up a bit so it holds its shape more easily.
 When the filling mixture has cooled, use a large cookie scoop that holds approximately 3 tablespoons (62 g) to spoon out a rounded amount of the mixture. Transfer the filling to the prepared cookie sheet.If you don’t have a cookie scoop, you can use a regular tablespoon measuring spoon to scoop out the peanut butter filling.
 Once you’ve scooped the peanut butter filling onto the cookie sheet, use clean fingers to smooth it into an oval, egg-like shape. Repeat the process until you’ve used up all of the filling and the baking sheet is full.If you find that the filling is sticking to your fingers or is difficult to shape, you can place it in the refrigerator for 5 to 10 minutes so it’s slightly firmer.
 When you’ve made peanut butter eggs from all of the filling, cover the baking sheet with plastic wrap. Place it in the freezer, and allow the eggs to chill until they are hard, which should take 15 to 30 minutes.If you don’t have room in your freezer to harden the eggs, you can place the cookie sheet in the refrigerator for 2 to 3 hours instead.
 When the peanut butter eggs are nearly finished chilling, add 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of canola oil and 1 ½ cup (220 g) of semi-sweet chocolate chips to microwave-safe measuring cup. Heat the mixture in the microwave on high in 30 second intervals, stirring after each, until the chocolate melts completely.You can substitute vegetable or coconut oil for the canola if you prefer.
You can substitute your favorite type of chocolate chips for the semi-sweet if you prefer, including milk, bittersweet, and white chocolate.
If you prefer, you can melt the chocolate and oil together in a double boiler on the stove top.
 Once the peanut butter eggs have hardened and the chocolate is melted, place the eggs on a fork and dip them into the chocolate one at a time to coat them. Allow the excess to drip back into the bowl so the coating is as smooth as possible.It may help to use a spoon to pour some chocolate over the eggs after you lift them out of the chocolate to ensure that they’re evenly coated.
 After you’ve evenly coated the peanut butter egg, place it on the lined baking sheet. Repeat the procedure until all of the peanut butter eggs are coated., Once you’ve coated all of the peanut butter eggs with chocolate, place the cookie sheet in the refrigerator. Allow the eggs to chill until the chocolate hardens, which should take about 30 minutes, before serving.You can also leave the coated eggs near a cool window to set.
If you want your peanut eggs to have a more decorative look, place some melted chocolate in a pastry bag and pipe it over them in stripes once the chocolate coating has hardened.
Store any leftover eggs in an airtight container in the refrigerator. They should keep for 2 to 3 weeks.

