 This includes: tension headaches, stress headaches, chronic daily headaches, (in that case, you most likely know what to do) chronic, non-progressive headaches, and many others. Knowing this can help you find out the best way to treat your headache.;
, Most painkillers won't kick in for about 1-2 hours, so take a dose as soon as you start feeling the headache coming on.Earlier treatment is always better to address a headache. Even if you're already in the depths of misery, a quick dose of ibuprofen, acetaminophen, naproxen, aspirin or even a capsaicin nasal spray can take the edge off.


Be careful not to take medications daily unless you’re told to by your doctor. Everyday use of even over-the-counter medications can be linked to Medication Overuse Syndrome, where a person takes medication they don’t actually need because they’re afraid of future headaches.This misuse can actually cause frequent, recurrent headaches called “rebound headaches”.
If you frequently take headache medication 3+ times a week, see a doctor. The more medication is used for treatment, the more tolerant of that medication a patient may become. This can lead to side effects such as a lower pain tolerance and increased occurrence of "rebound headaches."
The treatment for “rebound headaches” is to reduce or stop taking the pain medication. Speak with a doctor to figure out how to effectively manage your medication.
 If your headache includes other symptoms, it may be a sign of a more severe condition, such as stroke, encephalitis, or meningitis. See a doctor immediately or call the emergency services if your headache also includes:Trouble seeing, walking, or talking
Stiff neck
Nausea and/or vomiting
High fever (102-104F)
Fainting
Difficulty using one side of your body
Feelings of extreme weakness, numbness, or paralysis
Also see a doctor if you have frequent or severe headaches, your medication doesn't work, or you can't function normally.
 Though caffeine (which is included in some OTC pain relievers) can initially help a headache, it can also lead to more headaches over time by developing or worsening a caffeine dependence. During headache attacks, adenosine is elevated in the bloodstream. Caffeine helps by blocking adenosine receptors.


Limit caffeine treatment of headaches to no more than twice a week. More often than this and your body can become dependent on caffeine, especially among migraine sufferers. If you're a heavy caffeine drinker (more than 200 milligrams per day, or about 2 cups of coffee) and you suddenly take it out of your diet, headaches are a common side-effect.This is because daily use of caffeine dilates the blood vessels in your brain. When caffeine is withdrawn, these blood vessels constrict, causing headaches. Learn how to slowly and effectively overcome caffeine withdrawal if you consume too much caffeine and think this might be contributing to your headaches.
If you have frequent headaches, it’s ideal to avoid all caffeine whenever possible.
 Dehydration can lead to a headache, especially if you've vomited recently or you're hungover.Drink a tall glass of water as soon as your head starts to hurt, and try to continue drinking small sips throughout the day. You may gradually feel the pain start to ease.


For men, drink at least 13 cups (3 liters) of water a day. For women, drink at least 9 cups (2.2 liters) of water a day. You should drink more if you exercise frequently, live in a hot or humid environment, have an illness that causes vomiting or diarrhea, or are breastfeeding.Another way to calculate your daily water needs is by weight; every day, you should try to drink between 0.5 and 1 ounce of water for every pound that you weigh.Don’t drink water that’s too cold if you already have a headache. Extremely cold or iced water can trigger migraines in some people, especially if they’re already prone to migraine headaches.Room-temperature water is a better option.
 If you can, try to lie down and relax for at least 30 minutes. Shut the blinds, turn off the lights, and focus on your breathing.This sensory reduction can help you relax and heal.


Request absolute peace and quiet. If you're forced to rest around other people, explain that you have a headache and ask that they please try to be quiet and leave you undisturbed. Pre-emptively asking for cooperation can help you avoid an ugly interruption later. If you'd like, get some sleep or take a short nap.
Make sure your bed or couch is comfortable and that your head is supported in a position that doesn't increase the tension to your neck. If one side of your neck is stretched and the other is cramped, adjust your position so that your head and neck are evenly supported.
Adjust the lighting. Avoid bright, unnatural light, as light makes headaches worse -- even for blind people.You can also wear an eye mask to block out light.
Adjust the room temperature. Some people can only relax in a cool room, while others prefer a large blanket or a space heater. Try to create whatever conditions work best for you when you go to sleep at night.
 Progressive muscle relaxation can help ease headache pain.Other exercises focused on relaxation, such as gentle yoga or meditation, can also help.


Lie down in a comfortable position. Close your eyes and breathe deeply.
Beginning at your forehead, tense all the muscles in a specific group for five seconds.
Relax the muscles and focus on the feeling of release that you experience in your muscles.
Move to the next group of muscles. Muscle groups to tense and relax include: forehead, eyes and nose, lips-cheeks-jaw, hands, arms, shoulders, back, stomach, hips and buttocks, thighs, feet and toes.
 Placing something soft and cool over your forehead and eyes can help the blood vessels constrict, which will reduce inflammation and may ease your headache pain.This works particularly well if the problem is concentrated in your temples or sinuses.


Wet a washcloth with cool water, and lay it over your forehead. Refresh it with more cold water as soon as it starts to feel uncomfortably warm.
Prep a heavy-hitting compress. Put a wet washcloth in a resealable plastic sandwich bag, and place the bag in the freezer for 30 minutes. Remove it and place on your forehead for a long-lasting compress — the washcloth will be extra cold, and the bag will keep the icy wetness off of your skin.If your headache is a tension headache, such as one caused by stress, anxiety, or sore muscles, a hot shower or warm compress may help relieve the pain more effectively than a cold compress., Particularly if you suffer from tension headaches, massage can help improve circulation and relieve tension, which will help relieve the pain of your headache. Tension headaches can be caused by a variety of things, from poor posture to jaw clenching to strained muscles. Anxiety and depression may also trigger tension headaches.Place your thumbs on your temples (the soft spot between your upper ear and the corner of your eye). Keeping your thumbs on your temples, use very firm pressure and move your fingers in small, circular motions from your temple to the center of your forehead.Gently massaging the bridge of your nose can help relieve sinus and migraine headaches.
Do a scalp massage. Hop in a hot shower and treat yourself to a long scalp massage as you shampoo your hair. Or, for a dryer version, pour a little bit of coconut or argan oil on your fingers and rub into your scalp.
 Tension in your neck and shoulders can cause headaches.Fortunately, although tension headaches are the most common type of headache they’re also one of the easier headaches to treat.


To massage your neck and shoulders, sit and place your hands on your shoulders with your fingers pointed toward your shoulder blades.
Exhale and relax your neck, letting your head fall backward. Squeeze your fingers to apply pressure on your shoulder muscles. Move your fingers in small, deep circular movements toward the base of your skull.
Interlace your fingers behind your head. Allow your head to drop forward, letting the weight of your arms gently stretch the muscles of your neck and shoulders.
Find two tennis or racquet balls and put them in a sock. Lie on a flat surface and place the two balls just below the base of your skull and relax. You may feel sinus pressure or minimal discomfort at first but it will go away. This is especially helpful for sinus headaches.
 Stretching and strengthening your neck muscles can help relieve chronic headaches,but they may help in the moment as well. Here is a simple routine to stretch your neck muscles:Slowly lower your chin to your chest without moving your shoulders. You should feel the stretch in the back of your neck. Return your head to the upright position.
Slowly twist your head to one side. Hold for 15-30 seconds. Return to facing forward, then repeat, looking the other direction. Return to looking straight ahead of you.
Slowly lower your head so that your ear is approaching your shoulder (but do not lift the shoulder). Hold for 15-30 seconds. Lift your head to the upright position, then lower your other ear towards the shoulder and hold for 15-30 seconds.
Do not stretch to the point of pain. Repeat exercises as necessary.
 Acupressure may help you relieve tension and headache pain, especially if your headaches are caused by muscle tension or stress.Stimulating acupressure points in your neck, shoulder, and hands can help relieve headaches.


Locate the mastoid bone just behind your ear, and follow the natural groove in your neck to where the muscles attach to the skull. Apply deep, very firm pressure for 4-5 seconds while you breathe deeply.Locate the point on your shoulder muscle about halfway between your neck and the edge of your shoulder. Using your opposite hand (right hand on the left shoulder, left hand on the right shoulder), pinch the shoulder muscle between your fingers and thumb. Use your index finger to apply firm downward pressure for 4-5 seconds.Massage the soft part of your hand in between your index finger and thumb. Apply firm, circular pressure for 4-5 seconds. However, this should be avoided during pregnancy because it might induce labor.You can also place ping pong balls in a sock and lean back against a chair (or the seat of a car), placing the balls between the seat and your back to activate pressure points.
 People around the world use a variety of tricks to distract themselves from pain. If you're in the midst of a headache, don't worry about learning something new — stick to whatever is closest to your comfort zone. Some popular options include:



Meditation.

Prayer.

Deep breathing.

Visualization.
Listening to binaural beats
Try to just calm down. If you can fall asleep, that might help.
 Sometimes, breathing itself can be a cure. It sounds obvious, because breathing is just something we do, but relaxation and deep breathing can actually be something that you need to focus on. Deep, regular breathing can remove tension and relax you and your headache in minutes.Find a cool, dark, quiet place.
Make yourself comfortable: lie down or sit comfortably, and remove or loosen tight clothes.
Inhale slowly through your nose. You should feel your abdomen expanding as you fill your lungs with air.Hold for 2-3 seconds, then exhale slowly through your mouth until your lungs feel empty.

