 When used correctly and consistently, condoms can help prevent pregnancy while still enjoying sex. There are a variety of colours, flavours, and textures available to use. You can buy them at a drugstore or get them for free at health clinics.



Female condoms are also available to be worn. Just like condoms for penises, female condoms collect pre-cum and semen.
When used and applied directly, condoms are 98% effective at preventing pregnancies. It's important you learn how to wear a condom, read the expiration date, and inspect that the condom is in working order.
 Spermicide is a gel, foam, or film that is applied to a condom and works by blocking the entrance of the uterus with a sperm-killing chemical.They can be purchased at drugstores, pharmacies, and retailers or can be found already applied to certain brands and types of condoms.


When used alone, vaginal spermicides are only 78% effective but if combined with a condom, the effectiveness increases to 95% or greater.
Women who use spermicides should lie on their back briefly after engaging in intercourse to ensure the spermicide stays against the cervix.
Spermicide can cause infections in both the vagina and penis and cause irritation to develop. Consult your health care provider if irritation or discomfort arises after using spermicide.
 The contraceptive sponge is a small, donut-shaped sponge that contains a spermicide and is placed within the vagina and along the cervix. You and your partner should not be able to feel the sponge if it is inserted correctly. The sponge is not as widely available as condoms and spermicides and they are often more expensive. Talk to your pharmacist if you cannot find one. To use a contraceptive sponge:First, wet the sponge with 2 tablespoons (30 mL) of water to activate the spermicide. Squeeze out the excess water.
Insert the sponge into the vagina by sliding the sponge along the back wall until the reaches the cervix. The dimpled or concave side should face your cervix and the loop should face away for easy removal afterwards.
Leave the sponge in for a total of 24 hours. You should leave it in for at least 6 hours after you have vaginal intercourse.
Take out the sponge by washing your hands and taking a hold of the loop and then pulling it out of the vagina carefully. Make sure the sponge is in one piece after you have removed it.
 A diaphragm works similarly like a contraceptive sponge. Instead, the diaphragm is made of rubber with a flexible rim. Unlike the contraceptive sponge, diaphragms come in different sizes. Your doctor will measure your pelvis and order a diaphragm that you can insert before any sexual activity to prevent pregnancy. You can remove the diaphragm 6 hours after intercourse or after a 24 hour period.


Diaphragms do not protect you from all STIs. It can protect you from gonorrhea and chlamydia but does not protect you from HIV or herpes.