 The tasks can be as simple as suggesting the title of a book or as involved as writing an entire novel or designing a complete website.;
, Figure out what tasks you can do well, and which of those you excel in. Pick out the things that you can do better than others and the skills that you have the most confidence in. As long as you have confidence in your abilities, you'll be able to find work online that fits your strengths, no matter what they are.
 Freelancing portals are where Freelancers from all over the globe meet and search for suitable jobs related to their skill sets. Register yourself at as many of these websites as possible. Check out guru.com, upwork.com, odesk.com, and other sites like these.


Using a reputable freelancing portal helps guarantee your employer quality freelance work and ensures that your payment will be on time.
 Keep in mind that this is not your Facebook profile, so make it professional and add all your past achievements and future plans. Add a profile picture, but make sure it's professional and classy. Include descriptions of your skills with example work where possible. The portals also let you select your skill set and these will be displayed to any potential employer.
 This is crucial in marketing yourself as a professional and skilled freelancer. Make sure your CV looks good and is helpful and informative.
 Like any other job, freelancing employers always look for unique and talented individuals. As they won’t be able to meet you personally your CV and Profile are the next best reflection of your professional image.
 You will almost immediately find many jobs to your liking but it is advisable to apply for those that are close to your area of residence so that payment does not pose any problems.
 Your proposals must be detailed without being fancy or over professional. Put suitable effort into your proposal. Its quality and completeness should reflect that of your work.
 Some credits will be deducted for every proposal you submit, so don’t go on applying for every job you come across. Instead, focus on those jobs which you feel most confident about or interested in.
 The freedom of choice and working hours is what sets this field apart from all others.

