;
, At the top of the first sheet for that day, write the class you are in and the date. This will help with the organization of your information at a later time. You should never mix up your notes with several classes. Each group of note taking sheets should be kept in the associated book.
 Don't worry about how they look, if you scratch something out, if you have to write things out of order, or upside down. If you find the need to draw instructional pictures, or lines drawn from one point of information to another, definitely do so. This is for your use only, and the only person who needs to understand the information is you.
 By numbering them, if they were to get out of order, you can easily find how they should be organized. Again, do not worry about how things look. The most important thing here is to get the information given in class so you are able to use it at a later time.
, This spiral notebook should be for this particular class only. There should be one notebook for each class. At this time, just rewrite the information in a more organized manner than on your note sheets.
 At this time, you should take care to make sure all of the information is as organized as possible. Using an outline form can be very helpful.


If there are any associated drawings, for example, a drawing of a plant cell and all of it's components versus an animal cell, include it in your binder in as much detail as possible. Do not worry about your skills as an artist, but concentrate on the accuracy of the information. Also, coloring in items in your drawings will help you to remember how things look. Once you have completed the above steps, put everything away, and don't look at it anymore before your test.
 Make sure you have all of your materials needed for your test; i.e., pens, pencils, calculators, etc.


The morning of your test, get up early and eat a healthy breakfast. Taking a test on an empty stomach, or a stomach without the proper food, is like trying to drive your car 100 miles (160 km) on two gallons of gas. You will move along fine for a while, but will eventually poop out.
Arrive to your test a little early to avoid panic and rushing.When you are in your class at your desk, don't panic about the test. Take a couple of deep breaths and relax. You have done a lot of work preparing for your test, and the information is in your brain ready to be called on.
As you take your test, you will find you will be able to recall the information you wrote or drew. Sometimes, after reading a question, you can close your eyes, and you will actually be able to see your notes in your mind. The idea is, you have seen the information so many times, you have actually stored that information in your brain with out trying to cram it in there.



, If you don't do all of the steps, most likely you will not be able to retain the information as well. Good luck! Everybody has their own way of studying.

