 Cruises are available year around. Your first step is figuring out when you would like to take cruise. Each destination has what is considered a high season and low season. Oftentimes, the summer months and around the holidays when children are out of school are high demand travel months. There are however perks to seeking a cruise during the lower season months. The high and low season months will vary between destinations.High season: The plus of traveling during the high season is that you will most likely have the best weather and the ideal conditions to go on excursions. The downside is that the high season is more expensive and a lot of times more crowded. If you are planning to travel during the high season, make your reservations further in advance.
Low season: The plus side is that you will likely score a bargain deal on a cruise during the low season. The downside is that the low season typically implies that the weather could be less than ideal and conditions might not be the best for certain excursions like animal sightings, snorkeling, or fishing.;
, Once you decide when you can travel, you can start looking at places that are best to travel to during that specific time of year. Where it is high season one place it is likely low season somewhere else.For example, the best time and weather to travel to Alaska is late-June through mid-July. On the flip side, those same months are considered the low season for Mexican cruises due to the heat.
If you are planning on doing more indoor activities, you might consider choosing a cruise that is operating during its low season, as you will likely find a cheaper ticket.
If you are planning on taking a lot of excursions and engaging in outdoor activities, you will want to find a cruise that is available during its higher season to ensure the best weather and conditions.
 Cruises range from a few days to a yearlong. If you only have a short amount of time, it is best to pick a destination in which you do not need to travel far. Unless you happen to live close to a major port, you will need to fly or drive first in order to catch your cruise.There are 24 major ports in the United States. If you live in Washington, it might be more time feasible to look for a cruise that leave on the western coast of the United States instead of flying all the way to Ft. Lauderdale, Florida.

