 Several applications of warm, soapy water can eventually get superglue off of the skin. You can use tap water and basic bathroom soap. Immerse the affected skin in a sink full of warm, soapy water.








Try peeling the superglue off your skin after soaking it.
If it does not come off the first time, you may have to wash the area a few more times. It may take a few attempts for superglue to be removed with soap and water.
 Massaging your skin with petroleum jelly may remove superglue. It may also help prevent skin damage due to superglue exposure. If you don't have petroleum jelly in your cabinet, it can be purchased at most drugstores. Some lip balms also contain petroleum jelly. If you have lip balm on you, check to see if petroleum jelly is listed as an ingredient.








Spend a couple of minutes massaging the affected skin with petroleum jelly.
The super glue should begin to come off. Continue to massage until all the super glue flakes off.
When you're done, you can wash your hands with soap and water to remove excess glue and petroleum jelly.
You can also try scented orange jelly. The acids from the orange can help remove the glue.
 Apply vegetable oil to a cloth or a paper towel. Rub the affected skin with the cloth. Within a couple of minutes, superglue should begin to come off of your skin.








If you do not have vegetable oil, almond oil and baby oil can be used instead.
 WD-40 is a penetrating oil that can help your remove the super glue from your skin. If you have it on hand, try using it to remove the glue. Spray the oil onto a paper towel and then hold it against your skin for a few minutes. Remove the towel and see if you can peel off the super glue.

You can also try a silicone-based cleaner.
 Rub some hand lotion on your skin. Any lotion you have on hand should work. Keep rubbing until the super glue begins to peel off.








Like petroleum jelly, hand lotion can also restore moisture to your skin. This will help prevent some potential damage from super glue exposure. If you're prone to dry skin, this may be a good method for you.

