 The person will probably have an overwhelming desire to leave where they are. To facilitate this but keep them safe, take them to a different area -- preferably one that's open and calm. Don't ever touch a person who's having a panic attack without asking and obtaining definitive permission to do so. In some cases, touching the person without asking can increase the panic and make the situation worse.


Sometimes a person with panic disorder will already have techniques or medication which they know will help them get through the attack, so ask them if there is anything you can do. They may have a place they'd prefer to be.
 Be prepared for the possibility of the individual trying to escape. Even though you're fighting an uphill battle, it is of the utmost importance that you remain calm yourself. Ask the individual to remain still, but never grab, hold, or even gently restrain them; if they want to move around, suggest that they stretch, do jumping jacks, or go with you for a brisk walk.


If they're at their home, suggest organizing the closet or other vigorous cleaning up as an activity. With their body keyed for fight or flight, directing the energy toward physical objects and a finite, constructive task can help them deal with the physiological effects. The actual accomplishment may change their mood, while a different activity to focus on may help break the anxiety.
If they're not at home, suggest an activity that can help them focus. This can be something as simple as lifting their arms up and down. Once they start getting tired (or bored with the repetitiveness), their mind will be less focused on the panic.
 Saying things like "there's nothing to worry about," or "it's all in your mind," or "you're overreacting" will exacerbate the problem. The fear is very real to them at that moment, and the best you can do is help them cope - minimizing or dismissing the fear in any way can make the panic attack worse. Just say "it's OK" or "You'll be okay" and move onto breathing.


Emotional threats are real as life and death threats to the body. That's why it's important to take their fears seriously. If their fears are not grounded in reality and they're reacting to the past, providing some specific reality checks can help. "This is Don we're talking about, he never blows up in people's faces over mistakes the way Fred used to. He'll just react the way he always does and probably help. It'll be over soon and he won't see this as a big deal."
Asking the question in a calm and neutral way "Are you reacting to what's going on right now or to something in the past?" may help the panic attack victim organize his or her thoughts to recognize flashbacks versus immediate danger signals. Listen and accept whatever answer is given - sometimes people who have been in abusive situations before have very strong reactions to real warning signs. Asking questions and letting them sort out what they're responding to is the best way to support them.
 Gee, that's genius. They didn't think of that! Patronizing them will just put them on higher alert. What's more, telling them there's nothing to panic about may just remind them how out of touch with reality they are, forcing them to panic more. Instead, try something like, "I understand that you're upset. That's okay. I'm here to help.", or "It will be over soon, I'm here for you. I know you're scared, but you're safe with me."It's important for you to look at this as an actual problem, like if their leg were cut severely and bleeding heavily. While you can't see what's actually going on, something very scary for them is. The situation is real from their side of the fence. Treating it as such is the only way you can help.
 This is not the time to force the individual to come up with answers or to do things that will make their anxiety worse. Minimize the stress levels by being a calming influence and let them get into a relaxed state. Don't insist they figure out what caused their attack as this will just make it worse.


Listen supportively if they spontaneously try to sort out what it is they're reacting to. Don't judge, just listen and let them talk.
 Regaining control of their breathing will help eliminate the symptoms and will help calm them down. Many people take short, rapid breaths when they're panicking, and some people hold their breath. This reduces the oxygen intake which will cause the heart to race. Use one of the following techniques to help bring their breathing back to normal:



Try counting breaths. One way of helping them to do this is to ask the individual to breathe in and out on your count. Begin by counting aloud, encouraging the individual to breathe in for 2 and then out for 2, gradually increase the count to 4 and then 6 if possible until their breathing has slowed down and is regulated.

Get them to breathe into a paper bag. If the individual is receptive, offer a paper bag. But be aware that for some people, the paper bag itself may be a trigger of fear, especially if they've had negative experiences with being pushed into it during previous panic attacks.

Since this is done to prevent hyperventilation, it may not be necessary if you're dealing with someone who holds their breath or slows their breathing when they panic. If it is necessary, however, this should be done by alternating around 10 breaths into and out of the bag, followed by breathing without a bag for 15 seconds. It is important not to overdo the bag breathing in case carbon dioxide levels rise too high and oxygen levels fall too low, causing other more serious medical problems.


Get them to breathe in through the nose and out through the mouth, making the exhale in a blowing fashion like blowing up a balloon. Do this with them.
 Many panic attacks can be accompanied by sensations of warmth, especially around the neck and face. A cold object, ideally a wet washcloth, can often help minimize this symptom and aide in reducing the severity of the attack.
 Stay with them until they have recovered from the attack. Never leave someone who is struggling to breathe. A person with a panic attack may seem like they're being unfriendly or rude, but understand what they are going through and wait until they're back to normal. Ask them what has worked in the past, and if and when they have taken their meds.


Even if you don't feel all that helpful, know that you're a sense of distraction for them. If they were left alone, all they would have is themselves and their thoughts. You just being there is helpful to keep them grounded in the real world. Being alone while having a panic attack is terrifying. But, if in a public place, make sure people stay a good distance away. They may mean well, but will only make it worse.
 Though it may seem like forever (even to you -- especially to them), the episode will pass. General panic attacks tend to peak at around 10 minutes and get better from there on a slow and steady decline.However, smaller panic attacks tend to last longer. That being said, the person will be better at handling them, so the length of time is less of an issue.