 You'll need extra length for the skirt, too. This will be your entire outfit, so go for length in addition to diameter.
 But you need the collar, so don't touch it! That's going to be how your shirt stays on. This will be easy if you spread the shirt over a flat surface.


Also cut off the bottom 1/3 of the shirt. Eyeball how long you want the top and skirt. If you want a longer skirt, cut a longer bottom piece. Account for your butt and hips -- they'll make a long-looking skirt into a short one.

Two tan shirts are always an option. They're pretty cheap and can be found at most craft supply stores.
 This will be your belt, so don't mess with it too much -- you are using it later. Cut one slice into the loop, forming a long strip.


About 1" (2.5 cm) from the edge of your skirt, start cutting tiny slits for the belt to be inserted into. They should be 1-2" (2.5-5 cm) apart and only big enough so the belt can go through the holes.

Thread your belt through these loops. You may start at the center, side, or back, depending on where you want your bow. Double knot the ends for securing.
 Take 1" (2.5 cm) wide sections and cut off strips of fabric. You should have a bunch of loops of fabric (and no semblance of a sleeve) once you're finished. Cut into all of them creating a handful of strips of brown fabric. When the edges curl in, don't fret: you want them to. This outfit is about the right imperfections.
 This will be what anchors the fringe. A double mini slit is basically two mini slits very close to each other with a very narrow strip of fabric in between. You're going to lace the fringe you just made into these slits.


Start about 1" (2.5 cm) from the bottom edge of your skirt. Each set of two slits should be about 1" away from each other. Once you've laced all the fringe into the slits, double knot them, securing them to your skirt.
 They should be about 3" (7.5 cm) across at the top and get bigger as the material gets wider. Start about 2-3" (5-7.5 cm) away from the neckline.


Cut one giant slice through the back of your slits so you have a whole bunch of pieces to tie together. Go right through the center so all your eventual knots line up.
 Use the same method as you used with the skirt. If your neckline is looking a little bare, add fringe to it too, cutting double mini slits and using any extra fringe you have from the remaining sleeve.


If your neckline is looking too t-shirt-like, take two pieces of fringe and tie them each in a bow on the left and right sides of the front of your necklace. This will create more of a square shape and do away with the t-shirt vibe.
Have someone else tie up the back of your shirt. They'll be able to contour it to the shape of your body.

