 Because there are so many types of disabilities, you’ll have to put a bit of effort into researching your family member’s condition so you know what you need to do to help them. While spending time learning about the disability might seem like work, it will pay dividends in the future because you’ll have a much better understanding of your relative’s needs and the challenges that they face on a daily basis.


Disabilities can be physical. The main type of disability people think of when they think of people with disabilities are physical disabilities that restrict mobility.
Disabilities can be emotional or psychological. An increasing number of people are being diagnosed with emotional or psychological disabilities. One common psychological disability is post-traumatic stress disorder.
Disabilities can be developmental. Many people also experience learning disabilities. People with learning disabilities might require tutoring or extra help when it comes to making life choices or even choices on a daily basis., Ultimately, for many people who help relatives with disabilities, patience is an important virtue. Patience is necessary when dealing with many types of disabilities. This is important, because some people with disabilities (like everyone else) might not always acknowledge how much your support means to them.


Avoid thinking about time constraints when you are helping or supporting someone with a disability.
If you’re feeling really frustrated, chances are that the disabled person is frustrated too. You might be dealing with this when you're with them, but they have to handle it for their entire lives.
 While you may want to offer physical, financial, or emotional support, the amount of help you can offer your relative may be limited. This is why it is important to prepare to help your relative by evaluating what you can actually offer. Make sure to consider:


Your financial limitations.
Time constraints and other obligations, like work or caring for young children.
If you can’t offer time, you may be able to offer financial help. If you can’t offer financial help, you may be able to offer time. If you can't offer either, maybe you can simply check in on your relative from time to time and spend a few minutes on the phone with them.

