 If you are looking for hobbies that will allow you to become more expressive, consider learning an instrument. Music is often seen as a great way for expressing one’s self.Choose an instrument that you feel will allow you to express yourself accurately. This simply means that you should choose an instrument that excites you. Many choose the guitar, but if the clarinet or oboe feels right for you, then try that.
 Keeping a journal is believed the be a very good way to express yourself.It can help you work out problems and work through thoughts and ideas in a way that is unique to you.


You can keep your journal private, or you can share it with others if you wish.
You can also keep your journal on paper or in a document on your computer.
Try writing down the things that happened on any given day, and writing down how these events made you feel.
In your journal you can write letters to people you don’t get to see anymore, or write letters to say things you are afraid to say. Maybe you will send them, maybe you won’t.
Write down dreams and ideas. Think of things you’d like to accomplish in your life and write those down.
 Whichever medium you choose, do it as freely as you like. You can simply pick up a color and see where your hand takes you. Doing this on a regular basis will not only improve your skill, it will give you an outlet where you can express feelings and emotions in a way that has meaning only for you.
 If you enjoy singing, then do so. You can write your own song or you can just sing songs that you enjoy. If this helps you to express things you cannot or don’t want to put into words in any other way, then embrace it!


If you want to, you can do this at karaoke, or open mic nights, or you can just do it in the privacy of your own home or bedroom. The important part is not who hears it, but that you have found a way that helps you express yourself.
 Writing poetry has been an ideal method of self-expression for hundreds of years. Many people use it to express complicated emotions in an eloquent way, and with practice, you can improve your skills immensely. However, if you are simply looking for a method for expressing yourself through poetry, it doesn’t have to be perfect.

