 Ask what the person is unable to do on a current cell phone. List these impairments, so that you can find a phone that fits your needs.;
, These can include making calls, GPS, text messaging, voice mail, Internet browsing, an emergency service and more. Choose what is essential, because it is unlikely that you will find a cell phone that uses alternative methods for all cell phone functions that are available on the market.
 Cell phones for the disabled are usually more expensive than regular call-only cell phones or low-range smart phones. Depending upon where you live, it may equal the price of a high-end smart phone, such as an iPhone.


If you have a very low budget, there may still be options available to you. Up until the beginning of 2012, the US started the Lifeline program to assist low-income and Social Security disability Americans with receiving cell phone service. Go to assurance wireless to learn more and see if you qualify.
 The homepage of this non-profit allows you to peruse cell phone features appropriate to the following disabilities: vision, hearing, speech, cognition and mobility/manipulation.
 The Telecommunications Act of 1996 ensures that cell phone companies make some provisions for people with disabilities. AT&T, Virgin Mobile and Sprint all have disability options among their cell phones.


Ask about the Jitterbug cell phone, if you are looking for a cell phone for a senior. These cell phones have large buttons, simple call functions and a 24-hour operator. They are available through many cell phone providers.
 High-end cell phones, such as the iPhone, now have the ability to deliver voice, text and other communication channels.


There are a number of downloadable applications (apps) that can be used on smart phones. These accessibility apps, such as those created by the IDEAL Group, include features like voice recognition, a magnifier, dictation, shake to dial, public transportation sites and many other useful features.
Visit AccessWireless Get the Most.. for a current list of sites that provide accessibility apps for specific phones. Having the right app might help decide between cell phone purchases. You can also use the site to find downloads.
 Get the contact numbers for assistance with that phone. Also find out how services can be canceled should they not work well for a specific disability, before contracts are signed. There may be trial programs available.
 With most cell phone providers, cell phones are available at a lower cost if you buy a 1 to 2 year contract with the company. Make sure you know the fees associated with all the functions you plan to use, such as data, texting and call minutes.

