 After getting your new puppy, schedule an appointment with the vet. It is important to assess your puppy’s health and a bonus to get it used to vet visits and socialization. Ask your vet what vaccinations your puppy needs, and if there are any potential health problems you should know about.Keep your puppy calm and happy by feeding it treats and bringing a toy along to play with in the exam room.;
, Weaned puppies under 4-6 months old should be fed three times a day to meet their nutritional needs, while puppies 6 months or older only need to be fed twice a day. To establish a solid routine, feed your puppy at the same time every day, and take the food away between meals if it is not touched. Note the times when food is left behind, how much is eaten, and when your puppy begs for food or seems hungry.Adapt your feeding schedule accordingly, if possible, or see a vet if your pet refuses to eat.
 Keeping track of when your puppy relieves itself can help you anticipate when it will need to go again and prevent future accidents and messes. Keep a notebook tracking when your puppy whines to go out, or makes a mess, and see if a clear pattern is evident. Try to bring your puppy outside, or to its designated bathroom area (e.g. a spot on the floor covered in puppy pads) around the same time, or a few minutes before, your puppy usually need to evacuate.Note that house training can take 4-6 months, but it is not uncommon for accidents to happen with puppies under a year old., To really understand your puppy’s day-to-day experience in your home, lower yourself onto the ground at its level to observe its environment. The rooms in your home will be incredibly different from your puppy’s vantage point – plants tower over it, forbidden items like electrical cords and shoes are right in front of it, and comfortable furniture is begging to be climbed onto. Seeing things from your puppy’s eyes will make its bad behavior more understandable and may help you reorganize your environment to be more puppy-friendly.For instance, keep power cords and outlets covered as much as possible, and store shoes on high shelves or on shoes racks where they will be less accessible.
 There are many smartphone apps available to help you care for and monitor your new puppy. These apps can help you track your pet’s weight, allergies, medications, vet appointments, and exercise. Also, you can store cute photos, videos, and anecdotes about your puppy. To help you get to know your puppy, try one of these apps:My Pet Diary, a free app that allows you to store your pet’s information, chart its growth, organize pictures, and record diaries about it.Pet Minder, an app (costing 0.99) that records important days and events related to your puppy (e.g. when you started giving him a specific kind of food, when he last visited the vet).
Pet Phone, an app that lets you track all of your pet’s health-related information (e.g. vet appointments, allergies) and syncs with your calendar to give you reminders.

