 Try not to be shy or afraid to talk to people. That is the main way to get to know people and make friends. Some conversation starters can be... "Hi I love your shoes...I'm (name) by the way" Or "It's really hot/cold today!" 'How was your weekend?" Or even just "Hi what's your name?" Talk to lots of different people to make lots of friends.;
, If you don't have a seating plan, try to sit next to someone you don't know very well or haven't spoken to. That way you can find out more about them. Don't be shy or scared because being quiet will mean that you're missing out on making friends.
 Some people make friends faster than others and that's both normal and okay. All you have to do is be friendly––compliment people sometimes; they may be more likely to want to be your friend if you're nice to them. And be approachable. Smile! Even if you don't talk to someone, a simple smile can help!

, Sites and networking places such as, Instagram, Facebook, Twitter or even just message can help a lot. Talking to people on the weekends is also very helpful as you can find out more about them. Don't be afraid to ask someone for their number or online name, just to chat. It is a great way to find out what or how people are doing.
 If you are interested in joining any clubs of after school activities, feel free to do so. It is a great way to meet new people in your school that have the same interests as you. You don't just have to make friends with people in your form. Having a wide range of friends is a good idea.
 Hanging out with people after school is a good way to get to know people more and have fun. On your first few days of school, all you should try to do is to talk to people. After you have gotten to know people a bit, that is when you should be organizing events where you can have a great time!

, Real friends don't need you to change. They love you for who you are! So just be original, because as the saying goes....."an original is worth more than a copy." It's extremely important that you don't change yourself to please other people. Just be who you are and people will like you for the person you really are. If they don't, then that tells you that those persons aren't a good fit with you.
 Saying 'please' and 'thank you' are important. Offer to help someone with their work if they are struggling. All of these kind gestures can go a long way. If you can't help someone, complimenting is also an amazing way to come across as a very nice person, and it will make people want to be your friend.
 If someone tells you a secret, fight the urge to tell someone. This can be a long term help to making friends. Just be loyal to your friend. Everyone wants to make friends with a nice, trustworthy person, so be honest and reliable.

