 Follow the advice under Preparing for the Interview thoroughly. The more work you do beforehand, the more confident you'll be. Don't leave everything to the morning before if you want to make a good impression.


The advice under the Preparing section includes information on everything from doing research days in advance, to calming your nerves a few minutes before the interview.
This section covers the interview itself, starting with introducing yourself and ending with how to follow up afterwards.
 Greet them confidently, without mumbling, and make eye contact. Shake their hand firmly but don't crush it, unless you live in an area where a different greeting is more common between business contacts.

Consider waiting while standing up in the few minutes before the interviewer shows up. It's easier to make a good impression when you're not struggling out of a comfy chair. This won't make or break a job, so feel free to sit down if your knees are shaking or your legs need the rest.
 You should never appear sad or grim. Try to turn every question into a positive, even ones that touch on depressing subjects such as losing your last job. It's great if you and the interviewer are getting along, but don't go too far and start chatting instead of answering questions.


When discussing losing a job, use comments such as "I'm glad of the experience I got there." or "And now I'm free to apply to great companies like this one."
Don't crack jokes during an interview. It's hard to predict how a stranger will react to your humor.
 You should focus on the questions you are asked and how they relate to the job you're applying for. Be especially cautious about sharing potentially controversial information such as religious beliefs or hobbies.


Prepare responses beforehand in case you are asked personal questions. Try deflecting them with responses such as "My (health / family situation / hobby) will not affect my ability to perform this job." or "I have a rich (background / set of life experiences / world view) that adds a lot to my work ethic."
In the United States, it is illegal for your interviewer to ask about your race, religion, birthplace, marital or family status, age, sex, or disability.Many countries have similar anti-discrimination laws which you can find summarized online. If the interviewer breaks one of these laws, try to deflect the question without getting angry.
 The purpose of a notepad at an interview is to jot down important information you need to remember, such as the potential start date of the job and the contact information of your interviewer. Don't spend the interview writing down every word; your focus should be on the conversation occurring.
 Don't make this a one way street. When your answer leads to a question you have, feel free to end by asking it. When your interviewer asks if you have any questions, have a few relevant ones prepared. This is an opportunity for you to find out more about the nature of the job you're considering, not just a chance for the company to evaluate you.
 At the end of the interview, if the interviewer doesn't tell you already, you should find out what the next step entails. Will they get back to you within one week or three? Will they schedule a second interview, or let you know whether you have the job? Know what to expect before you leave.


Always remember to end by thanking the interviewer.
 The manager of a chain store probably doesn't care whether you send him or her a thank you note, but if this is a job that is important to your career, you should go the extra distance. Contact them the same day just to let them know you appreciated the interview.


Send a handwritten note only if your handwriting is clear and legible.
 If the interviewer tells you they'll contact you in the next week but there's no sign of this happening, send him or her an email inquiring politely about the situation. This keeps you at the forefront of his or her mind and lets you know exactly what to expect.


Don't sound impatient or annoyed, but don't feel shy about contacting them, either. Following through shows interest in the job, and should be received positively, as long as you wait until the company has had a reasonable time to respond, at least a week or however long the interviewer specified.

