 In order for your deaf students to feel as if they are participating like other students, look into software that will convert any text they type into spoken words. This way, your deaf students can participate in your class discussions without you having to read his responses.


There are computer programs available that will convert the messages that a deaf student writes into spoken phrases. Have this program installed on a few computers in your classroom so your deaf student can use them.
Also look into licensing the software for your student’s personal laptop so he can use it in class as well.Try to prepare your other students for the different way the computerized voice will sound. You want to make your deaf student feel included without the others students calling him out for being different.
 Similar to programs installed on computers, there are many different apps and cell phone programs that will convert text messages to vocal responses. These can be especially helpful when your deaf student is working in small groups or in other situations where a large laptop or computer may get in the way.


These software options will also send messages back to the student, converting their classmates’ vocal responses to text and sending it to them through the Bluetooth service., If your school is unable to get text to voice technology, handwriting recognition software may be useful. These programs use a pen or board hooked up to a computer to communicate anything written with or on them. With these technologies, your deaf student can write down a response that can be easily projected for you or his classmates to see.


With this technology, he can chime into the conversation without having to hand write it and hand it to you on a normal sheet of paper.
Look for technology such as Digital Pen and Interactive Whiteboards (SMART Board)., TDDs are specialized phones that allow the transfer of text messages over phone lines. The deaf person writes the message on a keyboard and message gets relayed either to another TDD enabled phone or through an operator. The operator recites the messages and writes the responses back to the originator of the call. These can also be used to initiate calls from a hearing person to a deaf person, which will be translated in the same way.This technology would be helpful for teachers when they want to connect with a deaf student or their parents outside of school. These calls might relate to conferences, teacher work days, or other school events.

