 Different countries and cities across Europe cost varying amounts of money to stay in. Traditionally, staying in Eastern Europe is cheaper than staying in countries in Western Europe. Some of the most affordable cities to vacation in Europe include Sofia in Bulgaria, Krakow in Poland, and Bucharest in Romania. The average price to stay in these cities for a weeknight is less than $25., Purchasing your tickets from mid-November to April is the cheapest time to get them. Avoid planning your trip in mid-June to August because this is the busiest time of the year and tickets can often climb to over $1,000.Purchasing tickets during the end of December is similar in cost to buying tickets during the peak of vacation season.
 One of the easiest and most affordable ways to backpack from city to city is to use Europe's advanced rail system.Choose cities in order and go across the continent to visit places you want to experience. You can plot out your trip and purchase tickets in advance, or you can get a discount by buying tickets on each country's individual rail website.A train from Berlin to Munich costs around 190 EUR.
A high-speed train from Bordeaux to Paris costs approximately 95 EUR.France's rail website is http://www.voyages-sncf.com.
Austria's rail website is http://www.oebb.at/de/.
Romania's rail website is https://www.cfrcalatori.ro/.
As an alternative to rail, you can use ride sharing apps.
 Typical expenses include room and board, food, transportation, airfare, and the cost of admission to events and activities. Before you commit to backpacking, make sure that you write down a detailed list of where you want to go. Do research on the current prices and get an estimate for how much everything should cost., In addition to your regular clothes, make sure that you pack extra socks and underwear for your travels. You may not be able to stop and wash your clothes, so choose ones that are good for several different occasions.Purchase fast-drying underwear just in case you need to hand wash them.
 Pack essential items like shampoo, soap, toothpaste, a toothbrush, and razors. In addition to your toiletries, you'll want to pack aspirin, prescription medicine, band-aids, and motion sickness tablets.


Other non-essential toiletries include makeup, baby wipes, and foot cream.
If you are using one backpack, make sure it has a lock or anti-theft device to protect you from pickpockets.

