 The innermost circle should be fairly small relative to the outer circles.



Alternatively, obtain blank horoscope forms from an astrologer or astrological bookstore. Much easier than drawing circles by hand.
 Each section will symbolize one of the 12 signs of the zodiac (Cancer, Libra, etc.).
 If you label one section as Leo, the next section (see sub-steps below) should be Virgo, the next sign of the zodiac in the yearly order.



If you know the birth time, determine the Ascendant (Rising Sign) before putting the Signs into their spaces.
If the horoscope is for a Northern Latitude location, put the Sign of the Ascendant into the leftmost section: this is East when looking toward the South from a Northern location. Then fill in the rest of the Signs in counter-clockwise order.
If the location is of Southern Latitude, put the Sign of the Ascendant into the rightmost section, and place the rest in in clockwise order.

Strictly Speaking: If the location is within about 27½º of Latitude, the Declination of the Ascendant should be compared with that Latitude to check whether the Ascendant is North or South of the place - hence which side it should be placed at. In practice, however, this is almost never done, so you should be safe using the general practice above!!

, The whole circle has 360 degrees, so each of the 12 equal sections will have 30 degrees. Using small notches on the second circle, mark each degree. You can mark only every other degree or so if you wish, but keep in mind that the angles between points on the circle will be critical in interpreting the chart, so accuracy is important.


If you use a "store-bought" chart form, this may already have been done.
 An ephemeris is a chart of the positions of heavenly bodies at given points in time—you can purchase one or find one at the library, and several are available on the Internet. The ascendant is the sign of the zodiac that is rising over the eastern horizon at a given time (the time of birth, in this case) at a given place (the subject's place of birth) on Earth. Thus, in order to construct a very accurate chart, you will need to know the longitude and latitude of the subject’s birthplace (use an online search for "longitude of -name-" if you don't have a reliable map at hand), as well as the exact date and time. Computer programs available free on the Internet can provide you with the ascendant sign if you enter the necessary information.
 The computer program or ephemeris you use to determine the ascendant sign will tell you a location (in degrees) within that sign, for example 12 degrees Virgo. To locate the correct point, find the sign (in this case Virgo) on your chart, and, moving forward through the Sign, count in the number of degrees (in this case 12) from the Sign’s “beginning” edge. To put this example another way: if we imagine the circle to be a clock, and Virgo takes up the space between 9 and 8, Virgo begins at 9 (not 8), and you would count 12 degrees in from the 9 toward the 8 to find 12 degrees Virgo.
 Consult the ephemeris or computer program again to find the locations within the zodiac of the major celestial bodies at the time, date, and location of birth. These locations will be denoted by both the sign and degrees within the sign, as for the ascendant. Also, as with the ascendant, you will need to adjust the locations given in the ephemeris to take into account the actual time and place of the subject’s birth. If you use a computer program instead of an ephemeris, this adjustment will be made for you. Mark the positions in the space between the inner two circles of your chart. Denote the positions with glyphs (symbols used to represent each of the celestial bodies), and write the location in degrees next to the glyphs.
 The houses are imaginary divisions (usually twelve), each one signifying an aspect of the subject's life (money, children, family, personality, etc.). These are located in the large space in the chart between the inner circle and the second circle. The division method of the houses is controversial and there are several methods to choose from. One of these (perhaps the easiest) is the equal-house method, in which each house is 30 degrees wide. The “beginning” edge of the first house is drawn at the ascendant. If the ascendant is at 12 degrees Leo, the first house runs from there to 12 degrees Virgo, and the second house runs from 12 degrees Virgo to 12 degrees Libra, and so on. The houses are numbered 1-12 counterclockwise.
 An aspect is the angle formed between a pair of celestial bodies, with the earth as the center (or vertex) of the angle. You can estimate the aspects by simply looking at the chart. For example, if we imagine the chart to be a clock, if the sun is located in the 12 o'clock position and Venus is located at 3 o'clock, we can see that the angle between the two is 90 degrees. For more accuracy, you can calculate the aspects using the degree readings you recorded on the chart, keeping in mind that the entire circle has 360 degrees, and each sign has 30 degrees. You can draw in the aspects in the center circle if you wish.
