 Make eye contact with the customers after they are seated and promptly introduce yourself. This starts the conversation out on the right foot, leading to better tips on average, and gives them a polite way to get your attention later.Multitask by introducing yourself as you pass out the menus and check that every customer has enough silverware and napkins.
 When speaking to customers, always use respectful terms of address such as sir, ma'am, and miss. Act friendly and positive, and make your customers feel as comfortable as possible.


Ask the customer whether they have dined at your restaurant before -- that way if they are new, first-time customers you can welcome them and offer your help with the menu.
Appear friendly, but do not get involved in the customer's conversation unless asked. Do your job, then leave the customer to eat or talk in relative privacy.
Always remember to smile. No matter how irritating customers or co-workers can be, just put on a pleasant face and suck it up -- this will save you a lot of drama!
Don't talk or gossip about customers even when you think they can't hear you. Remain polite and respectful when discussing them in case they are in earshot.
 Never sit down at the table to take an order. Don't shake hands or hug unless you are personal friends with the customer, or you are shaking hands to greet them as per restaurant policy. Other physical interactions depend on the atmosphere of the place you work, and whether you are a man or woman.


Studies of U.S. restaurants show that women who touch a customer lightly on the shoulder, hand, or arm receive better tips from that customer on average.This should only be done when the customer appears relaxed and comfortable, and never if the customer is on a date with a woman. Be friendly rather than flirtatious.
 If a customer asks for advice, be prepared to answer whatever questions they have or recommend your favorite dish in each category. If a customer orders a dish that gets a lot of complaints, try to recommend another option.


Customers like it when you give them the "inside scoop", but you shouldn't go so far as to insult a dish unless you work in an unusually relaxed environment. Instead, steer them away from a bad dish by recommending a similar, better option as "the chef's specialty" or "my personal favorite".
 Many people have serious reasons to avoid certain ingredients, including potentially fatal allergies. If you aren't familiar with every dish on the menu (which you should be), do your best to find out for them how it is prepared.


Never lie to a customer and give them an ingredient they requested to have removed. If you can't accommodate the request, simply say so and suggest a similar alternative that the customer can eat.
Don't question your customers. Keep in mind there are many reasons for menu change requests, such as religious, vegetarian/vegan and cultural dietary restrictions. If the request can be accommodated, don't ask why they made it!

, Studies of U.S. establishments show that waitstaff who repeat the order to the customers receive more tips.However big or small that effect might be, it also gives the customer a chance to correct any mistakes or change their mind.
 If you just got a job as a waiter or waitress, it may take some time to get a feel for how frequently you should check on each table. At least check in whenever they are finishing a course or if they look bored or irritated while waiting for their food.


Give them a specific time estimate if they ask how long the food will take, whenever possible.
Stop by to refill your customers' glass whenever it gets low, or to ask if they'd like to purchase another for non-refillable drinks.
 Always ask whether the customer is finished before removing dishes with food on them. If there is a lot of food left, ask whether the food was all right.


Many restaurants allow their waitstaff to give unsatisfied customers something extra to make up for bad experiences. This could save your tip.
 Be friendly to people you would not normally talk to. When someone sits in your section more than once, take the time to get to know them. You don't need to become fast friends, but you will probably end up getting to like at least some of them.


Remember their names and favorite drinks, where they work etc. Make them feel like they are going to a restaurant to visit a friend: you!
Try to write down the appearance and preferences of anyone who visits more than once. The customer will be impressed if you know how they like their steak on the third visit.
 Ask if there is anything more you can get for them, and that will open the opportunity for them to ask for dessert, a take-out item/bag, or the check.


If they state they need nothing else, then ask if they are ready for the check.
If they have to ask you, it generally means they are in a hurry, or you have waited an excessive amount of time since you last checked on the table.
Never ask the customer if they need change. Say "I will be right back with your change," then come back and leave the full amount on the table.

