 Everyone has different reasons for beginning their sex lives, and there is no time that is "too late." You need to do what feels right to you and know that you aren't missing out because you've decided to practice abstinence.


The "three-date rule" about waiting in a relationship is an archaic, overly-simplistic rule. You should feel comfortable with your partner before having sex no matter how many dates it takes., If you're considering becoming sexually active you need to sit down and think about how your priorities or beliefs have shifted since deciding to wait. You do not want to regret your decision because you made it impulsively. However, if you've thought about having sex for a few weeks and have considered the potential repercussions already, it might be time to pursue a sexual relationship.


Talk to your partner about your changing viewpoints instead of making them guess. Your decision to become sexually active should be made together.
 All relationships, sexual included, are based on trust and communication. Waiting to have sex is a great way to get to know someone without the pitfalls and awkwardness of a new sexual relationship. When you do decide to have sex, having a partner who you can trust to treat you well will make the moment much less stressful. Whether this is your first time or just a new stage in the relationship, your sex life will be much happier when built on trust.


The only key to trust is open communication. Not just about your sex life, but about your entire relationship.
 Take your time instead of rushing under the sheets. Know that, at any point during foreplay or intercourse, that you can stop and pull things back. Kiss, hold each other, and work up to sex instead of making it the end all be all of your relationship. This will help your approach sex comfortably. You can ease into it as you learn about yourself and your partner.
 Becoming sexually active is a big decision, and you should not make it lightly. Spend some time thinking about this alone, before the heat of the moment. Some good questions to ask yourself include:


How do you feel when you are with this person? Are they caring and kind?
Does this person respect you and your opinions?
Have you talked together about whether or not to have sex yet?
Do you have access to birth control methods?
Do you feel pressured to have sex just to please your partner, or do you really want to have sex.