 One will serve as your outside fabric and the other will be your lining. You will need to decide upon the size of your envelope based on how much fabric you have and how big you want your envelope to be.

For a regular card-sized envelope, cut your 2 scraps into 10 by 10-inch (25.4 by 25.4-cm) pieces with sharp pair of fabric scissors or a rotary cutter, plastic ruler and mat.
For a rectangular business-sized envelope, cut your 2 scraps into rectangular 8.5 by 10-inch (21.6 by 25.4-cm) shapes. You will fold this sized envelope differently, by folding it in thirds.
Experiment with different sizes. If you have a specific item that you want to place in the envelope, measure and cut the envelope fabric so that it is 1/2 inch (1.3 cm) larger in width and 3/4 to 1 inch (1.9 to 2.54 cm) taller in height.;
, It should be 1/2 inch (1.3 cm) smaller in width and height than your 2 pieces of fabric. Read the package instructions for your adhesive fabric or interfacing., Follow package instructions to glue the interfacing to the fabric. You may need to use a hot iron., Fuse the second side of the adhesive interface to the lining fabric. Make sure the backside of the lining fabric faces the interface., Use a small 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) seam allowance., Measure 2 inches (5 cm) down from the fourth side and cut along the 2-inch (5 cm) line, for a deeper square corner. This will fold to be the center of the tri-fold on the back side closure of your envelope.

You can use a straight edge at the 2-inch (5 cm) mark to ensure you cut an even, straight corner.
 You may need to use a bone folder. Iron the fabric and pin it in place, so that it will hold until you sew it., Make sure to back stitch at all the corners, so they will hold with use., The 2-inch (5 cm) corner will be the bottom center of the inside fold. Fold 2 corners in to meet the center fold., Make sure everything aligns and then iron the edges for easier sewing., Make sure not to sew through the envelope, or it will not have an open pocket to hold your card or keepsake., Affix a button, Velcro, a snap or other type of enclosure to the back of the top back side envelope fold and the top front side of the back of the envelope. You may need to use a needle and thread to do this.