 If you have your own crafts or items to sell, that's great. But if you want to sell consumer goods, you'll want to buy them from elsewhere and re-sell them through an auction. The key is to balance your outgoing and incoming money so you make a profit; buy low and sell high.


Let's assume that you want to sell Nokia mobiles and you have found them for $42 including shipping, on Amazon, now you need the research: search on the internet to see what is the price range for that item, and let's assume that the prices are from $40 to $60. Read carefully the quantity available, and all the details for the product you found (location, dispatch time, description); you will need to reproduce that exactly in your listing and to make sure that you won't remain out of stock when you still have your opened auction for that product.
Let's say that you will sell the product for $55, using PayPal, and you have received the payment from your customer. Now go and buy the phone from Amazon and you will earn a $13 profit (from which you will have to pay your auction fees and your PayPal fees) so this means that you will remain with a profit of around $7-8, depending on the auction website you are using. If you sell at least 3 pieces a day you will have $24 in your pocket, but you can sell more;
, eBay is one of the biggest online marketplaces, but there are other options too, with varying fees and options.
 Each website you choose will have several verification features. Become verified! This will help your customers trust you, and lead to more potential sales.


List more items; if you only have 1-2 items for sale, you will not give your visitors the possibility to choose, and if they are not happy with the selection, they will go to somebody else

, If you have more items for sale you will probably receive a lot of messages with questions from customers. Respond to them all in a timely manner, you should insert in your auction a line like "all your messages are answered in 12-24 hours"

, Some auction sites receive enough visitors to give you a steady stream of potential customers. However, others are smaller, and you'll want to do the legwork to promote your store. Use everything you can to share your auction links: Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, Reddit and so on


Choose your words carefully when you list your item and when you post about it. Try not to sound spammy, but offer genuinely reliable items at a fair price, and you'll gain traffic and customers.
 To build a loyal customer base and not end up dealing with poor reviews and returns, you have to be honest and fair. List the condition of all items honestly, and follow up with any customer concerns. Make sure you offer:


Accurate description of the product
Exact shipping details
Dispatch times
Return policy

, Remember to provide your customers with tracking numbers, and to offer a friendly customer support before, during and after sale.
 Why take a few dollars on one scam sale when you can do a good job and grow every day? If you don't send your buyer his product, they will report you, and you can be blacklisted both from the auction sites and the payment transfer companies.

