 Children tend to have acute pain with ear infections. In younger kids, they may not be able to express that pain; however, you can watch for excessive crying, particularly when the child lays down, as well as pulling or tugging on their ears.They may also be more irritable or have difficulty sleeping.
 This symptom is most prevalent in babies that are breast or bottle feeding. As they swallow, it causes more pain in the ear, due to a change in pressure; therefore, the child doesn't want to eat as much because of the pain., Just like in adults, otitis media can cause temporary hearing loss in children. Pay attention to see if your kid doesn't seem to be hearing as well as normal, such as not being able to answer questions well or repeatedly asking "What?" when you are talking.In babies, watch to see if they respond to soft sounds as well as they normally do.
 Often, children with this condition will run a fever. Check your child's temperature if you suspect they have an ear infection.A child with an ear infection can run a relatively high fever, from 100.4 to 104°F (38 to 40°C)., Another symptom of a middle ear infection is the child having problems with balance. Because the ear regulates balance, an infection can cause a child's balance to be off. Pay attention if your child suddenly has more trouble walking or staying upright.Balance problems are more likely to be a symptom for kids than adults, but you should take note if you are having balance problems along with other symptoms.
 This condition can also cause your child to be nauseated, due to the vertigo (lack of balance) caused by the ear infection. It can also lead to vomiting. Look for these symptoms along with other signs, such as pain or mild hearing loss., Sometimes, this condition doesn't exhibit many symptoms. In fact, the main symptom may be mild hearing loss, which your child or you may not even notice. It may exhibit as the child not paying as much attention in school, for instance, because they can't hear as well.Other kids may notice their ear feeling "full," or the ear may pop more often.
 Once again, drainage is usually a sign that the eardrum has ruptured. Do not be fooled by the pain relief that often results from an eardrum rupturing.The pressure on the eardrum has been released, but the infection has made a serious progression. You definitely need to go to the doctor as soon as possible if you see yellow, brown, or white fluid draining from the ear.