 To succeed in life, you have to trust God and know that what He's doing is best for you. You'll certainly go through trials in this life- No doubt! But "Be of good courage" (Joshua 1:9),remember that trials are allowed by God to both strengthen you in your faith and see if you trust Him. Sometimes he even causes them to allow you to grow in faith. If you pass these tests by trusting God, He will move you to a higher level. "Complain and remain; Praise and be Raised."-Joyce Meyer;
, God loves speaking to His children and one of the ways He does this is through His word. If you're facing a stressful time at school, simply reach for your bible (or search for bible verses online) and look at all the comforting bible verses God has for you.
 Prayer is a powerful tool, because it is a spiritual sword of God. Don't worry, it doesn't have to be you getting on your knees for hours; it's simply talking to your heavenly daddy like you would a friend, for example "Hi God, how can I make you happy today?" Keeping your mind focused on God, can help you keep your priorities straight.
 Instead of speaking negatively about yourself- for example; "I'm terrible at math," declare what God says about you (James 1:5)-"If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously..."

, Anytime you get homework from school, make sure you complete it! That means no "I'll do it tomorrow for sure" Don't kid yourself. Try to Revise/Study for at least 45 minutes every day on the subject you have learned. You can revise the way you prefer so if you prefer studying on the internet than you do from a book, then hop on a computer and study.
 Two of the qualities you need to succeed in life are patience and determination. These two qualities can determine your success in life. You're not always gonna feel like getting your homework done, or studying, but always be determined. Remember, school isn't gonna last forever.
 If possible, try to find a Christian group that relates to you. (i.e Youth christian group for youths.) This can give you the encouragement needed when you feel like giving up on your Christian walk with GOD. It's important to stay connected to the positive influences in your life.
 Even if your friends aren't Christians, make sure they don't influence you to do things you know God wouldn't approve of, like drinking alcohol and smoking. These things can lower your morals as well as affect your health.
 It doesn't matter if others have rejected you, God will never reject you when you come to Him and ask Him to guide you through life. It doesn't matter if you're a convicted murderer or you cheated on a class test! He just wants you to be His and to give your life to Him. Hey you're His child, why wouldn't he love you. If you want to become a Christian, confess in your heart that Jesus is the Lord of your life, then ask Him to come into your heart and cleanse you from all your sins. God will forgive you and will release you from the guilt of any sin you have (and will have) committed.

