 Pensions are defined benefit plans, meaning that they provide you with a set amount each month in retirement. Other retirement plans, like 401(k)s, are defined contribution plans which only pay out money that has been put into the account over the years. These plans may also allows you to pick your own investments. The amount distributed to the plan holder depends on how much they want to withdraw. 

In other words, pension plans place the investment risk on the plan provider, whereas defined contribution plans place that risk on the plan holder.,  A pension plan is a retirement account provided by your employer.  It pays out a fixed amount when you retire.  The amount it pays is based on your salary and how long you worked for your employer.  A pension is a defined benefit plan.  This means that your employer automatically enrolls you in the plan.  You may need to remain employed for a certain amount of time, such as a year, before you qualify for enrollment.  Your employer makes all of the investment decisions, usually through an investment firm.,  Vesting means acquiring ownership of your benefits.You may need to work for a defined number of years before you become fully vested.Cliff vesting means that after a pre-determined number of years of continuous employment, you own 100 percent of your pension.  However, if you leave before you become vested, you forfeit any pension that has been saved for you.

 Graded vesting means that after a pre-determined number of years, you own a certain percentage of your pension.  The percentage you own increases incrementally the longer you remain employed by your employer.   After a certain number of years, you become 100 percent vested.  

 Keep your employer’s vesting schedule in mind if you are considering a career change.  Unlike other kinds of retirement accounts, you may not be able to take your pension with you if you leave your job.  The amount of the pension you own when you leave your job depends on your employer’s vesting schedule.
  You cannot access your pension benefits until you reach retirement age.  The retirement age is defined by your pension plan.  Typically, you must be 65 years old.  Some pension plans allow you to begin collecting benefits when you are as young as 55 years of age or in the event of a disability.You may be able to start collecting your pension benefits before your retirement age.  However, you will not receive 100 percent of your pension if you choose this option.  Ask your employer to explain how your benefits vary depending upon the age at which you begin collecting.  


,  You can choose between a lump-sum payment or monthly annuity payments.  The option you choose depends on how much money you need per month.  Your comfort level with managing the responsibilities of a large sum of money also matters.If you aren’t an experienced investor, you may feel more comfortable with choosing to receive steady payments from your pension plan.  

 If you choose a lump-sum payment, you must understand how to budget it wisely and how to invest it so it continues to grow.

A lump-sum payment may be taxed unless it is rolled into an individual retirement account (IRA).,  If you choose to receive a lump-sum payment, you may be able to enjoy certain advantages.  With the help of a trusted financial advisor, you can plan to invest the money and leave it to your heirs.  However, you must also consider the responsibilities involved.With a lump-sum payment, you don’t have to worry about the financial health of your employer.  If your company goes out of business, you don’t have to worry that your pension benefits will go away.

 Invest your lump-sum payment to allow it to continue to grow.  You can put it into an Individual Retirement Account (IRA), and put a portion of into an immediate annuity that pays you a monthly income.  This way you can enjoy a steady monthly income while allowing part of your pension to continue to grow.,  Your pension benefits may be subject to state and federal income taxes.  It depends on how your employer set up the plan contributions.  Generally, the taxable portion of your pension income is taxed at the same rate as your ordinary income.The IRS applies separate rules for “qualified” and “non-qualified” pension plans.  

 The “General Rule” applies to “non-qualified” plans.  A “non-qualified” pension plan does not get favorable tax treatment.  Contributions made by your employer or you do not get taxed.  But any return on the investment does get taxed in the year in which you receive it.

 The “Simplified Rule” applies favorable tax rates to “qualified” pension plans.  These are plans that accept pre-tax contributions.  With these plans, the benefit is fully taxable in the year in which you receive it.  However, chances are that your tax bracket will be lower when you retire than it was when you were working.  Therefore, you won’t pay as much in taxes on this income.


