 The correct shoe will support your ankle, lock your heel into place, and give your toes enough room to wiggle around.Long-distance running shoes – anything over a 5k – are heavier because of added comfort. If you’re training for a shorter race, look for lighter-weight racing shoes to increase speed.Each foot is made up differently. Experts can help you determine your unique foot characteristics to find shoes that support weaker areas. Your shoe should not just be on your foot, but part of it.
Feet grow and change in small but significant ways with age, so don’t presume that a 3-year-old pair will fit even if they’re still in good shape.;
, Activewear fabrics like Dri-FIT are designed to move sweat away from the body, whereas traditional cotton absorbs it.By using lightweight, sweat-resistant clothing, your endurance will grow as you stay comfortable. You don’t need an entirely new wardrobe, either; just get a couple of the right products to cycle through.
 If you plan to train with the water bottle in hand, opt for something smaller and with a nozzle for easier drinking on the go.If you can, plan a route that has water stations so you can refill it if you need to. Additionally, water-pack systems like those from CamelBak keep plenty of water in your reach without becoming tedious to maneuver.


Plastic bottles can contain harmful chemicals, so when in doubt, opt for a stainless steel one., Studies have found a link between writing down goals and following through with them.Write down your race on something you will see each day, like a calendar or a sticky note on your desk. You want to prevent this goal from becoming an abstract concept for you.
 The most successful training schedules incorporate consistency and variety harmoniously. The purpose of creating a schedule is to give yourself time to master a distance and then challenge yourself to raise it slowly until you’ve hit your distance goal.Use the 10% rule when creating your schedule, which says that you should not increase your mileage by more than 10% from week to week.If you’re new to running long distances, give yourself extra time to train so you don’t hurt yourself. If the average 5k training program is 3 weeks, give yourself 5 or 6 weeks. If the average marathon training program is 16 weeks, give yourself 18., Finding someone to train with can be a huge step in manifesting your goal. If you want to train alone but still need motivation, find a friend to check in with on a weekly basis. The point is that you want to create an outside source to bolster your motivation.


Fitness apps like Zombies, Run! and Fitocracy use a reward-based system for the work you do so you can see something tangible for being diligent.
Remember why you made this goal in the first place. A big motivator will be finding the joy in your training.
 Rest your running muscles from time to time by doing exercise that focuses on different muscle groups. Swimming, yoga, and pilates can keep your muscles warm while preventing possible burnout from focusing on a single activity.


Stretching-based workouts like yoga are especially good to repair and soothe sore muscles., Without proper hydration, your training schedule can quickly fall off-track. Your recovery time will take longer, your muscles will burn deeper, and your drive and dedication will most likely falter. It sounds silly, but a good rule of thumb when it comes to hydrating is to drink when you’re thirsty and not necessarily when you’ve hit a certain number of ounces or cups each day.When running long distances during training, you should drink water at least every 20-30 minutes, or more if you need. The goal, however, is to drink water consistently enough that you rarely feel thirsty., Limit the number of processed foods you eat, like protein bars and shakes. Instead, focus mostly on foods that don’t have a nutrition label – things like fruits, vegetables, and fish.Your diet should consist primarily of carbohydrates, proteins, and healthy fats.


Good sources of carbohydrates include quinoa, brown rice, and whole-grain pasta.
For protein, chicken and fish are the easiest for your body convert into energy.
Healthy fats consist of all kinds of nut varieties (pistachios, peanuts, almonds) as well as avocados and olive, canola, and coconut oils.Eat a snack high in carbs and protein within an hour after finishing a run to replenish energy quickly.

