 Incense cones are becoming increasingly more popular, and offer a similar, but slightly different experience to that derived from using an incense stick. Look for incense cones made using Makko powder – derived naturally from a special type of neutral-smelling and slowly burning wood – and essential oils.Cones can emit variable amounts of aroma based on the amount of fragrance used in making the cone. This will allow you to choose a level of aroma, including either very subtle or very potent, that you prefer.
 Since incense cones burn all the way down, the holder in which you place them must be inflammable, as embers will touch it directly as the cone burns to the end. Boxes and dishes of various materials are available, including elaborate works of stone and porcelain. Even wood boxes can be used, as long as brass inserts contain the actual cone and the residue and ash that is produced as the cone burns. If you use a simple ceramic dish, you may want to place a quarter or other metal disc beneath the cone, as the bottom of the cone can become extremely hot.
 Though it is not a necessary step, adding a smooth layer of sand to the bottom of your holder upon which you can place an incense cone will allow air to better access the cone. Further, this additional layer will reduce the amount of heat that the holder itself is exposed to, which may help certain material from aging or even cracking. , You can use a lighter or match. Allow about a dozen seconds to pass before putting out the cone’s flame. Waiting will allow the cone to fully light and produce an ember that will continue to burn once the flame is extinguished. There should be a continual stream of smoke emanating from the tip of the cone. Allow the cone to burn as long as you wish. You can put it out and relight it later if it does not burn all the way., The main reason that a cone may quit burning is a lack of oxygen. If you’re using an incense box and the incense keeps going out, try removing the lid. If oxygen proves not to be the issue, the cone may have still be damp from production or it may have been exposed to moisture. Dry the cone out by placing it somewhere you know the air is dry. For regular storage, keep cones in a cool, dry location out of direct sunlight.