 Wearing rubber gloves (although is optional) is highly recommended when washing dishes. They may be especially helpful if you have dry hands or another skin condition. If you're wearing long sleeves, roll them up or put them under the gloves. Aprons too, are optional.


Wearing rubber gloves will protect your hands from germs. Also, it will prevent your skin from drying out due to the constant scrubbing and exposure to water.;
, Dump all the large pieces of food into the compost bin or disposal. This will prevent your brush/sponge and drain from becoming clogged.
 Set the temperature as high as you can tolerate it without burning yourself. The hotter the water, the better its sanitizing and grease-cutting properties will be. If the water is scalding, use rubber gloves to protect your hands. Once the sink is filled, add dish liquid.









Soak the bigger items - such as plates, mugs, and items caked with food - in hot water at the bottom of the sink. Later on, you will be able to clean them with ease.
 Since it goes into the mouth, it needs the cleanest, hottest water possible.









Plunge the dirty item underneath the hot water while vigorously scrubbing it.
Remove it from the water before examining it. If muck still remains, scrub it with a sponge until it is clean.
If the muck is very difficult to get out, fill the item with water. Then, use your fingers (not your nails) to rub the muck off.
If this doesn't work, use the iron wool. Do not use the back of a sponge because that will cause morsels of food to stick to it.
 They will be able to benefit from the hot, clean water.
 This will clear away any germs and maintain a hygienic environment for washing dishes. Be sure to add more dish liquid every time you refill the sink.
 Since they are larger and may generally contain more residue, let them soak first. If anything was burnt or cooked in pots or casserole dishes, add a little extra soap and water into it before allowing it to soak.
 Lay them out on a rack to drain before drying them with a clean, dry towel.
 When clean, there should be no visible matter or feel of grease. Run a hand over the dish to ensure that it offers some resistance. If your fingers slide over the item too fluidly and without squeaking, there may be some grease remaining. You might consider rewashing the item.
 Allow to dry. It is recommended that you sterilize your equipment every so often by using boiling water or bleach. Likewise, throw it into the laundry or automatic dishwasher. When a sponge or brush starts to smell unpleasant and the smell cannot be removed by rinsing, throw it away.
 Peel them off so they are mostly inside out. Grab by the glove wrist. Blow into "neck" and choke it off like a balloon. Give it a squish till the fingers "pop" inside out. When the insides are dried, reverse it. The outsides can dry till they are ready to go for the next wash.








