 Research reveals that women prefer prospective partners to make quick, efficient decisions and to be confident in their choices. Don't shy away from taking control of a situation, whether it's deciding where to go for dinner or accepting leadership of a long-term project. Being a fearless in your actions is inherently sexy, even if it's only in small, everyday ways.


This doesn't mean you have to be an alpha jerk—there's a difference between taking charge and being aggressive or condescending. Leadership can be just as powerful when it's quiet and restrained.
There are plenty of opportunities for you to do this while dating. For instance, if you're asking someone out and they don't know where to eat, don't hem and haw along with the other person—make the call and be done with it.
 Women are attracted to complexity and multi-dimensional people. Sexy people are interesting people, and interesting people have hobbies and passions apart from doin' it. Set aside time for yourself to keep up with whatever leisure activities you're interested in.


Hobbies give you time to unwind and decompress so that you can be relaxed and calm when you're around other people. It also gives you something interesting to talk about (other than school, or work, or the weather) next time you're trying to chat someone up. You play traditional claw hammer banjo in a jug band? Sexy.
Don't have extracurricular interests? Get some! Take up a sport you've always admired, practice an art such as singing or painting, start building projects with your own two hands—whatever it is that you've wanted to do, but never started for whatever reason. Commit to learning and chalk it up to being sexy. You'll feel better about yourself, which translates to being more confident and attractive.
 Women aren't attracted to juvenile antics or child-like foolishness. If you want to appeal to a woman, be smart, confident, and adult above all else. Things like grooming, ambition, and intelligence are all deemed sexy traits by women, so don't be afraid to dress up, discuss serious topics, and talk about your dreams for your life. It's not "lame," it's sexy, and it'll let you get closer together.


Be classy every now and then. Foreign films? French wine? Knowing how to dance? It's no joke: women find these things sexy. Channel your inner Sinatra and class up the joint if you want to up your sex appeal. It's adult and it's sexy.
Show your smarts, but don't show off. Talking about the Milton thesis you wrote in college isn't interesting (unless it's somehow on topic). Surprise women with smart ideas, fun perspectives, and quirky intelligent humor, not with regurgitating junk you read on wikipedia.
 Women appreciate compliments about their grooming, their personality, and their humor not because of vanity, but because women appreciate generosity and attentiveness.Forget gifts and tokens of your affection, tell a woman instead that you're thinking about her. That's sexy.
 Women find a good sense of humor very sexy, especially when it comes from a place of confidence and self-assurance. If you're funny and you know it, put those skills on display. Women want someone who will be adventurous and show them a good time, not a wet-noodle who's going to want to hang around the house on Friday night playing video games. Be adventurous and hilarious in equal measure.


No juvenile toilet humor, guys. You're not in the frat house. There's a difference between coming up with a fun idea to explore the food carts and Japanese gardens in the city over the weekend and coming up with an idea to get smashed at a bar around the corner from your house. All ideas are not created equal. Have good ones.

