 Many people accidentally misuse apostrophes in their writing. Each time you see an apostrophe used, take a moment to make sure it's used correctly.


Apostrophes are used to show possession. To show something belongs to someone, you would use an apostrophe and then an "s" or an apostrophe after an "s." An apostrophe and then an "s" is used for singular nouns, indefinite pronouns (anybody, somebody, etc.), and plural nouns that do not end in "s" (fish, deer, etc.). An apostrophe following an s is only used for plural pronouns that end in an "s."For example, "I asked if I could pet the man's dog." As "man" is a singular noun, the apostrophe comes before the "s." In the sentence, "All the students' papers were turned in late," the apostrophe comes after the "s" as students is plural and ends in "s."
The word "it" is an exception. If it is possessive, it's spelled "its." The construction "it's" is a contraction, meaning "it is." For example, "The dog is chewing on its toy. It's a black Labrador.", Semi-colons and colons are often used incorrectly or used in place of one another. Each time you see one of the two used, pause to make sure the usage is correct.


Semi-colons are usually used to connect closely related ideas when a comma is not appropriate. Semi-colons can link independent clauses, clauses connected by transitional phrases or conjunctive adverbs, or lengthy clauses with multiple commas in each clause to avoid confusion. Usually, semi-colons should be used between two clauses that could stand on their own independently.A common error regarding semi-colons is using a comma when a semi-colon would be appropriate. For example, "The dog is big, it is also brown." As there is no conjunction connecting those two clauses, and the ideas are connected, a semi-colon would be more effective here. "The dog is big; it is also brown."Another common error regarding semi-colons is using one in place of a colon. A colon is used to say, "that is to say" or "here is what I mean." It's most commonly used before lists in a sentence. For example, "Jane went to the store and bought everything she needed for the cookies: spices, sugar, flour, and icing."A colon can also be used much the same way a semi-colon is used, to connect two clauses, but only if specific requirements are met. A colon should only be used in place of a semi-colon if the second clause explains the first. For example, "Mark's long career in law paid off: he was elected district judge that year." As the second clause explains what the first was alluding to, Mark's election as judge being what his law career lead to, a colon is appropriate.
Two ideas that are merely connected would still require a semi-colon. For example, "Mark got to the courthouse at noon; he put on his judge's robes." As the robes do not offer an explanation for the first clause, a semi-colon is used., Commas are one of the most misused forms of punctuation. While proofreading a paper, watch out for comma splices.


Read through your paper and take note of every use of a comma. For example, take the sentence, "Eve went to the drugstore, she picked up a prescription for painkillers." Read the first part of the sentence. Does it make sense on its own? Yes. Read the second part. That also makes sense on its own. This is a comma splice and the error should be corrected.There are three ways to fix a comma splice. You could add a conjunction that merges the sentences together. For example, "Eve went to the drugstore and picked up a prescription for painkillers" or "Eve went to the drugstore to pick up a prescription for painkillers."Second, you could replace the comma with a period and make two sentences. "Eve went to the drugstore. She picked up a prescription for painkillers."Third, you could replace the comma with a semicolon if the sentences are closely related. "Eve went to the drugstore; she picked up a prescription for painkillers."