 Leaves and glue may not seem heavy on their own, but together they’ll add some weight to your paper. So opt for something thicker than notebook sheets or printer paper. Choose between:


Craft paperCardboard, new or usedColored construction paperFoam backing board

, Before you start gluing leaves in place, know exactly where you want them so you don’t second-guess yourself after it’s too late to move them! Lay your backing paper down and arrange your leaves however you please. You could try:Grouping them by the type of tree they came from.
Creating a wreath.
Making a landscape with leaves standing in for trees.
 If you only have plain craft paper or cardboard to work with as backing, consider sprucing them up by painting them or adding other touches of color before you begin gluing. Or, even if you’re using colored construction paper or backing boards, think of other elements that you may want to include behind your leaves. For instance:


If you’re making a wreath, you can trim sheets of other colored paper (or use crayons or markers to color in plain white paper) into thin strips. Arrange these like sunbeams pointing outward from where your leaves will go and then glue them into place.
If you’re making a landscape, you can draw other features in the background, like buildings, mountains, or a setting sun.
 Once you have touched up your background, attach your leaves to the paper. First, decide between using liquid glue or a glue stick. Then stick each leaf to the paper.If you’re using liquid glue, apply a thin bead around the back of your leaf. Keep a little distance between the glue and the leaf’s edges. This way the glue won’t squirt out from underneath when you stick it to the paper.
A glue stick can be a neater alternative, since it’s transparent and won’t goop up anywhere. Rub it onto the back of the leaf, the paper itself, or both, and then press the two together.
 This isn’t a must, so if you’re happy with your collage as it is, feel free to call it day! But there’s plenty you could do to spruce your collage up even more. For instance:


If you’ve grouped your leaves together by type, consider labeling. You can use pens or markers to write the type of tree directly on the backing paper where there’s room. Or you can glue separate labels written on a different colored paper so they’ll stand out even more.If you’ve made a landscape, you can still draw in features like grass, clouds, or the sun or moon where space allows. You can even glue other materials to the backing paper for these, like green yarn for grass or cotton balls for clouds.
You could also apply spray-on glue to the whole thing once you’re finished. This will help preserve the leaves’ original shapes and colors.Glitter, stickers, and similar materials can also be added to make your collage even more eye-catching.

