 If you don't have any parchment paper, you can use wax paper instead. You will be piping the chocolate chips on these sheets.;
, Place a heat-safe, glass bowl on top of the pot. Make sure that the bottom of the bowl is not touching the water.


While it is possible to melt the baker's chocolate in the microwave, a double boiler gives you the most control. You will be less likely to scorch your chocolate.
 This will make it easier to melt. Unlike most other types of chocolate, baker's chocolate is pure cocoa and does not contain any milk. This makes it ideal for vegans as well.
 If you want to make dark chocolate chips, omit the butter.The butters will give you richer, creamier chocolate, but they will also make the chips softer in the end. Chocolate chips made without butter will be more bitter, but they also will be less likely to melt.


You can try using coconut oil instead, but keep in mind that the final chocolate chips will be soft and melt quicker.
If you don't have any maple syrup, you can use finely-ground maple sugar crystals, coconut sugar crystals, or a few drops stevia instead., Turn the stove on to low or medium-low heat. Stir the ingredients often until everything is melted and mixed together.Try to use a silicone spoon or spatula; the melted chocolate will not stick to that.


If you are using powdered chocolate, wait until the butter melts first, then stir it in.
 If you don't have a pastry bag, spoon the mixture into a plastic, re-sealable freezer bag. Zip the bag shut tightly, then snip off one of the corners at the bottom. Don't snip off too much, or you will get chocolate "kisses" instead of "chips.", To create the points, lightly touch the center of the chip with a toothpick. Lift the toothpick up and away., This may take a while, depending on how warm it is in your kitchen. To speed up the process, put the baking sheets inside your freezer for about half an hour., When you are ready to use them, simply take the container out, and pick out what you need.

