 Fear is a physiological response designed to make the dog flee from danger and hence keep safe. In a fearful situation the dog's body releases adrenaline, which causes real physiological changes on heart, lungs, and muscles.


Adrenaline stimulates the sympathetic nervous system, and it is no coincidence that this is also known as the "flight or fight" system. Adrenaline prepares the body for the sudden explosive muscular activity necessary to run away. Thus the heart rate accelerates, the pupils dilate, the respiratory rate increases, and the dog is highly mentally aroused.;
, You see this as the dog panting and taking rapid, shallow breaths, his heart pounding against his ribs, sweaty paw prints on the ground, and dilated pupils. The dog may also shiver and shake, as his muscles tone up and prepare for flight., The fearful dog would rather the threat went away, than he had to stand up to it and risk fighting. His first line option is to send out "distancing" signals, which tell other dogs that he is not happy and would rather submit than fight.
 Distancing signals include avoiding eye contact, or fleeting glances at the object of his fear. The dog may back away, preparing to hide or flee. His tail is lowered, often clamped between his back legs, and his rump is held low to the ground. Some dogs even lift a front paw, in what appears an almost human placatory action.


Most dogs act in the same way, although not every dog will show every sign. Also, dogs with long hair, especially if it covers their eyes or muzzle, can be physically more difficult to "read" because their features are obscured.
 In an attempt to prove they are truly no threat to another, some dog's show excessively submissive behavior. This includes rolling over and displaying their belly, urinating, and possibly even an involuntary reflex of emptying their anal glands.
 If these signals are ignored and the threat continues to approach, the dog is forced to go to his second line option: defence. A fearful dog that is pushed and cannot escape, is likely to give out a mix of signals: submission and aggression.


Again, if you see a dog giving off mixed messages (wagging his tail whilst baring his teeth) - respect the worst case signal ie baring his teeth, and assume the dog may attack if pressed.

