 Starting a plumbing business requires knowledge of the trade. If you are going to be responsible for bringing that knowledge to your business, you will need to gain experience in the day-to-day work of plumbing. One common way to learn the trade is to work as an apprentice to an experienced plumber.


Apprenticeships can last several years, but they provide you with the skills and experience that are necessary for running a plumbing business.Working as an apprentice can help you develop a list of clients and make a name for yourself, so that transitioning to your own plumbing business is made easier.
You can find out how to become a plumber’s apprentice by contacting plumbers in your area, or through plumbing education courses.;
, These programs may take up to a couple of years to complete. Look for one that provides education in the technical aspects of plumbing, business essentials, and health, safety, and contracting regulations.
, If you want to start a plumbing business and do not have plumbing experience yourself, it is essential that you have partner or team that can supply this knowledge., If your plumbing business employs others, you will also need to be able to manage other people well.
 Plumbing businesses can concentrate primarily on selling tools and supplies, or on installing new plumbing work, or on servicing and repairing existing plumbing work.Some plumbing business may offer a combination of these services. You can decide which business model has the greatest chance of success in your area by knowing what your competitors offer, and what needs your community has.
 The plan will describe your experience in the trade, how your business will be organized and run, and what kind of profits you project. There are numerous sample business plans available online that are specific to starting a plumbing business.Your business plan will need to include information such as:


Mission or objective of your business
Market research and client analysis
Costs of initial start-up
Pricing for equipment, materials, transportation, labor, payroll, etc.
Projected costs and revenues

, The start-up costs for running a plumbing business vary based on your experience and location. With a solid business plan, you may be able to attract investors who are willing to put up money in exchange for a financial interest in the business.


You might also look into getting a business partner. Look for someone who has connections with the local business community and who has experience raising money and running businesses.
 However, operating a plumbing franchise will also mean less chance of flexibility.


Opening a plumbing franchise may still require you to have or raise substantial startup capital.
If you have already been working as a plumber and have your own tools and equipment, your costs to start your own plumbing business may be lower than opening a franchise.Starting your own plumbing business from scratch can also be a way of avoiding franchising fees., The government office you will need to register with will vary based on your area.You will also need to demonstrate that your business will abide by all safety and business regulations applicable to plumbing services. These will vary based on your area, but are similar to those governing contractors, electricians, etc.When you register your business, you can ask for the details of these regulations, if you are not already familiar with them.
 Aside from the tools and materials necessary for plumbing jobs, a plumbing business will will need reliable transportation to make visits to job sites.You may use supplies that you already have, buy new ones, or rent them in some cases. Typical equipment you might need to start a plumbing business includes items such as:At least one truck or van for transportation
Pipes
Fittings.
Pipe wrenches.
A reciprocating saw.
A circular saw.
A propane torch
Extension cords.
Office furniture and supplies
A work phone and/or tablet device for orders

, You will want your business located where it will be easy to get to job sites in your area. If you expect to have customers visiting your office, whether to ask about services or to buy supplies, you will also want to choose a location that is easily accessible and offers parking.
 Some plumbers may work entirely by themselves. However, you may also hire a team of employees. These may include plumbers, but also an office manager or assistant to handle orders, phone calls, etc., someone to handle bookkeeping and accounting, a marketing specialist, and other positions.


If you are hiring plumbers, try to find trustworthy ones with the best qualifications and experience.If you will be hiring other workers, factor this into your business plan by accounting for their wages, insurance, and other costs., If you have the necessary skills and experience to work as a plumber, then the most important thing you will have to accomplish in order for your plumbing business to succeed is to attract customers.Successful marketing can depend upon a number of factors, including:


Word of mouth advertising
Sharing business cards and flyers.Creating a distinctive and memorable logo and brand
Using social media to attract customersCreating a website and optimizing it for search engines., This means offering pricing, services, and offers that will attract customers to your business rather than one of your competitors.


Do regular research to learn what your competitors charge for plumbing services, what they offer customers, and how you can improve in comparison.
You may also employ a marketing specialist who can help you with this research.
 The plumbing trade, like most businesses, is constantly changing.In order to run a successful and competitive business, you will need to keep up with these changes. High-efficiency fixtures, alternative energy heating, and new methods of construction are examples of topics that plumbers will want to be informed about. Business magazines, trade shows, and continuing education courses are ways of keeping informed.

