 As you age, it is important to follow your treatment plan for your MS. As soon as you are diagnosed, you will likely be put on drugs to help manage your MS. Taking your medication as directed can help keep symptoms, flare ups, and the progression of the disease at a minimum.If you need reminders, place notes around your house. Some medications need to be taken every day, some every other day, and others every few weeks. Set an alarm clock that will go off to remind you to take your medicine, or if you have a smart phone, set a reminder in your calendar.
You can also use a pill box or a smartphone app to help you remember to take your pills. Reminders like these can help you get in the habit of taking them at the same time every day.
If you need help with how to take your medication, ask your doctor or pharmacist for instructions. Keep these instructions around your house in spots that are easily located. The instructions can tell you how to administer the medication, how much to give yourself, and how often to take it.;
, Some MS medications are given via self-injection. This may cause problems as you get older if you have vision problems, arthritis, or increased MS motor symptoms. If you get to the point where you can’t give yourself the injection, discuss with your doctor alternate ways to receive the medication.Talk to your doctor about whether or not there are different medications you can take. There are some MS drugs that are taken orally or that a caregiver can help you with.
Ask a trusted family member or friend to help give you your injections.
Depending upon your insurance, a home health nurse may also be able to come to your home and help you with the injections.
 Despite your best efforts, you may end up with a flare at some point. If this occurs, you should go see your doctor. Even if the flare is minor, you should consider going to the doctor. As you get older, some symptoms may worsen or be more debilitating than before. Your doctor can give you medication to help with the flare-up.Treatment for flare-ups generally involve corticosteriods through an IV for a few days, followed by an oral medicine.
 Different medication can be prescribed to help with symptoms that are unmanageable other ways. You may be able to get muscle relaxants for stiff muscles or spasms. If you develop bladder and bowel retention or incontinence, your doctor can prescribe medication for that.
Depression can be treated with medication, as can pain and sexual problems.
When you talk to your doctor, tell them about your symptoms as clearly as possible. Say, "I'm having problems emptying my bladder" or "My spasms are getting worse. I cannot hold anything in my hand."

