 If the mouse is connected by a wire, you'll need to power down your computer first. Wired mice usually connect to the monitor of an all-in-one desktop computer or the central processing unit (CPU) of a traditional desktop computer. If the mouse is wireless, simply remove the USB component from the computer., Different brands have battery compartments in different locations. You can access many brands' compartments on the bottom of the mouse. Look for a small switch to open the compartment and remove the batteries.With other brands, you'll have to pop the top side of the mouse open to reveal the battery compartment.This step only applies to wireless mice. If you have a traditional mouse, you can skip this step.
 Apply a small amount of water. Wring out any excess moisture. Avoid getting the cloth dripping wet., Use the dampened cloth to remove any dirt or grime. Move back and forth over the target areas until the dirt is gone. Try to keep the cloth away from the openings in the mouse., Use a dry microfiber cloth to absorb any moisture left over from the cleaning. Move in gentle strokes. Continue until the outside of the mouse is completely dry., Spin the scroll wheel under a bright light. Look for any buildup of dirt or grime. Gently insert a toothpick between the scroll wheel and the slot it rests in. Being careful not to break the toothpick, scrape outward to remove the buildup. Wipe away any excess that falls on the outside of the mouse.

You could use your fingernails instead of a toothpick. As long as they extend slightly past your fingertip, they should remove quite a bit of buildup., Recall where your battery cover is located on your mouse and open it. When you replace the batteries, pay attention to placement of the + and – symbols in the battery compartment. This tells you how the positive and negative ends of the batteries should be aligned., Place the USB of a wireless mouse back in the computer port. For a wired mouse, reattach it to the CPU or monitor. The correct port should have a small engraved image of a mouse above or below it. Power the computer up and test the mouse to make sure you've reconnected it correctly.If your computer fails to recognize your mouse, consult your user's manual or contact tech support.

