 Kill Rate is the number of players on the opposing team that you kill in an amount of time. The clan with a higher kill rate than the opposing team usually wins the battle because they have wiped out more enemies in a shorter amount of time. If you want to win fights, the trick is to kill more enemies than you lose allies. In other words, get a higher kill rate than your enemy. Below I will explain how to improve KR and be more more successful at Clan Wars.;
, There are three things that the best clans have. The first is having many high levels who are experienced fighters. Who is more likely to die, a low level or high level? Having too many low levels is detrimental as it increases the opposing clan's KR. The same can be said true about inexperienced fighters who tend to die early in fights without contributing to their clan. A clan with more high levels has the potential to achieve a higher KR. The second and third most important things that every clan should have is size and superior leadership and organization. If your clan is a lot bigger than the opposing team, it lets you overwhelm your enemy which gives the enemy a very low KR since they will be piled by many people. Size is very important especially in casual purple portal fights. Superior leadership and organization is also very important for winning battles and this can be a make it or break it for your team. Below I will list some of the ways your clan have better leadership or organization.
 If you have ever been to a clan wars playoffs before, there is often someone at the start of the battle who says "fall in" and everybody follows that person. There should be at least 2-3 of these kind of people on your team. They should be high level, have clan wars knowledge, and be able to tank attacks from multiple people. A leaders job is to keep everybody together and call who to pile. A leader must choose wisely what to do and who to attack. That is why they have to be intelligent. The first person the leader calls to pile is very important and can even determine if your team wins or loses. Try to target someone who is by themselves and not in a giant cluster of white dots so players will clearly know who to attack. Binders also need to make sure they are constantly binding the people the leader chooses who to pile so they won't run into a cluster of white dots. Remember that piling is very important and if your teams knows how to pile well, you will win plenty of battles. You can also go for the leader first which is riskier but possibly better. More of that will be written below.
 Your clan is sure to lose if your leader is piled and killed early and your teammates scatter. This allows the enemy clan to pick players off and not lose very many people. On the other hand, this is what you want to try to do to the enemy clan. If you can get them to scatter and not work as a team, then your clan will most likely win. There are various ways to do this. One way is to get several mages to bind the enemy leader before he can call who to attack, then quickly pile the leader before he can do anything. After that swarm the place where the leader died and form a giant purple cloud. If done correctly, the enemies should scatter and give you a strong head start to winning the war. You must also make sure that your leader is not piled and this isn't done to you.
 This is a very hard thing to do and can always be improved upon. But the most important thing to learn is that your clan must stay together during the fight and do everything together. As mentioned earlier, when your clan spend the majority of a fight scattering, this will lower your KR and make it much easier for the opposing clan to kill you off. Piling is also very important and something that most F2P clans utilize. If your clan is piling someone, you pile them as well. If your clan runs north, run north as well. Do everything as a clan together. As I like to say, form a purple cloud on the mini-map. Enemy units are less likely to attack a cloud than a single dot and if they do attack, they will quickly be piled. Only run away if it is clear that the enemy clan has broken up the group. At this point, you should retreat and attempt to find other purple dots to group up with.
 Every F2P Clan Wars clan should have mages who are capable of binding. This is important because if an enemy player is trying to get away, mages can bind them and this allows them to be piled easier. Also mages can hit through rune armor fairly easily which is also very important for piling. Mages can also cast curse spells at opponents which can increase the amount of damage an enemy receives by 5% which is quite useful. A good ratio to have is 1 binder for every 6 or 7 teammates. That means for a 30 person team, there should be at least 5 binders.
 DD is when players stand on one spot. The advantages of using this method is that your players will stay together much more easier. The disadvantages is that it is more difficult to call who to pile so your team may attack random people. This method can work well if your clan doesn't have a good leader, has plenty of high levels, and if the enemy team attacks in small numbers at a time. First of all, to be successful with this method, you must make boundaries and tell each of your players not to cross those boundaries ever. This is because the whole point of DDing is to stick together and if a bunch of players start crossing the boundary, then they are going to be killed. For instance, on the turrets map tell your players not to get off of the turrets. Second of all, wipe out enemies who are near the DD spot or in the turrets. You will also need plenty of mages and rangers; especially if you're going with the turrets method. Another downside to the DD tactic is that if the enemies rush and overrun your team, your clan will scatter and without a specific person to pile, your clan will have a hard time recovering unless you regroup somewhere else.
 The recommended food for f2p clan wars in order of usefulness is swordfish, anchovies pizza, lobsters, or salmon. With food, players are less likely to be killed earlier in a fight which is essential. If many of your members do not bring food, this increases the enemies kill rate while decreasing yours. Another item that clan members should bring is the expensive spices necklace obtained from completing the easy quest, Let Them Eat Pie. This useful item allows food to restore an extra 50 lifepoints. Also clan members should bring stat boosting potions. Bring at least one defense potion and another that corresponds to your combat class. For instance, if you're maging bring a magic potion and defense potion.

