 Staying fresh and clean gives you the building blocks to work toward your best self. Develop a routine that leaves you feeling squeaky clean and smelling great. Remember to always scrub areas such as elbows , necks and knees due to the bacteria you bring home each day. The bacteria will cause your elbows to turn darker if you have a pale skintone.


Shower daily. Pick out a body soap that appeals to you and scrub down! Don't feel obligated to wash your hair every day (in fact, that could dry it out), but do wash up regularly, especially after workouts.
Pick out a shampoo and conditioner for your hair type. Use a deep treatment every so often to increase your hair's natural shine.
Brush your teeth (and tongue!) at least twice a day. Make it a habit when you get up and right before go to bed. A whitening toothpaste will make your pearly whites glisten even more.

While you're at it, floss and use mouthwash! Not only are they good habits to have, but they reduce your chances of gum disease and tooth decay.Use deodorant. Throughout the day, our body releases oils and odors that don't always help us look our best. Using deodorant regularly prevents any unnecessary smells from creeping out of nooks and crannies.

Don't douse yourself in perfume or cologne. A light spray is a good idea, but smelling you from across the street, even if you smell like a field of daisies, is overpowering and less than ideal.

;
, Not only does 8 hours of sleep a night make you feel energized and ready for the day, it benefits your appearance and quality of life.(Prevents darker bags under your eyes too!)


Circulation increases in our sleep. That means our skin is receiving the most nutrients it receives at night, preparing it to look healthier and glow. Sleep and metabolism are controlled by the same areas of the brain. Studies have shown that participants who get more sleep lose more fat than their counterparts, who lose more muscle. Sleep allows our brains time to consolidate memories. Not only does a healthy amount of sleep make for easier recall, but the same restructuring of memories spurs the creative process.Our attention is sharpened, making it easier to focus (and get better grades!).
Sleeping around 8 hours a night spurs athleticism, too. Athletes who slept around 10 hours a night experienced less daytime fatigue and faster running times. , Depending on your skin type, this could mean different things. But whatever skin you're in, develop a regimen catered to it.



Know your skin type. If you have dry skin, use a heavier, more moisturizing cleanser. If you have oily skin, stick to something light and oil-free. Wash up at least once a day to remove dirt and residue.
If you have acne, use treatments containing salicylic acid or benzoyl peroxide to combat blemishes on your own. If that's not working, consider seeing a dermatologist. Don't pop your zits--they'll scar your face and lead to more. Make-up works to cover them up in case of an emergency, but it clogs pores and can lead to more breakouts in the future.
Protect your skin from the sun; even 15 minutes outside can start the process rolling. Use moisturizers and lip balms with SPF 15. Pale will always be more in than dark, splotchy, and wrinkly.
Don't forget, part of skin is nails! How long or short you want them is up to you, but be sure to remove sharp edges and keep them clean. And don't miss your toes!

, Every person has a different ideal hairstyle. Experiment with a few or consult a stylist.


If you've found a style you're happy with, maintain it well. Trim your hair every 6 to 8 weeks and remove tangles with a wide-toothed comb. Too much brushing can put stress on your scalp and hair.
Stay away from heat treatments and appliances. Unnatural levels of heat dry out your hair and weaken it, causing it to damage. Air dry your hair as often as possible.

Styling men's hair follows the same general principles.
 Anyone wearing too much make-up is sending the world the message that they are not beautiful on their own. Stay natural-looking to seem organically perfect.


Use powders to soak up shine.
Blush and tinted lip balm will give your visage a rosy, sun-kissed look (without the damage).
Use a bit of mascara to lengthen and accentuate your eyelashes.

If you have skin issues (or an occasion to wear more), familiarize yourself with how to wear concealer and foundation. Worn right it can look good, but worn wrong, it can look absolutely horrendous.
 There is no one "perfect" look; in fact, the look that is best on you is the one you are the most comfortable in.


Whatever clothes you choose, make sure they're clean. Dirty is never trendy.
Don't concern yourself with being fashionable. Trends come and go and it'll be exhausting keeping up. Instead, develop your own style and set them yourself. Your money will last longer and you'll be happier being yourself.
Wear clothes that fit and are appropriate. Too tight and you're trying too hard, too loose and your left hand is wasted holding them up. When trying on clothes, consider all angles and move around before buying.

