 Mix a cup of white vinegar with a cup of water. This mild cleaning solution is perfect for everyday use on wooden cabinets. It won't warp the wood or take off the finish.


If you dislike cleaning with vinegar, you can use a light soap solution instead. Mix a teaspoon of dish soap with a cup of water.
Do not use harsh all-purpose cleansers on your cabinets. They may cause discoloration and warping.;
, Grease and food particles can accumulate on cabinet surfaces every time you cook. Wiping down your cabinets every time you cook will go a long way toward keeping them in good shape. Dip a clean washcloth or cleaning rag into the vinegar solution and use it to wipe down the cabinet doors and underneath the cabinets.


You don't want to get the cabinets soaking wet, because moisture may warp the wood. Wring out the cloth you're using so that it's damp, but not dripping.
The vinegar smell will go away as soon as the cabinets dry.
 Since moisture sitting on the cabinets can cause the wood to warp, go back over the cabinets with a clean, dry cloth to remove all traces of cleaning solution.
 Spices and other foods you store in your cabinets are likely to spill sometimes, so keep the inside of your cabinets clean by wiping them out every few weeks. Remove everything from your cabinets, and wipe the cabinets out with a gentle vinegar or soap solution. Dry the cabinets with a clean towel, then put everything back on the shelves.


If you deal with a lot of spilled food in your cabinets, you might want to invest in some good food storage containers. Using glass or metal jars to store spices and dry goods protects the food from bugs and keeps spills to a minimum.
Cabinet liners can make cleaning the inside of your cabinets easy. Consider lining your cabinets with rubber liners; when it's time to clean out your cabinets, you can just remove the liners, rinse and dry them, and put them back in the cabinets.
 For mild dust accumulation and buffing, use a soft and dry cloth to clean both the cabinet’s interior and exterior surfaces. It’s particularly important to dust the outside of your kitchen cabinets regularly, because the grease and steam produced during cooking will cake the dust onto cabinet surfaces, making it harder to clean off if you do it infrequently.

