 Once the conversation is over and you've gone your separate ways, it is always healthy to give time apart for the both of you to recover. This stands, no matter what plans you have for your future relationship, be it as friends or remaining as casual acquaintances. The time it will take to heal varies wildly depending on the person, the extent of the relationship, and the time it lasted for. Giving space is often the thing that can save the relationship, albeit in another form.Giving space for at least a week tends to be a good standard time, although more may be needed depending on the situation.
'Giving space' can involve ignoring the girl when the situation requires it. If you stop returning her calls for instance, it will limit the amount of possibilities there will be for further arguments.There's more use in waiting until she's more or less over you to talk things out as needed.
 Opening up communication doesn't have to happen, and it does run the risk of opening wounds again. All the same, if you cared for this person enough and want her as a friend, there are things you can do at this point to help her along the break up process. Send a message to her. It's recommended that you do so via text message or social media. This gives her the option and time to respond to you properly without putting her on the spot.


For example, you might say: "Hey. I just wanted to say hi and make sure you're feeling alright. Would it be okay if we talked sometime? I still care about you in a different way and want you to be happy."

, It is most likely that the girl's confidence will have been tarnished by the break up. Consolation is a more expanded form of the distant compassion you'll have given during the break up itself. By this point, it's hopeful that the girl has resigned herself to the fact that there's no romantic future between the two of you. It then becomes safer to discuss things in further detail, all the while acting as a friend to boost her confidence.At this point, you can give her hope for other romantic prospects without it being so much about mixed messages: "You know, I think you're a great person, and I know guys that would die to be with a girl like you. Just because things didn't work out with us doesn't mean you're not a catch."
It's important to make sure the feelings have largely subsided before you offer consolations. If you console her too early on, she may get the impression that there's a chance of the two of you getting back together. This will backfire and make the situation far more complicated for the both of you.
 If you were friends before this, there's a good possibility that the rejection will ruin your friendship. If it comes to pass that the girl no longer wants to have you around as a friend, it's important to respect her decision. Friendship cannot be forced on anyone, and if you try to press it, you'll give a lot of mixed messages and cause undue harm to the both of you. If worst comes to worst, accept the fact you have lost someone completely in your life and move forward with things. Meditation can help with the healing process.Time doesn't heal all wounds, but it helps most of them. If you're feeling hurt yourself, try to distract yourself with other things. There are other friends, and even other romantic prospects out there to find solace in., There is sometimes a yearning for people to backtrack and get someone back they tried to reject. If you are at the point where you've broken up with or rejected someone, it's up to you to live with that decision. Running back and reopening the situation isn't healthy for either of you, and you're much better off being firm with the decision you made. Letting a girl down is a hard thing to go through for both people involved, and it's best to remind yourself why you did it if you ever find yourself second-guessing the choice you made.

