 There are several ways to make foods that are similar to bread that may work better with your dietary preferences. For instance, quinoa (which is actually a seed), can be ground into a flour and used in baking - even a loaf of “bread” that you may be able to eat.Before baking with quinoa flour, toast it to make its flavor more mild. Spread the flour on foiled baking sheets and bake for about 2.5 hours at 215 degrees F (102 degrees C). Once the aromatic scent of the toasting quinoa has faded, the flour is likely ready.
Toasted quinoa flour will keep for 8 months in the fridge or freezer, so you can make a large batch for use in multiple recipes.
There are many different recipes for baking with quinoa flour freely available online. Try homemade English muffins in particular, as the slightly tangy flavor of quinoa flour lends itself to this type of bread especially well.
 No one will hold it against you if you simply can’t kick pizza from your diet. Fortunately, there’s a way to make surprisingly good pizza crust that isn’t bread at all. You’ll need a head of cauliflower, ½ cup shredded mozzarella, 1/4 cup grated Parmesan, 1/2 teaspoon oregano, 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt, 1/4 teaspoon garlic powder, and 2 beaten eggs.Pulse the cauliflower until you have a finely shredded, rice like material. Steam the cauliflower in a steamer basket and drain, toweling it to remove most of the moisture.
After the cauliflower cools, mix it with the cheeses, spices, and eggs. Transfer the mixture to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, arranging it in the shape of a pizza crust.
Bake the “crust” at 400 degrees F (204 degrees C) to 20 minutes, add any sauce and additional toppings, and bake 10 more minutes.
 While lettuce wraps can be a great substitute for a sandwich on bread, you may simply prefer squeezing your burger between two soft, rounded layers of something a bit more substantial. Believe it or not, a bread bun isn’t your only option. Portobello mushroom caps not only offer the shape of a classic bun, they are hearty and filling.Roast the caps in the oven at 375 degrees F (191 degrees C) for a few minutes, until they begin to brown. Then use them exactly like you’d use a bread bun.
Note that you can also make personal pizzas on portobello caps.

