 Using a hammer, mark the center of the broken bolt with a center punch. This will help you drill into the center of the bolt as closely as possible, putting you at less risk of damaging the threads of the broken bolt.





;
, A left-handed drill bit is threaded in the opposite direction, so the reverse setting on your drill is what will actually drive in the bit. You want to use a left-handed bit because it will torque in the opposite direction as the broken bolt, which will stop the bolt from being driven in tighter.








If you’re lucky, the left-handed bit will grab and unscrew the bolt enough by itself for you to grab the bolt with a pair of vice grips or channel locks and finish removing it from there.
Make sure you use the appropriate size drill bit. The bits in the extracting kit should have a table letting you know what size to use based on the size of the bolt you need to remove. Using too big a bit will risk damaging the threads on the bolt, and using too small a bit will require a smaller, weaker extractor with a higher risk of breaking off during the process.
 Based on the type of extracting kit you purchased, the extracting bit will have a tapered, left-handed bit at one end and either a hex head or a T-handle head at the other. Since the extractor is also a left-handed bit, it will also work into the broken bolt with a counterclockwise movement.








Since the extractor is tapered, you should initially tap it into place with your hammer before switching to a socket or T-handle.
 As you continue to tighten in the extractor, the tapered end will catch and the torque will work to loosen the bolt once the extracting bit is snug.









Continue turning the extracting tool counterclockwise until the broken bolt has been completely removed from the surface in which it was embedded.
Be sure to take your time during this process to prevent excessive damage to either the bolt or the item from which you are removing it. You also want to work the extractor as gently as possible because they are made of hardened steel, and a broken off extractor will be even more difficult to drill out.
 During the bolt-removal process, it is likely that small amounts of metal fillings will have come off of the bolt. If you plan to replace the broken bolt with a new one, it is important to first remove all of these fillings and shaving. You can most easily accomplish this with either a magnet or compressed air.








