 Open your favorite browser, type http://www.freelancer.com into the address bar, and press Enter.;
, Once you’re on the main page, enter your email address and your password into the appropriate text boxes found at the right side of the screen. Afterwards, click on the login button right below the password box.
 Once you’re signed in, look for Profile tab on the black bar at the top of the screen. Let your mouse hover over it, and a drop-down menu will then appear. Click on Settings from the list.
 Click on this to expand it and display its items.
 On the next page, scroll down until you see the subheading “Credit Card Authorized Payments.” Directly below that is the green “Verify now” button, which you must click on to load the next page.
 Scroll down towards the bottom of the page until you see a list of all of the major credit card providers, with the green “Add credit card” button below. Click on the button.
 Clicking on the “Add credit card” button will display two questions about your credit card. The first one is your card type, which is set to Visa by default, and which you must select from the drop-down menu.
 Select your country from the drop-down menu as well. The default is set to the United States.
 It will be right below the two questions mentioned earlier. The next page will then load.
 On the next page, the first text box is labelled “Card No” which pertains to the number on the front of your card. Click inside the box and type in your credit card number.
 You’ll find your card’s expiration date just below the card number. Use the drop-down menus to indicate your card’s expiration month and year.
 Right below where you indicated your card’s expiration date is the Security Code box. Type into it your card’s three-digit security code.


The security code is found at the back of your card, towards the right. Look for three digits!

, It’s the blue button at the bottom of the screen, and it’s the final step. Once you click on the button, your account will now indicate that your credit card has been fully verified.

