 If they contact you several times a week, is it really just to catch up or because they still pine for you? Making excuses to see you signifies lingering feelings, so be aware that the friendship might not be healthy.You might have told your ex that you would go to an art exhibit or hit up an antique store sometime. If your ex presses you to get together daily, watch out!
If your ex constantly wants to come over to do something that is not urgent, like teach you a new Photoshop trick or help you pick out new curtains, she or he just might want physical contact.
Be able to tell the difference between excuses and actual urgency, though. If they mention feeling despondent, don’t shrug it off.
 You might find things that the ex does more annoying than when other friends do them. We notice little things and take people’s words more personally when we have romantic feelings for someone. If these things occur, you might have to back away from the friendship.When true friends cancel plans because they feel ill, you believe them. However, if you doubt that your ex is sincere when doing the same thing, that signals a trust issue.
If you overreact when the ex gives you an honest answer when you ask about one of your flaws, it might mean that the friendship is lacks a solid foundation.
Everyone has little things that drive them crazy, like people who chew with their mouths open, but if every tiny thing that your ex does drives you crazy, back away before you start being mean.
 Be sure that you don’t think about this person more than you think about other friends. If you are truly just friends, you can go a weeks without thinking about the other person. Lingering thoughts about your ex might mean that you’re not ready to be just friends.Check yourself if you constantly wonder if your ex “friend” is dating anyone yet.
If you often wish that you could get together but don’t want to ask because you two went to a movie just last week, that's not a good sign.
Daydreaming about kissing or sleeping with your ex is not okay! If you do that, don’t try to convince yourself that those thoughts will eventually pass. Take a break from seeing your ex pronto!

, Clearly, you've put much time, effort, and emotion into trying to be buddies with your ex. If it just doesn't feel right after a few months, though, it's time to admit that it's not working. At this point, spending time together is not productive and it might annoy your friends.You might want to move up in your job, but all of the back and forth with your ex leaves you with less energy to focus.
Meeting new people, which you wanted to prioritize, isn't something you've done during this time because you focused on the ex.
Some of your friends might be irritated with you for spending so much time on something that they thought wasn't worth it.

