 Don’t bathe your Scottish Terrier too often, since frequent baths can dry out its skin.Give your Scottish Terrier a bath only when necessary, such as when it starts to smell or has rolled around in something that stinks or can’t be brushed out.Here are some tips for the bathing process:Brush and comb your Scottish Terrier beforehand to remove loose hair and tangles.
Rinse out all shampoo so your Scottish Terrier’s skin doesn’t feel itchy.
Consider using a dog-safe hair dryer to complete the drying process.
If it’s time for a hair clipping, wait to do it until after a bath when the hair will be clean.
 Keeping your Scottish Terrier’s nails trimmed won’t be just for good looks. Short nails will make it easier for your Scottish Terrier to walk and have proper balance. Purchase a pair of nail clippers (guillotine or scissor type) at your local pet store. When you trim the nails, be careful not to cut the quick, which is the thin vein running through each nail.


If the nail starts bleeding, dab a small amount of cornstarch or styptic powder on the nail.Guillotine-type nail clippers may be a little easier to use than scissor-type nail clippers.
When the nails start clicking the floor, you’ll know it’s time for a nail trim., Dogs can sometimes get crusty goop in the inner corners of their eyes. If you see this goop around your Scottish Terrier’s eyes, use a clean damp cloth to remove it.


Check the eyes weekly.If they don’t look healthy (colored discharge or redness), take your Scottish Terrier to your vet., Keeping your Scottish Terrier’s ears clean will help prevent ear infections. If you notice a buildup of wax or debris in the ears, gently clean them. Here are some tips for ear cleaning:Use a clean cotton ball, not a Q-tip. A Q-tip can damage the ear canal.
Get a dog-safe ear cleaner from your vet.
Wipe from the inside out to make sure you don’t rub the wax or debris back into the ear.
If you see signs of ear problems (swelling, redness, bad odor, scrapes), take your Scottish Terrier to your vet.
 Dental disease in dogs can be very uncomfortable and possibly lead to other health problems. Brushing your Scottish Terrier’s teeth a few times a week will help prevent dental disease.Use toothbrush and toothpaste made for dogs.When you brush the teeth, check for signs of dental disease (bleeding or swollen gums, bad breath, loose teeth).Dental disease requires veterinary treatment.

