 Always open a formal email with a salutation. Addressing the recipient by name (if known) is preferred. Include the person's title (Mr., Mrs., Ms., Dr., etc.) with their last name, followed by a comma or a colon. You can precede the salutation with "Dear..." if you like.If you don't know the name of the person you're writing to, use a salutation like “Dear Sir/Madam,” “Dear Sir or Madam,” or “To whom it may concern.”
Do not use “Hello,” “Hey,” “Hi,” or other informal salutations.
 If you are writing to someone you don't have an existing relationship with, such as a new customer, hiring manager, or government official, tell them who you are and why you are writing. Do this in the first sentence or two of your email.


For example, when writing to a potential employer, you might say: "My name is Earl Rivers. I'm contacting you to apply for the administrative assistant position listed on CareerXYZ.com."

, Once you’ve introduced yourself and the general reason you’re writing, you can follow up with the body of your email. Put the most important content near the top. This respects your recipient’s time, and makes the purpose of your email clear.When writing to a government official, for instance, you might start by saying: "My name is Arlene Rivers. I obtained your email address from the Westchester County Clerk website. I am writing to contest the traffic citation I received on December 31, 2009. "

, For a formal email, it’s ok to be direct, as long as you are polite. Beating around the bush will only lose your reader and make it harder to figure out what you want or need from them.For instance, when writing to a professor, don’t waste space with unnecessary padding like: “This is Darlene Frankreich. Do you know me? CHEM 221 is my favorite class right now. I love the way the lectures are so organized. I can always follow along and know what will be on the tests. Speaking of tests, I was thinking about the next exam.”
Instead, it would be much clearer to write something like: “This is Darlene Frankreich. I’m a student in your CHEM 221 class, and I'm writing about a potential exam time conflict.”

, There’s no set length for how long an email should be. However, it’s a good idea to keep an email to about one (laptop or desktop size) screen length.If your email is relatively lengthy, break it up into short paragraphs. Insert a line break between each paragraph instead of indenting.
 Since formal emails are written for professional contexts, you’ll want to give a good impression. Use complete sentences and polite phrasing. Avoid things like:Slang
Unnecessary contractions
Emoticons and emojis
Profanity
Jokes

, As with salutations, there are a variety of closings that are acceptable in formal emails. Make sure to follow up with your full name and job title or other signature (if you have one). Examples of potential closings include:"Yours sincerely,"
"Yours cordially,"
"Respectfully,"
"Best,"
“Your student,”

