 The National Rifle Association (NRA) is the most prominent national gun rights lobby in the United States. However, you might also want to join other national organizations, or even local or state-level gun rights organizations. For example, the Second Amendment Foundation is a national organization committed to promoting the public’s understanding of the Constitutional right to firearms.To find organizations, you can type “protect gun rights” into your search engine.
To find state-level organizations, type “your state” and “gun rights” into the search engine.;
, You typically have to fill out an application to join any gun rights organization, though you can often submit your information online. To join the NRA, for example, you will need to provide the following information on their webpage:your name
your address
an email address
your phone number (optional)
your date of birth (optional)

, Most organizations are member-funded, so you will need to pay some money to join. Typically, gun rights organizations will have different membership tiers. For example, the NRA offers the following membership options, which you can pay for with a credit card on the website:One-year membership. Currently $25.
Multi-year memberships (for two, three, or five years) for $50, $70, or $100.
Life member. For $1,500, you can become a lifetime member of the NRA. You have the option of making quarterly payments of $25 per quarter.
Junior member. You can join as a junior member for $15. Junior members can also get a junior life membership for $550.
Distinguished member. Available for those 65 or older, as well as for veterans. Cost: $30 a year, or $750 for a distinguished lifetime membership.
 Financial support helps these organizations fight for gun rights. But many organizations also give you the chance to increase your participation. They will send frequent alerts telling you how you can bring attention to gun rights. Your activism could take many forms:


Contact your elected representatives and express support for bills that increase gun rights.
Write letters to your newspaper, in which you discuss the importance of gun rights and explain why your community should reject gun restrictions.
Campaign for candidates to state and federal office who support increasing gun rights.

