 These are your freshest option. The freshness of your walnuts will ultimately determine how much oil you will extract. , Using a hinged nutcracker, place the whole nut between the two metal hinges and squeeze tightly. , Separate the walnut meat from the shell, including the thin seed jacket. Don't worry about breaking the meat, as you will be grinding it in the next part., Collect your shelled walnuts in a bowl as you go, and throw out the shells., The walnuts should be ground using a meat grinder, a food processor, or even a Nutribullet, whichever you have access to.When using a food processor or Nutribullet, make sure blades and nuts are at a cool room temperature before grinding. This will prevent overheating, and keep the nuts from turning into a paste., It's important not to overfill food processors, as this will cause an uneven consistency during processing., “Pulse” grind your walnuts by turning your machine on for a couple of seconds and then off again., Continue the pulse method of grinding until your walnut meat is a fine nut meal consistency.

Do not blend continuously, or the oils will release too soon., After grinding a cup of the meat, put it aside in a bowl while continuing to grind the remaining walnuts., Pour your ground walnuts into a pot big enough for you to add water and still stir comfortably without spilling., Pour just enough water into the pot to cover walnut meat., While the mixture is heating, it needs to be stirred continuously. Once the moisture has evaporated, it is ready to be pressed., Every oil press is different. Some presses don't require the grinding step, while others don't require heating. Make sure you know what type of press you’ll be using in advance, and follow the instructions for your appliance., Have a clean container prepared to catch the oil as you’re pressing., Following the directions on your appliance, begin putting small amounts of the heated walnut meat into the press and squeeze until you get oil. Once you’ve gone through all of your walnuts you should have approximately two quarts of oil, depending on the quality of your nuts. , Run the cheesecloth under cold water to remove any lint that may be stuck., Shake open the cheesecloth and line the inside of your colander/funnel with it. The cheesecloth is doing the filtering, but the colander/funnel gives structure, making the process easier., A pitcher will make it easier to dispense into bottles for storing., Take the bowl of oil you caught from the press and pour the oil through the cheesecloth colander/ funnel and into the pitcher. The cheesecloth will catch any debris remaining in the oil., Use small to medium sized brown or stainless steel bottles. These are better at protecting the oil from heat or damaging light. , Dispense the pitcher of oil into your chosen bottles., When you’ve filled a bottle, make sure to seal it to maintain freshness., Put the date of production on your bottles, so you always have a time reference when you use it., Refrigeration is the best step in prolonging the life of your walnut oil.

Walnut oil will be fresh for about two to three months.