 Uber users who live in India have the option to use Paytm Wallet or Airtel Money instead of a credit card. If you live anywhere other than India, this method will not work for you.

If you are already an Uber member, you don’t need to re-register. Just launch the app, tap “Payments” in the menu, and select “Add a Prepaid Wallet” as your method of payment.At that point, select either “Paytm” or “Airtel Money.” If you don’t have an account, you will be walked through the setup process.


Enter your name, e-mail address, phone number, and a password to protect your account.
Tap “Next” when you’re ready to continue. A text message containing a confirmation code will be sent to the mobile phone number you provided.
 Whether you select PayTM or Airtel Money, the next steps will be very similar.The app will check to see if there’s already a Paytm or Airtel Money account linked with the current phone number. If no account is found, a new account will automatically be created. Tap “OK” to continue.
 Whether or not you already have a Paytm or Airtel account, you will receive a text message from the service that contains an OTP.

If you already have an account, the OTP will also be sent to the email address you have on file.
 The Uber app should now be open to a screen that says “Please enter the One Time Password (OTP).” Type the confirmation code into the blank, then tap “Verify.”, After verifying your account, you will arrive at a screen that displays your current balance.

If you want to use the amount that is listed in the balance field, tap “Use” at the top right corner of the screen.
To add funds, tap “Add Money.” You will have the option to connect a credit card, debit card, or bank account to your account.
 If you do not see a prompt to enter the code, it will show up before you book your first ride., Type your current address into the search box or drag the map around to position the pin on your precise location., Use the slider at the bottom of the map to select a type of Uber vehicle. For a description of each Uber vehicle type, see How to Pick the Correct Uber Type.
 Here you’ll find the ETA (estimated time of arrival), maximum party size, and minimum fare., On the details screen, tap “Get Fare Estimate.” Here, enter the address of your destination and tap it in the search results. You must have enough money in your Paytm or Airtel account to cover the cost of your ride.

Once you’ve viewed the fare, tap your phone’s back button to return to the map.
 Enter your destination address the same way you entered your current location., In a few moments, you’ll see the driver’s name, license plate number, and a short description of the vehicle. Head to the pickup location you specified and wait for your driver.

The app will keep you up to date on how far away your driver is from your pickup location.
When the ride is complete, the total amount will be deducted from your Paytm or Airtel account, depending on which service you use.

