 If you suspect poisoning, call the Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222 in the United States) or emergency medical services immediately. If vomiting occurs suddenly, take a quick look for signs of poisoning: Suspicious containers such as medications, cleaning solvents, or poisons which small children may have found. Check the vomit for blood, which can indicate poisoning. Smell the child's breath – if there is any chemical, fruity, or unusual odor, suspect poisoning.If the child is old enough, ask them if they ate or drank something they found. Try to appear calm and not angry to encourage the child to tell you honestly.
 Vomiting and diarrhea in children can quickly lead to dehydration, which can have serious consequences for kids. Take your child to the doctor or emergency room right away or call 911 if they exhibit any severe signs of dehydration such as:Extremely dry mouth, dry skin or no tears when crying.
Passes out.
Cannot stand due to weakness or dizziness.
Is lethargic or unable to think clearly.
Is older and has not urinated in 12 hours or longer.
If you notice less severe symptoms of mild or moderate dehydration, like not drinking or eating enough, dark yellow urine or less frequent urination, dry mouth/eyes, irritability, or vomiting more than once, call your doctor, especially if your child is less than 1 year old since dehydration can happen much more quickly in younger children.
 Take the child to their doctor if vomiting lasts longer than 24 hours, the child also has diarrhea, abdominal pain, or black or tarry stools, or the vomit contains greenish material or blood (which may appear bright red or the vomit might look dark like coffee grounds).If the child vomits several times an hour for several hours, that’s also severe enough to see the doctor.Consult a doctor if your child has recently started a new medication. Their vomiting may be a serious reaction to the new medicine.
Some babies up to 4-5 months old vomit or spit-up because of a condition known as Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD). If your child seem uncomfortable or in pain and /or develops breathing problem associated with spitting up, talk to your pediatrician or family practitioner., Fevers can contribute to dehydration in children and can cause serious problems. Take your feverish, ill child to see their doctor if:A baby up to 3 months old has a fever of 100.4°F (38°C) or higher (get emergency help immediately, even if not vomiting).
A child up to 2 years old has a fever of 100.4°F (38°C) (okay to see the regular doctor).
A child of any age has a fever of 100.4°F (38°C) or higher that keeps coming back or lasts longer than 24 hours.
 If a newborn is unable to feed due to projectile vomiting, they may have a condition called pyloric stenosis. This condition is treatable with surgery, and prompt treatment is important so the baby can start to feed properly and gain weight.Pyloric stenosis usually develops in children under 3 months of age.
Projectile vomiting is forceful vomiting during which the baby might eject liquids for up to several feet., A disorder called intussusception sometimes occurs, usually in children under 3 years old. This is when part of the intestine “telescopes” into another part, causing a block in the intestine. This can be a serious medical concern, so get help right away if vomiting is accompanied by:Abdominal pain, usually occurring every 15-20 minutes then becoming more constant as time passes. A young child with abdominal pain might pull their knees to their chest and cry.
Stool mixed with mucus and blood, called “currant jelly stool” because of how it looks.
Diarrhea.

Fever.
Lethargy or unusual weakness or sleepiness.
A lump in the abdomen.
 Vomiting that occurs right after a bee sting or introduction of a new food (including milk) may be due to a severe allergic reaction called anaphylaxis.Very quickly look for other signs of allergic reaction as shown below. If the child has an Epi pen, use it right away. If not, call for emergency help and follow up with your doctor to discuss long-term management. Look for:Hives or a rash.
Flushed or pale skin.
The child feeling warm.
Visible swelling of the child’s tongue or lips, or swelling of the tongue or throat as shown by wheezing or trouble breathing.
A fast, weak pulse.
Fainting.
 No matter what is causing a child’s vomiting, some signs and symptoms indicate a serious problem. Call emergency services or take your child for emergency care if vomiting occurs with any of the following:Trouble breathing.
Difficulty waking up or staying awake, or confusion.
Seizure.
Racing or irregular heartbeat.
No bowel movement for 3 days or longer.
Stiff neck or severe headache.
Trouble urinating or pain when urinating.Blood in the vomit or stool.Greenish color to vomit.

