 Open any web browser on your computer, and type in https://hootsuite.com/. Press Enter to be directed to the Hootsuite website.;
, You can sign in using your Twitter, Facebook, or Google+ account by clicking on the corresponding log-in button.


If you don’t have a Hootsuite account yet, click on the green “Sign Up” button at the upper-right section of the web page, and provide the personal information required, such as your full name and e-mail address.
 The Dashboard will be displayed as soon as you’ve successfully logged in.
 This is the main and largest part of the Dashboard. This displays news coming in from all the social networking accounts linked to your Hootsuite.


Mentions, direct messages, and tweets (for Twitter), or wall posts, tags, and photos (for Facebook) can all be seen here.
 Above each News Feed column is an account tab emblazoned with the name of its respective social network. Use the account tabs to easily switch between Facebook, Twitter, or LinkedIn.


The number of account tabs displayed depends on how many networking sites you have on Hootsuite and on the service plan you’re on (Free, Pro, or Enterprise).
 Move your cursor over the icons that you see at the left side of the page; the Dashboard menu will then slide out. It contains the five menu buttons for options and settings for your account.


Streams—This lets you view and move between news feeds for all accounts by bringing out the News Feed column to your Dashboard.
Publisher—This allows you to create and schedule status posts for the accounts you have. It is similar to a broadcast RSS for some blog sites.
Analytics—This shows the reports regarding the viewer statistics of your accounts and how well each is performing on the Internet.
Assignment—This lets you send a message or task to specific members of your Hootsuite Team. This feature is only available for the Pro and Enterprise plans because only these plans include the Team Member feature.
Contacts—This displays the list of profiles listed as personal contacts on the different accounts connected to your Hootsuite.
 Right above the account tabs are two text fields that comprise the Post Message tool. Use them to publish a message (such as a status or tweet) on your social media accounts.


Click on the “Send To” text field, and choose the account you want to post the message on. You can select one or all of your connected accounts.
For each message you compose, the number of characters you can use depends on the social media platform on which the message will be published. For example, you have a maximum of 140 characters on Twitter while you can use up to 2,000 characters on Facebook.
To publish a post, click the “Send Now” button.
 Currently, Hootsuite is working on the Conversation feature, which is a chat box (similar to Facebook’s) located at the right side of the page. The Conversation chat box lets you talk to the other members of your team in real time.


This feature is only available for the Pro and Enterprise plans.

