 Exercise is an important part of your dog’s routine and is necessary to keep them happy and healthy.Exercising together will help you strengthen your relationship with your dog and to spend time together. Switch up your regular exercise routine and go for long walks, take them hiking, or go swimming at a dog-friendly beach or lake. Your dog will appreciate spending time with you and will have fun., Try playing a variety of different games with your dog. This is a great way for you and your dog to bond, plus it’s a good way for the two of you to get along. Try games like tug of war, hide and seek, and fetch. Whenever you find a game that your dog really enjoys, you can stick with it and look for ways to keep the game fun. For instance, if your dog loves fetch you can use different types of balls or throw multiple balls at one time. This helps your dog associate you with fun and happiness.Games have the added bonus of giving your dog some of the exercise they need to be healthy.
 The relationship between you and your dog needs to be built on mutual trust and affection, and your dog needs to recognize that you’re still the boss. Set rules for your dog and be consistent when you enforce them. Your dog will become confused when you yell at the to get off the couch one day and then let them snuggle up to you on the couch the next day. Be consistent with the rules that you set, whatever they are, and make sure the dog respects these healthy boundaries.A healthy relationship with your dog requires discipline and reinforcement. Use positive reinforcement, like praise or treats, to reinforce good behaviors that you want your dog to follow.
 Rather than just dumping their dog food in a bowl and walking away, let your dog watch as you portion out their food and give it to them. Not only is this a good way to reinforce training commands like sit and stay, this shows your dog that you are in charge.Have your dog sit and watch you while you prepare their food so they form a strong positive association between you and their food.
 You should use positive reinforcement and praise to encourage your dog's good behaviors and to let them know that you appreciate their efforts. When they sit on command, tell them "good job," or "good boy," or you can give them a small treat. Even though your dog doesn't understand the exact words, they respond to your tone of voice and know that these phrases mean that you're pleased with them.You can incorporate positive reinforcement during training and in your everyday relationship with your dog.
 Your dog does not have human emotions and motives. When your dog displays inappropriate behavior, try to consider the situation as if you were a dog. Thinking of things from this perspective can help you look objectively at the situation and identify things that you can change to improve your relationship.

For example, if your dog peed inside, you should ask yourself if you were home on time to let your dog out. Your dog did not pee on the rug because they are mad at you. In the future, make sure that your dog is able to use the bathroom every several hours.
If your dog raided the garbage can, it is not necessarily because they are hungry. If you throw something tasty in the garbage can, take the garbage out right away so that your dog isn’t tempted. Place a weight in the bottom of the can, buy a can with a locking lid, or both.
 It's not uncommon for dogs to have some sort of behavioral problem, like barking incessantly, jumping up on people, or being possessive over food and objects. These behavioral issues can put a damper on your relationship with your dog, and as an owner, it's up to you to address them through training.When you train your dog to stop barking or ease their separation anxiety you will improve your relationship. Dog behavioral problems often come out of a lack of structure, routine, and training.


Positive reinforcement will reward your dog for the behaviors that you do want, and will discourage dogs from continuing negative behaviors. Negative reinforcement, like yelling or becoming aggressive with your dog, will not solve the issue.
Not all behavioral issues can be corrected at home. You may want to contact a dog trainer who specializes in these issues if the issue is not being resolved through training.

