 If you have a tourist or a business visa and want to work, then you need to get a change of status to a work visa category.Typically, you must have an employer file a petition on your behalf, so you should talk to an employer about getting a job with them.


If the employer wants to get an H-1B visa, for example, then they will file an I-129 petition with the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS).
If you are in the U.S. as a student, then you need to talk to an attorney, since there are special limitations with respect to students seeking temporary worker visas., USCIS must receive the petition before your lawful status expires. You can find the expiration date on your Form I-94.If your deadline passes, you may still remain in the country provided the petition was received before the expiration date.


If the employer’s petition is rejected, you must leave the country immediately.
 You can qualify for a change of status only if you meet certain conditions. Go down through and check that you satisfy each of the following conditions:You were admitted legally into the U.S.
You haven’t done anything that would make you ineligible.
You are not required to leave the U.S. before getting a new visa.
 You need to submit this form to USCIS. Ideally, you should submit it at the same time as the employer submits their petition.You can download the form and its instructions from the USCIS website.You can type the requested information directly into the form, or you can write neatly using black ink.
If you need extra space to answer an item, then attach a sheet of paper. At the top of the sheet, put your name and any Alien Registration Number (if applicable). Also identify the page number, part number, and item number that your answer refers to., You also need to submit a letter with your application in which you explain why you need a change of status to a work visa category. Make sure that you include the following information in your letter:Why you want the work visa.
Why your stay will be temporary. Since you are applying for a temporary work visa, you should let USCIS know when you intend to leave the country and return home.
How your employment and residency in your home country will be affected, if at all.
 You should gather all required supporting documents as listed in the instructions. Remember to include a fee of $290 for the Form I-539, made payable by check or money order to “U.S. Department of Homeland Security.”You can call 1-800-375-5283 for information about where to send your application.
Remember to keep a copy of your entire application for your records.
 You should not accept employment until USCIS approves your temporary work visa.USCIS will process your application and respond in writing.