 The best place to learn how to booty bounce is by visiting a dance class. There are so many genres of dance that incorporate swaying your hips and bouncing your butt for sexy movements. Some dance classes to consider taking are:Salsa: In this dance style you'll be swaying your hips a lot, but occasionally you can do up a booty bounce.

Hip hop: This is probably the style of dance that you will booty bounce in the most often. Hip hop involves getting low to the floor, and moving to the beat of the music. While hip hopping you can pop, lock, and drop it or do the twerk to incorporate that booty bounce.
Zumba: This is the perfect dance class to take if you want to exercise and move your booty. Zumba combines latin dancing with other styles so you can sway, pump, and move your booty to the music.;
, If you want to booty bounce and feel comfortable and confident at the same time, you need great music. If you are in a club or just at home practicing, put on some soulful music, or music that you can easily dance to. Then, move to the music, feeling the rhythm in your body. Practice shaking and bouncing your butt in different ways. Do the twerk, or experiment with other body movements.Bouncing your booty is really all about doing what feels good. The best way to bounce your booty is to get in a position where you are lower to the ground and your knees are bent. Then you'll have more movement in your booty and it will pop out more.
 To really draw attention to your butt, you need to wear clothes that accentuate your booty. Choose some tight, high waisted jeans to really round out your behind. Or wear some cut off shorts to show off your legs. Wear what feels comfortable to you, and what is easiest to dance in.You can also buy booty enhancing clothes like booty pop shorts, which add extra padding to your butt area. A tight dress or skirt can also enhance your booty by making your waist look smaller and your butt look bigger.
Some things you might avoid are looser pants, longer skirts, or flowy dresses. These outfits are cute, but they won't cling to your butt and so your booty bounce will be less noticeable. If you just want to dance and shake your butt and don't care about people noticing, then wear whatever you want.
 One of the most important things to remember when booty bouncing is to be confident. If you look insecure about your booty dancing, people will notice and you won't be able to pull off a really good bounce. Whether you have a small behind or round booty, don't be afraid to shake it. Don't compare you booty to other people's booties. As the saying goes just "shake what your momma gave you."