 The first thing that might indicate that someone has an eating disorder is the way that they eat. This includes the types of foods they will and will not eat, the amount of food that they eat, and how they eat their food. Pay attention to the person’s eating behaviors to determine if he may have an eating disorder.For example, a man with anorexia may only eat low-calorie foods, such as lettuce, celery, and carrots. He may also limit his food intake by eating extremely small servings, or by staying within a rigid calorie limit, such as 800 calories per day. You might also notice that he avoids eating around people.
Someone who is bulimic might exhibit unhealthy eating patterns by eating large amounts of food, but never seeming to gain weight. However, people with bulimia are more likely to binge in secret than in front of other people, so you might never see this behavior. Pay attention to whether or not he goes to the bathroom immediately after eating.
Watch for excessive overeating in men with binge-eating disorder. Men who have binge-eating disorder may eat to excess on a regular basis. They may eat this way even if they are not hungry.;
, If you notice that a man has recently lost a significant amount of weight in a short space of time, then this can also indicate a problem. Watch for a significant drop in weight as a sign of an eating disorder.For example, if a man who is a healthy weight drops 20 pounds in one month, then this would be cause for concern.
Pay attention to signs of weight loss, such as looser fitting clothing, a more pronounced bone structure, or claims of significant weight loss.
 Someone who has an eating disorder desires to be thin so much that it will dominate his life. You might notice that the person talks constantly about dieting, calories, food, exercise, and other weight loss topics. This is common in people with eating disorders.Reflect on how often the person talks about weight loss, nutrition, and exercise. Do the person’s comments seem healthy or obsessive? How much of his time do these topics seem to occupy?
For example, you might have a friend who tells you about a new diet or exercise program he learned about every time you see him. He might talk about nothing but dieting and exercise when you are together.
 People who have eating disorders are overly focused on their bodies and the often have distorted perceptions of themselves. Therefore, someone with an eating disorder may look at himself in the mirror constantly, criticize his body, and compare himself to others.Pay attention to how often this may talks about or seems focused on his body. Does this preoccupation interfere with his life or relationships? Has he stopped engaging in other interests because of his preoccupation with his body? If so, then he may have an eating disorder.
 Men with eating disorders are more likely than women with eating disorders to engage in excessive exercise behaviors. This may include exercising to excess to offset calories after eating, or spending hours at the gym on a daily basis.Consider how much time he devotes to exercise. If he is devoting an unreasonable amount of time to exercise every day, then this can be a good indication that he may have an eating disorder.
 It is common for people with eating disorders to use illicit or prescription drugs to help reduce appetite and increase metabolism. For example, he might use cocaine, amphetamines, or diet pills to help reduce his appetite and speed up his metabolism.Consider any drug use that you have noticed in the person.

