 To make a rainbow smoothie, you need to blend different combinations of fruit together to make the different colored layers. So along with your ingredients, you'll also need:


Seven sealable freezer bags or freezer-safe bowls with airtight lids.
Sharp knife and flat surface for preparing the fruit.
Strainer for draining the washed berries.
Blender and a mixing spoon.
Five large cups. Alternatively, you can pour one smoothie and freeze the rest of the prepared fruit for later. This recipe makes about 12.5 cups (3 L) of smoothie, or five 2.5-cup (591 ml) servings;
, As you prepare the fruit, it’s important to keep it all separated until your ready to combine the ingredients for the different layers. To wash and cut the fruit:


Peel the bananas and orange. Leave the bananas whole. Chop the orange into one-inch (2.5-cm) chunks.
Wash the raspberries under running water and place them in a strainer to dry off. Repeat with the blueberries, spinach, and strawberries. Cut the stems off the strawberries.
Wash the peach and cut it in half to remove the pit. Cut the peach into quarters.
Wash the beet and cut off the tail and the stem. Cut the beet into quarters.
Peel the pineapple and mango. Cut the fruit from around the core of the pineapple and the pit of the mango. Cut the fruit into one-inch (2.5-cm) chunks.
 This rainbow smoothie will have seven layers in total: purple, blue, red, magenta, green, yellow, and orange. Place the fruit bunches into separate freezer bags once it’s all divided out.


Purple layer: combine half a banana and the blueberries. You can also substitute mixed berries or blackberries. As you portion out the bananas for the different layers, cut them into one-inch (2.5-cm) chunks.Blue layer: one banana and ½ cup (82.5 g) of pineapple. You will use the food coloring to turn this blue.
Red layer: half a banana, and ¼ cup each of raspberries (31.25 g) and strawberries (50 g).
Magenta layer: half a banana, the beet, and ¼ cup each of raspberries (31.25 g) and strawberries (50 g).
Green layer: one banana, the spinach, and ½ cup (82.5 g) of pineapple. For a more vibrant green, add ¼ of an avocado as well.Yellow layer: one banana and ½ cup (82.5 g) of pineapple.
Orange layer: half a banana, the peach, the orange, and the mango.
 It's important to start with frozen fruit, because this will give the smoothies the right consistency and help the layers stay separated. You can add lots of ice to a regular smoothie, but that will dilute the colors.


Once all the fruit is divided and portioned into bags or bowls, place it in the freezer for a few hours or overnight., To make each smoothie layer, you will also need yogurt and orange juice, or another liquid for blending. Keep these ingredients cold and in the fridge until you're ready to assemble your smoothie.


You can use Greek, regular, coconut, or soy yogurt for the smoothies. Each smoothie color will require ¼ cup (61 g) of yogurt.
Good blending liquids for the smoothies include coconut milk, water, and dairy or non-dairy milk. Each smoothie color will require about 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of liquid.
 To make an accurate rainbow, start with magenta on the bottom, followed by purple, blue, green, yellow, orange, and finally red on top.


In the bottom of the blender, pour in ¼ cup (61 g) of yogurt and 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of orange juice. Then add the fruit for the magenta layer, which is banana, beet, raspberries, and strawberries.Always add the liquids to the blender first, as this will prevent air bubbles from forming.
When you start up the blender, start on a low speed. As the fruit chunks get smaller, increase the speed until the mixture is smooth and free of chunks.
As you blend, add more orange juice if you need to loosen up the fruit. You can also turn off and unplug the blender to stir the smoothie if necessary.
 Place ¼ to 1/3 cup of magenta smoothie into the bottom of each glass. You want about the same quantity of each color per smoothie, which will work out to roughly a one-inch (2.5-cm) layer of each color. To make even and flat layers, pack the smoothie layer down with the spoon. Place the glasses into the freezer until you're ready to add another layer.If you're only making one smoothie, pour the remaining magenta smoothie back into the freezer bag and save it for later.
When the blender is empty, rinse it out with warm water so that you don’t mix colors making your next layer., Make the purple layer next by adding the yogurt, juice, and fruit. Repeat using the same process as you did for the magenta layer. When you're ready to pour, remove the glasses from the freezer and spoon in a one-inch (2.5-cm) thick layer (on top of the magenta.) Pack it down and return the cup to the freezer.


When you're making the blue layer, don’t forget to add the food coloring, otherwise you'll have another layer of yellow. The food coloring is necessary because blue fruits, such as blueberries, actually turn purple when blended.
If you don’t want to use artificial food coloring, you can find natural food coloring, or skip the blue layer.
 Leave the individual fruit combinations in the freezer until you're ready to make that layer. This will help keep the fruit layers frozen, which will keep the colors from blending together. For each fruit layer:


Add the yogurt and orange juice first.
Blend the mixture until smooth, adding more liquid if necessary.
Remove the glasses from the freezer and spoon in a one-inch layer of smoothie on top of the previous layer.
Return the glasses to the freezer until you add the next layer. Place any unused smoothie back into the freezer.
Rinse out the blender.
 You can serve the smoothies with either a spoon or a straw. As long as you keep the leftover fruit colors separate in the freezer, you can easily make more rainbow smoothies another day.

