 Many galleries are run by a curator with distinct tastes, so play up to that. Research head curators and the work they show, ask yourself "would this person like my art?" Think about your medium, themes, approach, etc.;
, This is tricky, as your work may be similar to other work, but it can't be too closely related. Curators are business people, so they won't put all their eggs in one basket.


Believe in what you are creating. If it's not better than most of the art that's out right now, you need to focus more or try something very different. (How do you know it's better? You have the absolute conviction that it is.)

, Sell your enthusiasm and skill. Make them want it at that gallery and let people know you are highly interested in having your work there.
 When you apply for grants you expose yourself to artists and curators who are on judging panels. Even if you don't win, the art community sees that you are serious.
 Do not apply for exhibitions (or grants) that have an entry fee. These "competitions" are usually fundraisers for the organization or gallery and offer very little career advancement or prestige (and, in fact, including such a show on your artist's resume can make people take you less seriously). There are occasional exceptions to this rule (especially in regards to residencies), but for the most part you're best off not paying folks to consider your work. Especially avoid vanity galleries which charge you a fee to be included in a show (or to have a solo show). No legitimate gallery engages in this practice.
 You can invite other local artists, or other artists with similar styles as yourself.


Get digital images of your artwork. Once you have digital Images of your work, create a website and get a professional email address.
 Include as many examples of and information about your work as possible. Include a link to your artist web site. Include a short artist statement with your general approach to your creative life as a whole. Many curators like to collect paper documents on artists before they will show their work.


Email galleries in every major city you can travel to. Email as many as you can, to get their attention and in turn get them to look at your work.
Repeat this as often as every four months, have them even email you to stop until you have some galleys interested and conversing with you.
 These galleries normally don't take a cut of your work but require monthly membership fees. Even still, becoming a member can be very competitive, so you will need to present your work and artist statement for acceptance. These collectives usually don't contract you to show exclusively at that gallery.
 If you get accepted into a gallery, always have a contract. Galleries sell your work for you and take a cut, hence they are an agent, not a buyer. Ensure this cut is clearly specified in the contract. It's usually pretty steep, 20-50%, however, galleries want your work to be expensive because the more you make, the more they make. Thoroughly read any contract you sign, as it may stipulate that you may show and sell work exclusively through that gallery.

