 When your child starts eating solids, you will most likely aim for the most nutritious foods with many fruits and vegetables for her. It is good time to start evaluating your diet to determine if you would feed your child what you eat. If not, you probably need to change your eating habits. This doesn’t mean you have to give up everything. You can start by adjusting your main meals to be more nutritious and balanced and go from there.
 How you eat can be just as important as what you eat. By eating more frequent small meals you will maintain blood sugar and energy levels better. This will keep you satiated and help with over-eating at other times during the day. Good snacks to eat are whole nuts, cheese and whole grain crackers, fruits and vegetables.
 Your body will require so much more after child birth, and even more if breastfeeding. You will want to continue taking your prenatal vitamin and eat foods packed with nutrition. You will require extra calcium, healthy fatty acids, folic acid and protein.

Eat foods like milk, fish and whole grains, and avoid foods that are high in empty calories or fat calories. Fruits and vegetables are high in fiber and this will help you feel full longer as well as aid in digestion.






The best way to ensure you are getting the most out of your foods is to eat from every food group. USDA’s Myplate is a great place to learn how to eat and track your progress.
 When people over-eat they confuse the biological function that tells the body when to stop eating. This can make it hard to know if you are full until it is too late.

The best way to overcome this is to only eat if you feel hungry, eat slowly to give your body time to process the amount of food being consumed and stop when your body begins to give signs of fullness. This method often works better than counting calories and many women find they lose weight with less effort.
The amount you eat will vary depending on energy expenditure, so don’t be surprised if you consume more on some days and less on others.

