 Chickweed is a small plant that is generally considered a weed, hence the name. However, aside from creeping up on your roses, chickweed also helps treat lipoma. The plant contains saponins, which are chemicals found in certain plants, that break down fat tissue. You can buy chickweed solution at most pharmacies. Take one teaspoon of the mixture three times a day, after meals.You can speed up the recovery process by also purchasing chickweed ointment. Apply the ointment directly onto your lump once a day.
 Neem is an Indian herb. When you use the herb in your cooking, or take a neem supplement, the herb will help to break up the fat that has formed into the tumor. This is because neem stimulates your liver and gallbladder metabolism, making it easier for both organs to break down fat, including the fat in your tumor., Flaxseed oil is rich in omega-3 acids. The acids dissolve the fat growth in the tumor while also stopping the fat cells from continuing to grow. You should apply the flaxseed oil directly on to the affected area three times a day to ensure that the oil is effective.
 Green tea contains nutrients that have anti inflammatory properties that help to reduce the amount of fat tissues in your body. This anti inflammatory property has an indirect effect on your tumor, decreasing its size. Drinking a cup of tea each day will help you get rid of the tumor, or at least make it less visible., This Indian spice contains a lot of antioxidants that help stop inflammation and keep your fat cells from multiplying in the spot where your tumor is. Use a mix of turmeric and olive oil (about one teaspoon of each) and apply it on the fatty bump each day. Repeat this process until the tumor is completely diminished., Lemon juice contains citric acid and antioxidants (substances that remove bad agents from your body) that will stimulate the liver and destroy toxins. With your liver function boosted, your body will burn fat a lot easier, including the fat cells inside the lipoma.Add lemon juice to your water, tea, and other beverages.

