 The days of not needing an antivirus program for Mac computers are over. As the operating system has gained popularity, so has the frequency of virus infections. Virus makers now see Macs as valid targets, and ensuring you are protected is the best way to prevent viruses. Antivirus scanners are also the easiest way to get rid of existing viruses.


Popular Mac antivirus programs include Sophos, ClamXav, Intego VirusBarrier, as well as paid products from the big names, including Norton, McAfee and Kaspersky.
Make sure you only have one anti-virus program installed at a time.
 Use your newly-installed scanner to check your computer for viruses. Ensure that you are scanning any connected external hard drives or USB drives as well.


Macs can transmit PC viruses as well, even if they aren't susceptible to them.
Remove any offending results from your antivirus scan. Mac viruses are typically much easier to remove using a virus scanner than PC viruses.
 After scanning with your first antivirus program, uninstall it and install a second program. You can use two different free programs for this, or one free and one paid. Running a second scan will help catch malware that slipped through the cracks of the first scan.
 If you have a virus infection that scans simply won't get rid of, reinstalling your operating system may be your best bet. If you already have your data backed up, it actually won't even take that long, and may improve your system's performance as well.


See this guide for detailed instructions on reinstalling OS X.
 This virus was one of the first big virus scares for OS X users. Apple has since patched OS X to fix the security exploit and remove the malware from OS X systems, but if you haven't kept OS X up to date you may not have this fix.


There are several programs that you can download that will remove Flashback, including F-Secure's Flashback Removal Tool.
 This piece of malware hijacks your browser, forcing you to a page that claims your computer has been shut down by the FBI. The site claims that by paying a large sum of money, your computer can be unlocked. You can remove this virus by resetting Safari's settings.


Open Safari and click the Safari menu in the menubar.
Click "Reset Safari..."
Make sure every item in the list is checked.
Click the Reset button.

