 You'll need a surface that you can use as a form to make the bracelet on. A plastic packaging strip works best, but you can also use a string of cardboard. The width of the strip will be the width of your bracelet, and the length should be slightly smaller than the length you want for your bracelet. Cut the strip to size using scissors.;
, Using embroidery thread or nylon strings, stretch an odd number (nine, for example) of strings in the color you want for your letters across the length of the strip. These strings will need to be about 4-5" longer on either end than the strip. Secure the letter strings in place by wrapping the background color string around the strip in several carefully aligned loops at one end.
 You will vary the order in which the strings are wrapped in order to get the different letters. The any one or more of the letter strings will be moved either to the left or right, and then the back color strings will be wrapped around the the strip either behind or on top of the letter strings.
 Wrap a few rows of the back color before starting on your letters. You want your letters to be centered on the bracelet.
 You will want to experiment before making your letters, to come to a good understanding of how the strings are wrapped in order to get different looks. Try messing around to see what patterns you can make.
 With all the letter strings to the left, wrap the back color four times around the form. Fold the letter strings over the back color strings and then move the top string and middle string to the left. Do two back color rows, then return all of the letter strings to the left. Wrap four rows of the back color. Return all of the letter strings to the right. Wrap the back color once, or more if necessary for spaces.


This procedure can be slightly modified to make an I, H, L, U, O or T.
 Start with the top and bottom letter strings to the left. Wrap the back color twice. Move the rest of the letter strings to the left and wrap the back color three times. Next, with the top, bottom, and middle letter strings to the left, wrap the back color twice. Move the middle letter string to the right, and the two sections of the remaining strings on the right to the left. Wrap the back color around just the single middle string three times. Bring all of the strings on the left to the right and wrap the back color once, or more if necessary for spaces.


This procedure can be modified to make a P.



This procedure can be modified to make an E or F.
 Then move all of the letter strings to the left and wrap the back color three times. Return all of the letter strings, set the first and last two to the left again, wrap the back color twice, set the top and bottom strings to the right with the rest at the left and wrap the back color one time. Top and bottom strings of the strings on the left and bring them over to the right and wrap once. Return all of the strings to the right and wrap the back color once, or more if necessary for spaces.
 Set the bottom three to the left, wrap the back color three times, return all but the bottom one to the right, wrap once, place all on the left, and wrap the back color three times. Return all to the right and wrap the back color once, or more if necessary for spaces.


This procedure can be modified to make an S or G.
 Grab the first string above and below the middle string and pull those to the right, wrap once, grab the next closest above and below and wrap once again, repeating until all are wrapped and the letter is done.


This procedure can be modified to make a Q or an R.
 Set the bottom half to the right and wrap twice. Flip so that the bottom half are on the left and the top half are on the right and wrap twice. Set the bottom half to the right again and wrap twice. Cross both sides to the left and wrap four times. Return all the the right and wrap once, or more if necessary for spaces.


This procedure can be modified to make an N, Z, Y, or W.
 Tie off and knot your back color on the back side of the bracelet.
, Turn the letter strings into a single string by braiding them together. Once you reach the end, tie a knot to secure it. The two braids will be tied together in order to close the bracelet on your wrist.
 Take a small square of tape, cut a hole at the center, string you braided ends through, and press the tape down to cover the ends of the bracelet. You can wrap around the very end with a very narrow strip of tape to make it even stronger. Electrical tape works best for this.

