 iCloud is a cloud storage and cloud computing service offered by Apple Inc.. By default, you get 5GB free space on iCloud.

If you are using a Mac, make sure to update it to OS X 10.7.2 or later.
For your iPhone, iPad or iPod touch, use at least iOS 5.
On Windows, you will need to have an Apple ID. If you do not have one, you can always create one with Apple. Once you have created an account with Apple, you can download iCloud for Windows.
 To share pictures via iCloud, you need to be logged in to your account.

For Macs, open “System Preferences” from the Apple Menu. Then select “iCloud”, which you will find under the Networking section.
For iOS devices, tap “Settings”. Then tap “iCloud”.
Sign-in with your Apple ID.
Accept the EULA.
Choose which apps you wish to sync with iCloud. Tapping the “ON” switch helps you choose the types of data you want to sync with iCloud.
Tap on “Apply”. This saves your changes.
 Using Photo Stream and Apple iCloud, you can access your photos on a Mac, an iOS device or a Windows PC.

On a Mac, select “System Preferences”. You will find this in the main Apple Menu. Then click the “Photo Stream” checkbox.
On your iOS device, open “Settings” from the Home screen. Tap “iCloud”. Tap the toggle to turn it on.
For your Windows PC, download and install the iCloud Control Panel for Windows. Then sign-in with your Apple ID.
 This will allow you to view photos that other people share with you.

For your Mac and Windows PC, click Options. Then enable both “Photo Stream” and “Shared Photo Stream”.
For your iOS device, open the Photos app. Tap the “Photo Stream” button. You will find this at the bottom of the screen.
 Once you successfully configure iCloud sharing, you can easily share your pictures on your social networks, such as Facebook, Twitter, Flickr and so on.

Sign-in to the social network account of your choice.
Open iPhoto on your device.
Tap the photo, album or event you wish to share.
Tap the Upload icon.
Select the social network of your choice.
Tap Post. This will publish your post onto the social network of your choice.
 iCloud allows you to publish and share Web journals and iPhoto slideshows as well.

Select your Web journal.
If you wish to share a slideshow, tap “Projects”. Then select the iPhoto slideshow you wish to share.
Tap the Upload icon.
Tap iCloud.
Tap to enable Publish to iCloud.
Tap to enable Add to Home Page. This will list your Web journal or slideshow on a Home page.
Note the link of the published iPhoto Web journal or slideshow.
You can share the link either via a message, on your social networks, email it, or copy it on another app.
Note that all of the above will require you to login to your iCloud account.

