 Understand that truly raw honey has not been processed, filtered, or artificially heated in any way. This preserves its natural antioxidants, minerals, and enzymes, which can provide health benefits.However, be aware that laws and guidelines regarding labelling are very loose. Don’t assume that honey is 100% raw just because the labelling describes it as “raw,” “pure,” or “natural.”Processing, filtering, and heating honey does strip away many of its nutrients. However, if you aren’t able to find truly raw honey, treated honey is still healthier than sugar and many other sweeteners.;
, If possible, research and/or visit local bee farms. If the farms themselves are too far out of reach, visit sellers closer to home (such as farmers markets or natural food stores) who stock their product and deal with them directly. Either way, purchase your honey directly (or as directly as you can) from a nearby source, whose practices and trace-of-sale are more easily verified than a global company’s. Ensure that your honey is in fact 100% raw by speaking directly with the producers or as few middlemen as possible.Again, be wary of labelling when browsing honey in your grocery store. Due to relaxed regulations, honey that was imported from afar can still be labelled as “local honey” as long as it was repackaged locally.
 Since you can’t always trust labeling, develop an eye to identify raw honey from treated honey. Expect honey that has been processed, filtered, and heated to appear “clean,” with little or no crystals or other visible particles suspended in the liquid. In contrast, expect raw honey to crystallize more readily than treated honey, resulting in a less smooth liquid. However:This is less of a rule and more of a guideline. Any form of honey may crystallize or liquify over time, depending on its exposure to heat. Raw honey may appear by chance to be smooth liquid with little or no “impurities.”
Treated honey is generally heated before packaging for aesthetic reasons, in order to attract customers who may be put off by crystallized honey’s lack of consistency.
Treated honey is also filtered to remove elements (such as pollen) that customers may think of as impurities.Therefore, a honey that has crystallized and/or appears to contain “specks” is more likely to be raw.

