 It's generally a good idea to talk to a doctor before taking a laxative. People in certain circumstances should always do so, to avoid health complications:Pregnant or breastfeeding women
Children 6 years old or younger
Anyone taking other medication. (If you are already taking a laxative or mineral oil, wait for at least 24 hours before switching to a different laxative.)
Anyone with severe stomach pain, abdominal cramps, nausea, or vomiting should avoid laxatives entirely, and visit a doctor immediately.
 Also called fiber supplements, these have the same effect as an increase in dietary fiber. Unlike other laxatives, these are safe to use daily, but may take two to three days to work.They sometimes cause painful bloating and gas, especially during a severe case of constipation or in people who normally have a low-fiber diet. Minimize this risk by drinking 8-10 glasses of water daily, ramping up to the recommended dosage gradually, and avoiding this type of laxative before bed.Some people are allergic to psyllium, found in some bulk-forming laxatives., These cheap laxatives grease your stool with mineral oil or similar substances to ease passage. They typically take effect within 8 hours, but are only suitable for quick relief. Overuse can lead to vitamin deficiency.If you are taking any other medication, talk to a doctor before taking lubricant laxative. The hastened passage of stool can decrease the amount of medication that is absorbed.
 This type of laxative helps your stool absorb more water and pass more easily, taking effect within two or three days.These require a great deal of water to be effective, and to avoid gas and cramps.The elderly, people with diabetes, and people with heart or kidney issues should be monitored regularly for electrolyte imbalance and dehydration while taking this drug.Saline laxatives are one type of osmotic laxative.
 Stool softeners (emollients) are usually prescribed after childbirth or surgery, or for patients who need to avoid straining. These have a weak effect, but still require plenty of water and should only be used for a few days., This is a more powerful laxative that may not be available over-the-counter in all areas. It can provide relief within 6–12 hours by causing muscle contraction in your intestines.This should only be used rarely, as repeated use can damage intestines and make you dependent on the drug for normal bowel movements.Check the label for phenolphthalein, which has been linked to cancer.This type of drug can also cause cramping and diarrhea.
 If an over the counter laxative does not work within three days, visit a doctor right away. He may suggest the following treatments or tests:


A prescription laxative, such as lubiprostone or linaclotide. These may be suitable for longterm use.Enemas can deliver laxatives directly to the location of the problem, or flush out compacted stool. While available over the counter or as home remedies, they are best used sparingly and while following medical advice.If your doctor suspects a more serious problem, he may ask for a blood test, stool sample, X-rays, bowel examination, enema test, or colonoscopy.