 Prepare early, and purchase all your equipment a couple of weeks before school starts. Go with a mum, sister or friend, to give you inspiration if your unsure of what to get. Most schools will give you a list – if so, make sure you get every thing on it. Otherwise, ask someone whom goes to the school for advise.If you know no one older who goes to your new school, and you have no list, start with these basic supplies – remember, if you don’t have everything on your first day, it probably won't is a big deal. Some stuff you might want to get:


A strong, durable pencil case, clearly named, big enough to hold your stuff and that stands out from the crowd.
Three HB pencils, a rubber and a sharpener
A set of coloured pencils
A ruler, a pair of compasses and a geometry set
A fountain pen with washable blue/black ink cartridges (whichever your teacher prefers – if your not sure, get a few of both)
Finally, a scientific calculator.;
,  Check that it is named, and, if you are getting a second hand one, make sure that it is clean and ironed. A dirty, messy uniform will leave a bad impression on your teacher, and this is the last thing you need. Also, if you need to get a P.E bag, lacrosse stick, shin pads, a mouth guard etc. make sure you get that too. In the case of mouth guards, try to get it professionally fitted, to ensure your safety. Some schools ask that you get predominantly white trainers – make sure you stick to the color code.
 Go on your schools website and look around. It will contain useful information, and you will probably be using it a lot this year so make sure you know where stuff is. Also read any handbooks or starter packs offered.
 Put out all your pencils, books and binders and put everything in one backpack or shoulder bag (this should be strong, durable, and weatherproof). Make sure you know where stuff is, and that you have a suitable place for things like a student ID, if your school gives you one. You also may like to keep a bag of hair ties (for girls) and a small hairbrush, in case of an emergency.


If you want, get a small box of extra supplies, including cartridges, and extra pen, or some rubbers, in case you lose your current ones.
Find a way to stay on top of homework, as if you don’t, it will quickly become overwhelming and stressful. Clear some space on your desk, and devote a shelf to your schoolbooks, for when you not using them. Another idea is to get a calendar or bulletin board, so you can transfer any important events you have to it, such as exams. Most schools provide you with a homework planner/agenda, but you can usually buy them cheaply at a stationary shop if not. Make sure you write EVERYTHING down in it – exams, homework, its due dates etc. Don’t just write it down on a scrap of paper, or phone a friend later. It won’t work.
 A few weeks before school, start going to bed earlier, and waking up at the time you actually need to, when you start school. Ease yourself into the schedule – and once you’ve started, don’t waste all your hard work by going to bed at 2am.
 Make sure you lay out your socks, shoes and any other accessories you are planning to wear (if your school allows it)


Make a lunch if you are bringing one, or make sure you have money, if you are buying one. Take a shower, so you won’t have to do so in the morning. Check once more that everything is in your bag. Plan how you are going to do your hair. That way, you won’t stand in front of the mirror the next morning, wondering about what to do with your hair.
