 A single horn generally has one main tuning slide. To locate this tuning slide, follow the tubing of your horn from the mouthpiece until you arrive at a tuning slide. This is your main tuning slide.


If your horn has more than one tuning slide, you likely have a double horn and you will also need to adjust the B flat tuning slide.;
, Play your instrument for at least 3 to 5 minutes, going through scales or practicing musical and fingering patterns or even just blowing warm air through the instrument, a cold instrument never plays as well, this is all to warm up your own playing as well as the instrument. Also cold air temperature will make an instrument react and play differently, tending towards playing flat. The instrument will also warm up as you play, and the tone will shift slightly and become more predictable., In order to match the tune that the rest of the orchestra or ensemble is playing, match your tone to a consistent tuner (usually the oboe), it is best if the other hornists in your ensemble are there and you can all match the same pitch. Alternately, use a bar or electric tuner, tuning fork or even a well tuned piano.
 The approximate position for the main tuning slide is about ¼ inch to ½ inch out. With the tuning slide all the way in, the notes should sound sharp, with it all the way to it is flat. You can listen to your tuner's pitch and yours to determine if you are sharp or flat.
 If the piano is playing F above middle C, play the corresponding open note (meaning there are no valves being pressed). Play the third C that would correspond with the middle C on a “horn in F.”, You will want to tune the horn to match the sounds that will emerge when you play it in performance. Keep the positioning and size of your hand’s coverage in the bell consistent as you tune.
 As you play this open note with the piano or other tuning instrument, you will hear if your note is flat (below the note) or sharp (above the note). Pull the tuning slide out to draw down sharp tones, or push the slide in to push up flat notes. It might take practice to hear if your pitch is right or wrong, it is a difference but it seems small at first Even though these are minor adjustments, they do impact how much air must travel through the horn and therefore impact how the tone sounds.
 If you are playing a double horn, your next step is to tune the horn so that it’s in tune with itself.Press the thumb valve to switch over to the horn’s B flat side. Play F again above middle C on piano. Slide between the F and Bb on the horn. Leave the main tuning slide alone and only adjust the Bb tuning slide the same way as the F slide.
 You have now tuned the open note (notes played with no valves pressed down). Now you need to tune closed notes, or those that are played while pressing valves down. You can use an electronic tuner, piano, tuning fork, or similar instrument to help you, but you can also use your ear to listen for sharp or flat notes.


Play your middle C, which you just tuned. This should be perfectly in pitch now.
Play either fourths, fifths or an octave above the tuned middle C for each valve. For example, to tune first valve, play F above your middle C. It is much easier to compare notes with middle C and hear the intonation between notes that are distant from each other, such as an octave apart.
Adjust the valve tuner for each valve note you play to sharpen or flatten the note. To sharpen, push the slide valve tuner in. To flatten, slide the valve tuner out.
Repeat for each valve.For a double horn, you should have six valves (three on the F side and three on the B flat side).
 If you have pulled out all the tuning slides and the horn is still sounding too sharp, then you likely need to provide more coverage with your right hand inside the horn’s bell. Similarly, if you have pushed in the slides all the way and you are still flat, then you will need to adjust how much of your hand is inside the bell, instead making the coverage area smaller., Mark the slides after you’ve tuned and adjusted the slide. This will give you a good indication of where the slide should sit to be in tune, although you will still need to tune your horn in comparison to the other instruments with which you are playing.


Marking your slides is especially useful for when you need to empty condensation or saliva from the horn in the middle of a performance. Emptying condensation will usually throw off the pitch a bit. To offset this, make sure you take note of where you’ve put the valve mark so you can return the tuning slide to the correct location quickly. Alternately, you can measure where the tuning slide sits with your fingernail or knuckle and easily return the slide to its proper location after emptying condensation.
 The complexity of the French horn is such that you cannot achieve perfect pitch for every note. You will need to compromise by choosing the middle ground on tuning.