 Few teenagers get the nine hours of sleep per night recommended by the Centers for Disease Control.But fatigue dramatically hinders brain function. It’s far better to get a good night’s sleep than to go through those flash cards one more time.
 When you’ve been working on a difficult problem and feel stuck, take break. Go for a walk, make soup, or do some yoga. Your brain may be puzzling out the problem in the background, allowing for a flash of insight that will move you forward., Don’t let your struggle with the subject lead you into endless procrastination.


Set a timer for twenty or thirty minutes. Work steadily for that time and then allow yourself five minutes to relax and recover. Repeat.Turn off the internet, if possible, while working on your computer in order to focus on the task at hand.
Close your computer altogether and try working on the subject with pen and paper, away from any digital devices.
 No matter what anyone says, there’s no one, single way to learn a subject. Play around with different study techniques, different ways of taking notes, and different approaches to solving problems. The goal is not only to learn the subject, but to become a better, more effective student overall.


For example, notice how you respond to different noise levels. Some people work best in quiet, while others prefer the hum of activity around them., When you’ve struggled with a subject for a while, it’s easy to feel discouraged. Try to cultivate a sense of curiosity instead.


Confusion is a sign of “beginner’s mind,” which is a state that can lead to profound insights and learning. It’s not always comfortable, but it’s a necessary part of creativity.Learn more about the subject in other contexts. Read newspaper articles about how the subject is applied in the larger world. Ask your teacher why they are passionate about the topic. Seeing real-life applications might help kindle your interest in the subject.
 Plan small treats for yourself along the way. Once you finish a difficult reading, for example, eat something tasty or go outside and play a game. At the end of the semester, throw yourself a party! People who reward themselves actually gain in self-control.