 It is located at: http://www.surveygalaxy.com. Create a free account.;
, You do not need to validate the registered email address immediately, but you will not be able to publish surveys until you have done so.
, Once you are satisfied that you will be able to remember/retrieve the password, click the Login button.
 This is located in the Members Area.
 Note that you can always change the name at a later date if you realize that there is a more apt name.
, Create the survey and troubleshoot it entirely before adding translations to the package. Doing this in a logical, careful way will streamline the process and save you a ton of work. It will also minimize the possibility of translations being out of sync.


If the translations are added from the very beginning, any changes will have to be made to each language; this can prove to be a very inefficient method of working.
 This is accessed using the link that is displayed when you first enter the survey composer screen.


To demonstrate the multi-language capabilities a one question sample survey will be used.
,, For multiple selections, use 'Click', then 'Click+Shift' to specify a range or 'Control+Click' to select/deselect individual languages.



Note that English and English (US) will allow for local spellings.
 Click on the 'Save' button, which is displayed at the top and bottom of the display.



The Composer will now show the base language and in addition data columns for the English(US) and French translation.
 Then click on the 'Save' button.



With the English (US) language selected the spelling of favourite/favorite and colour/color is displayed.
With the French language selected the survey preview is displayed in French.
 When the survey is published, the respondents will be able to select their preferred language, it is also possible to force the default language if required. When a translation is selected the survey's control buttons, such as the Next and Back buttons, and the system messages such as "A response is required", will be displayed in the selected language.


Example of the survey shown with English (British) language selected:
Example of the survey shown with English (US) language selected:
Example if the survey shown with French language selected:

, As all the results are collated into a single dataset, it is possible to conduct a multi-language survey and have the results automatically consolidated in the language of your choice, so that you can easily understand the results.

When the respondent starts to complete the survey it will automatically check to see if the respondent's keyboard language setting matches any of the available survey translations and if it does find a match that language will be selected as the default.
A respondent can select from any of the available languages.

