 The definitions are as follows:


Blog - (short for weblog) is a personal online journal that is frequently updated and intended for general public consumption.
Micro Blog - a form of multimedia blogging that allows users to send brief text updates or micromedia such as photos or audio clips and publish them. Some micro-blogging platform have limits as to the maximum number of characters per post. Twitter for example limits you to 140 characters per tweet. Because of this limitation, many long URLs in posts are shorten using URL shorteners such as bit.ly.

Both bloggers and micro-bloggers have a variety of third party software or plug-ins for their browsers to simplify the process.

;
, There are a number of clients that will allow you to post quick updates from your smart phone, mobile device, or desktop. These clients also will help you to keep track of activity throughout the day, since a big part of micro-blogging is interaction and re-posting others' content. Texting is one easy way to micro-blog throughout the day if you're not near a computer. You can also keep a desktop client running in the background throughout the day and set up notifications to let you know when someone has mentioned you or re-blogged your content.
 The most successful micro-bloggers post regular content (usually a few posts a day) with some common theme or link. These bloggers are also active in re-blogging content and participating in the micro-blogging community. Traditional blogging is a much better format if you only have time to blog once a week, but you can integrate your blogging and micro-blogging with some practice.
 Some content works very well in the micro-blog format, for example quick personal updates or thoughts, brief opinion statements, links to blog posts or news you found interesting, quick reactions to news, and event information. Those who blog regularly already may find that micro-blogging provides a great alternative to link spams or short posts whose entire point is really to highlight someone else's work.



Twitter
Tumblr
MySay
Hictu
Frazr
IRateMyDay

