 Most scammers are not going to wait for you to stumble onto them. They will reach out to you directly, either by telephone, email, or a door-to-door visit. These people are likely to look and sound professional, and they will try to get you to invest in some opportunity that you may have never heard of. If you are interested, take some information from them, and then investigate it. Do not let yourself be pressured into handing over any money or signing any investment deals right then and there.If you want to consider the offer, you should get the name of the individual, the name, address and telephone number of the company he or she represents, and as much detailed information as you can about the investment offer. Then say that you will investigate the information and call back if you are interested.
If you are pressured to decide immediately, say no. Any legitimate deal should be around at least long enough for you to verify the information.;
, To encourage you invest, someone may show you a history of returns. Nothing is likely to be 100% wonderful, so if you see results that claim to be positive month after month, and quarter after quarter, you should be skeptical. Even the best investors are going to experience some ups and downs.One of the things that tipped off investigators to the Bernie Madoff Ponzi scheme was the consistency of the promised returns. A Ponzi scheme is a kind of fraud in which the organizers pay dividends to investors using cash from new investors. There is no actual investment. As long as new investors keep coming in, the payoffs are guaranteed, because there is no risk. When the organizers stop drawing in new investors, they take what money is left and everyone else is left with nothing.
 If you have placed money with an investor or broker, there are state and federal regulations about that investor’s control and custody of your money. If you have any questions about the placement of your investments or the access to your funds, you may be dealing with a scam.You should be able to ask the broker for a report at any time of the location of your funds. The broker should be able to respond with precise figures, account numbers and company names. If, instead, you get a runaround about having to look it up, and that lasts for more than 24 hours, then you may have a problem.
The investor, either individually or through a firm, should not be the custodian of your investment. Your money should be going to a reputable third party, such as Fidelity or Schwab, to be held and used for the investments. If your adviser plans to hold and manage the money directly, this is a sign of a possible investment scam.
 A reputable investor or financial adviser should have plenty of business going on. He should not need you to “get in now” or risk losing a deal. While it is true that there may be some deals that could close, you should not feel pressure to jump in too quickly. A reputable investor should know that financial investments last over time. Anyone pressuring you to invest your money immediately may not be reliable. Some high pressure tactics that should tip you off include:Repeated calls to your home or office.
Telling you the deal is about to close.
Telling you there are limited opportunities to get in on the deal.
Become abusive or argumentative. Some may even challenge your intelligence unless you buy in immediately.
 If someone approaches you with “an inside track” or some claim of knowing something about a company or a stock, you should be concerned. On one hand, that claim may not be legitimate, and you should be suspicious of the assertions. On the other hand, trading based on true “insider information” is illegal, and you could be getting yourself into trouble.If you remember the movie Wall Street, the character Gordon Gecko, portrayed by Michael Douglas, made much of his fortune based on insider information. In the end, he was arrested for securities fraud.
 Beware of claims that you should invest in any particular opportunity just because many other people are doing it. Regardless of the number of people investing in something (even if those allegations are true), this is not evidence that the investment is sound or even legitimate. You should continue to ask for evidence of the history of the particular product or investment, just as you would with any other investment.A particular scam of this type is the “affinity fraud.” In this type of scam, the perpetrators will prey on investors of a particular demographic, such as senior citizens, or school teachers, or members of a particular religion. Using that identifier as the basis for the investment, they may try to encourage you to get involved just because you fit the group - not because the investment is a sound one., Before you decide to place an investment with any particular broker or investment company, you should check their background. If the firm is reputable, then it should have a name that you recognize or have a history that you can trace. If you cannot track the company or individual broker’s history, then you should be very cautious before handing over any money.BrokerCheck is one source that you can use to verify whether an individual or firm is registered to sell securities, offer financial advice, or both. You just need to enter a name and a city (the location is optional), and you can get an almost instant response with a background report of the individual.
BrightScope.com is another site that allows you to run a background check. From the home page, enter the name of the individual you want to check, and you will get a full report of that person’s affiliation, license and other useful information.
 If the person encouraging you to invest claims to work for a financial company, you should ask for information about that company. The most useful information is the company’s full name and legal identity. For example, if the company claims to be incorporated, using the abbreviations Inc., PC, or LLC, with its name, then there should be a record of incorporation.Ask for the state where the company is incorporated. With that information, it should then be an easy matter to contact that state’s secretary of state’s office and check on the incorporation. Most secretary of state’s offices will have advanced websites that allow you to search corporations by name. You may be able to see online the articles of incorporation and other filings, such as annual reports.
 Just as you might when selecting a doctor, a lawyer, or any other professional whom you need to trust, you should get some references for any investment adviser. You might begin the process by asking your friends or colleagues to recommend someone they use, and then you will have less reason to suspect anyone you contact. If a potential adviser approaches you with an offer, you should ask that person to give you the names of several clients you could contact. There is no reason to be embarrassed by asking. This is part of doing business. If the adviser is unwilling or unable to do so, then you should walk away.


Before you place any money with a financial adviser or investor, you should ask, “Do you have any references I can contact before I take this important step?”
When contacting the references, just introduce yourself and ask, “I am calling to check the references for John Smith, whom I am considering as an investment adviser. Can you tell me about your history of working with him and whether you have been satisfied?” You should keep detailed notes of these conversations, including the name and phone number of the contact, and notes of what they told you.
 In the United states, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) is an independent, non-profit agency, authorized by the federal government, to oversee and regulate all matters related to finances and investments.In the U.K., a similar agency is the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).Other countries are likely to have similar oversight agencies. If you believe you have been the victim of an investment scam, you should contact this agency directly for help and to file a report.


In the U.S., if you are reporting to FINRA, visit their website at www.finra.org. From the home page, select the link to “Have a Problem?” From there, you will see links to file a complaint, get help for seniors, or understand your rights as an investor.
 Investment scams are a type of fraud and are therefore illegal under all state laws in the U.S., as well as some federal laws (if the scam uses the U.S. mail or crosses state lines, for example). You should look up the website for your state’s attorney general. You will find a link for reporting complaints or problems. Depending on your state, you may even find a specific office that deals with investment fraud. You should compile as much detailed information as you have about the scam, including all names, dates of communications, and details about any investments you made, and contact this office as soon as you believe a problem exists.


Even if you have not been induced to invest, if you believe you have spotted a scam, you should report it.
As an example, if you live in Massachusetts, you will find that there are individual tip lines for Consumer Advocacy, suspected Insurance Fraud, Medicaid Fraud, or Elder Care.Other states may have these or other contact offices.
 As noted above, investment scams are a crime. Whether you have fallen for the scam and turned over any money, or you just suspect that you have been contacted by someone who is attempting a scam, you should report the contact to your local police. You should gather any information that you can about the attempt and either visit or call your local police department. You should be prepared to share as much of the following information as you can:


The dates and times of any contacts.
The means or methods of contacts to you. This might be telephone calls, email notes, or a visit to your door.
A description of the person who contacted you. For this, you should have the person’s name and contact information. You will probably be asked to give a physical description as well, if the individual contacted you in person.
Details of the alleged investment.
 If you have given any money to an alleged investor, that later turns out to be an investment scam, you will have a legal claim against that person to get the money back. The investment scam is not only a crime, for which the person could go to jail or be required to pay a fine, but it is also a civil violation for which you could get your money back in court.You should contact an attorney and discuss the details of your case.


If you do not already have an attorney you work with, you should ask friends or colleagues for a referral.
For additional help in finding an attorney, check out Find a Good Attorney.

