 Neo-related, writing, role play, etc. Don't believe the rumors that only ___ type of guild is successful; any type of guild can be successful.;
, An elite guild? A literate guild? Think it through. Remember, certain types attract certain people. Do your research.
 Make sure it is related to the theme, and also, make sure it is unique. Don't be afraid to make up your own words, and shy away from using too many symbols in the guild name.
 Make a board on the guild boards saying you want to create a guild. Be unique! Think about this: 'Why is my guild original?'. If you know HTML/CSS or know how to make graphics, you'll have a better chance finding people to help you create a guild. No one wants to do all the work. If you don't know HTMl/CSS or graphic making there are many guides around Neopia and on the Internet. Go on the help boards and ask for a guide.
 A lot of guilds rush to finish their guild, when really, there is no need rush. Take time thinking through ideas with the owners and prejoiners; odds are they'll have some good ideas. Don't take too long, however. A week or less should be sufficient.
 Don't copy other big guilds, it'll just end up backfiring on you. Remember, the best guilds are the ones that are unique.
 Offer rewards to your members to advertise, maybe promise them a higher rank if they refer a certain number of people. Have an attractive advertisement, but keep it simple.
 People love it when you stay and chat with them; it scores your guild Brownie points.
 Listen to your member's requests, complaints, and questions. Be friendly, and get to know each of your members individually. Even if your guild board is fast, review all posts to make sure no one is left out.


The worst thing to do is to ignore a newbie member. They are trying to develop friendships, because usually the don't know most of the people in the guild. Act like their friend already when you meet them. Don't just post a short, choppy message, like "Hi. Thanks 4 joining." or something unfriendly like, "Follow all the rules, if you don't you'll be banned, if you have a problem with the rules, I couldn't care less, go join some other guild." Be friendly and post something like,"Hi there! I'm really glad you're in the guild, if you ever need someone to talk to, neomail me!".
 The more activities you have the better! And don't be bland, make up your own activities that are fun and original. An avatar lending program, adoption center, guild mall, petpet adoption center.. the list is endless! Make sure you don't break the rules! Things like guild raffles, bashes, etc. are breaking the rules.

