 Matthew 24:35, "Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away.";
, James 1:22, "But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves."

, Ephesians 1:16-17, "Cease not to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers; That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him:"

, Acts 23:1, "And Paul said, Men and brethren, I have lived in all good conscience before God until this day."

, Luke 11:34-36, "The light of the body is the eye: therefore when thine eye is single, thy whole body also is full of light; but when thine eye is evil, thy body also is full of darkness. Take heed therefore that the light which is in thee be not darkness. If thy whole body therefore be full of light, having no part dark, the whole shall be full of light, as when the bright shining of a candle doth give thee light."

, Proverbs 4:23, "Keep thy heart with all diligence; for out of it are the issues of life."

, Proverbs 13:20, "He that walketh with wise men shall be wise."

, Acts 20:32, "And now, brethren, I commend you to God, and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up, and to give you an inheritance among all them which are sanctified."

, John 7:17, "If any man wills to do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself."

, John 14:28, "If ye loved me, ye would rejoice..."

, Matthew 6:33, "But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you."

, Romans 12:2 And be not conformed to this world: but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good, and acceptable, and perfect, will of God."

, Philippians 4:8, "Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things."

, Philippians 3:13-14, "Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended: but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before, I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus."

, Jeremiah 31:3 says, "I have loved you with an eternal love." And proverbs 8:17 says, "I love those that love me." God has loved you for thousands and thousands of years. It was then that He decided to put you in this generation and in this place. How many other people He could have created and did not. He truly wanted you to be. You have qualities and talents that, when transformed into Christ, will give a grace and a glory to God and the Church for all eternity. You are important to God and to the whole world. God does not love you any less because He loves millions of other people. You are unique and God loves you as an individual. God rejoices every time you think of Him, when you consider His Word and when you do what is right. God knows that His word will transform you and make you like Him.
 You must believe and know that you are already washed away by Jesus and you must make sure you have not sinned against him yesterday., It is were we can praise his name and thank him for his goodness in our life.