 The thin skin around each peanut isn't harmful — in fact, some people prefer leaving it on to eating "naked" nuts. However, if you wish, you can remove the skins easily with a salad spinner. Roll the roasted peanuts in your hands over an open salad spinner, letting them gradually fall out and into the device. Once you've rolled all of the peanuts, close the spinner and run it until most (if not all) of the skins have been separated. You may need to peel a few skins off by hand.Here's another method for skinning peanuts: first, place the roasted peanuts in a jar or container and shake them or wrap them in a clean dish towel and rub them. Pour the peanuts out, then take the jar, container, or towel outside and let the wind blow away the loose skins.
 You only need a little seasoning to make natural, roasted peanuts even more delicious. There's no "right answer" here, but just a few seasoning suggestions are included below:


A light dusting of brown sugar and cinnamon makes a delicious sweet treat.
Combining Cajun seasoning mix with a little salt makes for intensely flavorful peanuts.
Cayenne powder, garlic powder, and smoked paprika can give you red-hot Southwestern-style peanuts., Liquid flavorings can be used as glazes to give the peanuts intense, alluring flavors. However, for best results, these should be applied before the roasting process. Paint the prepared peanuts with a thin layer of your glaze and roast them as normal to give them the glaze's flavor. Since you're using liquid ingredients here, lining your pan with foil or baking paper is a wise idea.


Here, again, there are hundreds of possibilities. One easy classic example is honey-roasted peanuts. To make the glaze, just combine equal parts honey and melted butter and stir until uniform. About two tablespoons of each ingredient should be enough for a pound of peanuts. Paint the peanuts with the glaze and sprinkle with salt before they go into the oven. Roast as normal., Believe it or not, making all-natural peanut butter from (shelled) peanuts is as simple as crushing, chopping, or grinding them into a thick but smooth paste. See our peanut butter recipe for step-by-step directions. As noted above, Spanish peanuts are best for this as they contain the most oil. You can use a food processor, a blender, or a manual solution like a mortar and pestle to get the peanuts to a smooth, creamy consistency.


For chunky peanut butter, chop up a handful of peanuts and add them to the finished peanut butter.
Some chefs like to add a dash of honey, molasses, salt, or other seasonings to their peanut butter for flavor. However, it should be fine on its own.

