 Sprint offers subscription under lock-in contracts, meaning that you cannot disconnect or terminate your service within a time period.


This time period is stated in the agreement you signed prior to starting your phone service. These contracts usually run from 12 to 36 months or more.
If you are already beyond the span of time stated in the agreement, or you’ve paid your phone off in full, then you’re eligible for disconnection.
On the other hand, if you’re still bound by your contract, you will incur penalties when you cancel your phone service.;
, Information such as your name, billing address, and account number is required to cancel your service. This information is found on your billing statements.


Also, if you have set a password on your account when you initiated the service, you will need that as well.
 On your Sprint phone, dial *2 using the number keypad to access Sprint’s customer service support, and talk to a Sprint representative.


You may also call 844-665-6327 if you are unable to use your Sprint phone.
 Once you’ve reached the customer service department, tell the representative that you want to disconnect your Sprint phone.


The representative will then assist you with the process, beginning with asking verifying your identity with personal information.
 Terminating the service is free (as long as you’re out of the contract), but you’ll be billed for the remaining airtime used between the last billing date and the date you requested disconnection.


Provide credit card or bank information to pay this balance.
If you have any remaining account deposit, the interest will also be credited to your account.
 Before you can disconnect your service, you need to settle any remaining account balance you have. Pay the balance or penalties using the credit card or bank account you provided in step 5.
 After you request your account to be disconnected, you need to wait for your request to be approved. Your Sprint phone will get disconnected between 24 and 72 hours.


In some cases, a service can be disconnected at the end of the same business day.

