 If someone was arrested and/or prosecuted, but gave your name and your personal information, then the identity thief may have given you a false criminal record.You might only discover this when you are subsequently arrested, denied employment, or fired from your job as a result.Contact the law enforcement agency that arrested the identity thief to dispute your criminal record.If you do not know which agency arrested the thief, you may need to consult the court’s records.Contact the court clerk in your jurisdiction, explain that a criminal record was created in your name, and ask how to access those records.
 Ask the agency to assist you in filing a police report. Be prepared to provide fingerprints, a photograph, and any identifying documents the police department may request. The department should be able to compare your information with the thief’s and update their records., Ask the police department to give you a clearance letter or a certificate of release. Keep the proof with you at all times.If you are detained by the police in the future, use this piece of proof to explain the misunderstanding.


Remember to use care if stopped by the police. For example, explain to the officer that you would like to show him or her your clearance letter before reaching into the glove box during a traffic stop. Although you know you are innocent, the officer may reasonably believe that you actually have a criminal record.
 If the thief was prosecuted in criminal court under your name, contact the court clerk and the prosecutor’s office and ask them to clear your name in their records. You will need to provide proof of your identity. Then request a certificate of clearance from the court., Contact your state's Attorney General’s office and ask if your state has an “identity theft passport” system. If your state uses such a system, you will need to fill out and submit an application. When you receive your identity theft passport, you can use it to clear up financial issues related to identity theft or explain the misunderstanding to police officers who might subsequently detain you.