 Traveling can be stressful and difficult during peak holiday times. Consider ways to travel during off-peak times during the holiday. Give yourself plenty of time. While the weather may make things difficult, focus on the journey rather than the destination.Avoid being impatient when traveling. Avoid negative talk. Focus on how you can making your travel time fun.
If traveling with friends or family, use this time to do games or activities together. Help your loved ones to see the act of traveling as part of the holiday experience. Bring small, travel-size games that you can play with your kids, friends, or family.
Plan ahead for "down times" when travel is slow or there is a delay.
 Minimize distractions by making conversations a priority. Don't have televisions, computers, phones, and other things on when you're trying to connect with your loved ones. Focus your eyes on the person talking, and pay attention to their body language.By giving your full attention, you are being present and communicating that you care.
Allow your loved ones to speak. Avoid interrupting them frequently. Engage in the moment by putting aside other activities in order to focus on them.
Show them that you're listening by nodding or asking questions about what they're saying. If it's a difficult topic of conversation, make them feel loved by saying, "I appreciate you sharing that with me."

, During the holidays, one of the main activities with friends and family is eating--lots of eating. This may be a special time where you eat some of your favorite dishes. While it's important to enjoy good food with friends and family, it's also important to savor each dish. Avoid stuffing yourself with sweets and fatty foods, just because they're there. Slow down when eating. Enjoy each bite. Put your fork down while chewing. Give your body time to tell your brain that you're feeling satisfied.
Make eating an event rather than mindlessly snacking in front of the TV or while talking on the phone. When people are gathered together for the holidays, each meal can feel special in this way.
Don't force yourself to eat a lot just because there is a lot of food being served. Fill your plate with smaller portions. Be present by choosing smaller amounts and filling up less often.

