 Being the host gives you an edge on what direction the night can take: you can cook delicious food for them, watch a movie together, play games and organize a lot of activities that don’t involve drinking.


Some might look for a beer in your fridge, but if it’s not there, they won’t make a drama out of it. They’ll understand this is not the kind of night you had in mind and respect your choice.
 Although most restaurants do serve alcohol, it’s not common to booze while munching an enchilada or sipping a miso soup. Your friends might still opt for a margarita, but it will be much easier for you to get away with a glass of water or soda.


If you still get asked why you’re not drinking and you don’t feel like giving an explanation, cut it short by saying that you usually don’t drink while eating.
 Coffee shops are great places to socialize, spend some quiet time together and have a chat. They're especially popular among college students as a laid-back environment where to study or even just meet friends to talk rather than party hard. Most importantly, they usually don’t serve any alcoholic drinks and no one you’ll be with will expect to find one.


Pick a coffee shop with a cool vibe. Coffee shops vary widely in terms of style and customers’ target, and some of them can even be themed. Your friends will appreciate finding out about a new place that is every bit as funky as their favorite bar or club.
If you’re planning to go to a coffee shop after dinner, make sure it's open late. Some of them might close down much earlier than bars or clubs!

, Everyone enjoys a good movie, and there’s no better way to watch it than with friends. There’ll be plenty of popcorn, candies, snack bars, and soda. Though many independent theatres (and some larger ones) serve beer and wine, drinking is not the primary focus of going to the movies, so you shouldn't feel obligated to have a drink.


Many movie theatres also offer special discounts for students; be sure to take your student ID card.
Some colleges have an independent movie theatre on campus. They're usually considerably cheaper than the local multiplex, and sometimes they might even have free screenings for students!

, Schools and dorms organize special events for their students on a regular basis to encourage new friendships and socialization. It will be less likely to find alcohol there, especially if these are designed for students below drinking age.

