 Medication is one treatment option for Parkinson's disease. These medications can help the motor symptoms of the disease, and improve your movement, mobility, and the appearance of tremors.Common drugs include Carbidopa-levodopa, Carbidopa-levodopa infusion, dopamine agonists, MAO-B inhibitors, Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitors, anticholinergics, and Amantadine.
These medications will help at the beginning of your condition to control physical motor symptoms. However, as the disease progresses, they will lose their effectiveness.
 Surgery is an option used later in the disease when medicine has stopped working or for those who have severe motor symptoms. Usually, the only symptoms that are able to be treated are the ones that responded to medicine earlier in your treatment.The most common surgery done for PD is deep brain stimulation. In deep brain stimulation, electrodes are implanted into your brain that are connected to a generator in your chest. The generator sends electrical pulses to your brain that helps reduce symptoms.
This is offered to advanced PD patients. It can cause problems, like infection, stroke, or a brain hemorrhage, and doesn't stop the disease from progressing., In addition to treating your PD with medicine, exercise, and diet, you and your doctor may decide to use vitamins and herbs. Some vitamins and herbs have been found to help with symptoms of PD. Before you take any of these substances, you need to discuss it with your doctor. Common alternative treatments include:Coenzyme Q10
Calcium and vitamin D
Folate and vitamin B12
Ginger
Gingko Biloba
St. John's Wort

, You need to decide what the best treatment for Parkinson's is for you. You can discuss with your doctor what treatments are available and what may work for your particular type of PD. Talk to your partner or loved one if you want to include them in your treatment planning.


You should carefully weigh the pros and cons of each treatment option. Some treatments may cause negative side effects even though they help manage symptoms.

