 If you want the package to arrive before Valentine’s Day, make sure that you mail it by the beginning of February. Most parcel services offer an estimator to determine approximately how long it will take you to ship your package to its recipient. They will also allow you track the package so that you know when it arrives.In order to get the package sent on time, try to have all of the materials for your care package assembled before the beginning of February.
If you live far away from the recipient, be sure to allot extra time for your package’s transit.
There are also express shipping options available through the USPS and the various commercial deliverers. These will allow you to get your package to the recipient in a few days, a day, or even overnight.
 Once you have all of your care package materials ready to send, find a box that they all fit in. This box needs to be large enough to accommodate everything, but not so large that your things are loose in it. It also needs to have a lid or flaps that you are able to close and seal with tape.If you do not have a box of your own, you can buy one at the Post Office or at the store of the private shipping company.
 After you have everything assembled in the box, fill any open space with a little newspaper to help things stay in place. This is particularly important for fragile items that may break in transit. Then close the lid or flaps and cover the seams with packing tape. Make sure that you tape it tight and that the box flaps everything is firmly fastened shut., With the care package assembled, write the recipient's address on the box. Make sure that it is clearly visible and that it contains their full address. You can also print off a shipping label using your computer., Once your package is assembled, you can take it to the Post Office or a private shipping company to send. The staff at either location will weigh your package and determine how much it will cost for to send. Simply pay for the postage and have your package sent.You can also ship the package from home by calculating your own postage and printing off a shipping label.
If you run out of time and need to send the package sent right away, you can pay more to have the package shipped overnight.

