 Sexual performance anxiety manifests itself in a number of different ways. It's important to identify how the anxiety is affecting you—both physically and psychologically—before you can learn to deal with it. The most common signs of sexual performance anxiety include:Negative thoughts about love making, performance and being attractive to your partner.
Constant mental images of previous failures.
Shortness of breath and an inability to control your bodily sensations.
Inability in men to experience an erection as a result of such thoughts and feelings, and thus withdrawal from sexual activity (erectile dysfunction).
Lack of proper lubrication (among women).
Constant, excessive worry about how your will perform.
A constant cycle associated with not performing that further debilitates the performance.
 Certain prescription medications can reduce a patient's sex drive or ability to perform sexually. These include:


antidepressants (especially in the select serotonin reuptake inhibitor class, or SSRI) such as clomipramine, Amoxapine, amitriptyline, isocarboxazid, phenelzine, tranylcypromine, and fluoxetinetranquilizers, such as thioridazine, fluphenazine, trifluoperazine, and chlorpromazinecertain anxiolytic (anti-anxiety) medications, such as diazepam and alprazolamblood pressure medications, such as clonidine, labetalol, and methyldopa, While anxiety about sexual performance can certainly be a factor in failure to perform or an inability to achieve orgasm, there could be underlying problems causing these problems.


Hormone imbalances could cause problems. If your body is not producing adequate levels of hormones such as testosterone, estrogen, or progesterone, you may experience a decreased sex drive and an inability to enjoy sex. This can become especially problematic in older individuals. Talk to your doctor about having your hormone levels tested.Reduced blood flow can lead to reduced sexual pleasure and an inability to become aroused.Chronic health problems, including diabetes, heart disease, and elevated blood pressure, could affect sexual arousal and pleasure.Mental illness, especially depression, generalized anxiety disorder, and bipolar disorder, can significantly reduce a person's sex drive and ability to enjoy sex., ED typically manifests in a reduced sex drive and an inability to have or maintain an erection during sex, which could be mistaken for sexual performance anxiety. Approximately half of all American men over the age of 40 experience ED.There are many causes of erectile dysfunction, and it's important to talk to your doctor if you believe you are experiencing ED so that you can work out a treatment plan, including medication that can help you have and maintain an erection.Common causes include:


damaged or blocked blood vesselsnerve damagehigh cholesterol or blood pressureobesitylow testosteronemetabolic syndromeprostate problems, including swelling and cancer of the prostate, The onset of menopause, which reduces the body's production of estrogen, can cause reduced sex drive and changes in mood that may be mistaken for sexual performance anxiety. Most women experience menopause some time between the ages of 48 and 55 years of age, although some women may experience menopause under the age of 40 (called premature menopause).Consult with your doctor if you believe your menopausal symptoms are affecting your sex life. Certain medications are available, including estrogen and testosterone therapy, that can improve sexual desire and allow patients to enjoy sex once again., Seeking professional help may allow you to let go of whatever anxieties you're experiencing. You can see a therapist individually or as a couple.


A therapist may even help you to identify problems that you didn't know you had. This is why a professional perspective can be very useful.
A therapist can give you a number of tips and techniques you can try to lessen your anxiety and improve your sexual performance.
 Some individuals may experience sexual anxiety because of psychological factors. CBT is the process through which a therapist can explore the traumatic past of the individual, working through how it affects the person and how to separate the person from the unpleasant feelings and emotions.