 When you eat small meals throughout the day, rather than three large meals each day, you should be able to maintain a high energy level. Going too long without eating can decrease your energy levels, making it important to eat small, healthy snacks between meals.When you eat a large meal, your body puts more energy towards digesting the food, which in turn can make you tired.;
, Proteins help to create enzymes and hormones that keep you from feeling as fatigued. Eating lean proteins can also help to keep your blood sugar levels balanced so that you don’t experience a peak (and subsequent crash) that could heighten your fatigue.Foods that are considered to be good sources of protein include:


Poultry like chicken, duck, and turkey.
Lean cuts of beef, ham and pork.
Seafood like salmon, tuna, trout, and cod.
Beans, peas, and processed soy products.
Nuts and seeds like almonds or sunflower seeds.
 In your everyday diet, avoid eating carbohydrates and sugars and spiking your blood sugar.Researchers have linked the symptoms of PMS with low blood sugar or hypoglycemia. Although it would seem that you should eat more sugar and carbohydrates to raise your sugar level, it actually has the opposite effect. Within two hours your sugar level has plummeted again after insulin has metabolized all the glucose in your bloodstream.


Often times women reach for comfort foods during their periods. Things like mac 'n cheese or a slice of cake may strike you as exactly what you need to help you feel better when you have your period, but it actually works against you by making you feel more tired. Do your best to resist cravings and comfort foods and reach for healthy snacks instead.
Instead, it is important to eat foods that are high in healthy fats, which will stabilize your blood sugar and protect your heart from heart disease and stroke.These are not trans-fats found in baked goods, which are the worst type of fat that you can eat.The baked goods are also high in carbohydrates, which spike your blood sugar.
Try eating complex carbs (like whole grain bread or a baked potato), a tablespoon of almond butter, low-fat string cheese, an apple or pear, or a handful of nuts when cravings strike.
 Sometimes a combination of blood loss and poor nutrition can lead to iron deficiency anemia, which contributes significantly to extreme fatigue. Women who have fibroid growths in the uterus, which lead to greater blood loss during menstruation, or those who have poor nutritional habits can experience anemia.Iron-rich foods, such as beef, dark green leafy vegetables, beans, and lentils will help prevent anemia from poor nutrition.
See your physician if changes you make at home do not improve your symptoms or if you believe that your periods have gotten heavier over time. Up to 10% of women under 49 are anemic. Long-term effects of anemia can include negative effects on the heart muscle and increase the risk of cardiac conditions.