 Before you make any other decisions about your pink wedding decorations, you should first come up with a design budget to ensure that you don’t end up spending more money than you need to. Sit down with your significant other and whoever else may be involved with the budgeting of your wedding, and discuss the target budget that you would like to adhere to when choosing your decorations.For the average wedding, flower costs account for 8-10% of the total wedding budget. All wedding decorations, including the flowers, should account for about 10-18% of your budget.
The bigger your wedding, the more decorations you will need for the wedding ceremony and reception. You can save money on your wedding decorations by having a smaller wedding or in a venue that already is significantly decorated.;
, Though you may know that you want pink wedding decorations, there are many other factors in picking out your perfect wedding décor. Before you start looking at decorations, pinpoint exactly what kinds of pink decorations you want at your wedding.The most common types of wedding decorations are the flowers at the ceremony, the flowers at the reception, reception table centerpieces, table linens, table place names, and hanging lighting or centerpieces.
Your wedding may include all of these design elements, or only some of them. Assess the venue and size of your wedding to decide which decorations you may need.
For instance, if you are holding your reception in a grand historical ballroom, it may already come with chandeliers and adequate lighting, so you may not need to buy or rent lighting or hanging centerpieces.
 With so many options to choose from, picking wedding decorations can be daunting, even if you’ve narrowed down your search to one color. To feel less intimidated by the process, begin by looking in bridal catalogs and magazines and online at pictures of pink wedding décor. Save pictures of decorations you like and make a mood board, either by making a physical collage or using a site like Pinterest to catalog the pictures you want to save.
 Once you have decided on a budget as well as the types of decorations you need at your wedding, look into floral designers and/or wedding designers in your city. Go onto their websites and read reviews of their work to help you narrow down your choice.Contact the designers that most interest you and ask for an estimate, based on the decorations that you need and the size of your wedding. Then choose a designer or designers based on their estimates and their work.
There is also the option of buying decoration from separate places rather than from one or two designers. However, it is less likely that the decorations you buy will end up matching each other, and it also may not save you any significant amount of money.
 After you have picked out a designer or designers, meet to discuss your ideas. Share any important information with them, such as the size of your wedding, the ceremony and reception venues, and the specific types of decorations that you need, such as flowers, table centerpieces, etc.Bring along your mood board or pull it up on your phone or personal computer to give your designer a better idea about what styles of decorations interest you.
 There are many different ways that you can go with your wedding decorations. The fact that you want pink decorations is a start, but there are also many other aspects to decorations apart from color. Start by brainstorming a list of adjectives that describe the aesthetic that you want for your wedding.Some adjectives that you could use as a starting point could be “classic”, “rustic”, “summery”, “minimalist” or “extravagant.”

, Your wedding decorations shouldn’t just be beautiful on their own; they also look good when grouped together. Use the adjectives that you generated to choose decorations that look great together, even if they are all coming from different places.For instance, maybe you are having a rustic, outdoor style wedding. You may wish to have table centerpieces of dark pink and white wildflowers with dark green leaves in glass jars. You could compliment the centerpieces by using simple white linens, along with white name cards that have deep magenta trim and the guests’ names written in fuchsia and twinkling white and pink lights overhead.
If you are having an extravagant, period-style wedding, you may choose to have a large chandelier hanging centerpiece with pink and white crystals, tall centerpieces with pink and red roses and white baby’s breath flowers, intricately embroidered linens with light pink detailing, and pink and white candles on every table.
 Even if you know that you want pink wedding decorations, don’t limit yourself to just one color or shade of pink. It’s a good idea to have a mix of shades of color, as one color can look flat and repetitive.


For instance, you may decide to base your colors off of one shade of baby pink, which you use as the primary color in your wedding and venue flowers, your table centerpieces, and your plates and wine glasses. To bring out the beauty of this baby pink color, you may offset the color with magenta and cream-colored flowers, table settings and decorations.
Neutral shades like white or cream go with any shade of pink, and are a great way to offset the color.
 In addition to picking pink shades that you like, you also have to consider the colors used in your venue. You don’t want to pick out your decorations only to have the colors clash with those of your wedding venue.If you are having your wedding in a neutral-colored venue such as a white hall without any bold colors, any shade of pink will work. However, if you are having your wedding or reception in an unusually colored venue such as a reception room with pea green walls, make sure to use pink shades that don’t clash with the venue color.
If you need help knowing what colors go together, ask the help of your wedding designer. There are also many Internet resources on color theory that are good guides to color pairing.
 Flowers are usually the most expensive decorative element of a wedding, and there are many factors that go into choosing the right flowers. Even if you have some idea of what flowers you would like and know you want mostly pink flowers, consult with your floral designer or wedding planner before making any major moves.If you have already bought any other decorative pieces for your wedding, show your florist pictures of these decorations. Make sure your florist knows the date of the wedding as well as your vision of how you will be using flowers in ceremonial and reception space.
 Because flowers are among the most important and eye-catching decorative aspects of a wedding, it’s important to use several varied colors and types of flowers to add interest to your arrangements. Use several different types of flowers as opposed to one type. As much as you may love one type of classic pink flower like roses or tulips, it’s important to have variety in your floral arrangements. Using a few different species of flowers will save your arrangements from looking boring and repetitive.
Mix up the color and texture of your arrangements. Use flowers with different shapes and sizes, as well as different shades of pink and white to give your floral arrangements an eye-catching look.
 Even if you fall in love with a certain variety of pink flowers, you have to keep a few things in mind before making major floral decisions. Be sure to ask your florist if the flowers will be in season during the month of your wedding. If they won’t be in season, they may not be available that time of year, and they also may cost more., Another consideration to keep in mind is whether the flowers have a strong smell. Your guests will be in close proximity to hundreds of flowers the day of your wedding, and you don’t want to have to worry about any of your guests having allergic reactions because of your choices in décor! Pick mild-smelling or unscented flowers to avoid allergy problems., Another thing that you don’t want to have to worry about on your wedding day is drooping flowers. Some flowers, like hydrangeas, are beautiful but require constant moisture after picking. Choose flowers that can survive a day out of water without drooping or dying.