 Though it may be difficult, it is important that you honor her request for space. Avoid initiating contact constantly or asking to hang out. Give her some space to miss you and work on enjoying yourself away from her., Once she asks for space, however, you can define what that means and looks like in your relationship. Perhaps she is studying for exams and just needs a bit of time away from you to focus. Maybe she is beginning to feel that she is losing herself in the relationship and wants more permanent space so she can still explore her own interests and identity. Figure out the timeline and parameters of this space to see if you can be comfortable with it.


Suggest that the two of you don’t text during the day but do one phone call per night.
See how often she wants to see you in person.
 You are probably used to speaking to her very often throughout the day and it can be hard to go without that communication. However, don’t reach out more than once per day except when absolutely necessary. It’s okay to answer her calls and texts, but don’t be the first to initiate every time.Call a friend when you want to call her, go for a run or create some other distraction for yourself.
 If she posts to social media very often, consider deactivating your accounts for a bit so that you don’t feel tempted to talk to her during this time. If you would still like to utilize social media, consider unfollowing her while she needs space.Consider unfollowing her friends, as well.
 You might be feeling a bit down in the dumps because of this new change in your relationship. However, you can counter this negativity through speaking positively and constructively to yourself during this time. Don’t allow your confidence to tank just because she needed some space.You might repeat things to yourself like “I am awesome,” “Everything will be alright,” or “I do not need to speak to her right now.”
Consider also addressing yourself by name in these mantras. Say “Josh, it’s all going to be okay” to yourself when you’re having a hard time.

