 As you read through Christian texts, you might notice a number of commonalities to Hindu readings. You might see that both religions emphasize love and surrender, for example. The idea that God is ever-present is another similarity. As you come upon these similarities, make note of them because they can help you weather the transition process.For example, Hindus often emphasize the idea of long-standing devotion to God, including the surrender of one’s body and mind. Christians often teach the same beliefs., Many Hindus choose not to consume meat and, if that was your choice, you can continue to do so as a Christian. There are many Christians who choose to lead a vegetarian lifestyle for personal, health, or religious reasons., You can decide to wear a cross around your neck. Or, you can continue to don the bindi, if you are a woman. If you are a man, you may want to untie the Hindu white thread around your torso, or leave it intact. These are also changes that you can make over time., As you go through the conversion process, you may want to ‘feel out’ your Hindu friends to see how they feel about your choices. If they are supportive, you may be able to open up to them about your struggles. If they are resistant, then you may need to get some distance from them and try to rebuild your relationships later., Depending on the religious restrictions where you live, you may need to contact a local government official to let them know about your conversion. If this is the case, you will generally have to attest that you made this decision out of free will and without being pressured.For example, in India many personal religious changes must be logged by a local oath commissioner.
 Understand any perils to your personal safety as a result of your decision to convert and take the proper safeguards. In some areas, Christian converts are targeted for violence. Try to determine if your conversion may have a larger impact on your ability to live safely in your current home.Depending on your local situation, if you are persecuted because of your faith, you may want to reach out to law enforcement authorities. You can also talk to church authorities about other options for personal protection.

