 (One of them your bathroom).
 Remember to keep it small (2-6 people depending on the size of your house and bathroom.)

, You can get them for free online at www.evite.com. They have some great selections for a spa themed party.
 You can use one room for everyone. just hang up some white sheets in the room.
, This can be bought for cheap in a store or use a radio on classical music or use your computer and look online for free sounds.
 You might want five stations like pedicure, manicure, facials, massage,and hair + make up

, Just jet a tube sock fill it with rice or those itsy bitsy rocks and lavender or rosemary sprigs then sew it together or tie the top in a tight knot and heat in a microwave for two -three minutes.
 After you're all dolled up.
, Concentrate on the spa experience and choose foods that are considered to be "feel good" foods. Serve fresh fruit with a chocolate dip or cream cheese dip, a vegetable tray with ranch dip and maybe some creme-filled eclairs. Flavored water or just water with cucumber slices!

, To make egg shampoo, mix all the ingredients listed above and be sure to rinse thoroughly after shampooing. This booth should be near the kitchen sink so that each tween can have her hair shampooed by another tween. You can use regular shampoo instead of messing with the egg shampoo. Leave the towels draped around their hair like a turban wrap until Booth 5.;
, You can buy individual face masks in trial sizes in most department stores or drugstores. The girls can cleanse their own faces with warm water before being given the rest of the facial by one of the other teens. Leave the facial masks on for about 10 minutes or so, then rinse. Finish by dabbing on toner with cotton balls.
 You’ll need two bowls of water, one warm and one cold. In the warm water, add some nice-smelling liquid soap or even shampoo. Leave the cold for rinsing their hands after soaking in the warm solution. The tween should soak her hands for just a few minutes, rinse and then blot them dry with a hand towel. Gather as many nail polishes as you can, and nail painting will finish this spa experience.
 When the timer buzzes, after each rotation, the tub should be emptied, and a fresh soak should be made of warm water and either salt or vinegar. Add about a tablespoon of salt to the water or use half vinegar and half water.
 Tween girls love to do each other's hair, so make sure to have a hot iron and hair dryer handy at this spa station. You can also gather hairpins and barrettes for them to use. If you like, let them apply makeup on each other; however, it will be getting close to bedtime, so you may want to hold off on the makeup.

