 Create set places where activities occur. A general routine within your child’s life is essential for them to make sense of the world and feel secure. When you create a routine, you will also be able to narrow down the reasons why your child might be acting out.
 Picture schedules help to explain which activity the child will do next. Picture schedules are wonderful tools parents can use to help guide some autistic children through different activities they will undertake during the day. It helps improve structure in a child’s life particularly when children with autism can have difficulty keeping an overview of their daily activities. Some ideas for ways to use picture schedules include:


You and your child can keep track of tasks by “ticking off” completed activities.
You and your child can keep a clock or a light-up timer near the activities to determine the time frame for each activity (if this helps the child).
Help your child to design and draw these pictures so that he or she feels more of a connection with the images.
Keep the images in a book or on a board or wall so that your child can refer to them when he or she wants to.
 This helps the child feel secure. If a change needs to be made, give the child warning and an explanation, so it feels less jarring. Work together with other caretakers (such as teachers and therapists) to create a consistent system., While the schedule should remain relatively consistent, this does not mean there is no room for development of your child’s activities and discipline as your child makes their natural progression in development and growth as an individual.


For example, you may have scheduled exercise as the after lunch activity. However if your child gets a sore tummy every time, they may begin to act distressed before each exercise session. This does not mean that you must follow through with the scheduled activity in fear that it will ‘confuse’ your child if the schedule gets changed. Instead, things can be modified to best meet the needs of your child. As such, the schedule can be changed so that exercise comes before lunch. Discuss the change with your child so that (s)he understands it.
 This includes recognizing when and where your child needs “down time” (for example after school). Down time is particularly relevant when your child feels there is too much going on and their senses have been overloaded. When your child becomes distressed or upset because of this over-stimulation, this indicative of the need for down time. Simply take your child to a safe, quiet place and allow your child to ‘relax’ in a simple environment under casual supervision. An example is letting the child draw in a quiet room while you sit nearby reading a book.
 If your child is not getting sufficient sleep or is suffering pain or ill health, it would be natural for them to express their distress which may be misconstrued as “problematic behaviour”.

