 Clinical research is important for the medical field. A clinical trial researches new approaches to preventing or treating diseases. These clinical trials might focus on a new treatment option, like medicines, new ways to use existing treatments, or new ways to make a diagnosis of the disease. Each clinical trial aims at trying to determine if these experimental treatments or tests are safe and improve the quality of life for patients.People may participate in clinical trials for many reasons. Some reasons include wanting to help with the advancement of medicine; trying out new treatments while receiving care by the staff running the trial (physical examinations, diagnostic tests); playing a more active role in your healthcare; possibly being compensated for time, travel, and participation., Clinical trials vary in length. Some diabetes trials last for many years at a time. When you are trying to decide if a clinical trial is right for you, figure out if a long trial is the kind of commitment you are willing to sign up for., Before signing up for a clinical trial, research the trial and the people running the trial. Ask questions of the people involved and make sure they answer all your questions to your understanding. Make sure you understand all your responsibilities and what will be expected of you during the trial. Visit any websites connected with the trial.Make sure you know what the purpose of the study is and why the treatment might be helpful.
Find out who is funding the study, who approved the study, and how the participants’ health is being monitored.
The clinical trial should follow all the ethics and confidentiality rules and laws. Make sure that you ask about the IRB approval and carefully read the informed consent (if you decide to participate).
 Not all clinical trials are free. You may have to pay for tests or the medicine. Ask what exactly you will have to pay for and how much that will cost you. Don’t forget to look into travel costs for the trial.Some insurance companies cover clinical trials. Contact your insurance company to learn what they will cover and what they won’t.
 Clinical trials have different methods which they use to get the medicine or treatment to the participants. When you read the information about a clinical trial, you may see the following words:Placebo. A placebo is a product that you think is the product being tested, but it is actually an inactive product.
Randomization. This process randomly assigns two or more treatments or medicines to volunteers. This helps researchers avoid bias.
Single- or double-blind studies. The participants in these studies are unaware of which treatment is being used. This avoids bias on the participants part.
 A patient volunteer is a participant in a clinical trial who has known health problems, such as diabetes. The clinical trial may or may benefit you.A healthy participant is someone who has no health problems who volunteers for a study. Some diabetes clinical trials will allow healthy volunteers, while others only want participants who have a form of diabetes.
 Clinical trials present risks for the participants. There is a chance for minor discomfort, but there is also a chance for more serious complications that require medical attention. Risks will be explained in detailed on your informed consent sheet, which you sign before participating. Those who are running the trial will also explain any major risks.Some clinical trials are time consuming. They may require you to make more medical visits, have more tests, take more treatments, or have complex instructions.
In rare cases, people have died or been seriously injured during clinical trials.
 Clinical trials provide many benefits. As a participant, you get to try new treatments before they are available to the general public. You have access to medical attention through the duration of the trial from the research team full of health care professionals.In addition, there is the indirect benefit that clinical trials produce — helping the scientific community to produce or study something for other people and for the future.


Clinical trials give you a chance to be active in your own health care while contributing to medical research.

