 With iTunes open, click the word File in the top left corner. A drop down list should appear, and you’ll find the option that says New. Hover over that, and you’ll see Playlist. Click that. A new playlist will appear in the list on the side of the window. Go ahead and name it something that tells the purpose of the mix you are making. If you work on this project in multiple sittings, you want to remember which playlist you are working on if you have multiple playlists., Assuming the music you want to put on the mix is already in your iTunes, search through and find the songs, then drag them over to the playlist. For right now, the order that you add them in is not important because you can go through and reorder once the songs are in the playlist.If some of the songs you want to include on the CD are not already in your music library, you may need to add those songs. You can either import them from CDs you have or download them from iTunes.
 Once you have all of the songs you want in your playlist, you need to rearrange them into the order you want. You can do this by clicking and holding on the song and dragging it to the position you want it in. When you get the songs to a place where you think they’ll fit well, listen to the beginnings and endings of the songs to see if they transition well from one to the next.
 Assuming your computer is equipped with a CD burner, a window might pop up asking what you want to do, and if there is a Burn CD option, click that. If not, go back up to File and click the option that says Burn Playlist to Disc. You can also hold Ctrl and click on the playlist title and the option to Burn Playlist to Disc should appear. Click that.
 When you click Burn Playlist to Disc, a new window with Burn Settings should appear, and you’ll have some options. You can leave everything as default and simply hit Burn, or you can change the time gap between songs, file type, and sound levels. If you are new to burning CDs, it is best to leave the settings alone and hit Burn., Once you’ve clicked Burn, your work is pretty much done. iTunes will begin burning your disc, which takes a varying amount of time depending on how many songs you’ve chosen and how fast your computer is. In general, it takes 5-10 minutes. Your computer may eject the disc automatically when it is finished burning or you may have to hit eject manually.

