 If you're new to genealogy, a good place to start is your own family. Write your name (and your spouse's name) in the center of a piece of paper. To the side of your name, write the names of your siblings. These are the members of your own generation.


Above your name, write your parents names. This is "one generation" back.
Work backward to your maternal and paternal grandparents. This is two generations back, and a good place to start with many genealogical records.
Continue adding people's names, descending from your grandparents.
If a child has been adopted, they are considered to have the same generational place within the family line as a blood relation. However, if a child has not been formally adopted, they will not be included within the legal framework of the family tree.
Many computer programs and online pages can provide assistance with this process, but working by hand is a good practice.;
, Having a good education in genealogy will help you determine the family line of the deceased. You can take these classes online, or through local community colleges.


A good genealogical class will help you learn how to access court records, which is a good way to track marriages, deaths, births, and divorces.
Taking classes specific to the research of vital records or military records is highly recommended for someone who wants to start being an heir hunter.
 There is no substitute for talking with someone who works in the field of heir hunting. You should ask them questions about local laws regarding heir hunting, as these may vary regionally. There is no formal education or licensure requirement to work in the field of heir hunting, but there are professional organizations that you should become familiar with, such as the Association of Professional Genealogists


The best way to find an heir hunter in your region is to contact a professional organization, via the Association of Professional Genealogists. Make a list of questions to ask the heir hunter. How long have they been in this line of work? Do they have a second source of income? What did they do to start to work as an heir hunter? Have they been satisfied with this work? What would they have liked to know before they started this job? Your own questions can reflect your own interests and concerns.
The person you contact may be willing to allow you to observe them at work, or to assist them in doing research. Remember that all work done are confidential.
 Although there is no licensure requirement, states have different requirements for people who are starting in their field of heir hunting. Many states require a performance bond of $10,000 paid to the State Treasurer's Office as security against fraudulent or mistaken claims.Most states also require that the heir hunter file a copy of the agreement made with the client in the State Treasury Department.
A heir hunter may work for a larger organization, or may be self-employed. If the latter is the case, the heir hunter should be registered as a business with the state.
 If you need to register as a business, your state will have requirements that must be met. If you are creating your own small business, consider building your own website. Even a simple website will be sufficient for your purposes.


You'll need a business card with your contact information: your name, phone number, email address, and any social media contact information you choose to provide.Decide whether or not you'd like to focus on any particular area. For example, you may decide that you'll only take cases in your state of residence, or that you'd prefer to focus on probate genealogy. If this is the case, make your specialty clear up front.
 The will, or testate, may have been written many years ago. The named heirs may have changed their names, moved to new cities or countries, or be otherwise difficult to trace. Unless the heirs are located, the estate of the deceased will be given over to the state.


If there is a will, this legal document has precedent even over existing spousal relationships or children of the deceased.
If the person died without a will, or intestate, the heir hunter will have to determine who their nearest relative would be.
 Genealogical research can happen online, but many records are still found in local courthouses. You'll be looking for birth certificates, marriage certificates, death certificates or any other legal records that may help you determine the closest living relative of the deceased.If the deceased did not leave a will, their estate goes to their nearest living relative. In the United States, this is known as the Next of Kin, while in the UK and Ireland, this is formally termed Nearest Relations. Each country has its own prioritized order of "class" of relationship.
Most countries prioritize a living spouse, a husband or wife. In countries where same-sex marriages are illegal, the next of kin would be a biological child of the deceased. In the absence of a child, the nearest relation to the deceased would be a parent.
Find or purchase copies of certificates for births, deaths and marriages. Having copies of the originals will ensure accuracy of your notes and historical analysis.
 If the deceased died without an obvious heir, such as a spouse, children, siblings or parents, the grandparents will be the key to locating the next-of-kin. The children of the grandparents are the aunts and uncles of the deceased, and the next class of closest relations.


The children of the aunts and uncles, both paternal and maternal, are the cousins of the deceased, and the next class of closest relations.
Continue tracing relationships of the deceased until you find a record of a living person. When there are multiple heirs of an equal class, the estate will be evenly divided among the heirs.
Avoid accepting assurance provided by family members that there are no additional heirs. Always confirm assertions with your own research.
 Take careful and thorough notes when researching families. If you get notes from elsewhere, ensure that they are clear. Follow by clarifying details which may not be clear.When transferring paper notes to digital formats, transcribe them correctly and clearly before saving them to your computer.
Back up all digital files. Use online storage as well as external hard drives.
Use common sense when assessing information that you come across. Look for the obvious and keep your questions logical and simple. Do not overlook anything and make no assumptions. The consequences of missing a birth, death, adoption or marriage can result in an entire family line being unintentionally disinherited.
 Enter all of the available information you have on the next-of-kin to an online search engine. Include the person's name, their last known residence, city or state. If they've been known to use a nickname, include this in your search.Some search engines can locate a person based on a phone number. If you have a phone number for the next-of-kin, even if it's no longer a working number belonging to the person, a search engine may help connect this number to the person you're looking for.
Check the Social Security Death Index (SSDI), also called the Death Master File. This is an an online database of deaths in the United States held by the Social Security Administration, and made available to a number of commercial websites.
In recent years, online social networks may have clues as to how to locate missing relatives. You may find the next-of-kin through a more distant relative, connected through social media.
 Online tools offer a great deal of assistance, but sometimes you may need to travel to a location yourself. Check with homeless shelters, hospitals, schools, and prisons. Read through local arrest records. Visit area churches or religious institutions if the person has a history with a particular faith tradition.


Don't be afraid to ask questions. Leave your contact information with anyone who may be useful.
While it's fine to share your general purpose in searching for the heir, refrain from providing personal details. Use tact and discretion.
 Explain who you're looking for and the purpose for your search. Include as much relevant information as you can without exposing them to undue exposure. If you have a photo of a person, even an old one, include this in your ad.Don't include overly personal information in the public arena. Use your best judgment.
You might want to create an email account or phone number specific for the purposes of this posting. This will allow you to share contact information about this search while keeping the rest of your personal and professional life private.
 When you've found the person you believe to be the next-of-kin, your identification must be as thorough as your initial research was. Check all forms of valid ID, including birth certificate, passport, driver's license or state identification card, or social security number.The person may not have any memory of the deceased, if the relation is distant or the last encounter was many years ago. However, questions about extended family members or locales where the person you've been searching for should be familiar with should be asked to ascertain knowledge.
Do not relay the details of the deceased estate until you have confirmed the identity of the heir.
 In cases where the deceased has not been in recent communication with the heir, there may be estrangement. Remember that the heir will have been unlikely to know of the death. The first question the heir hunter should be prepared to answer is not "How much money will I receive?" but "How did the deceased die?"


There may be strong emotional reactions to receiving an inheritance, no matter what size. The heir hunter should be sensitive to the individual situation.
Always use tact and discretion when talking about the family situation. Even if the heir himself is unconcerned about appearances, the heir hunter should present information in a manner both respectful and solicitous.

