 This is one of the most important steps. Saying that you'll do it later will get you nowhere. Just look where it's gotten you now with all those late assignments. Nowhere.;
, What's stopping you from doing your work? Chores? Job? Maybe you're a parent and don't have a lot of time for your schoolwork? Laziness? Are you overly stressed from home related issues? Whatever the reason, you can work around those obstacles.


If you have chores to do, start by waking up early in the morning and getting those done and out of the way. This will leave you plenty of time during the day to knock out some late assignments.
You have a job? You come home tired and exhausted from dealing with rude customers all day and don't have the patience to deal with spinning your brain gears to get your work done? Ask your boss for a shift change. Ask if you can work nights instead of during the day. That way, you can come home at night, wash up, sleep and wake up for school.
You have a child? Tackle some assignments when they're asleep. Pop in a movie or give them some toys to play with beside you while you do some assignments. Opt for a laptop so you can easily access schooling wherever your child is. Thus, taking away the excuse that you can't keep them out of your sight.
Stressed? Try meditation techniques, early morning exercise or yoga, switch to a more balanced and healthier diet, talk to mom and dad about it, listen to soothing music, drink some herbal tea. All are stress busting techniques.
If laziness is what you have, tell yourself the rewards you would get for the work you do. Make sure you get those rewards only after you do your work!

, Usually you can do this by asking/calling your teachers, or looking at your grade book. Write down or type on a word document a list of missing assignments for each class. Be sure separate the classes into different sections not to mix everything up.
 If you have a couple big assignments like projects or essays, do one project a day. Never skip ahead, especially in classes like math, languages, or other complicated classes. You will be even more confused since you will probably need to know things about previous lessons to complete future assignments.
 This can take time but it's worth the effort if you want to get good grades. Take the time to learn the lesson just like you would if you were caught up with this week's work. Except, you're just doing more assignments each day. As long as you're doing your assignments and correctly, you'll get better grades and be caught up in no time.
 Skipping the most important meal of the day can really make you tired faster and you won't have energy to do any homework. Try to avoid greasy foods or fast food breakfast. Try a granola bar, yogurt, fruit juice, oatmeal, cereal, or make some eggs.
 Set a positive mindset and eliminate all the negative thinking. Instead of "I'll never get this done." repeat to yourself in your mind "I'm going to do this!". It may sound cheesy, but positive thinking gives you more mental willpower and motivation to do your work. Think of it this way, imagine yourself in a few weeks when all those assignments are done and you're caught up. You'll be proud of yourself, have better grades, and not be stressed about school all the time. The pros outweigh the cons by a long shot.



Treat yourself to a little sweet reward when you complete your assignments on your list for the day. This will motivate you to do more the next day and so on, because you'll be able to get that delicious Starbucks you've been craving or an ice cream. Who doesn't like ice cream?!

, Give them a call and ask if they can help you get caught up. Teachers want you to do your best, so why would they yell at you if they see that you want to get caught up. They will respect you being responsible in reaching out and accepting that you are behind.
 Even if you have been looking over the lesson material 60 times in a row and still don't get it, a tutor will help you. Call your teachers to see about getting one.

