 You don't want anyone barging in while you're in the middle of getting ready!;
, Then end with a long hot soak, complete with bath salts, loofahs, etc. If there's not enough hot water for you to use, then take a shower. Once you're done, wrap yourself up in a towel. Wait 20 minutes, then take a hot bath.
 If you're not, then you shouldn't try to shave - just go without it. Instead, do your best to hide your legs and armpits if you tend to have a lot of hair growth in those areas.


If you are wearing sandals, try to scrub your feet to get all the dead skin off.
 Use face masks, creams and scrubs. However, beware of using too many - the result is a massive break-out! You definitely don't want this to happen.


By now, you should be using a cleanser, toner, and moisturizer on your face every day to prevent pimples from breaking out on your face. If you do this loyally every day, the above isn't necessary unless if you have a few pimples on your face.
Rub extremely gently, for if you rub too hard and your skin absorbs the cream or mask too much, you will end up with a massive break-out!
Don't forget to rinse very well with lukewarm water.


For girls: if your hair is short, try wavy hair. If it is long, give it some bouncy curls. A cute headband or a bow would also do the trick.
If your hair is short, just leave it that way or give it a cut. If it's a bit longer then grab some hair gel and bring it to the front, or the side. It would be nice.
 Try to use a lighter brand of mouthwash, for your date/dance partner doesn't want to smell nothing but mouthwash.
 Eye shadow, eyeliner, mascara, blush, cover-up, foundation, lip gloss, etc. Be careful of over-applying, for no one wants to dance with a clown. They want to dance with the real you (see tips)!


Makeup should add a soft glow to your face, not add color. Try to make it look natural; use only a little and gently rub it in to let to blend. Also, balance your make-up. If you use a bold lipstick, keep your eye shadow weak, etc.
Be careful of the color shades you use; stick with light shades. Using the wrong colors will make you look like a rainbow threw up on your face.
Avoid using makeup to cover any pimples, as this will only worsen their condition and make them more obvious.
 You'll be near the guys, probably dancing with them too! They'll need to feel how soft your hands and arms are. Make sure to get an ample amount on your hands, legs, elbows and knees, as well as your cheeks and chin! It's important to put on face cream!

, Make sure you pack feminine items if needed, extra make-up, your cell-phone, mints/gum, and some extra lip gloss. Maybe a couple of pads and/or tampons if you're on your period.
 Don't forget deodorant!


Beware of over-spraying. You want to avoid a thick, heavy cloud following you around!

, Your outfit will depend on the type of dance.


If it's a costume dance (ex: Halloween), go with the costume theme, as there are normally theme costumes. If there isn't one, decide on a theme with or without your friends.
If it's an informal dance, that doesn't mean you should show up like you always do on a day-to-day basis. Although you may be tempted to wear a T-shirt, stick with a nice top (ex: blouse), a nice pair of pants - other than jeans - or a nice skirt, but make sure the skirt isn't too short! Don't go overboard with informal dances, as no one would expect you to come in a dress.
If it is a semi-formal dance, it is recommended that you choose a slightly dressier shirt, a nicer pair of pants (ex: dress pants) or a nicer skirt, and an appropriate accessory (ex: hair flower) with comfortable flats.
If it is a formal dance, wear a very nice shirt and skirt, or a dress that isn't too fancy with leggings. For formal dances, it is more appropriate to wear a bow and nice dress shoes than it would be for other dances.
Cute earrings are recommended for all the dances listed above.
Make sure you have shoes appropriate for dancing that are in very good condition. Sneakers that are frayed, dirty and worn out are not recommended, as they will ruin your appearance and look embarrassing!

, Lots of girls put their hair up, but truthfully, most guys like hair that's natural looking. Therefore, just pick your favorite hair style and wear it with pride! If you have your hair dyed or have streaks, be sure to get your hair done and dyed the night before. Even if you dye your hair, you may still want to go to a hair stylist and get it trimmed and brushed out, and get your hair washed with the fancy and expensive shampoos. Make sure to put gel in it when you're done.


Instead of putting your hair up in that messy bun or ponytail, add a little special touch to it for this particular night. You could add a small braid in your hair with that ponytail or bun, and even make the messy bun a neat bun for tonight. You could try a new hairstyle that suits your face (it is recommended you try wearing the new hairstyle for a week before the dance so you know whether it fits you or not), but make sure it suits the dance!

, Earrings, necklace, bracelets, anklets, etc. However, beware of going overboard with them. One or two should be fine.
 They won't let you in even if they know you, unless you have a good bribe or they're your best friend or boyfriend. Even if, you may not want to risk it.
, Use lots of soap, being sure to focus on behind your ears, your armpits, any body hair you may have, your pubic region, your bottom, and your feet. Also be sure to wash your face. Use shower gel and soap up all over your body. Then use shampoo and conditioner. If you have a nice scent of shower gel, take a hot bath with the gel mixed into the water. Do this after the shower, you don't want to be bathing in dirty water.
 Often, guys 11 to around 13 to 15 have "half mustaches" that look more like you just forgot to shave or maybe haven't fully washed your face, not a look you're after, most likely. That honest truth is, most girls don't like beards and hate mustaches. Some stubble is good sometimes, but most girls love the clean shave look. Save the mustaches and beards for when you're older.
 Use aftershave if you have any, even if you didn't just shave. Use soap and water, and any acne prevention face wash.
 Girls love a guy with nice, soft skin.
, Don't overpower people, but just put on a nice amount. A couple of spritzes should do.
 Your outfit will depend on the type of dance.


If it's a costume dance, go with the costume theme, or make one up with or without your friends.
If it's an informal dance, wear a nice graphic tee, nice jeans or pants, and nice sneakers or slips. In general, dressing out a little bit more than the dress code calls for looks good at these dances.
If it's a semi-formal dance, wear very nice black jeans or dress pants, a plaid or solid colored button up shirt. In this situation, it looks good to under-do the dress code a bit, but don't go to far.
If it's a formal dance, wear a button up shirt with tie, or even a tux, with nice dress pants and dress shoes.
Try a tuxedo with a tie, or a bow tie. Get a flower on the side of your tux or on your wrist to give to your girl once she arrives.

