 Sometimes, the spurs on the vertebrae in the back press into the spine, affecting the cat's gait and other movements. Usually, it's because the spurs have made it more difficult for the cat to move. If you notice that your cat is not walking normally, contact your vet.The cat may also start limping.;
, This disease can also affect how much the cat moves its spine. Therefore, you may notice the cat isn't turning over as easily as it used to, or that it's having trouble stretching or cleaning itself., Another symptom that can appear with this condition is the atrophy of muscle along the spine. This symptom can take longer to appear than other symptoms., While this condition doesn't appear to be painful for every cat, it can be. You may notice your cat wincing, pulling back, or crying out in pain when you stroke parts of its back where the spurs are located., Most of the time, your vet will begin with a physical examination. They will note whether they see any problems in the cat's gait or flexibility, as well as if the cat seems in pain. However, this condition cannot be definitively diagnosed with a physical examination.While the examination is going on, let the vet know if your cat has had any spinal issues in the past.
 The most common way to diagnose this condition is through the use of x-rays. The vet will use them to examine the cat's spine. In turn, the vet will be able to determine if the cat has spurs in that location.The vet may need to take x-rays from multiple angles to see the bone spurs properly.
 In some cases, an MRI may be needed to properly diagnose this disease. Your vet might do this test, or they might send you on to a specialist for more finessed diagnostic tools., Often, your cat will not need any treatment for this condition, as the spine degeneration is usually due to aging. If your cat is not in any pain, your vet may decide that treatment isn't necessary., When a cat is in pain from this condition, the vet will often prescribe a pain mediation. However, make sure you only give pain medication under the direction of a vet, as many human pain relievers are toxic to cats. Usually, the vet will prescribe an NSAID pain reliever., If your cat is overweight, it may help for the cat to lose weight. Ask your vet about whether your cat is a good candidate for this option. If the vet says yes, have them discuss a weight loss plan with you.Generally, to help your cat lose weight, you need to decrease how much food it eats. A typical indoor cat needs 20 calories per pound of weight to maintain its weight; an 8 pound cat needs 160 calories to maintain its weight. For the cat to lose weight, you need to decrease its caloric intake by 40 calories. Therefore, an 8-pound cat would need 120 calories a day to lose weight.
For outdoor cats, you can increase the caloric intake to 35 calories per pound to maintain its current weight. The adjustment for losing weight is the same., Surgery may be necessary if the spurs are affecting the cat's spine. However, often the vet will not recommend this course of action. Most of the time, the spurs grow back, since they are trying to stabilize the spine.