 You can also stay fit by eating healthy. Do this by planning out your meals so you know what you are going to eat during finals. You should have three meals planned per day: breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Do not skip any meals, as skipping meals can throw off your body and lead to unhealthy eating.You may write out the meal plan for the week of finals and choose meals that are healthy and easy to prepare. Then, go grocery shopping ahead of finals week for ingredients so they are on hand.
Put together meals high in fresh fruits and vegetables as well as healthy sources of protein like chicken, fish, and tofu. You should also stock up on beans and legumes, as they are good sources of protein and vitamins.
 If you are on a meal plan through your university or college, you should always try to have the healthy option during finals. Go out of your way to find a healthy option that is covered by your meal plan and try to always have healthy meals during finals so you stay fit and energized.


You may opt for the salad bar, if it is covered by your meal plan, and have salads full of leafy greens, protein, fruit, and a healthy dressing. You should also go for the healthier option for hot meals, such as the vegetarian option for a no-meat meal or a meal that has a good balance of steamed or boiled vegetables, chicken, and rice.
 Skip the bags of chips and vending machine candy. Instead, pack healthy snacks in your backpack so they are within reach when you feel hungry between meals. This will ensure you are not distracted by hunger when you are trying to study.You may pack simple, healthy snacks like apples, bananas, or oranges. You could also pack unsalted nuts like almonds or cashews as well as granola bars in your bag.
 Snacking while studying makes you less likely to pay attention to the food you are eating, which may lead to overeating and weight gain if you eat in excess.

Don’t study and eat at the same time. Take a break from studying to eat meals with friends.
Never eat snacks directly from the bag/box. Portion out snacks before you dig in to prevent overeating.
 Many students lean on caffeine to stay awake and alert for finals. But having too much caffeine on a constant basis can cause dehydration and low energy spirals, especially if you are up late studying. Do not exceed 400 mg of caffeine per day, and try to balance your caffeine intake with lots of water. Keep a water bottle with you and sip from it often. Try to chase caffeine with water so you are not at risk of dehydration.You may also try having sources of caffeine that are not as dehydrating, such as green tea, instead of coffee or energy drinks. Avoid energy drinks because they often lead to a sudden crash in your blood sugar and dehydration. Some energy drinks contain large amounts of caffeine, which can cause serious health problems.You should try to keep your alcohol consumption in check during finals. Avoid going out and drinking during finals to help you stay focused and prepared for your exams. If you do drink, then stay within the recommended limits for alcohol, which include now more than two drinks per day for men and no more than one drink per day for women. One drink is defined as 12 oz beer, 5 oz wine, 1.5 oz liquor,

