 Decide if you want to make perfume yourself, or if you want it made for you. There are many websites that offer custom perfume services, and allow you to buy your product in bulk, like ScentCrafters, Scent Design, or Creating Perfume. However, this can be expensive with little profit to show for it. Making your own perfume, though, is less expensive, but it is more time consuming.;
, Create your business start up budget. Understand the terms revenue, cost, and profit and learn how they apply to your business. Make sure that the prices you charge will cover the costs of manufacturing. Make a sales goal that you should try to meet every month.
 If you are a kid, the numbers may seem overwhelming. This is where your parents come in. Transfer your budget into a PowerPoint Presentation, and add in some product information. Use Excel for your budget if you need to do calculations. Be convincing, and prove that this is important to you. They might come right out and give you the money, or they might try to help you get it yourself. If they flat out turn you down, do not give up. Be persistent, but not too much. If you can't convince your parents, you are better off getting the money by yourself from babysitting or mowing lawns.
 Study the aroma families, like oriental scents, gourmand perfumes, and floral aromas. Find out what scents go with what. Decide what demographic you are targeting. Pick a base scent, like sandalwood or amber, and then choose some complimentary notes to give your perfume an original, distinct quality. Finally, make or order your perfume, depending on the method you chose. Six or seven 1-ounce bottles should be good to start with.
 You want to establish some customers before you put your product out there. Give potential customers complimentary samples of your scent, and tell them to tell their friends. Chances are that, if they like it, they will. Buy advertising space in your local newspaper. Start a website. Eventually, you can even use it to sell online if your business is successful.
 Mention your business to your friends and family. Give out special discounts and coupons. If you do this right, you can really rake in the cash!

, There are celebrities selling perfume, such as Sarah-Jessica Parker and Brittney Spears. Fashion houses sell perfume such as Chanel and Giorgio Armani and there are traditional perfume manufacturers such as Penhaligons.
 You may need an accountant and other staff if you really want to run an actual business, in between school, band practice, baby sitting and whatever else you do as a kid.
 You cannot sell perfume that hasn't been tested for safety. Your product could contain allergens, carcinogenic material or irritants.
 If your homemade perfume proves popular, your customers will expect you to replicate it exactly if they want to purchase more.

