 In order for you to create a weapon or armor, you need to have the recipe. Recipes for advanced armor and weapons are dropped from dungeon monsters and bosses.


Once you have obtained a recipe and used it, the knowledge will be shared with all of your characters within the same account.
To learn recipes you found as drops, talk to the Blacksmith in Navea, select "I want precise casting and forging", and drag the recipe from your inventory to the Special Recipe slot in the window. Click on the Pay button to learn the recipe.;
, To learn recipes, talk to the blacksmith in Navea and select the dialogue option "I want precise casting and forging". This will open the crafting window. You must be level 40 or higher in order to learn recipes from a blacksmith.


The crafting window will show you a list of recipes you already have.
Click the "Learn Recipe" to have it registered and ready to use.
Recipes that have been learned will appear in the refining window.
 Talk to the blacksmith and select the dialogue option "I want to precise casting and forging" to open the up the refining list. Click the recipe you want to refine and then left-click on the recipe to see the required materials needed as well as the description of the item.


You can only refine in Navea City.
 Click the name of the item you want to craft in the crafting list; you will be shown the requirements needed for refinement.


You need to have the base equipment, which can be bought from NPCs or found in dungeons. Base weapons used can be either a green weapon or higher to craft better weapons.
If you're still below level 60, it's best to hunt for weapons rather than use gold to buy them for refining, which will be replaced by higher-level weapons in the future.
Gemstones and ores can be mined by using a pickaxe on ore deposits found in various maps. The pickaxe can be bought from a grocer in any town. Refining materials start dropping in level 30 dungeons or can be purchased from the Auction House.
 All the equipment in the list requires refining core. The recipe is already in the refining list, but you need to pay a huge fee to learn it. Once you have learned the recipe, create the item by clicking it, and make sure you have the materials needed.


Click Refine to start creating the core. This too requires a fee.
There are different cores for different categories of items.
 After you have created the core, found a base weapon, and harvested any additional ores and gemstones, you are ready to refine the item. Make sure that you have your materials in your inventory before you start, and then press Refine to start creating the item. Refining also requires a fee.


Check the stats first before refining. You lose the original materials when you refine, so ensure that the refining process will actually benefit you.
The difficult part of refining is having enough gold for the fee. The recipe itself already cost 40–60g, depending on the level.
A refined item will have an additional descriptive word attached to it that will give it a bonus effect.
 Each recipe starts out with an Expertise Rating of D or E. As you use the recipe, the Expertise Rating bar will fill up to reach the next level. Ratings go from grade E to D, to C, and up until grade A.


Grade D rewards 100% of the stats for the item, which means the ratings increase the chance to craft better equipment stats for the item up to 130% ATK Bonus.
The more you refine the same equipment, the more points you gain until the grade level up. The higher the grade, the more chance of obtaining a perfect weapon for your character.

