 Bad moods tend to make procrastination seem much more appealing. Procrastinating seems to offer an escape from the work that will likely only make your mood worse. Instead, set positive rewards for yourself to look forward to after you have done your work.You might want to go for a quick walk after working for a set amount of time.
Try reading a website or book that you enjoy for a few minutes after working.
Alternatively, try a quick burst of exercise before setting to work. Exercise releases feel-good chemicals called endorphins and can also help boost your memory., Procrastinating often results when the focus is on how negative the assignment seems. This negative focus causes us to avoid it, delaying the perceived discomfort and doing something we enjoy instead. It can be useful to focus on the positive aspects of getting your assignment done to make it seem like the more appealing option.


Instead of dreading your work, focus on how good it will feel to make progress. You won't have it hanging over your head. You can actually enjoy the weekend instead of feeling guilty.
Keeping your eye on long-term rewards can help you stay motivated to finish your assignment.
 Even though you may have started your assignment it is still possible to procrastinate while working on it. Pay careful attention to how you are working on your assignment and avoid some of the following examples of procrastination:

Avoid moving your workspace constantly.
Don't get lost on tangential research.
Don't take constant breaks to get a snack.
 Procrastinating focuses your attention on short-term rewards while neglecting the long-term consequences of putting off your assignment. Creating some immediate consequences for yourself can help you focus on the immediate benefits of starting your assignment..For every hour you waste procrastinating, you can limit how much television you watch that night.
If you waste too much time procrastinating, you might deny yourself a favorite snack later on.
 When you are setting out to start your assignment you needn't worry about a perfect first draft. Producing a perfect assignment on the first draft can make the assignment feel more overwhelming than it needs to be. The goal when starting your assignment is to simply begin the process. You can always come back later on after you begin and refine your assignment.