 If you have a good friend who has children, chances are good that at some point they will bring their children to your home. Before they arrive, go through your home and imagine you are a child of that size and age. What would interest you? What would be in reach?Get your eye level down to where the kid's will be. Get on your hands and knees if you have to, so you can see what objects will be most obvious in the child's field of vision and what his or her little arms will be able to reach. Any time it's something you don't want a kid playing with, move it somewhere else.
 ANYTHING in your home that is valuable to you, whether monetary, sentimental, or just functional should be moved out of sight and out of reach.Hide TV remotes, or the kids will. Make sure you collection of priceless records/comic books/souvenir plates/antique toys is nowhere in sight.
Understand that anything you leave out may be played with, drooled on, or worse.
 In a childless adult's home, there can be many dangers for a small child. Do what you can to make your home safe for visiting kids. Depending on the age of the child, this could include:Covering electrical sockets.
Putting up baby gates.
Securing cupboards or moving potentially hazardous items to higher storage.
Locking doors to certain rooms.
Covering sharp furniture corners.
Most importantly: if you own firearms, make sure they are out of reach, secured and unloaded., Let your friend know before the kids arrive if there are specific concerns you have or specific rules in your home. Especially if the kids are older, this gives your friend a chance to talk to them in advance, and lets him or her know what to keep an eye out for.For example, if you have a pet that is skittish or fearful of kids, let the parent know. If there are areas of your home that will be off limits to the visiting child, pass this information along as well.
 Often, a busy child is a happy one. Hopefully, your friend will bring toys and other activities to keep his or her kid busy and content, but it can't hurt to have some options on-hand yourself.Before the child arrives, consider buying some kid-friendly movies, games, or music.
Especially if the child will be visiting often, purchasing a few toys or children's book to have on hand is a good idea too.
Make sure that you have some outdoor activities available too, such as hula hoops, jump ropes, soccer balls, or other kid-friendly outdoor toys and games.

