 Real estate agents are licensed by the state. Most states maintain a website and include forms on the web to lodge a complaint.


Perform an Internet search to locate your area's real estate licensing board. For example, if you live in California, use keywords such as "California real estate licensing" to locate the website for the Department of Real Estate in California.
 Most states require that you download a PDF and fill it out before mailing it back.
 Provide all information requested. Incomplete forms may not be processed or could detract from your credibility.


For increased legibility type the form or print with black ink. Forms vary by state, but they typically require filling out your personal information (name and address) as well as the name, address, and business name of the agent.
Forms also may ask whether a legal action has been started. If so, they will ask for the name of your attorney as well as the attorney’s contact information (address and phone number).You must sign the form under penalty of perjury. If you do not feel comfortable doing this, you may want to schedule a meeting with the agent’s supervisor instead of lodging a formal complaint.
 After selecting the category of complaint, you must inform the state agency of the factual grounds for the dispute. Some forms will provide a space for this information, but feel free to type this out on a separate piece of paper and attach it to your complaint.


Answer the questions “who, what, where, when, and how.” That is, describe who did what, where it happened, when it happened, and how it happened. Note any promises that were made and the actual language used.
Include the names of witnesses as well as their contact information.
Describe events in chronological order for increased clarity. You don’t want to confuse the state board.
 Provide a complete copy of receipts, cancelled checks, contracts, closing documents, title documents, and correspondence. Send only copies of supporting documentation, never the originals, and make sure that they are legible.
 The address should be on the form.


Be sure to keep a copy of the entire complaint, including any attachments. You can refer to this copy to refresh your memory should someone contact you later about your dispute.
 After a complaint is filed, the state board considers whether or not to open an investigation. If one is opened, the case is then handed to an investigator, who may want to interview you. Though procedure may vary by state, in the typical hearing the only two parties are the state and the agent. You are not a party to the proceedings, though you may be called as a witness.
If no action is taken, the state board will likely send you a letter to that effect.