 Tap to open a browser such as Safari, Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox.;
, Keep this open while transferring content.
 This will redirect you to www.vibbi.com and the login portal to Instaport.
 Enter your Instagram username in the window that appears in the middle of the page under the caption “Get Started”.
 This will bring you to your personal Instaport home page.
 This is a black button that appears on the right hand side of the page.


You cannot select a section of photos at a time.
Downloading all posts will not duplicate photos or videos previously uploaded or saved on Instaport.
 The screen will say Finished when your photos have downloaded.


Your photos or videos will be saved as mp4 or jpg files under Instaport folders located in the Downloads section of your computer.
You can move and save content to your computer by clicking on the Instaport folder or individual files and dragging to the appropriate location.
 This button appears in the upper left hand corner and will return you to your personal Instaport home page.


If this screen fails to upload, return to the home page by clicking on the Instaport button in the upper right hand of the page.
If the content has not uploaded correctly, click "Download All Posts" and try again.
 Your uploaded content should appear on your Instaport home page. Once you confirm a successful upload, you have successfully backed up your Instagram content.
 Find Instagram among your applications in your phone and open.
 This icon is located on the far lower right hand side of the page.
 This icon is located on the upper right hand side of the page and appears as a metallic gear wheel.
 Scroll down to the Support Section and tap on "Help Center". This will take you to the Options page.
 This will bring up a list of options for managing your account.
 This will bring up two options for either temporarily or permanently deleting your account.
 This will bring up text on how to delete your account.
 Scroll down to find the blue link labeled "Delete Your Account page". After opening this link, you will be asked to enter your Instagram login information.
 Enter your username and password where asked. You will then be taken to the Delete Your Account page.
 Scroll down to the question "Why are you deleting your account?" Select an option from the scroll down list and tap "Done".
 Enter your password under the caption, "To continue, please re-enter your password."

, Your account has been deleted.

