 The retina is made up of structures called photoreceptors—rods and cones—that allow your cat to see light and color. With PRA, the rods and cones start breaking down. Without the rods, your cat would not be able to see very well in dark areas, like a hallway. You may notice your cat avoiding dark areas of your home.Inability to see in the dark is known as night blindness. It is an early sign of PRA and eventually progresses to total blindness.;
, With retinal detachment, vision loss occurs because the retina has separated from the back of the eye. If retinal detachment has caused complete blindness in both of your cat's eyes, she’ll probably bump into walls and furniture as she walks.If she has partial retinal detachment (causing partial blindness), or is blind in only one eye, she may be able to compensate and navigate your home fairly well.Sometimes, retinal detachment causes central vision loss, but not peripheral vision loss. In this case, your cat would see things out of the corners of her eyes, but not what’s in front of her.PRA would also make navigation difficult for your cat.
 With PRA and retinal detachment, your cat’s pupils will be larger than normal. Looking through her pupils, you may be able to see a reflection of light from the backs of her eyes.Her pupils may be larger because they trying to take in more light.


With retinal detachment, the pupils may stay large for a long time, and might be different sizes., When you notice your cat is losing her vision, take her to your vet. In addition to performing a regular physical exam, your vet will do a thorough eye exam using an instrument called an ophthalmoscope. They may refer you to a veterinary ophthalmologist for a more detailed eye exam.Your vet will also perform routine bloodwork and an analysis of your cat’s urine. Since high blood pressure is a common cause of retinal detachment, your vet may also measure your cat’s blood pressure.Provide a detailed history of your cat, including when the vision loss started, any possible trauma or exposure to toxins, and diet.Since the 1980’s, commercial cat diets have been fortified with taurine, an amino acid whose deficiency can cause vision loss in cats.Your vet will want to know if your cat is receiving enough taurine in her diet.
 There are no available treatments for feline PRA. Once the disease process has started, restoring your cat’s vision is unlikely. In addition, medications cannot slow the disease progression.A few treatment options are available for retinal detachment.


If your cat has retinal detachment, starting treatment as soon as possible can prevent further eye damage or permanent blindness.Although retinal disease may not be reversible, cats can manage surprisingly well with vision loss.
 If your cat’s retinal detachment and subsequent blindness are due to high blood pressure, then your vet will need to lower her blood pressure quickly. Lowering her blood pressure could restore her vision. However, if her retinas have been detached more than 1 or 2 days, it is unlikely that her vision will be restored.High blood pressure causes blood vessels to bleed beneath the retina. The excess blood forces the retina to detach from the rest of the eye.Even if your cat does not get her vision back, maintaining normal blood pressure will be important for her overall health.
 For retinal detachment, a few surgical treatments (laser retinopexy, retinal cryopexy) are available to reattach the retina to the back of the eye. These treatments use lasers to create scar tissue on the retina; this scar tissue would act like a seal between the retina and the back of the eye. These surgical methods, unfortunately, are not always successful.If your vet recommends surgical treatment, they would likely refer you to a veterinary ophthalmologist.
 Taurine, which is found only in animal-based proteins, is an essential amino acid for cats—their bodies cannot produce enough of it, so they must receive it through food.The Association of American Feed Control Officials recommends canned foods contain 0.2% taurine.Check the nutrition label of your cat’s canned food to see if it contains the recommended percentage of taurine.


Several recommendations exist on the actual amount of taurine a cat should receive, one of which is to feed a cat 75 to 100 mg of taurine per day.If your cat’s current diet does not have enough taurine, talk to your vet about high-quality taurine supplements.
Excess taurine is not a problem in cats; the excess is eliminated through the urine., Over time, your cat has become familiar with the furniture arrangement in your home. Even with vision loss, your cat will be able to manage quite well, as long as you keep the furniture as you had it before she lost her vision.If you rearrange the furniture, she will start bumping into things more often.
 If you have an outdoor cat or indoor/cat, she will need to become an indoor-only cat. Staying indoors will protect her from predators and prevent her from getting injured outside., If your cat has PRA, your vet will want to examine her eyes regularly to monitor the disease progression and detect other eye diseases, such as glaucoma (increased eye pressure), cataracts (cloudy lens), and uveitis (inflammation in the eye).Your vet will recommend a follow-up schedule of veterinary visits.


If your cat had high blood pressure at the time of diagnosis, your vet may want to measure her blood pressure regularly.

