 You must have one to be a real gamer.


A PC (Personal Computer) is the objectively best game system. You can either buy a prebuilt PC, or build a custom PC, commonly known as a "rig" yourself, which is recommended as you can get the best prices for performance. You will most likely be using a platform made by Valve called Steam. PC's are also the most cost efficient as you can build a $300 PC that can perform better than a console and last longer or splurge and spend a $1000+ on a top of the line PC. The sweet-spot for price to performance is usually around $600 - $1000.
An Xbox One is a good game system for gamers, but still below the PC. It has a wide variety of games to choose from and great to play online with thousands of subscribers. This modern-gen console, or it's previous-gen counterpart, the Xbox 360 are great games system to start with, though some critics prefer the Playstation 4, because of slightly better hardware and different exclusives. Pro's: Wide selection of games, good online features. Con's: Could be seen as more of a casual system, online system is subscription based (i.e. you have to pay).
A Nintendo Wii U is a good system for younger appropriate (but still fun to play) games, classics, and some older games. Playing this system has more exercise than the competitors, and contrary to claims, does not make you less of a gamer! Pro's: Contains exercise, can be played with non-gamers, download classic games. Con's: Online is bad, very primitive, a lot of hastily-made software, no DVD player.
A Playstation 4 (PS4) is another viable option. PSN is not free on PS4, but the PS4 could be considered more hardcore than a One. Cons: Some reports of lag online, slightly less exclusives.;
, This would mean war games, racing games, and so on.
 An area where you can comfortably sit for hours on end is a must. Also, you need a place where people are not asking you to quit your important game so they can watch TV.
 When you first start a new game, jump right into story mode so you can master the controls. Sometimes it helps to listen to all the cut scenes throughout the game the first time so you can understand the entire plot of the game. After you have beaten the game on all of the harder levels, you still will be looking for more to do so move to online play and challenge people all over the world. Make sure you master the controls first before going online so you do not get owned/beaten to a pulp by other higher ranking gamers. Devoting time to these games makes or breaks you as a gamer. Hardcore gamers and real gamers spend many happy hours in front of their TV's playing and this hard work really pays off.
 You can show off the games you like by wearing shirts and hats expressing their logos and symbols. Speaking 1337 (Leet) is also very important and very simple. Knowing this will help you to read other gamers' gamer tags and clan tags.

