 Fast and accurate throwing is essential for every softball player, but the exact motions of a good throw may seem foreign to someone just starting to learn the game. Good throwers throw with a lot of backspin, which helps the ball fly farther, use their whole body instead of just their arm to get power, and align their legs and shoulders with the target for accuracy.


Make sure you throw with your dominant hand. This is whatever hand feels the most comfortable.
Always practice with a glove in your opposite hand -- this is how you will have to throw in a game.;
, Turn the ball so that the laces form a "C," then place your four fingers along the top lace. Your thumb should comfortably rest on another lace along the side of the softball.


The laces provide a surface to grip onto, and you will "pull" on the laces as you throw to give the ball backspin (the top of the ball spins back towards the bottom), which helps the throw's speed and stability.
 Your back foot is the foot on the same side as your throwing arm. You want the instep, or inside, of your foot to face your target so that your toes point diagonally to the right (right-handed throwers) or left (left-handed throwers) of your target.


To be precise, point your toes roughly 45 degrees away from the spot you throw towards.
 You should be able to draw a straight line from your back instep through your front foot and to your target. In other words, you will be perpendicular to your target.


You should point your front toes however you feel comfortable. Usually this is sideways.
 This insures accuracy, but it also opens up your shoulders to allow a more natural throwing motion.


As you get more experienced, you may begin pointing your glove elbow, not the glove, towards your target. This makes your throwing motion more compact and efficient., Your arm should form an "L" shape with the ball held high. Dropping the elbow is the most common mistake many young softball players make when throwing, so pay close attention to your arm position.
 With your arm high in the air behind you, point your palm and the ball up and behind you. This will allow you to snap your wrist with more power later in the throw.
 This is your throwing motion, and you will feel your arm extending as you "whip" past your head. Remember to keep your elbow near shoulder-height as you begin your throw. The ball will be at the highest point of your arm.


Try to keep your elbow loose and relaxed -- don't try to keep the "L" shape as you throw.
 As the ball passes you head, throw the ball by simultaneously letting go of the ball and "pulling" the laces of the ball down to create backspin.


You can test your backspin by placing black electrical tape perpendicular to the laces of the ball. If you release the ball properly, you should see a solid black "line" of the tape as the ball spins., Though not necessary when you are first learning, practice pulling your glove back towards your chest as you begin your throw -- it gives you more room for a powerful follow-through. Bend your arm towards your chest at the elbow, then pull your elbow back towards your ribs.
 Once the ball is released, let your arm keep swinging down and across your body, ending with your hand near your opposite thigh. Your fingers and wrist should be down from spinning the ball.
 As you throw, you will feel your body weight shifting to your front foot. Don't resist it, and feel free to pick you your back foot to keep your balance as you lean forward after the throw.
 If you decide to try everything at once, every time, you are bound to pick up bad habits. Instead, break the throw down into smaller parts and practice these before bringing it all together:



Grip: Toss the ball up and catch it in your glove. As soon as you catch it, grab the ball and turn it in your hands to quickly place all four fingers on the laces. Repeat.

Feet: Pick 3-4 different targets in the distance. Toss the ball up to yourself. As soon as you catch it, grab the ball, turn, and set you feet up towards one of the targets, cocking your arm back like you are about to throw. Stop here and note your foot position -- are you in a straight line towards your chosen target?

Wrist Flick: Hold your arm in front of your body with the ball high and your elbow at shoulder height. Practice throwing the ball with just your upper arm, snapping down from the elbow and pulling back the laces with your fingers and wrist. Your goal is to practice good, consistent backspin.
 You should work on throwing with a good, fluid arc. Your final throwing motion should be consistent, smooth, and comfortable.


Grip the ball along the laces.
As you bring the ball out of your glove, align your feet with the target.
Cock you arm backwards at a 90 degree angle while pointing your glove at the target.
Rapidly swing the ball past your head and release.
Snap your fingers and wrist down and towards your target.
Follow through by bringing your weight and arm forward and down.

