 You'll see icons along the bottom for Playlists, Artists, Songs, Albums and More. These are just different ways of sorting the music on your iPod.


The More tab is where you can find podcasts, audiobooks, and iTunesU lectures. You can also search by Composer or Genre through the More tab.
 This will move you to the Now Playing screen.


At the top of the screen, you'll see the artist, song title, and album title. Beneath that is a progress bar showing where you are in the song. You can drag the circle in the progress bar to skip ahead or behind in the song.
Beneath the progress bar are two arrow icons. Tapping the circular arrow icon on the left will put the song on repeat; tapping the crossed arrows will shuffle all the songs on your iPod and play them after the one you selected.
At the bottom are the skip buttons on the right and left, and the pause/play button in the middle. Beneath that is the volume bar. You can drag this to the right or left with your finger to increase or decrease the volume.
If the song came bundled with album art, this will be displayed in the background.
Tap the bulleted list icon in the upper right corner to rate the song. Once you've done this for several songs, you can then sort them by rating.
Tapping the arrow in the upper left corner will take you back to the different lists of your music. To get back to the Now Playing screen, tap the Now Playing button in the upper right corner.
 Say you want a song that starts with T; tap the T part of the bar to jump to that section of the list.


Open up the search feature by tapping the small magnifying glass at the top of the alphabet bar. Tapping inside the Search box will open a QWERTY keyboard at the bottom of the screen.
 An on-the-go playlist is one you put together on your iPod, instead of doing it on iTunes. Tap the Playlist tab at the bottom of the lists screen.


Tap Add Playlist. This will prompt you to name your new playlist. Tap Save to move on.
A list showing all your songs will open up. To add a song to the playlist, tap the blue plus sign to the right of the song. This will grey out the option, because it is already on your playlist. When you've added all the songs you want, tap the Done button in the upper right corner.
You'll return to the Playlists tab, where you should see your new playlist title. Tap on it to open. At the top, you'll see buttons to Edit, Clear, or Delete the playlist.
 You don't have to have your lists or the Now Playing screens open to listen to music. The music will keep playing.
 Don't unlock the screen by swiping the button on the bottom from left to right; simply tap the home button twice. This should cause the skip buttons, the pause/play button, a volume bar, and the song info to pop up on the top of the screen.
 You don't have to use earphones to listen to your music. If you unplug the headphones, the music will play from little speakers on the device directly(on the back of the device).

