 The majority of the fiber breakage will occur on the inside of the fabric, where no one will see., These closures can be extremely hard on soft and colored clothing, so eliminate abrasion and fiber breakage by taking a few extra minutes to fasten up before each load.
 While you may already sort by the temperature (cold or hot), you can improve the brightness of your clothes by reducing the amount of off-color dyes the clothes come into contact with.
 A bra strap wrapped around a delicate garment will break down fibers faster., Denim and other tough fabrics can cause more wear and tear on fibers. Just as you wouldn’t wash your athletic shoes with lingerie, you shouldn’t wash hard worn items with delicates.
 Modern HE washers use a slow, longer tumbling action to wash clothes. Although any contact with the washbasin can be hard on fibers, it is gentler than the traditional agitator washbasin., Purchase a detergent that is intended for HE washers. Fill it to less than the maximum amount, unless there is very heavy soil.
, Don’t let the temperature rise above 80 degrees Fahrenheit (27 Celsius). Most modern detergent brands are just as effective in cold water., Again, unless there is heavy soil, it will be enough to wash the clothes and prevent fading.


If you have heavy soil in your socks, gym clothes or underwear, purchase an enzyme detergent. Wash these heavy soil items separately at 70 to 80 degrees Fahrenheit (21 to 26 degrees Celsius).
 If you live in a cold climate, your cold-water wash may run at 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4 degrees Celsius) instead of 60 (16 degrees). Since this temperature is too low to wash your clothes with most detergents, you will need to use a warm setting while the water is colder., Vinegar is said to set colors.
 Textile makers use salt to set dye in fabrics, so the clothes are less likely to bleed.Salt is a commonly used ingredient in color safe detergents.
 Heat and tumbling in the dryer will contribute to fading. Buy a rack and hang your clothes to dry inside.


Lay wool items out flat on a towel to dry them.
 Your clothes will usually smell fresh and retain more color than they would with constant drying cycles.
 Overdrying will beat up the clothes and fade them prematurely.
 Direct sunlight will start to bleach the fabric almost immediately. The closer you are to the equator, the stronger this effect will be.

