 Is your revenue covering your costs? Or, can you afford to bring your prices down a little? By getting an upfront number of how much money you’re raking in, you can evaluate whether or not you need to adjust prices.
 Is a certain keyword getting you a lot of traffic? Put that keyword into all relevant titles and tags. Are you taking pains to include a certain keyword into all of your tags, only to find that it's not even one of your top traffic sources? Discard it and replace it with a better, more efficient one.


Put the best keywords at the beginning of the title so that they’re what people see first.
 Did a jewelry blogger mention you on their blog… twice? Send them a friendly thank-you email and ask if they would like to be added to your email list. That way, you can inform them every time you come out with a new product or line. It’ll also put you on the blogger’s good side. Everyone likes supporting small businesses!

, Use your Shop Stats to figure out which listings aren’t getting a lot of love, and fix them up! Improve titles, tags, photos—anything you can think of. Making all of your listings as popular as your best one will do wonders to improve sales.
 This is to make sure that you listings show up in people’s search results. Some tips:


Again, keep your best keywords in the beginning of the title. Google shortens long titles so that the Google result titles aren’t ridiculously long. Make sure people can see your most powerful keywords.
This also applies to item descriptions. Google results only show the first few sentences of the description, so this is where you really want to sell your product. Keep shipping and sizing information at the bottom of the description—that information is for people who are already planning on purchasing your item.
Make sure your listing and shop URLs show up in a lot of places. Put your shop URL in all of your listing descriptions, and get your friends to post links on their own personal sites as well (you’ll get click-throughs through their sites as well! Double-win). One of the ways that Google gauges the popularity of a page is by seeing how often links are mentioned around the web. By making your shop seem more popular in the eyes of Google, you can bump up your ranking on search results. Being the 3rd top result for a search is a lot, lot better than being the 10th.
 The previous step mentioned SEO, but you can also increase click-throughs for various other sources.


If Facebook isn’t a top referral source, make a Facebook page for your shop and update it often. Put links to your Facebook page in your shop description and all of your listings, and try to get as many people to like your page as possible.
If Pinterest isn’t a top referral source, take better pictures. That’s about the most important thing you could do to amp up your Pinterest popularity.
If Direct Traffic (i.e. people typing your shop URL directly into their address bar) isn't a top referral source, consider some grassroots outreach AKA business cards! Invest in some attractive, professional business cards and hand them out to your friends and coworkers. For more instructions, check out and .
Reach out to style bloggers, Facebook fashion pages, owners of popular Pinterest boards—anything you can think of. If even one of them puts in a good word about your shop, you may see a boost in views or even sales.

