 Never defrost a steak in the microwave. It should be slowly defrosted in a refrigerator overnight.;
, This will help the spices cling to the surface evenly.
 Salt will create a crust, but putting it on too early will make the juice run out of it. Use up to 1 tsp. (6g) of salt per side for a large steak.


Ultimately, the amount of salt and pepper you use will be to taste. Use what you feel is a generous amount.
Freshly cracked pepper and flaked sea salt will produce the best flavor.
 This will help in determining cooking time later on. A one-inch (2.5-cm) cut will need less time than a 2-inch (5-cm) cut and so on. Steaks that tend to be best at medium rare doneness are usually on the thicker side.
 A grill will give you a charred finish to the steak, while a sturdy frying pan will provide the most even cooking surface.


Many chefs suggest either a non-stick pan or a cast-iron pan. The non-stick will allow you to use less oil, while the cast-iron pan has the most even cooking temperature.
 (15ml) of oil into the pan. Use olive oil or groundnut oil. When the oil starts to separate or a drop of water sizzles on the surface, it is ready for your meat.
 You should hear a loud sizzle immediately. If you don’t, your pan or grill is not hot enough.


Feel the steak’s surface as you lift it. It should be very soft with plenty of give to it when it’s raw.
 A medium rare steak should only be flipped once.
 Cook a 2-inch cut for four minutes on each side., Avoid using a fork, since it will puncture the meat, letting the juices escape.
, Use the tongs to judge how soft the steak has become. A medium rare steak should be bouncy. A medium to well done steak will be firmer.
 Cover it with aluminum foil to rest for half the time you cooked it. It will reabsorb the juices. Don’t wait more than 10 minutes before serving.


The steak continues to cook for a few minutes while it rests, so wait patiently for the steak to come to the right internal temperature of 135 degrees Fahrenheit (57 degrees Celsius)., Use a steak knife to cut across the grain. Once cut, the center should be reddish pink, with lighter shades of pink radiating toward the golden brown crust.

