 Starting racial or other fights or name-calling can lead to your opponents getting defensive.;
, If you have to, you can get in a shee against orders, but don't kill them more than once in a shee, or you'll be a hypocrite, and well... you know the rest.
 In open combat, you could pull it off, as long as you make them feel like they have a chance by shooting you in the foot a couple times with a pistol before you spring a ball of green gooey goodness, but DON'T fire it from a vantage point at an unsuspecting 'pro'.
 You can't really be called a noob for using a rocket, so fire away, and DO NOT RUN OUT OF AMMO!

, One of the things almost as satisfying as rod gunning with a shee, is watching someone flail around screaming with a blue ball of flame on their back, yelling and cursing as you laugh with victory, but don't get carried away, run away from them immediately, a well placed head shot, or the blast of the grenade, could have you going up on the death count also.
, This is a professional technique.
,, Otherwise people will call you a tank noob, tank whore, etc.
, They can save your life!

,

The pistol is great, because it takes only five shots to the body or three to the head to kill someone.






The sniper rifle is also one of the best, as it takes about two shots to the body to kill, or one shot to the head.






Explosive weapons like the rocket launcher and fuel gun are only good for vehicles and suicide kills.






All other weapons should only be used if you're really bored and don't care about dying, including vehicles.






Tanks may rally you a couple of spawn kills, but as soon as someone throws a grenade at you, which is easy, you're dead.
 The bullets in halo take a sec to reach their target. So if someone is moving to the right, shoot maybe an inch or so to the right. If you can't time it right after weeks of practice, play World of Warcraft.
 Live to win! On the weekends, play an all nighter once in a while if you'd like to have some real fun.
 Get a friend on Halo to do a one on one practice match to see what works for both of you, then kick some ass on another server.
