 When you ask someone to hang out, make sure you have a few times in mind when you know you’re free. Think of three dates within the next two weeks that you’d want to do something. Offer those dates to the person and ask if they are free during any of those times.If you ask them to hang at an unspecified time in the future, it’s less likely to happen. If you give them three dates, there’s a decent chance they’ll be able to say yes to one of them.
You might have one night a week that you always keep open in case something comes up. Tell them you’re usually free on Tuesday nights and ask if next Tuesday would work.
For example, “I’m looking for something to do in the next couple of Saturdays, would you want to hit the shops downtown and then get some lunch?”

, If you already have a party or get together planned, even if you aren’t hosting it, invite the person to come to the event. Since it is happening at one specific time, if they aren’t able to attend, they are only turning down the event and not you. This is also less pressure than a one-on-one hang out.If you are having a Super Bowl party, invite them to join you. It’s a common event, it’s set at a specific time, and there will be plenty of people to interact with.
Maybe you don’t have anything specific that’s coming up. Plan something with a group of friends for the purpose of inviting the person you want to get to know.
It doesn’t have to be a private event. Ask the person if they want to go to the town festival and walk around together. They would probably go anyway, and it’s a laid back, public event.
 Throughout the week, people may have set schedules, but they are often more open on weekends. If you typically only see people in a weekday environment, ask them to do something over the weekend. This gives you morning, afternoon, and night times to work with.Weekends are good because people are often more open to late nights on Friday and Saturday, and they may have more free time during the day on Saturday and Sunday.
Weekends also offer more events like community theater, farmer’s markets and festivals, concerts, and parties.
Say, “After this long week, I need to blow off some steam this weekend. Would you want to hit up the shooting range on Friday after work?"

