 High school is a stage in your life--and really a brief one at that--and does not last forever.


When a negative thought pops into your head, counter it with a more positive thought. For example, if you find yourself thinking, “I can’t believe that I don’t have a best friend,” counter that with “I’m glad I’ll get the opportunity to make new good friends in the future.”
Keep a positivity journal.When you’re feeling low, write down all the things you are thankful for.
Tack up positive quotes in places where you can see them. For example, you could use a dry erase marker to write an uplifting quote on your bathroom mirror so that you see it every day.;
,


Remember that many people only post on social media when they are feeling their best and the highlights of their life. The reality of even the most popular kids might be different than what they show online. Indeed, sometimes the reality is very different than what they portray in real life.
Give yourself daily time limits for looking at sites like Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Tumblr. You can even download an app like Self Control to make sure that you do not linger on those sites after your time limit.Post positive things about yourself. You do not have to be surrounded by friends to post things about yourself you are proud of, things that inspire you, funny cat videos, or whatever makes you feel good.
 It’s also about becoming the person you want to be and achieving new things. Writing down your goals will make them more tangible and give you the motivation to work towards something you really want to do.


For example, if you want to learn Japanese, set goals for how much you will study it every day.
Or, if you want to learn photography, set goals about the types of pictures you want to take.
Remember that in high school you have the time to explore and figure out what you want to do.
 Even though creating friendships can be an important part of school, a lot of people never really build lifelong friendships with high school friends anyway. For many people, success in high school comes from learning and getting good grades so that you’ll be able to do what you want in life. Take elective classes that challenge you.


High school doesn’t have to be just about getting by academically. It is also about learning and growing.
If you work hard in school, you’ll have the edge when it comes to applying to college or for jobs.
Plus, your teachers will be more likely to give you a good recommendation if you visibly work hard.
 You don’t have to have a single best friend to have a fulfilling social life in high school. Sometimes having lots of different friends can be even better.


Focus on talking to all of your acquaintances, even if they are people you don’t think would ever be a best friend.
Spend time with your family. It’s easy to overlook family as a source of friendship in high school, but they are the people who will be with you throughout life. Spend time getting to know your siblings, grandparents, or parents even better.

