 Feeling worried, anxious, overwhelmed or tense stimulates colon spasms for people with IBS. The colon contains many nerves that are directly connected to the brain. These nerves control colon contractions. Stress results in abdominal discomfort, cramps, and diarrhea.Identify the source of stress. Knowing what's causing the stress in the first place will help you to avoid it. In IBS, the colon is more sensitive to even mild stress or anxiety.
Taking on more responsibility than you can comfortably manage leads to increased stress. Know your limits and learn how to say when necessary.
Find ways to express your feelings, which helps lower stress levels. Talking to open-minded friends, families and loved ones about any issues or problems you've been having can help to eliminate built-up stress.
Learning effective time management skills helps avoid unnecessary stress.
 Hypnotherapy has shown a substantial positive effect on patients with IBS. The form of hypnotherapist done in these sessions follows a 7–12 session gut-directed hypnotherapy protocol initially developed by PJ Whorwell.In these sessions, the patient first relaxes into the hypnotic trance. The patient then receives specific suggestions regarding GI functioning. The final phase of hypnosis includes imagery that increases the patient's sense of confidence and well-being.While this procedure has been shown to have positive outcomes, note that there is little evidence to show why it works.
Hypnotherapy may work on patients unresponsive to other forms of treatment.
 Psychodynamic interpersonal therapy (PIT) offers detailed discussion of symptoms and the patient's emotional state. The therapist and patient together explore the links present between symptoms and emotional conflicts. One of the goals of PIT is to identify and resolve issues of interpersonal conflict that result in stress, and negatively impact IBS.PIT has been done most often in the UK. Field trials have shown a connection between PIT and relief from the symptoms of IBS.
Usually, PIT is a longer-term treatment option. Studies show benefits coming only after at least 10 one-hour sessions, scheduled over the course of three months.
 Research shows that people with IBS who use CBT to learn behavioral strategies to manage their stress demonstrate significantly greater improvement than people who rely on medication alone. CBT works by teaching relaxation exercises, coupled with cognitive exercises to change existing belief systems and interpersonal stressors.CBT patients are taught to recognize existing patterns of maladaptive behaviors and responses to a variety of situations. For example, someone with IBS may believe their situation "will never change," thus leading to anxiety and stress. Using CBT, the patient learns to recognize the existence of this thought, and replace it with another, more positive belief.
CBT is typically administered in 10–12 individual sessions. Group formats are also used.
 Exercise lowers stress levels. In addition, new research suggests that exercise may help aid the digestive process. Exercise increases colonic motility (that is, the passage of wastes and other secretions through the colon), the length of time this passage requires, and the amount of transitive intestinal gas present in the colon.Aim for 30 minutes of moderate exercise five time a week or 30 minutes of vigorous exercise three times a week. Possible options include walking, bicycling, running, swimming, dance or hiking.
If you aren't currently physically active, take it slow to start. Find an exercise partner or workout group. Share your workout goals on social media, where you may find support and encouragement.
Exercise helps develop confidence, which in turn reduces stress.

