 This is very important. They need to know what's going on, and they may be able to put a stop to it.;
, Some adults see teenagers as menaces, or as those punks who don't really care about anything but making adults go crazy. If you're acting like what they think you are, you're just giving them an excuse to bully you. This will also let them take you more seriously. Be sensible and polite, and try to think ahead.
 Whenever you see someone going around acting as if they think they're the greatest thing since sliced bread, don't you just want to go down and take him down a notch? Adults have this feeling too. So be humble. Don't brag, don't boast, and don't walk around like you're better than everyone else.
 The old saying "strength in numbers" is true; very few people will even try to bully you when they're outnumbered.
 Wearing clothes with obscenities or insulting phrases has the potential to provoke others.
 If someone is just in a bad mood and looking for someone to be a jerk to, they want to pick someone that isn't going to offer a hard time. Looking stronger will deter someone from you; no one wants to bully someone that looks like they could punch a hole through their face! You don't have to be buff; you just have to look like you could put up a decent fight if it was truly necessary.
 Hold your head up high whenever you go places, don't slouch, etc. A bullying adult wants to have an easy target, and looking insecure will just attract them to you. However, there is a fine line between being confident and cocky; make sure not to cross it.
 Tell them loudly and firmly to stop. If there are people nearby, say it loudly enough so that they can hear and possibly intervene. They may not realize that they're bullying, or just be in a bad mood; either way, they need to know that what they're doing.
 When things start to escalate into either yelling or violence, usually you will be at a disadvantage because you're younger. Leave the scene, and if the bully continues to actively pursue you, Call the Emergency Services and tell them that an adult is bullying you.

