 This is the "classic" solution for extending the life of a pair of jeans. Any jeans can be converted to cutoff shorts or capris. All that's needed is to do is cut the legs where you'd like them to end. Use a ruler or tape measure to trace a straight line across each leg, then use a fabric knife or set of scissors to cut. See our cutoff article for step-by-step instructions.


If you're not sure how high you want your cutoffs, be conservative. You can always cut off more denim. However, you can't add more back once you've cut off too much.
You don't need to throw away the legs once you cut them off. You can use the material for rags, ties, or patches (see below).;
, Have a pair of jeans that's starting to look worn-out? Make a fashion statement by wearing them out more. Cut them, shred them, crush them, or otherwise beat them up to make your own "distressed" denim. See our guide to distressing jeans for lots of specific ideas.


One beginner-friendly option is to use a cheese grater or a square of sandpaper to wear out your jeans' knees. Shred until white, worn areas begin to develop or you have a set of ragged holes — whichever you prefer.
This is also a good opportunity to get rid of stains. Shred the stained area until the stain is gone.
 If you have some basic sewing knowledge, it's not hard to turn a set of jeans into a skirt or dress. See our main article on this subject for step-by-step instructions. To do this:Open the inside seam of both legs.
Stitch the front part of both legs together to form a new front seam for your skirt.
Stitch a large piece of fabric between the back part of each leg to complete the skirt.
Trim the skirt to your desired length.
 If you have another piece of clothing that's looking worn out, consider cannibalizing your jeans to patch up the other item. Cut square or oval sections of fabric from the jeans, then stitch them over the worn-out sections of the other clothes. You can even make your patch look like a deliberate fashion choice by patching the same spot on both sides of a piece of clothing. For instance, you might patch both elbows on a jacket or both knees on a pair of pants.


To get two patches that are the same size and shape, use a fabric knife or a set of scissors to cut through both layers of denim (front and back) at the same time.
 A denim apron uses the jean's waistband and fastener to stay around your waist, so you'll want a pair that fits. Turn your old jeans into a durable apron by following the directions below:


Cut the jeans to the length you want your apron. For a short apron, cut an inch or so below the pockets. For a longer apron, cut in the middle of the leg.
Starting at the top of the zipper, cut horizontally until you reach the side seam. Repeat for the other side.
Sew the legs together to make the front of the apron.
Put the jeans on backwards so that the pockets are in front. Fasten the waistband behind you to get it to stay on.
 Acid-washed denim is perfect for an 80s throwback look. These jeans have large patches that are so bleached that they are nearly white. Use the following method with a dark set of jeans for the most noticeable results. An alternate method is available at our main acid-washing article.


Mix 2.5 parts water and 1 part bleach in a large bucket.
If you want a blotchy, tie-dye like pattern, gather small sections of jean fabric and bind them into tight "buds" with rubber bands.
Dip the jeans into the bleach mixture. Let them sit for 30-60 minutes (longer will give a lighter color).
Remove the jeans and rinse with clean water. Dry as normal.
 For most people, denim sis synonymous with the color blue. However, there's no reason this has to be the case. With dyes, you can turn old blue jeans into colorful new additions to your wardrobe. Try this easy dip-dying method below (or see our main jean-dying article):


Soak the jeans in bleach until they are as white as possible. Rinse with water to neutralize the bleach.
Let the jeans dry. While you wait, mix fabric dye according to the instructions.
Dip the dry bleached jeans in the fabric dye while wearing leather gloves. Stir the mixture so that they are evenly coated.
Dip several more times, wringing out the moisture between dips.
Rinse in water with a little detergent to set the dye. Let the jeans dry.
 Another way to get new life out of old jeans is to treat them as a canvas for your artistic abilities. Don't be afraid to get creative. You can make your worn-out jeans look amazing with a little imagination. Below are just a few things you may want to try:


Drawings and doodles. Use a permanent marker or a fabric marker to get designs that stay in your jeans for more than one wash cycle. You may want to trace in pencil first to avoid mistakes.
Rhinestones and studs. Use a sturdy fabric-safe glue for durability.
Negative space designs. Trace shapes or designs on your jeans, then carefully cut them out with a fabric knife or set of scissors. Your skin will show through the hole, creating eye-catching contrast.

