 Usually, the best thing you can do during prolonged labor is relax and accept you need to wait. If your doctor thinks your pregnancy is progressing normally, there is not a lot for you to do other than try to remain calm. As you usually do not have to go to the hospital during early labor, do things around your home to wind down like reading a soothing book or watching a movie you enjoy., While further studies are needed some evidence suggests stress could stall pregnancy. It certainly couldn't hurt to create a soothing, stress-free environment for yourself and it may help you get through early labor faster.Evaluate the room and take note of anything you don't like. Is the television too loud? Are the lights more bright? Do you want more privacy?
Make any adjustments you need to create a soothing room for yourself. This may result in early labor picking up again.
 A nice warm bath can be relaxing, and can also help if you're feeling any physical pain from labor. While you're waiting for labor to progress, draw yourself a nice, warm bath and linger in the water until you feel calm., While sleep does not always speed up labor, it can make the time feel like it's going by faster. It's also a good idea to sleep during the early stages of pregnancy, when you're able to get rest. Eventually, you will progress to later stages where you'll need to push. Sleeping can help you build up strength.If you went into early labor during the night, it's particularly important to try to get some sleep.
 Nipple stimulation has been known to speed up early labor for some. If you're having trouble getting through early labor, you can roll your nipples between your thumb and pointer finger. You can also rub your fingers with your palm. If you want, you can have a partner or a nurse do this for you.However, some women's fingers are very sensitive throughout the course of pregnancy. If your nipples are sore, do not cause yourself discomfort by engaging in nipple stimulation.
 There is some evidence that having an orgasm can help labor progress. If you want, you can try to engage in sexual activity with your partner to bring about an orgasm. You can also try masturbation.