 Pull up some of your favorite tunes on your cell phone, MP3, radio, or YouTube and listen. Studies strongly link music as being influential to mood - grunge music causes hostility and anger while genres like classics, oldies, rock, and pop make people feel happier and friendlier.If you are experiencing anxiety due to your loneliness, music can even help to calm and relax you.


Use your love of music to connect with others. Visit a spot that offers live music that you can enjoy with a group. Or, stop by a local record store and strike up a conversation with the clerk about the music you love most.
 If you have a computer or game console, you can play many single-player games. Video games naturally teach you by providing immediate reinforcement (winning coins, money or lives) or punishment (losing the game or losing a player life). The repetitive actions involved in game-play stimulate neural pathways in the brain, resulting in improved memory, reaction-time, decision-making, and visual capabilities.Game worlds like Fantage, Webkinz, and Wizard101 are great sites for making online friends. Just be careful not to share personal information about yourself on forums, as everyone logged on is not exactly who they pretend to be.
Beware that excessive time spent on computers or consoles can evolve into a gaming addiction. Some research also shows that video games may promote aggression and desensitize people from violence., Reading is a rewarding and healthy pastime for many. Whether you are thumbing through an entertainment magazine or envisioning the characters in a fiction novel, reading can keep you busy and distract your mind from loneliness.


Reading can actually feel more socially connected when you identify with particular characters or life experiences. Beyond that, reading boosts cognitive functioning, reduces stress, expands vocabulary, and helps you to develop greater empathy., If you live with others, you can invite them to join in as you watch so that you feel less lonely. Watching the television isn't all bad. Certain programs or films can be learning experiences, introducing you to new worlds and ideas.


Plus, sitting down in front of the tube as a family can be beneficial to children. Bonding and interaction can come about as a result of tuning in to a favorite TV show or movie with your loved ones.

