 You don't have to overdo it, but the right compliment at the right time can make a woman attracted to your honesty and ability to put yourself out there. Here's how to do it:


When you first meet a girl, tell her you like a piece of her jewelry, her haircut, or one of her other accessories.
Once you get to know her, you can be more blunt. Say, "Has anyone ever told you that you have very expressive eyes?" Or, "You have the sweetest laugh." Don't be afraid to make her blush just a little bit.
Notice things about her personality. Really listen to what she says, and tell her that she sounds like a great friend, or that she has a great sense of humor.
 Your lady will be impressed by your interests and perspective, but you have to make sure to reciprocate by showing an interest in her pursuits as well. Here's how to show that you care:


Remember things she's told you. If you've met her before and bring up small details from your previous conversation, such as the name of her sister or the place where she studied abroad, she'll be attracted to how much you care.
Ask the right questions. Without sounding like you're heading an interrogation, you can ask her questions to get her perspective. Start small and ask for her opinion on topics that aren't very controversial, and once you get to know her better, you can dig deeper and ask about her perspective on balancing work and friends, or what she's looking for in a relationship.
Tease her. Once you know her well enough to know her foibles, don't be afraid to poke fun at her, as long as she goes along with it.
 Once the woman is attracted enough to go on a date with you, you want to keep her interested by continuing to be engaged on your dates. Here's how to let her know you care once you take her out:


Be a gentleman. Open doors, get her flowers, and give her your coat if she's cold.
Do the little things. Send her messages during the week to show that you're thinking of her. Get her small gifts.
Tell her you had a great time. Be honest. If you had an amazing time, let her know so you can see her again.
Once you're more comfortable, find some ways to get closer by brushing up against her. Become an expert on how to Touch a Girl.

