 Fill a small saucepan with roughly 6 cups (1.5 L) of water and bring it to a boil over high heat.


Note that the saucepan should be about 2/3 full. Add more or less water as needed to get this amount.
As with most boxed pasta, this is more water than the couscous will actually absorb. Using this much ensures even boiling, though.;
, Sprinkle the salt into the water and drizzle in the oil. Let it the water simmer for another minute or so afterward.


You can add the oil and salt before you boil the water, but adding it after the water has already reached a boil will speed the process up because standard water boils faster than salt water.
Don't be afraid to add lots of salt. Only a small amount of the salt will actually be absorbed by the couscous. You need to add the salt to the couscous now, though, so that it can seep into the couscous as it cooks and flavor it from the inside out.
The oil helps prevent the couscous from sticking together.
 After adding the couscous, reduce the heat to medium-low and cover the saucepan. Let it simmer for about 8 minutes.The couscous should be “al dente.” In other words, it should be mostly tender, with just a little firmness when you bite into it.
Note that the overall cooking time can vary by brand. Follow the package instructions to determine the proper amount of time.
 Pour the contents of the saucepan through a fine mesh colander. Gently shake the colander back and forth to shake the excess water off the cooked couscous.


Alternatively, you could also drain the Israeli couscous using nothing more than the saucepan and the lid. Position the lid so that it is only slightly askew on top of the saucepan. There should be a gap smaller than the average pearl of couscous in between the pan and the lid. Pour the water out into the sink through this gap. Wear oven mitts to protect yourself from the steam.
 If you want to liven the dish up, add a few dollops of butter and a generous helping of Parmesan cheese. Note, however, that couscous can be served without either.

