 Place the cheddar cheese powder, buttermilk powder, salt, paprika, black pepper, red cayenne pepper, garlic powder, and cornstarch in a mini food processor or spice grinder. Pulse the ingredients together for 10 to 15 seconds or until evenly distributed., Set this dish aside until later.


If any spices still appear unevenly mixed, quickly stir them into the rest of the mixture with a fork or spoon.
 Pour 2 inches (5 cm) of cooking oil into a medium saucepan and set the saucepan on the stove over high heat. Monitor the temperature closely, altering the temperature controls as needed to maintain an even temperature.


Check the temperature of the cooking oil using a hot oil cooking thermometer, also called a candy thermometer.
If you do not have a cooking thermometer, test the oil by dropping a small drop of chip dough into it. Bubbles should form around the dough immediately, and the piece should float to the surface within seconds.
You may need to raise or lower the heat of the stove eye throughout the entire cooking process.
 Place the ingredients in a large mixing bowl and stir them together with a whisk or mixing spoon.


The mixture is ready only once all lumps have been removed.
 Spoon the cornmeal dough into a cookie gun or a pastry bag with a 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) round tip. Pack the dough in well.


It is recommended that you test the consistency of the chip dough before pressing forward. Try squeezing the dough through the die of the cookie gun or the tip of the pastry bag.
If the mixture is too dry to fit through, return it to the mixing bowl and mix in another 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of milk.
If the mixture is too wet and refuses to hold any shape or form, return it to the mixing bowl and mix in another 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of corn meal.
 Squeeze 2 to 3 inch (5 to 7.6 cm) lengths of dough into the oil. Hold the cookie gun close to the surface of the oil as you work to prevent large amounts of splashing and splatter.


Fry four to six Cheetos at a time. Do not overcrowd the pan since doing so can cause the chips to stick together or cook unevenly.
 Cook the chips in the hot oil for 15 seconds. Flip, using a slotted spoon or tongs, then fry them for another 15 seconds.
 Remove the chips from the hot oil and place them on a platter coated in clean paper towels. Let them drain for 10 to 20 seconds so that most of the excess oil slides off.


Do not allow the chips to drain or cool completely. They still need to be a little warm and a little moist so that the spicy cheese coating will cling to them.
 Transfer the still-hot and slightly moist chips into the bowl of hot cheese powder. Toss well using a fork until all sides are well coated.


For this step, it is recommended that you use a fork or similar utensil instead of your hands. If you use your fingers, the moisture from your hands and from the oil on the chips can cause the coating to stick to your skin, thereby making a sticky mess.
 Remove the chips from the coating mixture and place them in a serving dish. Once they are cool enough to handle with your hands, you can eat them.


While the taste and texture may not be exactly the same as commercial Flamin' Hot Cheetos, you should end up with something pretty similar.
Note that these chips are best eaten after being freshly fried. They may get soggy after a few days.

