 This isn't as much as teaching you how to make your deck, but more of letting you know what you can or can't do. Pokémon card decks can be made like clay by a sculptor of like paintings like an artist- they have artistically no limits. But like a sculptor only has so much material and an artist has a limited canvas, Pokémon card decks have their limits also. these limits consist of:


You can only have 60 cards in a deck, no more, no less. Some decks you make will have not enough room, while others have extra space. If you have too many needed cards, try to take out what does help the deck; you can make a good strategy without. If you have extra room, maybe you could add some helpful Stadium or draw powers, or some backup energies
You can only have 4 of each card with the same name, excluding Basic energy cards and Arceus. In other words, say you have 3 Pikachu in one deck. You can only put in one more before it reached it's limit. However, if you have 2 Pikachu EX cards, you can put them both in, as Pikachu EX and plain ol' Pikachu are two different names. On the other hand, if you have 2 Pikachu in your deck and you have 4 Pikachu Lv. X, you can only add two of them. this is because Pikachu Lv. X and a plain ol' Pikachu have the same name according to the rules of the game. Arceus, as listed on it's card, has no limit to how many of it can be in a deck, but it still applies to the 60-card-deck rule. You can have as many Fire of Water energies, but only 4 Rainbow energies because Fire is Basic and Rainbow is Special
You must have at least one Basic Pokémon in your deck. This is so you don't have a 100% chance of having a mulligan, or a hand with no Basics, and so you can play the game.;
, True or false: If you want to make a strategic deck, the Pokémon that you simply want to use because it is cute or funny has no use to your deck. Answer: False. Make your deck themed off the strategy of the Pokémon you want to use. If you don't have a special Pokémon that you want to layer the rest of your deck on, making the deck will be so much harder than doing so. For example, if you are using a Magikarp that has two coin flips to do 60 damage but only has 30 HP, get cards to up its HP and help the odds of its coin flips. 'Cough Victini NVI cough'. You also might want to put in anything that ups its attack, because 60 damage is usually the least a standalone hit should do in a strategic deck. Overall, put your main man in the canter, the start layering around it.
 Making a Pokémon deck is like making a cake. Put in too much or not enough of something, and it will go wrong. In the stereotypical strategical deck, there is near 20 Pokémon, 15 energies, and 25 Trainers, Supporters, or Stadiums. And really, I cannot stress this enough: You must have the correct portions, but portions are different for each deck. If you are trying a new portion format, try the deck out a few times. If it doesn't work out, try again. After all, if you only try a new deck once and then give up, you are doomed to fail.
 This is more of playing the deck than making it, but hey, it isn't hurting anyone to tell you how to use it, too. This usually consists of playing the deck and changing it constantly to fit your needs.
 Practice teams are groups of usually 4 or 5 dedicated players with a wide variety of different decks, generally meeting at the same Pokémon league every once in a while. These players have each other player's back in keeping their strategies a secret, playing against and helping with their team's decks. These teams dramatically improve every member of team's arsenal of strategies and ideas. This step is really optional, but it helps a lot in the long run.

