 Measure the diameter of your Christmas tree stand. Then measure the diameter of your tree from the tips of its outer branches. Your Christmas tree skirt should be larger than the diameter of your stand, but smaller than the diameter of the outer branches of your tree.


You can find the diameter by measuring the entire width of the circles formed by the stand and the tips of the tree's outer branches.Your skirt should always completely cover your tree stand from view. If yours does not, it is too small.;
, Decorative tree skirts may feature a prominent design that you want to show off. In this case, using a slightly larger than necessary tree skirt will display it better. Skirts only intended as an accent to the tree can be on the smaller side so as not to detract attention from other decorations., At some point, it's likely you and your family will gather around the tree to open presents. During this activity, overlarge tree skirts can become a dangerous tripping hazard.


In some cases, you may be able to tuck the extra fabric of overlarge skirts underneath itself.
 Even if your quilted tree skirt is brand new, quilted material is often equated with a traditional, down-home sense. Quilted tree skirts come in a variety of themes, colors, and designs.


If you have a yearly Christmas theme, like nutcrackers or snowmen for example, you can likely find a quilted tree skirt that features these designs.If you can't find a quilted tree skirt in the right theme, why not quilt your own blanket and cut a hole in it to create a homemade quilted tree skirt?

, Some tree skirts have a special shape. Two common shapes used for tree skirts include snowmen and snowflakes. What's more, you can coordinate these specialty skirts with other decorations to create a neat Christmas display.


Snowflake tree skirts are often decorated with glittering accents. This can give your tree extra pop., If you appreciate the simple, honest feel of rustic decorations, the primitive skirt will be perfect. Even better, you can make a rustic skirt inexpensively with a burlap sack and a pair of scissors. Simply:


Cut the burlap sack down its seam until the bag shape is reduced to a single, flat piece of fabric.
Wrap the burlap around your tree until the stand is covered and the skirt extends to your ideal size range.
Use more burlap bags prepared in the same way as the first if there is not enough burlap to make your tree skirt from a single one., Velvet will look fantastically soft under the gentle glow of the Christmas lights on your tree. These beautiful tree skirts come in many colors, patterns, and designs. Choose whichever one suits your taste and decor., Some stores specialize exclusively in Christmas related products. These stores oftentimes have a much more extensive array of Christmas items in stock, including tree skirts.


Since these stores fill such a specific niche, they can be somewhat rare. If one isn't local, it may not be feasible for you to visit.
If you don't know where to find a store like this, you might try a general online keyword search for, "Christmas stores near me".
 As Christmas approaches, holiday items become more and more common on the shelves of general retailers. General retailers often even sell trees, so its likely they'll carry skirts and other supplies, like stands, as well.


If you are in dire need of a tree skirt and cannot find one, you could use a large, durable blanket bought from a general retailer instead.
 Online sellers often have the widest selection, especially when it comes to specialty items like tree skirts. The search features most sites have will help you narrow down on a specific size or type of tree skirt in a jiffy.


Online marketplaces, like eBay and Amazon, are excellent places to find suitable tree skirts.
 If you're at a brick-and-mortar store, take your tree skirt to a cashier to pay for it. If you're purchasing your skirt online, follow the associated instructions to pay for your skirt and have it shipped. When it arrives, put it on your tree and enjoy.

