 Most dating sites have an algorithm that calculates the age of the person based the date of birth that is entered into it. Obviously, anyone can put any age they like, it's not necessarily their true age! This would have to be taken into account of the person's demeanor and what else they put in their profile.;
, As long as the picture provided is a close up of their face and it's not hidden by huge sunglasses that would make Jackie Onassis jealous or a hat reminiscent of Elton John - you would have a pretty clear idea of whether their age would be genuine. If the age provided says 19 for example but the photo has a guy with grey streaked hair and a receding hairline, unless there was a lot of genetic unluckiness for the guy - you might consider pausing before emailing him.
 If the guy has chosen the top weight range and being with an overweight person is not on your agenda - then don't email him. He's been honest with you so you must return the favour. Likewise the same with someone in the really low weight range - most of the time these guys would be quite active, so if you are not then don't go there. If your idea of a blissful weekend starts and ends with time on the couch watching movies - you probably won't be happy with bike rides all over the countryside for the next 40 years of your existence.
 If their ad says, "I want someone who enjoys nightclubbing" and you don't enjoy nightclubbing (even though he's really cute!) don't go there. You won't be able to change his mind or him at all and you'd be setting yourself up for a fall. If his ad says that he's 'keeping options open' and not something like 'waiting for my Princess Right', this generally means that he's not into commitment and doesn't want to settle down at this point in his life.
 If he says that he'd like to meet for 'coffee' one night, this could mean one of two things. First, he loves coffee and can't get enough of it at anytime of the day or night and wants to share this with you. On the other hand (and this is something I've experienced personally) 'Coffee' can translate to SEX. Be honest and upfront and say something like, "Oh, I love coffee! We can try that new Bistro bar in town" sets the tone that you've taken notice of what he likes to do but saved yourself embarrassment so as not to misconstrue the word 'coffee'.
 then go for it. If he has stipulated that he prefers small Asian women and you are a curvy redhead with a few extra pounds - don't bother - you'd be setting yourself up for a fall. You cannot change his preference any more than you can be dishonest with yourself about what you like in a man. Be prepared to compromise though, dating is not all about rules and regulations, sometimes what guys put in their profile is negotiable. Sometimes you have to kiss a lot of frogs before you meet THE ONE. Just have fun and above all - be yourself.

