 Vietnamese culture dictates that smiles are often used to convey appreciation instead of a verbal expression of thanks. Think of a smile as a silent “thank you.” Modesty is highly respected in Vietnamese culture, and deflecting a compliment with a smile is the best way to express appreciation for a compliment modestly.Similarly, if you pay someone a compliment, do not expect them to express their gratitude verbally.
 In English, people are often quick to say “hello,” as well as “thank you” and “sorry” in many different contexts. In Vietnamese culture, a smile often take the place of these phrases. In fact, anyone who is older or in a position of authority will usually not thank younger or subordinate people verbally. Accordingly, do not be offended if you do not receive a verbal thank you for a favor.In particular, do not expect someone who is your parents age or a teacher to say thank you. Instead, you will likely receive a nod.
 Other expressions are also used to emphasize statements or replace verbal communication. Some common physical gestures, however, have different connotations in Vietnamese culture. For instance, avoid patting someone’s back or pointing while talking, as these actions will be perceived as disrespectful. Similarly, avoid placing your hands in your pocket or on your hips, especially while expressing gratitude.Cross your arms when expressing gratitude. This is considered a sign of respect.
 Eye contact with someone of a greater age or social status may be taken as a challenge. Meanwhile, eye contact with someone of the opposite gender indicates affection or desire. Accordingly, take care not to maintain eye contact with a anyone who may misread your expression. In fact, avoiding eye contact is a sign of respect.Since people maintain eye contact when speaking in many other cultures, averting your eyes may be hard to get used to.
Practice looking away from a conversation partner's eyes before you go to Vietnam.
"Không" is spoken in a flat tone, while "có" is spoken in a rising tone. "Không có chi" is pronounced "khong koh tsee."

