


Play games while you’re out in the stroller like “I Spy” to give clues about mystery items around the stroller. You can also play a game where the child is on the lookout for clues about where you are going, like directions to the park or the right aisle of a store.
Encourage your child to bring a book or toy in the stroller to distract and entertain them. Having a separate set of “stroller toys” helps keep kids’ attention because it is a fresh set of toys they don’t get to play with all the time.
 It’s safe to let your toddler run ahead of the stroller if you are in a safe, open space, but you should always be able to see your child.


Make sure your child can see you and teach him to look around periodically to see if he can find you. You can remind him to do this with a noise like a whistle, or by yelling a keyword reminder.
You can also turn it into a game and play Catch Me if You Can, where you are the target and your child has to come back and tag you every so often. This is fun for kids and keeps them close by and within your sight.
 You can invent rules to make your child comply with safety measures. For instance, you can tell your child that the stroller won’t move unless he strapped on the safety belts.


You can also tell him that the stroller won’t budge if he is not seated properly or will stop whenever he tries to stand. To make it more realistic, pretend that you really can’t make the stroller move, and connive with his daddy or brother to also pretend and make the ploy more convincing.
This strategy is especially effective if you’re going to a place that your child is excited about, such as the park or the mall. If he remains stubborn and tries to throw a tantrum, stand your ground and tell him again that the stroller will only move when he follows the rules. Keep this in mind because if you give in, it is more likely that he will use this throw-a-tantrum technique to get his own way.
 Children are more likely to maintain good behavior if they see that it doesn’t go unnoticed. Stay positive and praise your child when they do something right.


After each stroller trip, tell them what you appreciated and what they could still work on. For example you could say, “You did a great job! I loved how you played so nicely with your stroller toys. Next time, can you hold my hand while we cross the street to the park?”
If necessary, give your child rewards for safe stroller behavior. Rewards could be as simple as a sticker for each outing where they follow directions and are safe, or could build up to a larger reward such as a toy or fun activity.
 Toddlers can be difficult, especially when they don’t follow the rules you have set. If your child is repeatedly disobeying the stroller rules and putting themselves in a dangerous situation, it may be time for disciplinary action.


Use your judgment as a parent to find a consequence that will work on your child. For some toddlers, having to use a harness or be carried around is embarrassing and traumatic enough that they will follow the stroller rules.
Other children may respond better to a series of warnings and having some of their toys taken away. However you discipline a misbehaving child, be sure to let them know why they are in trouble.
Reiterate why it is so important to be safe in the stroller and go over the rules again. If you children are old enough, you can even ask them to repeat the rules back to you to make sure they really understand what you are asking of them.
 If your child is having a hard time understanding stroller safety rules, always have a backup plan. Be flexible with your schedule and don’t be afraid to cut an outing short if they are misbehaving or being unsafe.


You can also try a different approach to the stroller and use a carrier or harness instead. A carrier generally looks like a large backpack that your child can get strapped into and be carried around. It keeps the child close to you and contained, but can be difficult for older or larger children.
A harness attaches to the child and to the parent and works like a dog leash, giving the child freedom to walk around but keeping them within the range and control of their parent. Harnesses can be difficult to use in crowded places, as someone walking in between the parent and child can trip on the cord and cause injury for everyone.

