 Rug treatment varies depending on the kind of stain, its age and its chemical composition. The steps below cover a 'do it yourself' economical stain removal procedure, but looking up more information on your rug material is recommended to be certain that you're using the best procedure for the rug.;
, Always blot a stain, never push the liquid or solids into the rug.
 Mix 1 tablespoon mild detergent with ⅓ cup of white vinegar and ⅔ cup of water.
 Blot again, moving towards the center of the wet stain.
 Weigh down the solution placed on the stained area.
 Do not shift the weight.
 Brush out the area. Repeat the steps if necessary.
 Water can cause damage and "color running." Rugs with color running caused from flooding must be dried out completely and quickly, to prevent additional damage.


If the water is dirty or contaminated, then it needs to be handled by a professional rug washing plant. Bring severely soaked rugs to professionals. Completely soaked rugs may need to be dried in a professional dry room overnight.
 The ultraviolet rays of the sun can help to bleach out any run colors. However, if overexposed, the sun's harsh rays can also fade the colors of the rug. So, proceed carefully, sunning the rug one day at a time if you are placing the rug outside. Check it carefully each day for over exposure by spreading the rug's pile and checking its original pile color.
 At the very least, take your valuable rug out of the house and vacuum the back and front of it slowly. Doing this will thoroughly disturb any moths, as well as removing them. Air and sun the rug for a while.
 The professional will be able to do a thorough cleaning and moth-proofing. They can also perform partial replacement, as needed.
 If it is a hand knotted rug, it will need hand weaving to get back to its original character and construction by a skilled weaver. Many styles of re-constructing the rugs can be done. This is where consulting a skilled operation is important. If a machine repairs a machine made rug, this can be done for less cost.
 Depending on how bad the wear is on the edges, many techniques can be employed, ranging from reconstructing the original edge to re-wrapping over the edge. Again, skilled professional weavers need to do this work.
 Some cuts and tears can be sewn up at home by hand, provided you're comfortable with doing this. However, holes, dog-eared corners, and large threadbare areas will need professional reweaving by skilled weavers, who will sometimes need to replace the warp, weft, and pile with exactly the same dyed wool, in the original character of the rug.


Large reweaving projects are best done overseas by professionals, where labor is still relatively cheap. If the warp and weft need replacing, the rug will need to go on the loom. If only the piling needs replacing and re-knotting, the work will be completer faster.

