 This adds a personal touch, and means you can customize the gift as you see fit. Some ideas for homemade gifts include:

If you can knit, try making:



 


A small drawstring bag, which is often an excellent opportunity to show off all your knitting skills.
A blanket. This is especially good as a gift for a new mother, as the blanket will be smaller and therefore take less time to complete.
A jumper, hat, gloves, etc. Again, these are good for a new baby.


If you are good at cooking/baking, try making:






A delicious, personalized cake.
Some cupcakes/muffins. Be original in how you add embellishments and arrange them.
A delicious meal, maybe one that your friend especially enjoys. The container could also be a gift in itself (for instance, a nice china dish).

;
, Even if they seem irrelevant. Then match up a present to each one, and choose one or more to give to your friend. Here are some examples:


If your friend likes scrapbooking, you could get:

Scrapbooking supplies.
A voucher to a scrapbook supplies shop.
A book about scrapbooking.


If they enjoy knitting, you could get:

Some novelty wool. (e.g. Alpaca, glitter, fuzzy, etc.)
A book of knitting patterns.
Some knitting supplies. Think past needles and yarn - maybe bobbins, stitch markers, novelty needles, circular needles, etc.


If they enjoy cooking, you could get:

Some cooking equipment. For instance, a wok, a BBQ, some embellished skewers for kebabs, etc. You could get something normal, then decorate it with a glue gun and some embellishments. Make sure it's still safe to use!
A recipe book.
An empty cooking-themed notebook for recipes, notes, etc.
 Even if it's a perfectly normal stamp album, you could decorate the cover, then put in some interesting stamps, maybe from your friend's home country.
 Maybe an all-expenses paid trip to the spa, a voucher for a free stay at an organic farm B&B for your environmental friend, etc. Use your imagination!

, For instance, if they like the spa, a basket filled with a pumice stone, organic soap, bubble bath, etc. For a back-to-school gift, try a pencil-case, filled with supplies such as pens, pencils, and maybe a calculator.

