 Gently shake off any insects and discard any damaged blooms or petals. To remove the petals from the rose:


Grip the closed bud very lightly just below the petals.
Squeeze around the base just below the petals and gently twist the stem to loosen the petals. Grip very carefully to avoid bruising your petals.
 Take a paper towel or paper napkin, fold it a few times, and wet it slightly. It should be able to hold the water like a sponge without dripping. Place the wet paper towel into a clear plastic bag or plastic freezer bag (ideally one with a zip closure or press seal).


Alternately you can use a tupperware container or some kind of plastic box such as an old margarine or ice cream container. Just make sure it’s clean and dry.
 Place the rose petals on top of the paper towel. Don’t cram them into the bag or box as they are likely to bruise and break. Use several bags or boxes if required.


Air should be able to circulate around the rose petals; this will help prevent them from rotting.
 Put the bag carefully into the fridge. Place your contained rose petals on their own shelf so that nothing can fall on them. You can stack the bags on top of each other but make sure nothing heavy rests on them.


Make sure that they don’t touch any part of the fridge that may cause them to freeze. For example, don’t let them touch the back wall of the fridge as this is sometimes icy and will freeze them. Freezing will cause your petals to become mushy.
 It’s important to take the bags out every other day. Give the bag a gentle shake and turn it over. This stops the petals from sticking together and helps air circulate in the bags.
 It’s sometimes possible to keep rose petals fresh for up to a week in a fridge but try to take them out before the seven days are up. Ideally you should use the rose petals as quickly as possible after harvesting them.

Try to use the petals within three days of plucking them from the flower.
 After using your petals for your event, you can try drying them for use in potpourri. Lay them out in a single layer in a dark dry place for about two weeks. Once dry, put the petals in a clean, dry jar. Add some drops of rose essential oil.


Give the jar a shake every few days for about a month before adding it to potpourri.

