 Getting disaster assistance can take some time, so you shouldn't count on it to cover immediate, emergency needs such as shelter, food, or water. Do what you can to move yourself and your family to a safe place as soon as possible.Nonprofit organizations such as the Red Cross often provide assistance in the immediate aftermath of a disaster.
You will need a permanent address to receive assistance, as well as a telephone number where you can be reached.
If your home was destroyed, consider using the address of a trusted family member, or get a P.O. box. If you lost your phone, consider buying a cheap, prepaid phone to use for disaster assistance and emergencies.;
, When a disaster occurs, the type and amount of disaster assistance available depends on the level of emergency declared by state and local officials. Federal money is only available when a national state of emergency is declared by the President of the United States.If federal assistance criteria is not met, the governor of your state may make state funds available to the local governments of cities or counties hit with a natural disaster.
Typically the state will have a disaster assistance hotline that will be broadcast in areas hit by the disaster.
Even if you don't have electricity, you can find out the hotline number by asking workers you see out in the area, or by looking for signs posted throughout the area.
If you're building an emergency preparedness kit, look up your state's disaster assistance hotline so you can write it down and have it with your disaster prep materials.
 To apply for disaster assistance, you must have sufficient documents to prove your identity, residency and citizenship status. If your identity documents have been lost or destroyed, you typically must replace them before you can complete the application for disaster assistance.State programs typically require the same information as federal disaster assistance programs. You'll need your Social Security number, insurance information, and your total annual household income. Typically, the amount of disaster assistance for which you are eligible depends on your household income.
You'll also need to provide your current and pre-disaster addresses as well as a phone number where you can be reached.
 State disaster assistance typically is only available for losses not otherwise covered by insurance or other sources. Before you apply for assistance, you must evaluate and take stock of the extent of your losses.Keep in mind that it may be a few days or even weeks before you are allowed to return to your home.
Upon return, take photos of the damage before you start moving debris or attempting to recover undamaged possessions. Your insurance company will need these photos to evaluate your claim.
 If any of your damages or losses can be covered by insurance policies, you must file a claim and find out how much your insurance will cover.In the immediate aftermath of a disaster, the insurance company likely will be flooded with claims. Don't be surprised if it takes a few days before you hear back from an agent, or weeks before your claim is assessed by an adjustor.
Since state disaster assistance often is dependent on insurance coverage, you should file your insurance claims as soon as possible after the disaster occurs.
 Each state has its own rules you must follow to apply for state disaster assistance. You also must find out the deadline by which you must file your application.The deadline may differ depending on whether federal disaster relief funds are available, but generally, you must file your claim within 30 days of the date of the disaster.
In some states you may have up to 60 days to file your claim for state disaster assistance. Many states also have separate deadlines for small business owners than for individuals.
 As soon as possible after the disaster occurs, you should register with your state's disaster relief agency as someone affected by the disaster who potentially will need assistance.There typically will be a hotline for you to call and register. This puts your information in the system as someone affected by the disaster who needs relief, but in most cases registration does not constitute an application for assistance.
Take notes when you call. The agent with whom you speak may provide you with important information regarding the documents you need and how to complete an application for assistance.
If the agent gives you an application number or other reference number, make sure you write it down. You will need to include it on your applications and provide it whenever you call with questions.
Keep in mind that if your location has been declared a national disaster area, you must first call the FEMA hotline at 1-800-621-3362.
 Your state may have different applications to fill out depending on the type of assistance you need and which part of government is funding the relief effort. If you're unsure, call the state hotline and find out.Your application requires personal information as well as a description of the property damaged by the natural disaster and the date the damage occurred.
Since funding comes from different sources, you typically have to fill out separate applications for assistance with damages to your business or for assistance with damages to your personal home.
Assistance for children usually requires a different application than assistance for adults or to rebuild or repair structural damage to property.
Most disaster assistance is income-dependent. You may not be eligible for disaster assistance if your income is above the state threshold, typically around 200 percent of the federal poverty level.
 If you opted to fill out a paper application for disaster assistance, make sure you submit it to the correct office or agency before the deadline for disaster assistance applications.Your application typically will include information on where to submit the completed form and any other required documents.
If you have any questions, call your state's disaster assistance hotline to find out more about the application process and where you need to send your application.
Once your application is received, state inspectors will have to visit your property and assess the damage as described in your application.
 Particularly if you asked for assistance repairing your home or other property, the state typically will send out inspectors to assess the damage and determine the amount of assistance to which you're entitled.Once your application is received, an inspector usually will contact you within a couple of weeks to schedule an inspection. It may take longer if you are in a location where access is limited.
Keep in mind that generally you must be present when the inspector comes to visit your damaged property.
Typically the inspector is a contractor. However, he or she will have identification establishing an association with your state agency. Make sure you verify the individual's identification.
The inspector will assess the damage to your property and also verify your ownership.
After the inspection is completed, you can expect a notice of eligibility for assistance funds within a couple of weeks.
 Once inspections are completed, your state's disaster relief agency will issue you a check for the funds to which you're entitled. You may also receive information about other services for which you qualify.Some states will direct deposit your funds into your bank account. If this option is available, you must provide your bank account and routing numbers.
If you've not opted for direct deposit, or the option isn't available, you'll receive a check at the address you provided on your application.
You may receive other information in the mail, such as packets or applications for other assistance. Review the information and fill out those applications if you believe you're eligible for additional assistance.
If your request for assistance is denied, you typically will receive a notice explaining the reason for the denial. There also should be instructions for how you can appeal the denial.
 Many nonprofit organizations such as the American Red Cross and the Salvation Army are instrumental in providing disaster assistance to affected individuals. Often this assistance includes dealing with emergency health and safety issues and providing food and water.You can find information about Red Cross services available and register for assistance online at redcross.org, or by calling 1-877-568-3317.
Your state as well as national organizations offer crisis counseling and mental health support if you or anyone in your family is having trouble dealing with the aftermath of a natural disaster.
There also are many additional programs and special services designed to meet the more specific needs of children, the elderly, and people with mental or physical disabilities.
 In a disaster, many government agencies offer different types of relief and assistance to those affected, particularly individuals with special needs or who were receiving public benefits before the disaster struck.For example, the U.S. Small Business Association and its state counterparts offer grants and low-interest loans for small-business owners rebuilding after a natural disaster.
If you previously were receiving public assistance for housing, there may be additional housing resources for you through your state's housing office.
The Social Security Administration offers disaster assistance to people who were receiving disability or survivor benefits and have had problems or delays in receiving their checks after a natural disaster.
The U.S. Department of Veteran's Affairs has information about benefits, insurance claims and settlements, and mortgage relief for U.S. veterans affected by a natural disaster.
 You may be entitled to state sales tax and property tax breaks, as well as state and federal income tax deductions and credits, for work you did and expenses you incurred while recovering from the disaster.Certain federal tax relief, including extension of filing deadlines, interest abatements, and penalty waivers, is only available if you are the victim of a natural disaster that was the subject of a federal disaster declaration.
States also provide tax return extensions. If your home was destroyed by a natural disaster, you may be eligible for a property tax abatement.
Many states also do not charge sales tax on post-disaster services.
Businesses may be able to get tax refunds for inventory and other products destroyed as the result of a natural disaster.
 As the victim of a natural disaster, you may have significant legal issues that crop up as you begin the recovery process. States typically offer free legal assistance through the state bar association for individuals and small businesses affected by natural disasters.In the wake of a natural disaster, your state or local bar association typically has free legal services available for victims.
These volunteer attorneys can assist you with filling out insurance forms or filing for assistance, as well as working with contractors to rebuild.

