 Sidewalk chalk is a fun way to get kids outside. Decorating the driveway with colourful pictures will get your kids up and moving around. You can also use sidewalk chalk to draw a hopscotch pattern on the ground and allow your kids to jump and play. Children can use their imaginations to come up with a variety of games and activities using sidewalk chalk., Any form of play set or climbing apparatus is a great way to encourage your kids to be active. Playground equipment is irresistible for children and there are a variety of ways it can promote movement. For instance, kids can use the equipment in its traditional sense, to jump, climb, and swing. They can also develop their own games using the equipment.Allow your children to use their imaginations and free play.
 A frisbee is another fun way to get kids moving and there are so many games that can be played using a frisbee. A small group of kids could simply pass the frisbee around, which will help develop throwing, catching, and running skills. Alternatively they could also try playing ultimate frisbee, frisbee golf, or frisbee races.Search online to find the rules and equipment needed for a variety of frisbee-based games that your kids can play.
If there are not enough kids to get a big game going then you can join in the fun and play with them.
 During the winter months it can be difficult to get your kids active and moving. In order to encourage them to engage in some form of physical activity you should provide them with some toys suitable to winter. For example, give your child a sled or toboggan that will allow them to play outside during the winter. Alternatively, you could get them skis or skates in order to try a winter sport.


Take a family ski trip or spend a weekend taking part in outdoor winter activities as a family.
 If you want to get your child active and moving you may want to select a toy that is powered by your child. For instance, there are a lot of options for ride-on toys, such as bikes, cars, skateboards and scooters. Some of these options will be motorized, but you can also find human-powered options as well. These types of toys can come in a variety of forms to meet the needs of all age groups.For example, toddlers can use toys such as wagons and little scooters that they sit on and push with their feet.
Slightly older children can use tricycles and bicycles with training wheels that are powered using pedals.
Older kids can use bicycles, scooters, roller blades, and skateboards that are peddled or pushed using their feet.
Make sure your child always wears a helmet and proper safety equipment.

