 Be clear of the end result before proceeding to plan the induction, and accordingly plan the schedule. For instance, if you want the employees to be aware only about the organizational processes and its growth plan, then 2-3 hours is good enough. You can either go for audio - visual presentation or can stick to power point presentation too. However, if you are planning for your new comers to complete few mandatory training sessions too within their induction period only, slot them accordingly and inform the trainer beforehand.;
, Club all the new joiners of a month or quarter depending on your recruitment rate. Global organizations normally prefer to implement this process monthly and club all the employees who have joined one or two months ago.
 Once you are done with the session planning, the next important milestone is to inform the participants and their supervisors well before in time. Encourage them to acknowledge and confirm their presence. This will make it easier for you to provide snacks, meals and stationery items in the right amount and numbers.
 Audio-visual medium of communication is always a preferred choice, as this makes the entire session lively and interesting. If you are opting for a power point presentation, be ensure right and professional color combination is being used (shouldn't be too dazzling).
 Plan about what your session is going to cover. Devote optimum time slots to each section. If you are going to introduce the top notch of your organization, then collect right information and place it suitably in your slide show. Provide a brief about the future growth plans/acquisitions and major achievements of the organization. Detailed information about company policies and administration support is always helpful for the new beginners.
 The venue, which you have fixed for conducting the session could be your board room or an auditorium. Book the room beforehand to avoid last minute clashes. Brief the support staff of the venue about all your requirements for the day and test the equipment beforehand.
 Depending upon the length of the process, normally snacks and other administrative arrangements are provided by the company. Make sure to communicate the schedule to the providers also.
 The role of a human resource professional in these sessions is like a host. Ask your audience individually what they expect from this session and welcome their goals. Try to meet their expectations and answer their questions.
 Try to conduct the session in a lively environment. Be sure of what your message is and accordingly plan the session. Team bonding and a culture of openness can be established by involving the employees in team games, brain teasers or storytelling sessions.
 If you are planning to cater to the employee’s learning need in this session; coordinate with the trainer and employee. Make sure the selected learning need is same for all the employees.
 Summarize the complete process at the end and ask each participant of what their take away is from the session. Encourage them to clarify their doubts, if any. Wish them luck for their professional growth with the organization.

