);
,


i.e. My name is ...
Want to know more? "Let's get to know each other some then.
by the grace of god,f you can get other women to post on your wall, get them to post on your wall, this shows competition.
Make sure your profile picture or any other pictures are "on point." and displays your best features such as your eyes, personality or something interesting.
 "musicians, hobbies, just stuff you two have in common"
Try to remember these and take note because this makes a great conversation which will be used in the following step.
 Hey, I added you because you looked familiar but I don't think I've actually talked to you before but we don't really know each other much, you look pretty interesting and we may have a lot in common." is a good example
another way is by playing a game of "truth is" Which is where you post "truth is...?" as your status and people like it, and you give them your opinion of them.
If she likes the status, say "truth is, you seem really interesting and someone that is easy to get along with but I don't really know you, want to change that?"
if she agrees, you should be able to literally ask for her number and she'll give it to you.

But for the love of god, don't poke. NEVER POKE.
Just have a casual and normal conversation, ask her "what's up" or ask her what kind of music she's in to.
Do whatever you can do to get her to talk. and make sure that you understand and comprehend what she's saying. if she's talking to you, she's interested a little bit. which is all that matters.
If you did message/ IM her, just say that you have to get off to go do something, use "hey, I'll talk to you later because I have to go and get something done. Text me?" She WILL more than likely say yes, unless you screwed up somewhere along the line in the previous steps.
 Try to see if she wants to go and see the new movie that's coming out. or maybe you really lucked out and both of you guys' favorite artist is in town.
just try to get her to be in person with you, that's all that matters.



Just keep your cool.
remain confident
keep her talking.

