 One of the main reasons you may feel incredibly lonely is because you assume that you should always be around others. It's impossible to always be with someone else, and being alone can be a positive experience. You need to change your perspective of alone time, and see it as the opportunity for personal, emotional, and mental growth. Below are just a few of the advantages of spending time alone:You are able to recharge and find balance in your life
You can reflect on actions or events that have happened
You can consider decisions before you make them
You can uncover your voice and your feelings about certain topics
You can get work done without distractions

, Putting aside time to regularly write in a journal can be a rewarding and emotionally expressive experience. We often do not know our thoughts or reactions to certain situations without saying them aloud or writing them down. Journaling provides you with an opportunity to find your voice. What's more, this activity also relieves stress and fights depression, which is commonly associated with loneliness., Regular meditation has been shown to improve sleep, slow the aging process, increase concentration and attentiveness, improve brain functioning, and make you feel happier.It seems this centuries-old practice can also be instrumental in curing feelings of loneliness. Meditation teaches present-focused, mindfulness, which thwarts past- or future-focused worries about loneliness.To learn meditation for beginners, click here.
 Sometimes, the solution to feeling better about a situation lies in changing your perspective. We may get into ruts of negative thought patterns about our worthiness to others, and these horrible thoughts only make us feel worse. Thoughts, emotions and behavior are all connected. Therefore, in order to feel differently and act differently, you must change your thinking.The first step to taming negative thoughts is becoming aware of them. Take note of self-defeating or negative self-talk as it happens. What are you saying to yourself? How does this self-talk make you feel?
Then, reframe these thoughts into self-talk that is more realistic and helpful.
For example, you may think "I will never make any new friends". This thought might make you feel hopeless and ashamed. To reframe it, you must challenge it. Can you predict the future? No. So, there is no surefire way of knowing if you will ever make new friends. A better way of thinking might sound like: "It will be difficult to make new friends, but I can try my best."

