 Cats are hunters. Even domestic cats retain the instinct to hunt and chase small things that move. Therefore, toys that stimulate hunting behaviour will usually be very enjoyable to your cat.Toys like remote-controlled mice, anything on a string, feathers, or ribbons are very popular toys that most cats will want to “hunt."

, The little red dot is a cat’s ultimate nemesis. Almost every cat will become enamoured with a little red dot. Laser pointers are fairly inexpensive to buy and can be used for hours of exercise.Do not shine the laser light into your cat’s eyes, or another person’s eyes for that matter.
Cats will jump up a wall or onto a shelf to attack “the dot,” so be careful where you shine the laser pointer.
You can even buy laser pointers that are built into a platform that moves the dot around on its own. All you have to do is turn it on and watch your cat go crazy!

, “If I fits, I sits.” Cats love boxes. Even big cats in zoos love boxes. Cats are often known to play in a box that an expensive cat toy came in, rather than with the expensive cat toy. Putting out a couple of empty boxes can keep your cat occupied for hours, and create a new sleeping spot.Some cats also love to shred boxes until there’s nothing left. There’s nothing wrong with this, other than it’ll leave a big mess.
Combine several boxes to make a maze or a castle for your cat to play in.
Fitted cardboard pieces that are used to pack items into a box are also great toys for your cat. Only use cardboard pieces, not styrofoam pieces.
 Packing paper or tissue paper are also great toys for cats. Start by crinkling the paper up so it makes noise when your cat jumps on it. Paper bags are another great toy. Cats love to explore the inside of paper bags and some will even hide their other toys inside.Do not use plastic bags as toys for your cat.
 There are a lot of items around your house you can reuse and turn into a toy. Most of these items would just be put in the garbage or recycling, so giving them to your cat will extend the life of the item before it ends up in landfill.The plastic rings from the spout of a milk jug are always a big hit with cats.
Paper towel or toilet paper rolls fascinate some cats.
Tie tabs from baked goods or electronics packaging can be fun, although you might want to supervise your cat when you give her a tie tab.
 Cats love being up high where they can observe and survey their kingdoms. Making or buying your cat an awesome cat tree will help him get lots of exercise climbing up and jumping down. Place the cat tree in front of a window so your cat can also have a place to watch the birds, people, and anything else that might go by.Most cat trees also double as a scratching post.
You can also buy, or make, cat perches that can be attached directly to your walls. If you place them at strategic locations around the house, your cat can jump from one to another to get from one room to another.
 In general, cats shouldn’t be allowed to roam outside. Cats are natural hunters and can end up killing a lot of songbirds and rodents. Plus, there are a lot of dangers outside that you don’t want to expose your cat to (e.g. cars, pesticides, other cats, dogs, humans, etc.). Instead of letting your cat outside on her own, build her a catio.A catio is essentially a small deck outside that’s surrounded by protective fencing or wire. The catio allows your cat to go outside, get some exercise and fresh air, without being exposed to the dangers of the outdoors.
You can even build a small catio on a balcony if that’s all you have access to.
An ideal catio is one that your cat can come and go from on her own (through a window or a door), but you can also build a separate cat enclosure in your backyard.
 A recent development in cat exercise is the cat exercise wheel. These exercise wheels are very similar to the ones you’d find in a hamster cage, but obviously much larger.The downside of these wheels is that they are expensive. But if you can afford one (or are creative enough to build one) they’re a great way to allow your cat to run without ever leaving the house.

