 If you are not feeling good, ponder what it is you are thinking that is causing you to feel bad. Work that Subject over in your mind until you have a new thought that raises your vibration. Your feelings are a built-in barometer for how you are vibrating.;
, If you have a pattern of thinking the same way about a particular subject matter—money, health, relationships—you will find that you have ingrained beliefs that are coming up whenever that subject matter comes to mind. Those beliefs can be empowering or they can be dis-empowering ones. Taking a look at your existing circumstances gives you a glimpse as to your overall vibration because whatever you are living - is a reflection of that. That is a good place to start in re-thinking your beliefs.
 Counting on others to behave a certain way in order for you to be happy is a trap. Just like you cannot jump through all the various hoops required in order to make the people close to you happy—the same thing applies to you being able to accommodate all those demands. Take charge of your life and understand that you can be happy no matter what others are doing. It just takes a different perspective. Happier people attract more circumstances to be happy about.
 Stop fretting over all the perceived mistakes you have made. The other people involved in those situations are most likely not even still thinking about what happened. And if they are, it is because they have not been willing to give up that incident in favor of being happy now. Whatever happened, happened. Get over it. Today is a new day with lots of opportunities to do things differently based on what you learned about your preferences.
 If you can feel absolute love for everything and everyone around you, you will be in complete and utter harmony with the Universe. Every good thing will come to you!

, One of the things that people seem to really want the most is money. Money is fantastic, and there is plenty of it. All you have to do is believe that you have all the money you want/need. Write tremendous, million-dollar checks or use Monopoly money to pretend you have all of this money. When you can feel good and secure about money, that's when the magic of wealth begins. Oh, and always feel grateful for any amount of money. Gratitude attracts support.

