 The first step to virtually any kind of writing is to know your audience. The audience of your creative writing can determine the topic that you choose to write about.


Ask yourself what your audience would be interested in reading.
Think about what may surprise or shock your audience.
If you are unsure about your actual audience, create a fictional reader in your mind. You could even give your fictional reader a name.
 Writing about what is interesting to you will help your writing flow more easily, help you generate fresh content, and lead to a better final product.
 It matters less what you freewrite about than that you do it. Pick a situation that seems interesting to you: perhaps a person is lost in the desert, or perhaps they are waiting to find out if they have an illness, or perhaps they are trying to decide whether to tell someone they are in love. Then, freewrite based on that situation, thinking about what might happen, what they might be thinking, conversations they might have, etc.


Write nonstop for a predetermined amount of time (most people do 10-15 minutes.)
Do not stop writing, even if you need to just write “blah blah blah” in the middle of a sentence.
Hopefully, you will write yourself towards a useful thought or idea through freewriting. Even if it does not give you content you can use in your creative writing, it can be a valuable warm-up.
 There are whole books of writing prompt ideas for creative writing, and several websites that contain lists of prompts.Treat the prompt as a beginning point but don’t be afraid to leave the topic of the prompt.
Check your library for a book of prompts so that you don’t have to buy one.
 Keep a list of ideas of things to write about on you all the time.If you think of an idea, write it down. Go to your working list any time you feel like you need help coming up with a topic.
 Your environment contains a rich array of items that can serve as writing prompts, so just look around and write about something that you see.


Close your eyes, then open them and write about the first thing you see, regardless of what it is.
Look at the color of something nearby, and write a list of other things that are the same color until you feel inspired.
Look at an item near you and try to remember the last time you saw a similar item. Who were you with? What were you doing? Then write a story, real or fictional, about that memory.
Find a unique item in your line of sight, then imagine that you are seeing it for the first time. Write about someone from a different culture seeing the item for the first time out of context and speculating about what it is used for.

