 Snus comes in a few different varieties of strength, flavor and size. It's probably best to start with a lower strength variety unless you've already got a considerable nicotine tolerance from other tobacco products.


Strength labels are Normal, Stark, & Extra Stark. Stark varieties contain, on average, 11 mg of nicotine per gram while Extra Stark may contain up to 22mg of nicotine per gram.
Snus also comes in three different sizes: Mini, Normal/Large (most common) and Maxi.
Both Camel and Marlboro have Snus brands that come in lots of flavors, including mints and "robust" style natural flavors. They're known for long-lasting flavors, so pick something you'll like and know that it won't be particularly subtle.
Many users claim that real Swedish "snus" is much higher quality and prefer the taste. If you want to get some, make sure you get the pouches, because sometimes regular snuff is labeled "snus" in Sweden.;
, When you buy a tin of Snus, it will contain several small pouches of the snuff. Remove one for your use.


Unlike regular snuff, you don't have to shake the tin to "pack" the snuff or clump it. If you prefer, you can distribute the tobacco somewhat in the individual pouch with your fingers by squeezing the sachet a few times. Be gentle and don't tear the packet, however, if you choose to.
 Most Snus users elect to put the packet under their top lip on one side, but place it wherever it feels comfortable.


Some users will dry under the lip area for less saliva during use. If you want to, use your sleeve or a napkin to dry your under-upper lip area.
Some users with smaller mouths find it more comfortable to fold the packet in half (lengthwise or short wise) before packing it into their lip. Experiment some to fit it in comfortable for your mouth.
 Unlike to dip or snuff, it's not necessary to spit tobacco juice when dipping Snus, making it attractive to some users because it's less messy and makes it unnecessary to carry around an empty water bottle or mud-cup with you. Swallow normally and keep the Snus in your mouth as long as you enjoy the taste and buzz. Most users keep a pack in for 20 minutes to an hour.


Snus is a variety of "wet snuff," meaning that the substance in the pouch contains only about 30 percent tobacco and 70 percent water and flavoring. Because of the existence of salt and flavoring, it promotes less saliva than other smokeless tobaccos.
You should start to notice the familiar tobacco head buzz soon. If you're an inexperienced tobacco user, you may start to feel a strong head-rush and some nausea, or even vomiting. This is a normal nicotine response. Spit out the packet if it starts nauseating you.
Always dispose of used snus in a trash can. Don't litter by spitting it out elsewhere.
 It's common to keep tins of Snus in the refrigerator to keep the taste and quality fresh. It'll last longer that way, and is commonly kept refrigerated in American tobacco stores.

