 Many people get tattoos that have some form of significance or symbolic meaning. Ask your partner what their tattoo represents. This may help you understand the tattoo better and come to terms with it.For example, a tattoo of a name, initials, or a date may symbolize the death of a family member or close friend.
Alternatively, the tattoo could symbolize a hobby or passion. For example, of a tree may symbolize a passion for the outdoors.
Some tattoos are also meant as a form of motivation. For instance, they provide something to look at on a bad day to give inspiration.;
, Certain events, such as a major birthday, a new job, the completion of a degree, or the birth of a child, could motivate an individual to get a tattoo. In these cases the tattoo is meant to commemorate or celebrate a certain occasion. You may be more inclined to accept the tattoo despite the fact that you don’t like it, if you realize that a major event motivated your partner to get the tattoo.
 When your partner is explaining the origins of their tattoo, it is important that you actively listen to them. This will demonstrate that you care about what they are saying and are interested in learning about their tattoo. This will also help you and your partner have a constructive conversation about the tattoo, rather than just getting into an argument.Lean in to the conversation, make eye contact, and nod occasionally to demonstrate that you are listening.
Ask follow up questions to show that you are engaged in the conversation.
 Your partner may not have a "good" reason (in your opinion) for getting a tattoo, but they may feel as though their reason for getting the tattoo was a good one. Even after they have explained the tattoo, you may continue to disagree with the decision. Try and accept the fact that maybe your partner just wanted a tattoo and likes the concept of body art. It is important to respect your partner’s decisions about how they want their body to look.


Remember that a tattoo may change your partner’s appearance slightly, but it will not change the bond that you share with your partner.

