 This is the quickest and easiest way to help contain construction dust. Any rooms that do not need to be accessed by the construction crew should have closed doors at all times. Rooms such as bathrooms should be closed when not in use. Closing doors in your home will go a long way towards mitigating the spread of dust and debris.;
, One of the most effective solutions for controlling construction dust is to hang plastic drop cloths around the area being renovated. Drop cloths can be found inexpensively in the painting aisle of your hardware store. You can hang them using tape or inconspicuous fasteners like staples. Consider cutting long vertical slits down the middle of the plastic sheets to allow for passage.
 The best way to do this is by opening a window and operating a fan facing the open window. This will force airborne dust outside, and keep it from entering other areas of your home due to the pressure difference.
 One of the things most easily ruined by construction dust is flooring. Hardwood floor finishes can be marred by excess dust, and construction dust can be ground deep into carpets where it is difficult to clean. Avoid this by laying down plastic drop cloths or tarps over all floors that will be exposed to foot traffic during the home renovation.
 Some construction tasks produce a large amount of dust, such as cutting wood or tile or sanding any surface. To reduce dust, many tools can be fitted with either a vacuum dust collection bag or a water cooling system. Tile saws should always be used with the water pump on, which virtually eliminates dust. Mitre saws, circular saws, and handheld sanders should be equipped with dust collection bags that reduce the amount of errant dust.
 If the heating and cooling system in your home uses ductwork to force air movement, turn the system off during the entire remodel if possible. Forced air systems readily churn construction dust up and distribute it through your entire home (bypassing closed doors and plastic sheets in the process). Turn the heating and cooling off, and consider taping plastic or paper over the registers and vents of your ducts.
 Tasks that can be done outdoors should be. This includes cutting wood or tile using a power saw. Performing these tasks outside and then bringing the cut materials inside will drastically reduce the amount of construction dust in your home.

