 Square pillows (or cushions) provide the best shape but the shape is determined by the final look you're after, as even a rectangular pillow can work.


If repurposing an old pillow, clean it well to remove marks.;
, For the sake of this tutorial, the assumption is that the pillow you're using is square. Any other shape and you'll need to make adjustments as befits the shape.
, Pin this carefully to the pillow front, the tip going down to the base and the two top edges meeting the top edges of the pillow. The pins must create a very tight line down the edges of the triangle, to ensure exact lines when painting the fabric paint in place.
 Pour into a container for ease of access and have your brush ready.
 This creates the neat barrier lines between the tuxedo coat and the white shirt that will be underneath it. It might help to follow a ruler for exactness.
 This will be the two triangle shapes to each side of the paper triangle. Allow to dry completely before removing the template.
 You should have a cushion with two black triangle sides and a big white triangle center.
 You'll need two evenly shaped triangles for this. The measurements for the bow tie should be determined by the amount of white space at the top of the pillow, and the space to the edges from the black triangles. The triangles will be placed tip to tip, with the wide base facing each black triangle. There should be a small, clearly noticeable space between the base edges and the edges of the black triangles. This represents the end of the bow tie and the continuance of the white shirt before reaching the black coat.


When creating the cardboard template, make it slightly larger than the intended final size, then cut out most of the inner part of the triangle while leaving a strong edge to serve as the paint infill template.
 Be sure that the tips meet evenly and that the bow tie looks straight.
 Be especially careful around the edges, to ensure that they're neat. Allow to dry completely before removing the template. Make any touch-ups as needed.
 Alternatively, stitch on a row of black buttons.
 The pillow is now complete.

