 Before you reuse your pill bottle, heat up some water to boiling, pour it in the bottle, and wait 60 seconds. Peel the label off, then rinse and dry the empty pill bottle before using it., Many people keep loose items like paper clips, thumb tacks, and so on in their desk drawers. But these items can be hard to find unless they are collected properly. Empty pill bottles offer a great solution to storing these office supplies. If you wish, you could label the top of each empty pill bottle with permanent marker to indicate what is in it.
 Stick a spare key in the pill container. Plant it in the lawn near the back of your house or somewhere out of the way. Don’t bury it too deeply. The white top of the pill bottle should be parallel with the surface of the ground. Place a fist-sized rock over the pill bottle in a location where it would not seem out of place.This will allow you to hide a spare key outside your home. In the event you’re locked out, you can get back in by using this key.
Hiding the key in the pill bottle protects it from rain, which could cause it to rust.
 Bobby pins, hair ties, and other small fashion accessories are often difficult to store properly, since they get lost in regular drawers and storage containers. Empty pill bottles make perfect containers for these items. Use one for bobby pins, another for earrings, and so on. If you wanted, you could tape a label on each so you know what’s inside.If you have a taller empty pill bottle, you could store your eyeliner and makeup brushes in it.
 Cotton swabs are great for cleaning small tubes and fine objects. But their small size also makes them hard to store. Most people just keep them in the box they come packaged in, but if you wanted to keep them somewhere more accessible, you could just store them in an empty pill bottle.If you are not able to seal the pill bottle with the lid, that’s okay. You can just leave the pill bottle on your bathroom counter and recycle the lid, or place it somewhere for safekeeping (in the event that you ever want to put your empty pill bottle to a different use).
 If you’re traveling, you are often unable to bring regular containers of shampoo, conditioner, and lotion. You could buy travel-sized versions of these products – or you could be thrifty and just pump a bunch of these hygienic plasmas into an empty pill bottle., Stuffing your earbuds in your backpack, handbag, or pocket could cause them to become tangled or damaged. Instead, extend your earbuds to their maximum length and untangle any knots. Fold them in half three or four consecutive times, then place them in an empty pill bottle. Your earbuds will then be safe and ready for use the next time you want to use them., If you have a green thumb, you might want to store some seeds away for next season. Place your dry, cleaned seeds in empty pill containers. Place the containers in a cool, dry location. This will keep them safe and ready to use when the seasons change., If you spend a lot of time in the kitchen and have a large collection of frosting piping tips, sort them by size. Label a corresponding number of pill bottles with the various piping tip sizes or descriptions. For instance, if you have three piping tips that excrete a star shape, write “star” on the bottle cap and stick the piping tips in the empty pill bottle., You can make your own little sewing kit inside an empty pill bottle. Pack it with two needles, a spool of white, navy, or other common colored thread, and a few buttons. On the inside of the cap, glue a small pin cushion., Matches have their own proper place – the matchbook or the matchbox. But if you’re taking matches out camping and get caught in a squall, your matches could be ruined. Carrying your matches in a waterproof pill bottle means you won’t have to worry about that anymore.Don’t forget to cut the striker off the matchbox or matchbook and tuck it into the pill bottle along with the matches.
 Instead of keeping coins in your cup holder, center console, or just rolling around in your wallet, place them in an empty pill container. Put the container in your vehicle and use it to pay at parking meters, drive through restaurants, and toll booths., Dab a cotton ball with petroleum jelly. Work the petroleum jelly into the cotton ball by pushing it across the surface with your fingers. Wad the cotton ball up and stuff it in an empty pill bottle. Take the pill bottle on your next camping trip. Cotton coated with petroleum jelly will burn longer than will regular cotton, so it’s a good way to get your fires started.You should be able to fit three or four such cotton balls into your empty pill bottle.

