 You don't have to be incredibly physically fit to run a 5K, but you do have to make sure that the training won't pose a risk to your health. Though you can work yourself up to a 5K if you've never run before, you need to make sure that your heart and body are physically strong enough to handle the race training.


If you have a history of heart trouble, back pain, or any issues with your feet or the rest of your body, check with a doctor to see if you can run the race.
Even if you feel healthy, it's never a bad idea to check in with a doctor about the race just in case.
 This requires two things: for you to make sure you have enough weeks between your first training day and the race, and to see that you'll actually have enough time in your schedule to train for the race.


If you can run at least one mile without stopping, then you can start training 8 weeks before the 5K.
If you can't run to the end of your block without getting tired, it will take longer for you to train for a race. Give yourself at least 12 weeks to build up the stamina to run a 5K.
Check your schedule to make sure you have time to train. While training for a 5K can require just 20-30 minutes of your time 5 days a week, it may be harder than you think to factor this time into your busy schedule.
Select a time slot for your training, leaving room for two days of rest. It's ideal if you can train for the race around the same time each day so your body gets settled into a routine. It's even more ideal if you can train around the time of the actual race you choose, but that may be challenging if the race is in the morning, as most are.
 Search for races in your area and pick one that appeals to you that is far enough away for you to have enough time to train. Don't pick a race that is too far off in the future unless you want to hold off on your training for a while.


Register for the race as early as you can. Once you've registered, you have made a commitment to finish the race! The longer you put off actually registering for the race you've chosen, the less real your goal will seem.
Registering early will also usually save you some money.
 Though you don't have to spend hundreds of dollars to get the best running gear, it will be much easier to get through your training runs, as well as the actual race, if you're well equipped. Here are some things to get:


Running shoes. Your shoes are the most important form of running equipment. Go to a running store and get help finding the perfect shoes for your feet. If you already have running shoes, the rule of thumb is that you should get a new pair of shoes every time you've run 300–400 miles (480–640 km).

Even if you're not sure if you've run that far in your old shoes, if they feel worn-down or just not right, consider getting a new pair of shoes.


Running apparel. Invest in some clothes made especially for running, which are any non-cotton synthetic fabrics like DriFit or CoolMax. Cotton clothes will absorb your sweat and will wear you down. Instead, get synthetic running shorts, spandex, tank tops, or t-shirts. Running socks. Get thin, stretchy socks that are made for running. If you run in bulky cotton socks, your feet will be instantly weighed down.
A digital watch. If you want to want to time yourself, a watch is your best option. You can also use the clock on your iPod or phone, if you run with those.
 This is easy. Do you just want to run the whole race, or do you have a goal time that you want to beat? Having a goal before you start training can help you determine how to approach your training from the very first day.


If you just want to run the whole race, you don't have to worry about timing as much during your training.
If you're determined to run the 5K in a certain amount of time, then you should work on trimming down your time as you train.

