 Go to the Wondershare website and click “Buy Now.” You will be taken to the Purchasing screen.


Select the license type, and click on “Add to cart. On the next page, select your payment option. You can pay with your credit card or with PayPal.
Click on “Checkout” to begin downloading the program.
Wondershare has a free trial version, but it will not allow you to recover the lost data. The paid version is US$49.95.;
, Once it has finished installing, you can either open it from the desktop by clicking its shortcut icon or by selecting the file in the Start >> All Programs menu.
 Use the USB cable it came with when you purchased the device.
 Debugging differs depending on your Android version:


For Android 2.3 or earlier, tap on “Settings” (gear icon). In the Settings menu, select Applications >> Development >> USB Debugging.
For Android 3.0 to 4.1, tap on “Settings” and then on “Developer Options.” In the Developer Options menu, check “USB debugging.”
For Android 4.2 or newer, tap on “Settings” and then tap on “About Phone.” Tap on “Build number” for several times until you have enabled Developer Options. Go back to the main Settings menu, select “Developer Options,” and then enable “USB Debugging.”
You will get receive a message on your PC screen that your device has been detected and identified.
 These files could be contacts, messages, photos, videos, etc. Do this by clicking on them.


You can also click on “Select all” to choose all the files. Click on “Next” to continue.
 You can either select “Standard” or “Advanced.”


Standard mode is the simple “Scan and recover” option while Advanced will give you more detailed scanning options.
Click “Next” to continue.
 Your Samsung tablet will be scanned for all deleted data files.


A new window may pop up after you click “Start” asking permission from the tablet. On your Samsung screen, tap on “Allow.” Click on “Start” again to continue with the scanning process.
Before scanning, it is recommended to charge your tablet.
 Once the scanning is done, the results will be displayed in categories. Select the files you want to recover by clicking on them, and then click on “Recover” to save them on your computer.