 Of course, you have to choose one of the broad categories, such as fiction, nonfiction, or poetry, but you should also narrow it down.


Maybe you can teach a specific type of poem, like a villanelle or a sonnet, or maybe you can narrow down nonfiction to a short childhood memoir.
Choose something you are already familiar with and have some experience writing. Otherwise, you won’t be confident in what you’re teaching.;
, Make sure to explain the basics, unless you know all the writers in your group are at a higher level.


In other words, take time to go over how to start the piece, what the middle of the work should feel like/include, and how to tie it all together at the end.
The best way to teach different styles is to give an example (or several) of the writing type. If it is a longer genre, use an excerpt.
For instance, the best way to teach a villanelle is to teach a prime example of it, such as Dylan Thomas’s “Do Not Go Gentle into that Good Night.”
Having examples shows students how the genre is supposed to work and helps teach them what works well and what doesn’t.
 Explain each part of the writing type piece by piece.


For instance, in a story, talk about plot, characters, dialogue, and so on.
If it is a sonnet, talk about the rhyme scheme, the rhythm and meter, and metaphorical language.
In nonfiction, discuss what makes a good essay, such as hooking the reader at the beginning, using specific details, and having a theme.
 Different genres will need different language to fit their individual style.


Talk about how word choice can affect the tone of the story or poem, and how to choose words to enhance the story rather than detract from it.
For instance, using too many big words can distract the reader, as well as using slang not appropriate to the audience.
If you have time, try writing an example together with all the students contributing. You can pass a paper around, with each student adding on, or just write one on the board with students shouting out contributions.
During this time, encourage students to interact with each other. Consider setting group projects, such as giving them a piece of writing to analyze together and then present to the group. By having them work together, you’ll help them begin to get to know each other, which will help later during critique time.

