 If you’re not confident, fake it until you make it. Smile, try not to fidget and look your target directly in the eye when talking to him. These few steps are often all you need to do to subtly catch a guy’s interest.;
, Humor is one of the best ice-breakers on the planet. Throwing in a joke here and there shows that you are spontaneous, fun, and laid-back, all of which tells a guy you may be interested., Body language is the oft-forgotten secret weapon of flirting. Not only does it work, but it works subtly, letting a guy know subconsciously that you are interested. To flirt with your body:


Face your shoulders and hips towards him.
Play with your hair.
Make eye-contact.
Nod and smile as he talks.Avoid crossing your arms, looking away/down, or staring into space as he talks.
 Smiling is the number one way to flirt with someone.Show off your pearly whites every chance you get, and you’ll notice that he’ll be smiling too.
 Breaking the touch barrier between two people is a great way to separate flirtation from friendly conversation. Touch his shoulder or knee lightly, or put your hand briefly on his back as you get up to go the bathroom.


Feeling adventurous? Offer to play a quick game like patty-cake, slaps, or invent a secret handshake together.
 The quickest way to lose your future date is to fake your interest. Ask him questions about himself, laugh only when you think something is funny, and remember to feel natural. If you’re having a good time, chances are your flirting is successful. But if you cannot be genuinely nice to a guy, he probably is not the right fit for you.
 Never ask a guy about marriage, his last relationship, or if he wants kids. These are big, difficult questions that usually come up later in a relationship. Remember that flirting is supposed to be light and fun, not serious.


Religion, politics, and how much money he makes should all be avoided.
 Flirting can quickly go from fun to creepy if you don’t know when to leave. If he wants to go see his friends, keeps looking away and checking his watch, or starts giving one-word answers, it is time to back off and give him some space.

