 Whether you're back home for the summer or you're still in high school and haven't left your hometown, you probably know a good number of the people in your neighborhood. Start out by asking around and seeing if anyone in your neighborhood needs odd jobs done or knows someone who is hiring.Be sure to ask your parents, too. If they've been in the neighborhood for many years, they probably know many of the neighbors and will be in touch with what's going on in the neighborhood.;
, A great way to let people know that you're looking for a job or offering a service is by posting it on social media. Someone in your social network may need the service you're offering, or may know someone who does. By using the internet, you can vastly increase the amount of people you can reach, and taking advantage of this can help you make some good money.
 Depending on the type of work you're looking for, some of your potential clientele could be elderly and not be active on social media. In this case, you can advertise with the old fashion flyer approach. Hang these around areas that your target audience will visit, like churches, grocery stores, and post offices.


Read Make Your Own Advertising Posters for tips on designing your flyers and deciding where to place them.
 Whenever you advertise your search for work, you need to let people know why they should pay you for your services. Make sure to mention any prior experience you've had or any relevant skills that you could bring to this work.For example, if you're applying for a camp counselor job, you could mention that you spend a semester coaching little league. This will show that you have leadership skills and experience working with children.
 Lifeguard jobs are very popular with students over the summer because they hire seasonally, pay comparatively well (usually around $15/hour), and offer flexible hours. The downside, of course, is that being a lifeguard has a lot of responsibility, so this job may not be for you if you want easy money.Becoming a lifeguard usually requires taking a CPR course and learning basic first aid. This is good because you can put these skills on your resume to get jobs in the future.
When becoming a lifeguard, you can choose between working at a pool or beach. Beach lifeguards usually need stronger swimming and rescue skills, so keep that in mind.
 Restaurants usually hire more staff for the summers because their clientele increases. These jobs are popular because the hours tend to be flexible and you could potentially make a lot of money in tips. Look around your area and see if any restaurants are hiring wait staff.Remember that being a waiter or waitress requires balance, coordination, a good memory, and the ability to work under pressure.
 Many parents send their children to day or sleep away camps over the summer, and these camps hire workers seasonally. You could make money and some nice tips by finding a camp and working as a counselor overt the summer.Remember that skills like CPR training and other medical experience will bolster your resume for this job.
If you don't like spending time with children, this job may not be the best choice for you.
 If there is a golf course nearby, and you have an understanding of the game and some upper body strength, you can make good money as a golf caddy. The base pay is usually minimum wage, but golfers tend to tip their caddy nicely., During the summer, there is a demand for lawn cutting and other yard work. Your neighbors might be looking for someone to take care of their lawns over the summer, and you can take advantage of this need by offering your services.You can probably charge about $20-$25 per lawn. You can also add more if you do other work like pulling weeds, trimming shrubs, planting flowers, etc.
If you're looking for customers, try focusing on your elderly neighbors. They usually need help taking care of chores that they can't keep up with as well anymore.
There are also landscaping companies that hire seasonally, because demand for their services are higher. See if there are any of these nearby that are looking to hire.
 There is a huge demand for babysitters over the summer because kids are off from school, but parents might still work full time. If you like kids, this could be a great opportunity for you.Parents may want to see other skills besides the fact that you like kids. You should mention if you're CPR trained, have medical experience, know how to cook, etc. These kinds of skills and put you in much greater demand.
 Making money over the summer doesn't mean you can't enjoy your summer vacation. If you travel over the summer, you can make money by submitting articles to travel blogs. You probably won't make a lot of money per article you write, but if you submit several articles you could end up making a nice profit.Read Make Money Writing Online for more tips on writing online.
 Since people usually travel over the summer, you can make some good money by watching people's houses while they're away. This job usually involves taking in the mail, taking care of plants, cleaning up, and anything else the house might need while the owners are away.People will probably want to hire someone they know personally to watch their house, so it's better for you to ask neighbors you know well.
 Just like house sitting, people will also need someone to watch their pets when they travel. Sometimes this task is included in house sitting, while sometimes people just want someone to come over and walk their dog and put food out. Either way, it is usually an easy way to earn some quick money over the summer., Summer vacation is a popular time for parents to help their children catch up on schoolwork. If you're very good at a particular subject, you could offer your services to neighborhood parents.Tutors typically earn about $15-$20 per hour, so keep that in mind when setting your rates. Unless you're a certified instructor, parents may not be willing to pay any more for a student to tutor their children.