 To say grace in a Christian setting, there are several short common prayers frequently used, though no one is universal or more appropriate than another. In general, European and Catholic denominations will address meal-time prayers to God or "The Lord," while Evangelical Christians and other denominations that emphasize a personal relationship with Christ will address prayers to Jesus.There's no hard or fast rule about this, though, so speak from the heart.



Example: Bless this food to our bodies, Lord, and let us hold you in our hearts. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

Example: Bless us, oh Lord, and these your gifts which we are about to receive from your bounty. Through Christ our Lord we pray, Amen.
 For practitioners of Islam, it's common practice to recite a brief prayer of grace before the meal and after the meal. It's especially important to be quiet and do nothing else during the prayer but address Allah.Before the meal: Bismillahi wa 'ala baraka-tillah. (In Allah's name and upon the blessings granted by Allah, we eat.)

After the meal: Alham do lillah hilla-thee At Amana wa saquana waja 'alana minal Muslimeen. (All praise to Allah who gave us food and drink and who made us Muslims.)

, There are many separate blessings for particular items of food such a fish, meat, and vegetables, though a Jewish meal is said to be incomplete if it does not include bread. Birkat hamazon, or the "Grace after Meals," is typically recited to one's self after a meal including bread or matzoh is finished, and is printed in most Hebrew prayer books, to be sung aloud at formal gatherings. It's common to recite in either full or annotated form, if pressed for time. In a formal setting, the leader will start the prayer and the group will respond.It's a semi-complicated text, made up of four distinct blessings:



The meal: Baruch Eloheinu she-achalnu mishelo uv'tuvo chayinu. Baruch hu uvaruch sh'mo. (Praised be our God, of whose abundance we have eaten, and by whose goodness we live. Praised be the Eternal God.)

The land: Kakatuv, v'achalta v'savata, uveirachta et Adonai Elohecha al haaretz hatovah asher natan lach. Baruch atah Adonai, al haaretz v'al hamazon. (As it is written: When you have eaten and are satisfied, give praise to your God who has given you this good earth. We praise You, O God, for the earth and for its sustenance.)

Jerusalem: Uv'neih Y'rushalayim ir hakodesh bimheirah v'yameinu. Baruch atah Adonai, boneh v'rachamav Y'rushalayim. Amen. (Let Jerusalem, the holy city, be renewed in our time. We praise You, Adonai, in compassion You rebuild Jerusalem. Amen.)

God: HaRachaman, hu yimloch aleinu l'olam va-ed. HaRachaman, hu yitbarach bashamayim uvaaretz. HaRachaman, hu yishlach b'rachah m'rubah babayit hazeh, v'al shulchan zeh she-achalnu alav. HaRachaman, hu yishlach lanu et Eliyahu HaNavi, zachur latov, vivaser lanu b'sorot tovot, y'shuot v'nechamot. (Merciful One, be our God forever. Merciful One, heaven and earth alike are blessed by Your presence. Merciful One, bless this house, this table at which we have eaten. Merciful One, send us tidings of Elijah, glimpses of good to come, redemption and consolation.)

, Hindu traditions are largely regional and vary widely, and it would be impossible to distill into a single traditional prayer for mealtime. Personal mantras are common before-meal prayers, as well as recitations from the Bhagavad Gita (specifically the 4th chapter). A typical example might look something like this:


Brahmārpaṇam brahma havir (Brahman is the oblation)
Brahmāgnau brahmanāhutam (Brahman is what constitutes the offerings)
Brahmaiva tena gantavyam (by Brahman is the oblation poured into the fire of Brahman)
Brahma karma samādhinā. (Brahman verily shall be reached by him who always sees Brahman in all actions.)

, At many different tables, including Buddhist, Quaker, and secular humanist traditions, a brief period of silence before meals is used to center the self, quiet the mind, and let in the light. To pray quietly both as a group and as individuals, take hands and bow your heads in silence, and still your thoughts. After a few moments, squeeze hands as a group to signal the end of the prayer, and commence the meal.

