 You may be surprised at how often you think about that person. It may be irritating to you and difficult to distract yourself from.If your thoughts are very romantic and obsessive about that person, or if they cause you dread and anxiety inducing feelings of near panic, you may be infatuated.


For example, you might say to your friend "I can't stop thinking about this person!";
, If you have major mood swings depending on how you think the person you like feels about you, you may be infatuated. You may feel utter joy and sheer happiness, if you think the person likes you back. Or, if you don't get enough of a response from them, or you think that the person does not like you back, you can become completely dejected, sad or upset.


Also, you switch between the two emotions very quickly. At one moment you entertain the possibility of your feelings being reciprocated, but at the very next moment you hit a wall of fear when you consider something new and decide that the person could not possibly feel the same way about you.
 You imagine that your life from now on will involve this person, and you find yourself redefining your life in the big picture in terms of this new person. If you believe that your bond is forever with someone you have recently started having feeling romantic feelings for, you may be infatuated. , A person who is infatuated will typically have romantic feelings for that one person. Additionally, the infatuated person will want to be the only person for the person they desire., In a report, studies showed that 87% of people who were infatuated desired their love object sexually. Having sex, however, was not the main, driving part of the people’s desire for the person they were infatuated with. Most often, the people who were infatuated wanted to share an emotional connection with that person above anything else., People who are infatuated typically only notice the good things in the person they have feelings for. They also do not seem to notice or care about the negative qualities of that person. They may be able to tell you about the bad qualities of the person they are infatuated with; however, they will not feel very convinced that those qualities are important.


This quality of infatuation can become dangerous. Because, you may notice that you are with someone who does not suit you well after the initial infatuation period is over.

