 There are a variety of eating disorders, but all are characterized by an unhealthy relationship to food. Excessive attention to what you’re eating, calorie counting, excessive exercise, and binging and/or purging are the hallmarks of eating disorders. If you obsess about your body weight or worry that you’re too fat or too thin, you probably have an eating disorder.Since eating disorders can be difficult to solve alone, consult a trained therapist if you struggle with body-image issues or have an eating disorder.
Seek help from a support group related to your specific eating disorder or to eating disorders generally. Find a meeting near you through organizations like Eating Disorders Anonymous or the National Eating Disorders Association.;
, Resisting hunger is not the same as resisting starvation. Neither is it the same as resisting the urge to eat even when you’re full. In order to resist hunger, you must first understand its defining features. These include:Thinking about food
A growling stomach
Mental plans to eat soon
Starvation, by contrast, is characterized by low blood sugar levels, jitteriness, and/or a sense of lightheadedness. Starving feels uncomfortable.
Be aware of your own body and its food-related feedback. If you are satisfied or full, put down the fork and do not continue eating. If you are hungry, it is important to eat a healthy meal.
Develop an intuitive and friendly relationship with your appetite by knowing the difference between real hunger and simple food cravings.
 Ride your bike, read a book, or have an interesting conversation with a friend. Instead of focusing over your hunger, redirect your attention elsewhere.


Don’t do anything you find boring, or you will have a hard time not focusing on your hunger. Studying tedious subjects or doing difficult work are not good activities when trying to distract yourself from hunger.
Try to engage senses unrelated to food.Hunger is often inspired by the sight, smell, or taste of food. Redirect your senses by, for instance, putting some music on. Sing along and get into the groove. Learn the lyrics if you don't know them yet.
Visual distractions are also useful. For instance, playing a video game might help reduce intrusive thoughts of food.
 If you’re trying to lose weight, for instance, think about how your unsatisfied hunger indicates that you’re losing weight. If you’re fasting, think about how staying true to the fast will grant you spiritual strength and improve your willpower.


You could also feel thankful about how much time you’re saving by not eating and spending time in the hot kitchen.
Think about a time you ate too much and had a stomachache. Recalling this experience might help you resist hunger.
 Using this method, there’s no need to take extra steps to distract yourself from your hunger. Instead, just live your life until the hunger has subsided. Remember, hunger doesn’t last forever. Once you learn to let your feelings of hunger pass, you’ll enter a state where (at least temporarily) you are not hungry.

