 Some people think that they have to act like someone else in order to get a person to like them. However, this is really just tricking that person into thinking you are someone that you are not.


Show your boyfriend your real personality by sharing your interests and hobbies, sharing jokes that you think are funny, sharing what type of music you like, and acting in a way that feels comfortable for you.
Do not apologize for who you are! If your boyfriend does not understand or appreciate your personality, then perhaps he is not the right guy for you to be dating.
 Although some people claim to not be creative at all, everyone is creative in unique ways. If it feels challenging for you to communicate verbally, another way to get comfortable around your boyfriend is to express yourself creatively.


Show him artwork that you created, songs that you wrote, poetry that you wrote, and things of that nature.
If you are into technology, you could tell him about a video game, website, or app that you are designing.
 Girls especially struggle with this. There is often a feeling of always needing to look perfect when around your boyfriend. However, displaying confidence even when you do not look perfect helps you to relax around him.If you are a girl, do not be afraid to spend time with him without any makeup. In fact, many boys and men prefer the way girls and women look without makeup as opposed to with it.
Wear clothing that feels comfortable to you. You do not always have to dress to impress; wearing jeans and a t-shirt or even sweatpants, if you are hanging out at home, is perfectly acceptable.
 One of the most important aspects of any relationship is friendship. The strongest couples are also friends, so if you were not already friends with your boyfriend prior to dating, then build a friendship with him.


Especially when first starting to date someone, it is tempting to act differently around him than you would around your friends. However, showing him the personality and side of yourself that your friends see will help you to feel more comfortable around him more quickly.

