 This may include complaints regarding real estate agents, complaints related to advertising and marketing of real estate, or anything else connected with the sale of real estate in Nevada.
 You can find information regarding this agency at www.red.nv.gov. On the home page, you will see a list of “Quick Links” on the right half of the screen. Select “File a Complaint” in the middle of that list., The Nevada Real Estate Division lists three different categories of complaints that you may file. Each one has its own forms that are associated with the complaint.Use the “Complaint Form,” Form 514, to complain about a real estate licensee or permit holder. This includes property managers, real estate agents, appraisers, or anyone else related to the business of real estate that is licensed by the state.
Use the “Statement of Fact Against a Community Manager,” Form 514a, to complain about a community manager or registrant of the real estate division.
Use the Intervention Affidavit, Form 530 and Form 530a (instructions), to file a complaint against a homeowner’s association, board member or unit owner. This affidavit form must be notarized before you submit it.
 Read each form and its instructions carefully. Fill it out legibly or typed. Make sure that you include all required information, or your complaint may not be accepted.Be sure that you sign the complaint or affidavit, and provide correct contact information so the Real Estate Division can contact you later.
 Read the complaint form for the address or fax number for the office to receive your complaint. Be sure to send the complaint to the correct address, or your complaint may not get acted on., You may contact this office at 702-486-4033 for office locations or to make an appointment to speak with an investigator. You may wish to do this if you need help deciding the appropriate complaint form that you need, completing the form, or to ask other related questions., After you have delivered your complaint, it will then be handled by the Nevada Real Estate Division. You may be contacted to provide additional details. In some instances, you might be asked to testify if the Real Estate Division elects to open an investigation based on your submission. If you have not heard anything after a few weeks, you may contact the Real Estate Division to check on the progress of your complaint.