 Employer abuse of sponsored guest workers is alarmingly widespread, but it isn’t universal, and it can take many forms. Since you’re going to want to gather evidence to support your claim (and different evidence supports different violations), you need to decide which provisions of the visa agreement your employer is violating. Some common violations include:


Docking your paycheck to cover the visa filing fees, transportation, attorney’s fees related to the visa, or penalties for leaving employment early.Paying you less than was agreed upon in the Labor Condition Application, or less than a similarly situated American worker.
Withholding paystubs or other employment information.
(For H2A workers) Not providing safe transportation or housing.Wage theft (not paying you for the hours you worked).
 Unfortunately, it’s usually much harder to prove an employer’s violation of the terms of a visa than it is to prove someone overstayed their visa. Most of the time, you’re going to need some kind of documentation to show the violations you’re alleging occurred.Different kinds of documents and records prove different kinds of violations. If you suspect wage theft, meticulously record your clock-in and clock-out times. If your employer is refusing to hand over relevant documents, record their refusals. If your transportation or housing is substandard, take pictures over a series of days.
In addition, you’ll need the name and address of the company, the payroll schedule, the type of work you did, and the manager or owner’s name.
 Your employer may be civilly liable for any of the above violations. Many large corporations, including Disney and Tata, have recently been found liable for violations related to their sponsored guest workers.Before you initiate a complaint, consult with an attorney to determine exactly how to proceed.


If you cannot afford an attorney, contact Legal Aid at http://www.lsc.gov/what-legal-aid/find-legal-aid and speak with them to find a free or low cost attorney in your area.
 Even though the terms of your employment might be set by the Labor Condition Application in your visa, you report the violations to the Department of Labor’s Wage and Hour Division instead of ICE. There are many ways to initiate the complaint process, including:Filing a complaint online. Simply go to http://webapps.dol.gov/contactwhd/default.aspx and fill out the form using the information you gathered.
Calling them. The Wage and Hour Hotline is open from 8 am-8 pm EST, call them at 1-866-4-USWAGE.
Visit a local office. There are more than 200 Wage and Hour offices around the country. Find the closest one at https://www.dol.gov/whd/america2.htm.

