 Read both this and other lists.Throughout your observations and assessments, keep an eye out for the following characteristics consistent with ASDs.
 Signs in this area include:


Disengagement, due to a disinterest in others, or because interaction is too stressful/complicated. Prefers to play alone or with only a few trusted people.
Hiding behind furniture, rolling up in a blanket, or backing into a corner. Engaging basically in avoidance behavior.
Avoiding eye contact.
Not imitating the adult, or having a lack of expression, facial or otherwise.
Avoiding touch, or disliking certain types of touch (e.g. likes hugs, but disturbed by a hand on the shoulder or by being touched from behind)
Confused about reciprocity (such as rolling a ball to once person and then having them roll it back).
Not recognizing appropriate behavior (e.g. not saying "hi" when someone says "hi" to them)
Hard time following directions; becomes easily confused or overwhelmedLittle to no recognition of facial expressions, voice inflections or any general social behavior. Do not confuse compliance with understanding.
 Signs in this area include:


Having either delayed speech development, unusual speech development, or not using speech at all. This includes a child who has begun to speak, and later loses that ability, or a child who can usually speak but stops talking when stressed.
Some autistic children quickly develop nuanced vocabularies and understanding of grammar.
Observing that the child understands words by following simple instructions, but not using words of his or her own.
Repeats words or sounds (echolalia), or in creates a non-existent language or words (neologisms).
Child learns to read before learning to speak, or seems to understand written words better than spoken ones.
 Signs in this area include:


Having a sensitivity to texture, most often observed by avoidance of certain types of clothing. This includes a propensity to pull at or remove clothing. The child may develop a rash if they wear anything except cotton.
Having strong reactions to certain smells, textures, tones, voices, volume, or anything disruptive to the senses.
 Signs here include:


Engaging in self-stimulatory behavior (stimming), such as rocking, finger play in front of the eyes, flapping arms, pacing, or other unusual actions.
Severe distress when an item of preference, such as a toy, is moved even a small distance. Resistance or extreme upset at change is a more general statement for this.
Having a significant behavioral change after consuming a dairy or wheat product (casein or gluten). Some autistic people have an allergic reaction to the proteins in wheat and/or dairy.

