 Confidence is a necessary part of keeping someone's attention for a longer period of time. If you struggle with having confidence in yourself, it will no doubt manifest itself in the way you act and talk. Having confidence is essential in succeeding with most social interactions. Make a habit of stomping out any negative thoughts you may have towards yourself, and try to replace them with positive thoughts. Even if you don't believe the positive self-affirmations at first, simply thinking them will have a noticeable effect on the way you feel.Make a list of the things you like most about yourself. Now's not the time to be modest! Whether it's something you like about yourself or something you've done you feel proud about, there's already a ton you could fill up a page with. At the end, you can look at the list and know you have reasons to feel confident.
Comparing yourself with other people won't get you anywhere. If you really want to distract someone else, you can't be thinking negatively about yourself while you're at it.
 Eventually, even the best distraction will run out of steam. To keep up with distracting someone, your best bet is to switch up your plans. If you've been doing something like playing a video game for example, it's a good idea to do something else once you think the other person is beginning to get restless. Even the most enjoyable activity will become less stimulating over time.


You can always go back to something that really worked at a later point if the distraction needs to span the course of days.
 The power of belief is strong, and a person's perception can be changed if they are led to believe in something. Understanding how powerful and therapeutic a distraction can be a strong motivation if you're trying to help out a friend.


By understanding the role of placebos, you should also know that they don't work if the person is aware that you're consciously trying to distract them. If they think you're saying or doing something purely to keep their mind occupied, it's not likely to be successful.
 Even a while after the need for a distraction has ceased, it's a good idea to check back and see what the person's experience was. Sometimes, you may find that the other person was simply buying into your activity because he thought it was what you wanted. Other times, you'll find the distraction worked. It's not recommended to tell the person you did those things purely with the intent of distraction, but it is good to reflect on the experience and whether you think it worked out.


You should approach a follow-up carefully. Without making it obvious that you were intentionally trying to distract the person, you could say something along the lines of "How do you think you managed in hindsight?" Don't reference yourself in any part of the question. This will make it seem like you had some active role to play in the distraction.

