 Open your suitcase and vacuum the inside using a crevice attachment. Carefully get rid of the dust, crumbs, and other debris. Use your fingers to pick debris out of places your vacuum can’t reach;
, Dissolve ½ teaspoon (2.46 mL) of liquid dish soap in one cup (120 mL) of warm water. Dunk a clean cloth in the dish soap and water solution and wring out the cloth. Use the slightly damp cloth to wipe down the inside of your suitcase.Be very careful that the cloth isn’t too wet.
 Use a clean towel to dry the interior of your suitcase. Carefully blot up any especially wet spots. Leave it open to let it air dry for a day or two., Pick between clay kitty litter, baking soda, freshly ground coffee, or active charcoal. All will work equally well. Make your decision based on cost and which material you most want to work with., Dump enough kitty litter to fill your suitcase about halfway. Sprinkle very liberal amounts of baking soda or coffee grounds to cover the entire bottom of the suitcase. With the charcoal, add a few lumps to the suitcase. Close your suitcase and leave it for about a week., After a week, open your suitcase and check that the smell is gone. Carefully dump the material in the garbage. Vacuum up any remaining material.If some smell remains, put a small bowl of baking soda in your suitcase and close it up for another few days.
 Combine white vinegar and water in a 1:3 ratio. Put this in a spray bottle. Use it to spray the inside of your suitcase. Leave the suitcase open and let the vinegar and water solution air dry.

You can try this with lemon juice instead of vinegar.
 Use enough newspaper to fill the whole inside of the suitcase. Close the lid and leave it for a week or two. Speed up the odor absorption by replacing the newspaper every few days.Add some active charcoal to accelerate the absorption process.
 Put a piece of white bread in a shallow bowl. Pour white vinegar over the bread to saturate it. Put the bowl in your suitcase and shut the suitcase. Let it sit for 24 hours to absorb the smell., Also make sure there is good ventilation where you store your suitcase. Cover a cloth-sided suitcase with a cloth to help prevent mildew. Air it out every couple of months to prevent the musty smell from returning.
 Place a dryer sheet or an opened bar of soap in the suitcase when you store it. Change the dryer sheet or bar of soap when you air out the suitcase every few months. You can also spray it down with your vinegar and water solution when you air it out.You can also put unwrapped and unlit scented candles or a small jar of coffee beans in your suitcase to keep it smelling fresh.
 Store your suitcase with cedar shavings. You can also use pine shavings. These will absorb smells and the moisture that leads to the musty smell. Replace these every couple of months.