 The wall must be able to hold the diaper as you are applying it to the wearer.;
, Take it out of the package and unruffle the static cling from the railing sides from the diaper's containment zone.
 Rip the dirty diaper off the person, as removal is necessary. Grab the adhesive tape tabs on either side of the front panel and pull. Pull the diaper tapes off from the front of the old diaper.


Most adult disposable diaper tabs-style company normally advise the wearer and caregiver to remove both tapes from the top, and later remove the two tapes from the bottom. However, as long as the old diaper comes off, it really doesn't matter what order you remove the tapes from the diaper with this method.
 It will drop off of the wearer. If you'd like, you may hold the diaper near the wearer's crotch. After the bottom portion has dropped to the wearer's knees, you may pull the diaper gently off of both of the wearer's legs. You will want to roll up the front of the diaper into the back tightly and use the four tapes to seal the bundle so urine and fecal smell cannot get out. Roll used wipes and gloves into the bundle as well.
, Prop the new diaper up against the wall, so that the back of the pant is shown to be on top of the front, and so that only the outer plastic isn't well seen.Don't allow the wearer to step backwards quite yet. The adjustment of the diaper to the wall is a critical step in getting just the right fit of the diaper to the wearer.


Make sure the pant is hanging freely to avoid other potential problems later.
Allow a caregiver to assist the wearer, if one is available.
 Grab the diaper at the one side (holding the diaper firmly up to the wall with both of the helper's hands by the end).


If there is no second helper nearby, try to hold the diaper to the wall one-handed (with your thumb and index fingers steadying the one side of the diaper, extend the other fingers of your hand and hold the diaper steady) while the wearer is forced to do the caregivers work on top of doing their own work that the caregiver would have advised them to do otherwise.
Visualize the height of the placement of the diaper on the wall, being worn at about the height of the wearer's waist.
 If the wearer is yourself, you will need to step back now. Release the diaper from between your hands, once you feel the wearer is firmly standing up against the wall (and thereby you should feel the wearer's skin touch the diaper unless the wearer has been known to quickly move away without prior notice).
, If the caregiver isn't around, the wearer must do this one-handed, as the wearer must touch and pull up and around the center panel of the front panel of the diaper.
 Pull the diaper tapes until they are both taut to the diaper's front panel. It must be a tight but comfortable fit, to still be wearable on the wearer's body.


If at any point the diaper starts to pull away and starts to release the side tapes from each other, you'll hear a slight static sound. Stop using this diaper, and replace this diaper with a brand new diaper. You may have inadvertently pulled too hard on the tapes when securing them around the front panel of the diaper. To avoid the possibility of even further breakage (and thereby leakage), don't use this "broken" diaper.
It doesn't matter if you start with the top tape first, or the bottom tape.
The diaper-tapes should be placed snugly on the person's belly. The general rule of thumb for assuring snugness for an adult disposable diaper is that: If you can get only one of your fingers of one of your hands in between a secured diaper (fastened with the attached tapes), the diaper is secure enough. If you can fit more, it's not snug enough. If you can't fit any, it's too tight. Care must be taken not to fasten the diaper too tightly around the legs.
 Secure the other sides' diaper tapes in place.
 If you don't do this, it will cause the diaper's chemicals to not "activate" if and when the wearer urinates into them, and thereby will allow the water to flow out of the diaper and onto the surrounding surfaces.


To prevent leakage in the diaper, always remember to unruffle the sides of the diaper using one of your hands' thumbs and pinkies, as you push the side ruffles outward a bit (no matter what type of diaper you wear (whether it be pull-up style or not)).

