 Most cats should be spayed or neutered at an early age. The cat will be tamer and desexing decreases the risk of your cat developing certain cancers, such as uterine tumors in female cats. Most vets will not spay or neuter your kitty until they weigh about two pounds, so discuss the right time with your vet.In addition to the health benefits of getting your cat desexed, you will not have to deal with a female cat going into heat, and a male cat will be less likely to spray in your home and roam outside looking for a mate.
The only cats that should not be fixed are those that are intentionally being used for breeding. These should be purebred cats that are being bred by experienced and ethical breeders.
 In order to raise a cat properly, you need to provide it with regular veterinary care. When a cat is young, it typically only needs to have an annual exam, in which the veterinarian checks its overall health and updates any vaccines or medications that it needs. Once your cat gets old, it will likely need veterinary checkups more often, usually every six months.Veterinary checkups can seem like a waste of money if your cat is generally healthy, but it can actually save you money in the long run. Finding a health problem early on and getting early treatment for a serious illness can really reduce your costs, along with your cat's pain and suffering.
 When bringing your cat in for a checkup, discuss flea medications and vaccinations with your veterinarian. For flea medications, they will most likely recommend a regular flea repellent treatment, such as Frontline and Trifexis, that you will apply at home. It is important to keep up to date with this medication so that your cat does not experience a flea infestation.


Get the vaccinations and vaccination boosters that your veterinarian suggests. Your veterinarian will make suggestions based on your cat's risk of exposure and the health history of your cat. The veterinarian may suggest vaccinations for panleukopenia, herpesvirus, calicivirus, rabies, feline leukemia, chlamydiosis, infectious peritonitis, immunodeficiency, bordetella, and giardiasis.