 The important thing to consider is how quickly you can move from one exercise to the other. If you’re at home, you probably can’t quickly move from lifting weights to swimming or riding a bike (unless you have a stationary bike). If you’re at a gym, your options are more diverse. You should choose a balance of resistance training and aerobic exercise.


Resistance training includes lifting weights, squats, arm raises, pull-ups, and other exercises that primarily burn fat and strengthen bones.
Aerobic (or cardio) exercises primarily gets the heart pumping. These exercises include running, biking, and swimming, among others.
Your exercises should also work a variety of muscle groups.Choose exercises that work your lower body, upper body, core, and total body in equal amounts.
Make sure that when you organize your circuit you are alternating between major muscle groups. If you do pushups, for instance, your next exercise should not engage the same muscles — try doing squats instead to engage your lower body.;
, But how intense do you want to get? Do you want to operate at 70%, 80%, or 90% of your maximum ability? While these values are subjective, it is important to be aware of and think about your own physical limitations, and select an intensity level that pushes you to work hard, but within your range of capabilities.


One way to estimate your own intensity levels is the “talk test.” To perform the talk test, try holding a conversation while performing an exercise on your circuit. If you’re performing at about 80% of your heart rate’s maximum, you should find it hard or very hard to hold a conversation and you should notice shortness of breath or heavy breathing. You should be perspiring.
Avoid operating at 100% of your physical ability. You shouldn’t risk collapse and/or injury due to the intensity of your exercise.
 With some exercises (pull-ups, for example), it’s best to just do as many reps as possible, since the number of each exercise you’re able to do changes as you move through the circuit.


For instance, the first time you do your circuit, you might have no problem doing 15 or 16 pull-ups at a high intensity. By the time you’ve cycled through all your exercises and arrived at the pull-up bar again, however, you might only have the stamina for 10 or 12 pull-ups.
After choosing how long to perform each exercise, choose how long you want to rest.
The typical HICT workout recommends 30 seconds to two minutes per exercise (some exercises, like burpees, take longer to execute), followed by 10 seconds of rest or stretching before heading into the next exercise.
 In order to get a full workout, you’ll need to repeat the circuit at least once. A circuit that is well thought-out should get repeated three or four times.
 As you become more capable of enduring HICT workouts, you might add a second or third.


Do not do more than two HICT workouts each week. That way, you’ll have time to recover between HICT sessions. Remember, the heart is a muscle too, and needs time to recover. Any high-intensity workout should be performed only twice a week unless you are an athlete.

