 Medicaid is a state and federal government program that assists low-income individuals with a variety of medical care, including nursing home care. You can only qualify for Medicaid if you fall below the monthly income and asset limits set by your state.You can determine whether you meet the eligibility requirements for your state at: https://www.healthcare.gov/medicaid-chip/getting-medicaid-chip/

If you qualify for Medicaid, you can apply online at https://www.healthcare.gov/medicaid-chip/getting-medicaid-chip/ or check the website for the address of your state Medicaid office and apply in person.
 If your assets are currently too high to qualify for Medicaid and you want to protect your personal assets from nursing home expenses, you can consider legally reducing your assets in order to qualify for Medicaid.


Before attempting to reduce or transfer your assets, you should speak with an elder law attorney. Medicaid has very strict rules about what assets can be transferred and what purchases are allowable to reduce your income. If you improperly reduce your assets, Medicaid can penalize you for months to years and prohibit your qualification for the program.The National Association of Elder Law Attorneys has information about elder law specialists on its website at: https://www.naela.org. The American Bar Association also provides attorney referral information at: http://apps.americanbar.org/legalservices/findlegalhelp/home.cfm.
 In order to qualify for Medicaid, you can reduce your assets by:


Paying off debt, such as a mortgage, student loans or credit cards;
Paying for in-home medical care;
Paying for necessary home repairs, such as a new roof or furnace; Transfer funds to your spouse for his or her benefit; or
Transfer funds or set up a trust for your blind or disabled child or for a disabled person under the age of 65., With a Medicaid Asset Trust, you transfer all of your assets into a trust and give up control over those assets. Any funds placed in the trust do not count towards the Medicaid asset limits. However, if you transfer funds into the trust within 5 years of applying for Medicaid, you may be subject to Medicaid’s “lookback provision.” Under this provision, Medicaid may penalize any person that it determines conducted a non-exempt transfer under the Medicaid regulations. If you are penalized, you may not be able to qualify for Medicaid for months or even years.