 The Civil Cover Sheet is required to initiate legal proceedings.Enter your name and address in the "Plaintiff Name and Current Address" field and leave the "Defendant" and "Docket #" fields blank.


Place an "X" in the box next to "Name Change" in the "Other Civil" section of the "Nature of Suit" section of the form. Leave the "Related Case(s) If Any" and "Amount in Controversy" fields blank and sign as Pro Se Litigant on the line at the bottom of the form.
Be sure to fill in the date as well.
 You can leave the "Civil Action Case No." field blank. You will be assigned a case number when you file the petition.


Be sure to write in the child's current full first, middle, and last names in the correct field, then your desired full first, middle, and last names in the correct field.
Give the child's physical address of residence including county name where prompted. Do not give a P.O. box.
Include the city, country, state, and country of the minor's birth where prompted.
You will sign the petition on behalf of your minor child. Print your name beneath your signature and be sure to give a current phone number and address—you can use a P.O box here.
This form must also be notarized.
 If both parents of the minor child agree to the name change, but only one parent is filing the petition, have the non-filing parent fill out this form. This form must also be notarized., This form will be submitted to the newspaper when you publish notice of your intention to change the minor's name in accordance with Wyoming law. Complete the form to have ready for the newspaper when you set up the publication. Leave the date and signature fields blank—the clerk of court will complete these fields before you bring the form to the newspaper.Victims of domestic violence are not required to publish notice of their name change. Check with your clerk of court if you are a victim for instructions on how the process is different for you.
 If both parents are not filing the petition together, the non-filing parent must have sufficient notice. This can be accomplished by having the sheriff serve the non-filing parent with papers, which requires a Summons and Return for Minor Name Change form.You can bypass formal summons by having the non-filing parent accept service. In this case, the non-filing parent must sign a Acknowledgment and Acceptance of Service form in the presence of the clerk of court or a notary.
If the non-filing parent cannot be located, you can publish notice of the name change in the newspaper in addition to the publication of notice already required. You will need an Affidavit for Service by Publication, an Order for Service by Publication, a Notice of Publication, and an Affidavit Following Service by Publication.
 File your completed forms with the clerk of court. Be sure to make copies for yourself. You will also have to pay a filing fee of $70-$100. At this point, you will receive a case number. You will then be able to bring your Public Notice by Publication form to your local newspaper to publish your notice (at least once per week for four consecutive weeks). You are responsible for the publication fee., If you are not filing the name change with the minor child's other parent, you will need to give the non-filing parent notice. They have 30 days to respond. If the non-filing parent fails to respond, you will need to have a default entered into the case record. To do this, you will need a notarized Affidavit for Entry of Default, an Application for Entry of Default, and an Entry of Default., Bring an Order Granting Change of Name form filled out with the date and signature fields left blank along with the Affidavit of Publication and copies of all other forms (just in case) to the clerk of courts. The judge will sign the order and send it to you by mail. In some cases, you may need to attend a hearing. The clerk of courts will direct you should this be necessary.