 This is useful for two reasons: A) You'll be less nervous when the actual test rolls around (which can be rather detrimental to your grade) and B) you'll do better. A recent study at UC Berkeley showed that students who were tested on information they just learned actually did better than those who were asked to document what they were learning.So write up a pre-test and have your friend do the same! Then you can grade it for each other and reap the benefits. And if you can get your study group in on it, all the better. The more real it feels, the more prepared you'll feel and be when test day arrives.
 This is good for the exact same two reasons as stated in the previous step. You want to be as calm and relaxed as possible, and reviewing right before the test will do that. What's more, you'll retain the information (remember how the brain is clearer right when you wake up?). So on your way to class, whip out those flashcards for the last time.


Only hit up the simple stuff (only revise simple concepts). Trying to wrap your brain around the large, difficult concepts when you have ten minutes on your walk won't do you any favors. You'll end up psyching yourself out -- the opposite effect of what you want! Just prime your brain for the content.
 Some people go so far as to meditate before class. Yoga helps, too! Anything that relaxes your breathing and gets you in the zone will be helpful. What would get you in the right place?


Consider listening to classical music. Though it doesn't make you smarter like some people (used to) believe, it can improve your memory. If you want to get super specific, listen to music that's 60 BPM. That's when the benefits will be highest. Natural background noise generators that let you play rain, wind, water or a calm fire crackling have the same beneficial effect and help you getting in the zone.
 If you're running, running, running, you'll be stressed out, even if you know your stuff. Show up early, get out your materials, ask a friend questions (and have them do the same), slip in some gum, and settle in. It's time to rock this bad boy.
 An easy way to get stressed out and lose your cool is to focus on questions you don't know the answers to. You start worrying about the clock and thinking about how you didn't study enough. Don't fall into the trap -- move on to what you do know. Then you can hit the hard stuff dead on.


The more time you spend on a question, the more time you risk second guessing yourself. You want to trust your intuitions. You worked hard! Never doubt yourself.Ensure that you revisit your work afterwards

