 It is always a good idea to make sure you are one step ahead of your enemies.


Always activate the network to view radar data. (This does not happen on Easy mode, but only once with a required cutscene.)
Keep your eyes on both the radar feed and your surroundings in the 3D general view. If you notice an enemy, but not in their field of vision, you can fall back and run for cover.
Be aware that your footsteps can be heard on certain materials. Keep focused on that material you seem to be "happy" about.;
, You don't need to attract attention to yourself by an un-suppressed firearm.


The choking method (when no weapons are equipped) is always a great way of silently killing your enemies.
Using a tranquilizer can also help, as not only can it drive unsuspecting enemies to sleep, but also is suppressed.
When using weapons, always conserve ammo in case you need that ammo for larger groups.
If you have no ammo in any guns, and choking is not an option, using martial art like moves can also help you out of a situation. If you fail to knock out a soldier, or flee after the soldier gets up, you will be in caution status, and that also brings reinforcements.
 It may just control your character, but your controller can also be an advantage when using certain items, or being found out by an enemy.


Your controller has a vibration function to assist Snake and Raiden on enemy movements.
Using the heartbeat sensor will lose the ability for other vibration functions while equipped.
If you are unable to determine your controller's actions, you should be on high alert.
The controller can also be your lifesaver for a tragic event, like holding your breath during a choke event, or preventing drowning. (While underwater, tap the Triangle button repeatedly to prevent fast O2 drainage.)

, They will raise you to caution status if any are found.


Try using storage rooms that are restricted by level keys. It's also best to hide them in dark rooms or inside closets.
Make sure nobody else is around when moving them. You are defenceless while carrying bodies.
You must be unequipped of your weapon in hand to move the body.
 Believe it or not, you can survive longer if using evasive maneuvers in large gangs.


These maneuvers also knocks down an enemy in your direction. Surely you'll be shot at, but that will prevent being ganged on.
Try evasive maneuvers in multiple directions. One direction will get you shot at much more faster.
 Make sure you've lost sight before saving.


The frequency for saves is 140.96.
Always save over your save file, unless you intend to make a new save. This conserves space in your system.
Make sure to save frequently. If you have low health, regenerate your health to about 25% before saving.
Avoid being near any enemy before saving. Though nobody but you can hear the conversations.

