 Begin working on emotionally and mentally preparing yourself for a shift in relationship status. Instead of the "forever alone" mentality that sometimes comes along with a break up, think of it as a much-needed rest from the rigors of the relationship you've been fighting for.Try and change the word "single" in your mind into "free" and changing negative thinking into more positive thinking.Think about the bad parts of the relationship, and how it would feel to live free of those.
Make a list of all the possible good things that you can think of about being free from that relationship as well as being free to be you in general.
 You may feel down or sad about the ending of your relationship, and that's okay. Allow yourself to grieve the end of your time with your partner. Be kind to yourself and remind yourself that you were just not a good fit for each other. Don't let the impending break up cause you to become sorry for yourself or depressed about your life.Love yourself the way you want to be loved, and treat yourself the way you deserve to be treated., In many societies there seems to be a higher value set to being in a relationship or being married than being on your own.Due to that, and the pressure that comes along with it, people can get into relationships that are not healthy for them, or stay in relationships that don't make them happy. Have high standards, and keep them high.You are worth it!


Ask yourself, "Didn't I feel lonely in this relationship anyway?"
Remind yourself that being single or free from this relationship does not mean you are alone. You still have people in your life that are there for the long haul and truly care about your happiness.
 Create a mental or physical picture (draw, paint, collage, write, etc) of yourself and your life in the near future. Think about how your life would look with no traces of your soon-to-be-ex in it; with you happy and content.Being able to clearly visualize future changes will help give you something to work towards fulfilling while you work through the impending break up.


What would you like to do? Is there a place you have been wanting to visit or see?
What would you eat? Is there a restaurant or a type of food you liked but did have because he didn't like it?
Who would you like to be with? Are there friends you have lost contact with? A dream relationship you have in your mind?

, People in relationships often get so enmeshed with their partner that they forget parts of who they are and become defined by the other person.As you are preparing for the break up, rediscover that person again. Try to spend time thinking about how awesome you are, and remembering all the incredible parts of you that may have gotten lost while you were in this relationship.


Make a list of the qualities that make you, you; focusing on the positives.
Think about your strengths. Rediscover hobbies or interests that you may have been neglecting.
Choose to see this as an opportunity to reevaluate what you really want out of a relationship.