 Not only do cats enjoy clicker training but it also reinforces wanted behaviors. The cat becomes trained to associate the click with a positive reward, and begins to reduce their fearful behaviors through positive reinforcement.Not only does the animal enjoy it, but they see the treat as a sign of love and affection.


Choose a reward that your cat will want such as fishy treats, smoked turkey cold cuts, or a toy the cat really enjoys. Reserve this incentive only for the clicker training.
Charge the clicker by showing the cat that they will receive a treat each time they hear the click.
Each time the animal displays wanted behaviors, reward them with a click and a treat. Over time, their fear will lessen as they assimilate to new environments and people, because they know they will be rewarded.
Clickers can be purchased at your local pet store.
 Catnip is a mint plant that releases a strong odor into the air when rolled or bitten. The plant is harmless to cats but gives them an enjoyable “high.” Try bribing a frightened kitty with catnap so they begin to associate you with fun instead of fear., Cats love to play, and interactive games have been known to decrease anxiety in cats. Try toys that involve human interaction such as fishing lures or feathers wands. In addition, there are also puzzle toys which allow the cat to use their brains, teeth, and noses to search out the hidden treat inside.All cats are different so find a game that your cat will enjoy.
 If a cat is comfortable enough to approach you, stay in their good graces by stroking them. Allow the animal to make contact first, and then start by rubbing their shoulders. Stroke down the animal's back in slow-motion, paying close attention to their response.Avoid making contact with their face first as this could be seen as a sign of aggression.
This method is only useful for cats who are becoming comfortable with people and their environment. This method is a form of reinforcement and should only be used when the cat approaches you first.

