 After you have written a few letters back and forth, it can be a fun addition to share some photos of yourself and ask for photos of the other person. You could send a basic photo that you had professionally taken for school or something spontaneous, like a photo from a vacation you took.


You might also share a photo of your house, some places you enjoy going around your town, a picture of your school, or copies of pictures from places you have visited.
Besides pictures of yourself and places you go often, you could share pictures of favorite bands or movies, scenic shots of places you want to visit some day, or pictures of something you’ve created or drawn.
 Once you have gotten to know some basic information about each other and have been writing long enough to feel comfortable probing deeper, start to ask more personal questions. Find out what types of hardships the person faces in life. Ask them what some of their ultimate dreams and goals are. You can also begin to share more intimate details about your own life. Perhaps share some fears you have or tell them about trials you have faced.


One of the benefits of a pen pal relationship is that you are most likely not to meet in person, or at least not until you have been writing for a long time. Because of this, you can feel more comfortable sharing personal things than you might with someone you see often.
 Besides just writing letters to each other, you can begin to send gifts on occasion, like holidays or birthdays, or just any time. For pen pals in other countries, you could send a toy or trinket that is common to your country. You could share non-perishable foods with each other you both may not have experienced.


This might be something to talk about in your letters before you send anything. You want to make sure it is okay with the person to receive gifts from you.
 One way to build a strong relationship with a pen pal is to discuss some of the deep things you think about. You could ask the person what they think about destiny and tell them your beliefs. You could tell them about something in society that makes you really sad and tell them what you wish would change. Eventually your letters will probably progress beyond the mundane aspects of your life, and this is when you will grow a true friendship with your pen pal.

