 Simply go up the stairs, and enter the only door in the area. This door leads to the courtyard.;
, They're ordinary Heartless, so you shouldn't have any trouble with them.
 After killing the Heartless, look at your map, and you will notice that the area is circular with only one branching path that leads to a door. Head to that door to get into the Colonnade.
 Once in the Colonnade, go up the stairs and turn left. Go down a very long hallway that leads to a huge door. Kill the Heartless spawning in this area as you make your way to the door to the library.
 Once in the library, look towards the right of the room. Near the fireplace, you will see a chest. Open it to obtain the first torn page., Take the only path available in the gorge.
 Do so once you get to the Elephant Graveyard, and keep following this path until you see the one that leads to the Savannah.


Some Heartless will spawn in this area, but they won't be a problem since only ordinary Heartless, so kill them.
 Head west at the Savannah as the path north will lead to Pride Rock, but that's not where you want to go.
 You won’t get lost as there's no other entrance at Wildebeest Valley.
 It's a single winding path that leads to the jungle. The problem in this area is the large number of powerful Heartless (Critical Mode).


Exercise caution when going through the Wastelands.
It might be best to avoid the large Dragon-Looking Heartless and the Monkey Heartless as they’re hard to kill.
You can also just dash past them and go directly to the jungle, but you'll miss out on experience.
 Head north at the jungle, and kill all the Heartless that spawn here. When you get to the first branching road, go left and enter the oasis.
 Just head towards the back of the oasis where you will find a chest near the tree in front of the waterfalls. Open the chest to get the second torn page.
 Just go to Hollow Bastion, and land at the postern. From the save point, turn left and enter the restoration site.
 Continue down the path and enter the Bailey. Keep heading down toward the castle gate where you will meet Demyx, and a boss battle will then ensue.
 After you defeat Demyx, head toward the Ravine Trail. When you’re thrown into a party with some Final Fantasy characters, just fight alongside them until you get to the end of the ravine.
 Enter the Crystal Fissure and follow the only path in the area. You will then see four chests and a save point once you get to the middle of the fissure. Open the large chest in front of the save point, and get the third torn page., Do so after meeting the Man in Black at the summit at the Land of the Dragons. This will be after you battle the Man in Black and head back to the Imperial City.
 When you climb up the throne room, you will see two large, highly conspicuous chests. Climb toward the one on the left, and open it to obtain the fourth torn page.
 Be sure to leave the city through the large door at the Bazaar. The door will lead you to the palace walls.
 Enter through the path to your right, which leads to the sand-swept ruins where you will have the chance to ride Aladdin's Magic Carpet.
 To get to it, just head north until you reach the middle of the ruins, and then head west. Keep going until you see a tall tower with an opening on the upper part of it.
 To get there, enter through the tower window. In the chamber, you will see a large chest and a save point.
 Just open the large chest to get the last torn page. Now that you've collected all five pages, go to Merlin's house at Hollow Bastion, and interact with Winnie the Pooh's book.

