 Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and aspirin are commonly taken for minor pain relief. However, taking these medications while you're on anticoagulants may increase the risk of excessive bleeding. If you're taking blood thinners, it's best to seek out alternative over-the-counter pain relievers.Acetaminophen medications are generally safe to take with blood thinners, but they should not be taken in high doses, as this may damage your liver.
Ask your doctor about taking acetaminophen as an alternative to aspirin or NSAIDs.;
, Some prescription medications increase your body's ability to form blood clots. These medications can cause complications if you are currently taking anticoagulants to thin your blood and prevent blood clots.Common medications that may decrease a blood thinner's anticoagulant effects include, but are not limited to:


Carbamazepine (Tegretol) - an anticonvulsant and mood stabilizer.
Phenobarbital (Luminal) - an anticonvulsant that also relieves anxiety.
Phenytoin (Dilantin) - an anticonvulsant.
Rifampin (Rifadin) - treats tuberculosis (TB).
Vitamin K - a vitamin that promotes blood coagulation.
Cholestyramine (Questran) - lowers cholesterol levels.
Sucralfate (Carafate) - an antacid used to treat ulcers.
 Just as some medications cause blood clots, other medications thin your blood. This can cause your blood to become too thin if you're already taking anticoagulants. Schedule additional blood tests with your doctor if you must take antibiotics, antifungals, or any other medication that's a known anticoagulant.Some common anticoagulants include, but are not limited to:


Amiodarone (Cordarone and Pacerone) - an antiarrhythmic used to correct irregular heart beat.Co-trimoxazole (Bactrim and Septra) - an antibiotic.
Ciprofloxacin (Cipro) - an antibiotic.
Clarithromycin (Biaxin) - an antibiotic that's also used to treat some ulcers.
Erythromycin - an antibiotic.
Fluconazole (Diflucan) - an antifungal.
Itraconazole (Sporanox) - an antifungal.
Ketoconazole (Nizoral) - an antifungal.
Lovastatin (Mevacor) - a cholesterol medication.
Metronidazole (Flagyl) - an antibiotic.
 Eating a diet rich in vitamin K can increase your body's ability to form blood clots. This can decrease the effectiveness of anticoagulants by reducing their ability to thin your blood and prevent blood clots.Green leafy vegetables like spinach, kale, collard greens, and lettuce are all rich in vitamin K and may alter the effectiveness of blood thinners.
Cruciferous vegetables, such as broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, and asparagus, are all high in vitamin K and should therefore be avoided.
Other vegetables that should be avoided or consumed in limited quantities include frozen peas and okra.
Talk to your doctor and/or a nutritionist about eating a balanced diet that won't impact the effectiveness of your medication.
 Some herbs act as natural blood thinners. If you consume these herbs while taking anticoagulants, your blood may become too thin. This can cause excessive bruising and bleeding, which may lead to further complications.Avoid herbal teas.
Avoid taking herbal supplements, including (but not limited to) alfalfa, clove, echinacea, ginger, gingko Biloba, ginseng, green tea, and St. John's wort.
 Nicotine can increase your risk of developing blood clots and cardiovascular disease. Alcohol can make some blood thinners less effective. It can also cause stomach bleeding, which may be excessive due to the anticoagulants.Work with your doctor about putting together a plan to quit smoking or drinking if you currently consume nicotine or alcohol on a regular basis.
 Many vitamins and supplements affect your body's ability to produce blood clots. If taken with anticoagulants, these vitamins and supplements may cause moderate to severe medical complications.Do not take vitamins that contain more than the daily recommended intake of vitamins A, E, or C if you're taking blood thinners.
Fish oil, garlic oil, and ginger supplements should all be avoided.
Onion and garlic extracts are commonly sold as supplements, but they may affect your INR and should therefore be avoided.
 People who travel for long distances, typically defined as a trip lasting more than four hours, may be at an elevated risk of developing a blood clot. This includes travel by car, bus, train, or airplane.If you're taking blood thinners, your doctor may advise you to change your medication schedule to prevent the risk of blood clots during travel.
 While taking blood thinners may increase your risk of bleeding if you are injured, it is necessary to stay on these drugs to avoid other serious complications, such as a stroke, pulmonary embolism, or myocardial infarction. Make sure that you continue taking your medication unless your doctor advises you to stop taking it., Because anticoagulants decrease your body's ability to form blood clots, your risk of excessive bleeding is significantly higher. You can reduce your risk of injury by minimizing your contact with sharp objects and avoiding contact sports/activities.Exercise extreme caution while using knives, scissors, and razor blades. You may want to consider switching to an electric razor if you shave any part of your body.
Be cautious when you trim your fingernails and toenails to prevent excessive bleeding from your cuticles.
Stick with low- and non-contact activities like swimming and walking.
Talk to your doctor before beginning any new exercise regimen or sport/activity.
You can also discuss your medication options with your doctor to find one that poses the lowest risk of excess bleeding if you are injured.
 If you are taking anticoagulants, you'll need to exercise great caution to avoid injuring yourself. This includes taking precautions when you're doing work around the house or simply traveling in your community.Wear a protective helmet anytime you roller-skate, skateboard, or ride a bike or scooter, or choose a safer activity.
Choose shoes and slippers with non-skid soles to reduce the risk of falling.
Make sure you wear shoes and gardening gloves any time you do yard work. You can also wear protective gloves when you handle sharp tools to prevent injury.
 You may not think of brushing your teeth as a dangerous activity, but if you're taking anticoagulants your gums could bleed excessively. You can take precautions against this by treating your gums gently and making minor changes to the ways you clean your teeth.Use a soft-bristled toothbrush to reduce the risk of injuring your gums.
Avoid toothpicks. Instead, clean your teeth by carefully using waxed dental floss.
 If you're not getting your blood levels checked regularly by a doctor, there's a risk that you could be taking too much or too little of your medication. In the case of blood thinners, taking too high a dose carries a risk of excessive bleeding and bruising.You will have to get your blood levels checked regularly for certain drugs, such as Warfarin. Weekly lab work will help to ensure that the medication is working properly and it can also prevent overdose or sub-therapeutic levels.
Excessive bruising, bleeding gums, nosebleeds, heavy menstrual bleeding, and prolonged bleeding from minor injuries are all common problems associated with taking too high a dose of blood thinners.
Have your blood tested regularly by your doctor and inform your doctor if you experience any excessive bleeding or bruising.
 Some blood thinners are not safe to take if you are pregnant or plan on becoming pregnant. They may carry an elevated risk of fetal bleeding and birth defects. For this reason, doctors typically recommend that women who plan on becoming pregnant switch to a blood thinner that will not cross the placenta and affect the fetus. This switch should be made prior to becoming pregnant.Warfarin (Coumadin), a common blood thinner, is not safe to take during pregnancy.
Heparin, another common blood thinner, will not cross the placenta and is therefore considered generally safe to take during pregnancy.
 Your doctor will need to know about any changes you make to your diet or exercise regimen. You should also inform your doctor of any vitamins or supplements you're considering before you begin taking them.


Check with your doctor to see if any activities you're considering would increase your risk of injury.
Your doctor will also be able to tell you if the vitamins and supplements you're considering would alter the effectiveness of your anticoagulants.
 If you're taking anticoagulants, it's important that you have your blood tested regularly. Your blood's clotting ability is measured and reported in International Normalized Ratio, or INR. Without regular testing, your doctor will not know if you are taking the correct dosage of blood thinners.Ask your doctor how frequently you should get tested. Certain factors like travel and dietary restrictions may increase the frequency of your recommended INR tests.
If you are receiving the right dosage of blood thinners, your INR should fall somewhere between 2.5 and 3.0.
An INR below 1.0 means that you are not receiving any effects from your anticoagulants. An INR above 5.0 is very dangerous and should be reported to your doctor immediately.
 In addition to keeping your doctor informed, you should also communicate your medical situation to your pharmacist. Occasional errors in how prescription medications are dispensed can cause serious, potentially fatal complications.Alert your pharmacist to the fact that you take blood thinners.
Check your medication each time you pick up a prescription. Make sure it's the correct prescription and read the label to see if blood thinners would react adversely.
 If you experience a sudden emergency and are treated by an EMT or an emergency room physician, your medical records may not be immediately available. To prevent the risk of an adverse drug interaction, you may want to carry some type of laminated ID or wear a medical bracelet to alert emergency workers to the fact that you take anticoagulants.