 Many people may want to move to Texas because the state charges no income tax.There are also other legal reasons to establish residency in Texas, such as to get a divorce. In order to benefit from these tax and legal incentives, you need to be a resident of the state first.


Texas is one of the few states in the country that divides assets and debts equally between spouses during a divorce. The is called a "community property" standard., This means changing the address on your driver's license, car registration, voter registration, and mailing address as soon as you can. Some of these address changes will require documentation, such as mail proving your address, and some should be done before others. Usually, it's best to change your mailing address first, including on bills, so that you get mail at your new address that makes changing the others easier.Changing your address of record quickly will help you to establish when you became a resident. For issues that require you to have been in the state for a set amount of time, this will begin that amount of time.
 In order to get a divorce in Texas, you need to have resided in the state for six months.Additionally, you need to file in a county that you, or your spouse, has lived in for at least ninety days, so don't move from county to county often.If you are in the armed forces, any time serving outside of Texas if you were already a resident is still counted as Texas residency for the six month residency requirement.
If the person you are trying to divorce has lived in Texas for the last six months but you have not, you can still file for divorce there. You just need to file for divorce in the county they reside in.
 The date you moved to Texas may have an impact on your taxes, as long as your income is generated in Texas as well. However, if you earned money in another state, you will need to pay taxes on it, whether you are a Texas resident or not.If you live in Texas but work across the border, you will need to pay non-resident taxes in the state you work in.
The lack of income taxes in Texas is made up for in high property and sales taxes. So, if you have a lot of income, moving to Texas for tax purposes may be worth it. However, if the amount you would pay in income taxes elsewhere is less than you would pay in property and sales taxes, then lack of income tax might not be a good reason to move to Texas.