 Basil and mint are both used in cocktails and are an excellent addition to a cocktail garden.Both thrive in moist soil, so choose damper areas of your garden to plant them.

Basil tends to do better in soil that is both moist and well-drained.Well-drained soils are usually fairly wet and brownish in appearance.Mint tends to do best in covered soil, so you should cover your soil with a small amount of mulch after planting mint., Rosemary and sage are other herbs frequently used in cocktails and a great addition to a cocktail garden. They do well in loamy soil that is not overly moist. Plant these seeds in areas of the garden with loamy soil, saving the moister parts of the garden for herbs like basil and mint., Herbs need different amounts of space to thrive. When planting your seeds, make sure you give each herb proper spacing.

Basil seeds should be planted 12 to 24 inches apart (about 30 to 60 centimeters).Mint spreads, so only plant one or two mint plants. Keep them about two feet apart (about .6 meter).Rosemary grows in thick hedges, so plant your seeds about three feet apart (about one meter).Sage grows in bushes, so plant your seeds about 24 to 36 inches apart (about 60 to 91 centimeters)., Most herbs benefit from medium to full exposure to the sun.When choosing a location to plant, make sure your herbs have adequate sun exposure so they can thrive.

The amounts of sunlight vary, but most herbs benefit from around six to eight hours of daily sunlight.An area with little shade is optimal for herbs.
Basil can thrive on slightly less sun than other herbs.If you have limited sunny space in your garden, save the sunnier areas for other herbs and plant basil near the shade. If you care for your basil plants otherwise, they should still thrive.
 Sage, rosemary, and basil only require watering when the soil becomes dry to the touch.Monitor the soil of these plants and water as needed. With mint, however, water every day so the soil stays consistently moist., Most of your herbs can be harvested as necessary once they begin to grow. For best taste, harvest herbs just before they begin to flower.

You harvest basil and mint by snipping their stems just before the point where two large leaves meet. Do so just before flowering and harvest as much of the plant as you need.Clip off the pine needle leave portions of rosemary as necessary. Make sure never to clip an entire rosemary stem away.Clip sage in the morning, just after the dew as dried. Take sage leaves as needed, clipping the leaves at the point where two leaves meet.