 These are generally available at most large retail stores, but you may find more options at beauty supply stores.


A waxing product such as Nair Roll-On Wax is a good choice because it has a roll-on applicator that dispenses an even amount of wax over the surface.
 These can be bought (sometimes coming with the wax) or homemade. It's a good idea to make strips of varying sizes (from 1-2 inches (2.5-5 cm)).


If you opted for the homemade route, search your closet for an old t-shirt or piece of cotton fabric. Cut it up into strips like you would any other material.

Bonus -- if you take good care of them, you can use them again after a thorough washing (if your wax is water soluble).
 This is super important--the wax needs to stick.


Trim the hair to 1/4 - 1/2 inch (.63 - 1.2 cm) for easiest removal.
Apply baby/talcum powder to the parts you´re going to wax. This makes the wax stick to the hair and NOT your skin, and significantly reduces the amount of pain.
If you pain starts increasing, apply more powder. Especially if the environment you're doing it in is rather warm.
 Have a paper towel or cloth nearby. For waxes that dissolve in water, a damp cloth is fine.


Otherwise, you may moisten a cotton ball with simple baby oil. That removes excess wax very well and leaves skin smooth.
 Apply the wax in the same direction the hair grows, in thin strips.


With one hand, stretch that skin taut. Use paper towels to grip the skin so that it does not slip.
Rip off the wax with the other hand in the opposite direction to hair growth. Doing this gives you better results and hurts much less.
Do not apply too much wax as the waxing strips may not adhere to the hair.
Place a mirror between your legs so that you can wax the areas you cannot see. A compact mirror is sufficient.
 Because the bikini area is very sensitive, it may take more than one session to remove all the hair.


Hair in some areas may be easier to remove than others. This is contingent upon how thick the hair is. You may have to stop if the area becomes too red and continue after the redness subsides.
Use tweezers to pluck out remaining hair rather than waxing repeatedly.
 You may have bits of wax that are playing hard to get.


Use warm water and apply a soothing oil or lotion.
Redness is normal and will fade.

