 Before eating your meal, make sure you wash your hands and mouth. Check to make sure that nothing is stuck in your teeth or braces, cover up any cuts with a plaster or two and, if necessary, cover up all off-putting spots and blemishes with makeup. Also, get the dirt out from underneath your nails. Nothing is more disgusting to everyone else than you eating with dirty, black nails. If your clothes have any spillages on them that look quite nasty (E.G., Milk spills, tomato sauce etc) be sure to change before dinner time. Oh, and make sure that nobody sees you doing all this, that can be off-putting in itself.;
, After making sure that you're clean and nice to look at, you need to be able to sit nicely. This means no slouching, no resting your legs on the chairs opposite you and don't rest your elbows on the table. Sit up straight and look sophisticated. You don't have to look like a pole to look good, but slouching is generally what men are stereotyped to do. If needed, lay a clean napkin on your thighs to catch any food or tuck one into your shirt by your chest to keep your top clean. This works best with foods that are saucy.
 If your food has not yet arrived, don't sigh or complain. Just wait patiently and make small talk with the other people on your table. Also, don't check Facebook on your mobile every two seconds, it's not going anywhere. If your phone rings, excuse yourself and take the call somewhere else. Only do this if it's absolutely necessary. If you get a text, ignore it unless it's important. You can always explain to the person calling why you never answered them later.
 Playing with your cutlery will make you look as if you'd rather be at home so try to avoid this. If your cutlery has already been laid out for you, leave it there. If your cutlery is in the middle of the table, politely pick up a knife and a fork. Put these on either side of your plate. Alternatively, you can put them both on one side. If you really do get bored, you can always play with your cutlery to hint that it's time to put some food in front of you. Never, though, bang them on the table shouting "we want food!". That's just rude.
 When your food finally does arrive, be tidy with it. Hopefully, everything isn't just slopped onto your plate. Your plate should be looking relatively similar when you're done. This means that if you don't like something, gently move it to the side of your plate. When trying to mix two items together (rice and peas, for example), be very careful and try not to spill any on the table. When somebody comes to take your plate away, they probably don't want to see your food all over the place. Try to keep everything in a certain section of the plate unless you want to mix two things together.
 Unless you haven't eaten in three days and somebody has finally given you a bowl of chicken soup, there's no real excuse to eat like a pig. Don't shove everything down your throat at once, it looks disgusting and you're most likely going to get more of the food on you than in you. Eat slowly and take care with how you're using your cutlery. For example, if you have a tough piece of meat, just be patient and keep cutting it or use your fork to pull it from the bone. Don't put it between your teeth to try to separate it, you're a lady, not an animal. If you really are having troubles though, maybe ask somebody else to help cut it for you so they look like the sloppy ones instead.
 When you feel a little bit messy, feel free to wipe your mouth. You can do this whenever you feel like it because nobody is going to complain. They will complain or feel sick, however, if you never wipe your mouth. If there are no napkins lying around, ask the dinner host or waiter for one. You can always remove the one from your chest or lap and use that instead. Try to have a napkin nearby beforehand so you don't get all messy and then have to embarrass yourself asking for one. If you have sensitive skin, you can always keep a packet of soft tissues in your bag or pocket and use them instead. If anybody questions it, politely explain that the other type of napkins hurt your skin.
 If the chef is sitting at the table with you, be sure to thank him/her. Even just saying something like "Wow, that really was lovely" is going to be a huge compliment, especially if the chef is your date. If you didn't like the food at all, still give your thanks and maybe add some advice to it. Don't be rude though, just say something similar to "Wow, that was nice but I might have added a bit more salt myself". If you're going to do this though, make it clear that you still enjoyed the meal, even if you really didn't. Think of it this way, what would you want people (or your date) to say about your dinner?

