 A bar is simply one line of your song. Most raps are built out of 16 or 32 bar verses though they can be as short as 8 or 12 bars as well. If you're writing the whole song yourself you might have 2-3 verses and a hook. You might also have a short 8-10 bar bridge, which is a short verse with a slightly different beat or structure.You can write your rap without knowing the bars as well. Simply write until you feel like your verse is finished, then edit the beat to fit the desired length.
 Raps are written around rhymes. Rhyme connects to lines so that they flow smoothly together, pulling the listener through the song. While all lines of your rap don't need to rhyme, and probably should not, you need to have a firm grasp of rhyme techniques to become a rapper. Luckily, this doesn't require any studying, just an ear for what sounds good to you. Still, it can help to know the different types of rhyme common in rap:



Simple Rhyme: When the last syllables of two lines rhyme, like "Can" and "man." This is the most common and basic form of rhyme.

Multi-syllabic rhyme: One of the best ways to show your lyrical skills is to rhyme multiple syllables at once. This can stretch across multiple words as well, such as Big Daddy Kane in "One Day:" "Ain’t no need for wondering who’s the man/ Staying looking right always an exclusive brand."

Slant Rhyme: Rhyming too closely related, but technically non-rhyming, words. Usually, they have a common vowel sound. This is incredibly common in rap, because how you say/sing the words can make them sound much more similar. Examples include "Nose" and "go," or "orange" and "porridge."Internal Rhyme (In-Rhyme): Rhyming words that do not come at the end of a line but in the middle of it. For example, Madvillains' "Rhinestone Cowboy:" "Made of fine chrome alloy / find him on the grind he's a rhinestone cowboy.", Punchlines are the big lines, jokes, or rhymes that elevate the song from good to great. There are thousands of great examples, but they are mostly a matter of personal preference. To write them, try to think of the punchline first then build the rhyming lines around it.


If your punchline is "I'm stepping over competition, so expect to be trampled," you might try to write a line leading into it that ends with a word rhyming with "trampled." For example, "They see me in the booth so they know they should scramble/ I'm steppin' over competition so expect to be trampled").
 A rhyme scheme is simply how the song is structured. The most common way to do this is with alternating couplets, which are two lines that rhyme at the end. The next two lines also rhyme at the end, but with a different set of words. That said, there are many, many ways to write out rhyme schemes, such as alternating (the first line rhymes with the third, and the second with the fourth), or rhyming 4-6 lines with the same word (like the beginning of "Get 'Em High"). The best way to learn is practice.


If you're a rapper that raps with a lot of flow (smooth, quick words) you may want to have every bar end with the same amount of syllables or almost the same amount of syllables.
If you're a rapper that raps fast you may want to have lots of internal rhymes in every bar, like " the industry's gettin' clean and I've seen what them haters mean/ if you thought I was lettin' up setting up the terrain was dreamed".
If you're a story rapper you can have the first verse be your intro, your second verse your problem, and your last verse your conclusion. To match this, you might play with a different rhyme scheme in every verse to show growth or use a similar one to indicate that there is no growth.
 Make sure you mean every word and every word comes from your soul. Let the music come to you. To start writing good lyrics, you should throw on a beat that juices your brain start thinking of some insane rhymes. It's all about the state of mind.


Specifics from real life will always make a better song. The reason Nas' Illmatic is one of the all-time great albums is because it feels lived in, not made up.
If you don't have a theme or rhyme scheme yet, just start writing lines that you like. Eventually, these lines will come together to tell a full song, and this can be a great way to practice rhymes.
The best rappers are able to tell stories from real life, connecting to their audience's memories and emotions. They are successful not because they tell crazy or unbelievable stories, but because they make a simple story connect with practice and well-written rhymes.

