 You want the best applicants. The best applicants are the people who don’t just need the job, they’re the people who have always wanted to do that job. Therefore, you need to write a job description that’s going to draw the applicant who thinks your opening is a dream job.Think of it like an ode to your organization and a love letter to the open position. An employee is selling you their labor, so sell them on your company. You need to go beyond qualifications and responsibilities in the job posting. That information tells an applicant if they're qualified for the job. You want the posting to tell an applicant that working with your company is a unique and worthwhile opportunity.;
, A recruitment plan is a plan on how to find and interview the best candidates for the opening. It entails finding sources of potential applicants, applying standard interview practices to each applicant, and giving yourself enough time to fill the position.Start by asking around your own company for possible in-house applicants and referrals. Your own employees and associates are the most likely to intuitively understand the culture and requirements you’re looking for.Next, cast a wider net. If these sources don’t bear fruit, widen your search to trade associations and publications. Then, use forums like craigslist.org, Indeed.com, and local newspapers.If no suitable candidates come forward, consider using a paid recruiter.
 Even if the ultimate authority for hiring and firing rests in your hands, you should put together a team to help you evaluate and interview the candidates. A group of evaluators will almost always notice things a single interviewer will miss.You don’t want so much input the signal outweighs the noise, so keep the size of the group manageable. You need to have a representative from HR, the prospective employee’s immediate supervisor and any co-workers they would partner with, along with a more senior supervisor if that position exists., Objective benchmarks are important. Without them, you run the risk of unconscious biases getting in the way of making good decisions and applying unequal metrics to different candidates. The particular metrics will differ for each organization, but typical measurements might be education, experience, and disposition. Weigh them according to your company's needs.

