 Use a thick and lasting moisturizer or humectant on your nose to prevent redness and irritation during cold or allergy season. Apply a thick moisturizer on the nose, focusing on the nostril area, as often as needed when you’re blowing your nose frequently.


Use common chapstick products that include camphor or eucalyptus for the added benefit of helping clear nasal passages. You can also try pure eucalyptus oil or Vitamin E oil for soothing moisture.Make sure to use a moisturizer, petroleum jelly, or chapstick that is unscented and gentle. A highly scented variety or one that’s irritating to your skin will only cause extra irritation when the skin around the nose is already dry and cracked.
 Try using a handkerchief made of soft cotton to blow your nose instead of a disposable tissue. This prevents the irritation that can occur from a rough paper tissue over time.


Look for a soft cotton flannel or brushed cotton for a material that will not irritate your skin easily. You can make your own handkerchief just by cutting a square from an unused item of clothing in the desired fabric.
If you do choose disposable tissues, try ones that include moisturizers like vitamin E and aloe. Do your best to blot at the nose rather than rub or wipe to reduce irritation by friction., Keep your nose warm and protected in cold and dry climates by wearing something over your face. Try wrapping a scarf around your head so it covers your nose, or even a ski mask to keep your whole face warm easily.


Ensure that you can still breathe easily by leaving a slit in a scarf to breathe through your mouth. However, covering both your nose and mouth loosely with fabric will help to keep your nose warm due to the warm air and moisture created by your breath.
Wearing a scarf or hat will also lessen the flush of red skin that occurs when a cold face warms up rapidly as you step indoors., Use a humidifier in the room of the house you’re occupying while recovering from a cold or during dry winter months, especially overnight. The extra humidity in the air created by these machines helps keep the skin of your nose hydrated and less irritated.


Also turn down the heat in your home if you can during the winter. This will avoid the extra drying effect that comes from central heat.
If you don’t have a humidifier, simply take a large bowl of steaming hot water and put your face near enough to it to remain comfortable. Place a towel over your head and over the bowl to trap the steam in, then breathe in the warm steam for several minutes to soothe both your nasal passages and the skin on your nose.