 Before you take any steps to involve an outside party, make sure you’ve done all that you can do by speaking directly to your supervisors, management, or human resources department.


If you are represented by a union, you’ll need to speak with your union representative and make sure all the union policies are followed before you submit your complaint.
Document all encounters with your employer regarding your dispute, and if possible keep all exchanges about the issue in writing., Generally, state labor and employment laws cover all employers doing business within the state, but some state laws only cover companies with at least a certain number of employees.


Your state laws cannot provide any less protection than federal law, but they may provide more. If they do, it would be more advantageous for you to file a complaint for violation of the state law than for violation of the federal law.
For example, by 2015, 29 states had a state minimum wage that was higher than the federal minimum wage law. If you lived in one of those states and had a wage complaint, you would be better served to file a state rather than federal complaint.In addition, some states prohibit discrimination based on factors not covered by federal law. In these situations, employees would have a claim under state law but not under federal law.Many states adopt the federal law as state law as well, which means any violation of the federal law by an employer also is a violation of state law.You can start your state research at your state labor department’s website. The website will have information about what activities violate state law, how to file a complaint, and how to contact state government employees who can assist you.
 To file a complaint with a state agency for violation of state labor or employment law, you’ll have to follow the procedure established by that agency.


For example, to file a state complaint in Texas, you must print a paper form, fill it out, and either mail it or take it in person to the office of the Texas Workforce Commission in Austin, Texas.In contrast, Pennsylvania has three regional offices where complaint forms must either be mailed or presented in person.In many cases, if you haven’t yet contacted a federal agency regarding your complaint, the state agency will contact them on your behalf if their input is necessary.