 You pull the trigger and you get a "click" instead of a "boom." This is the simplest type of malfunction, the most common type, and the easiest to fix: just tap, rack/flip.
 This type of malfunction is affectionately known as a "stovepipe."


The symptom of this malfunction is a "dead trigger" (no click, just a little bit of movement), and most likely some brass sticking out of your ejection port (but not necessarily), and the slide is not completely in battery (all the way forward). Fix it using the same method at a Type-1 malfunction: tap, rack/flip.
 This is a feed-way stoppage, which means that too much brass is in the chamber at the same time.


If you do get a type-3 malfunction under fire, many pistol masters will tell you just to grab for your back-up. Of course, if that is not an option you should find cover before executing the clearing.
To clear: grab your slide and lock it back (this is optional on many handguns). Press the magazine eject, grab the magazine and throw it to the ground ("strip" it). Grab the slide again and rack it hard three times. Reach for a fresh magazine, put it in the gun (same as the tactical reload) and rack the slide one more time to load a round into the chamber. You can also learn to keep the magazine you have in your gun, read this.
Some pistols, notably the Glocks, may be cleared of a Type 3 malfunction simply by dropping the magazine far enough to allow the slide to go forward and then re-seating the magazine with authority. If the slide goes completely forward into battery, the pistol is then mostly likely ready to fire. If not perform the Type 1 clearing action.
 This malfunction is when the slide does not go back into battery after firing.


This might happen because your guide rod or guide rails are really gummed up (to the point where it looks as if there is a wad of Juicy Fruit in there), your guide spring is too weak or your chamber design is bad. Either way, modern semi-automatic pistols should never have this happen. A gunsmith (or you) may be able to diagnose the problem and fix it, but a gun that gets a Type-4 is not a reliable gun!(edit* The gun can be perfectly reliable and still have a Type 4 Malfunction. A good cleaning may fix the problem or your recoil spring is weakened and needs to be replaced. Optionally, as stated, take the firearm to a gunsmith.)

