 You will want to ease in and start with tap water as opposed to pool water or open freshwater and saltwater. The sink should be full enough that you can submerge your face at least halfway. Avoid temperatures that shock or scald the skin with cold or hot to make the process easier.;
, Let your face adjust to the temperature and make sure you feel comfortable and calm when you are submerged underwater. If your nose is irritated at this stage, you should stop, as your eyes are likely to become more irritated by chlorine or cleaning byproducts from halogen-based cleaners. , Practice keeping your eyes open underwater as long as you can hold your breath. The temperature of the water should be moderate to cold, as in pools or the sink earlier. Continue practicing this until you have no trouble and don’t mind the irritation of exposing your eyes to water.
 Practice swimming in a pool that uses non-chlorine based cleaners or fresh water. While chlorine has not been conclusively found to cause eye irritation or corneal damage, it has been found to increase this activity in by-products of pool cleaners. Larger pools should be avoided, as they are most likely to use hypochlorite or elemental chlorine to maintain water quality. , If you are in fresh water, you should expect a minimum of irritation, but treated or saltwater is far more likely to contain irritants. While your eyes might become irritated and your corneas irritated, loss of visual acuity is unlikely without excessive time spent practicing. , Work at this, minding irritation to your eyes or exhaustion swimming until you can keep your eyes open underwater as long as you can hold your breath. Focus on increasing the time you keep your eyes open and focused underwater each time. Avoid deep or treacherous areas if you are not already a strong swimmer.
 You will likely want to spread this over several sessions to minimize risk of irritation if you are in a treated pool or saltwater, though it likely should not take too long before you are comfortable. You will want to practice in multiple water sources, which can vary considerably in their visibility and color. Avoid any unsanitary or stagnant water while practicing, as waterborne infections are a risk in small lakes and ponds.


You will need additional practice to parse visual information underwater accurately. Practice estimating distance with objects that you know are a certain depth or distance from you, and estimate how long it takes you to reach the object to get a sense of your ability to react to these things.
If you are diving, avoid going too deep in an unpressurized suit. Pressure changes during ascent can easily cause burst capillaries and damage to the ears. Make sure you can easily equalize the pressure when you dive with ease. 