 You can use over-the-counter medications to treat the traveller’s diarrhea. You can use an anti-diarrhea medication, such as Immodium. Medicines containing diphenoxylate (like Lomotil or Lonox) can be useful if the diarrhea is debilitating. The anti-diarrhea medicine can make it easier for you to ride on buses and airplanes while you get over your traveler’s diarrhea. You can also take bismuth subsalicylate, better known as Pepto-Bismol, which can help calm your digestive system.You should understand that by taking these medications, you are actually lengthening the course of your illness. Every time you use the toilet, you are eliminating the agent that is causing your misery. These medicines stop you from going to the bathroom.
Stop using these if you have abdominal pain or if your symptoms get worse. If this happens, call your physician.
Do not give your child any adult anti-diarrhea medication (like Imodium) unless told to by your pediatrician. These can be dangerous for young children.
For any OTC medication, follow the manufacturer’s directions exactly. More is not better. Do not use Pepto-Bismol with children, pregnant women, or anyone allergic to aspirin.
For adults it is recommend to take 4 mg of Imodium at the first sign of diarrhea and then 2 mg if the diarrhea comes back. Remember that it may take up to 48 hours to take effect. For children, consult a doctor, as the medication is dosed upon age of the patient and may vary.
 For the most part, traveler’s diarrhea can be treated at home; however, for some people at risk of dehydration or at risk because of their overall health, antibiotics may be prescribed.Antibiotics commonly prescribed include: Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (Bactrim DS), Ciprofloxacin (Cipro), Norfloxacin (Noroxin), Ofloxacin (Floxin), or Doxycycline (Vibramycin).
The antibiotics you take may depend on where you go. You might be able to get antibiotics from your doctor before you go abroad so you can have them in case of traveler’s diarrhea., Traveler’s diarrhea usually isn’t serious and only lasts for a few days; however, if you or your child have blood or mucus in your stool, vomiting that won’t stop, diarrhea that lasts longer than two to three days, a fever over 102°F (38.9°C), or you experience any abdominal or rectal pain, you should call your doctor right away.


If any of this occurs, you may need antibiotics or other medications for parasites.

