 It is important to ask the child why they hit you right after it happens. Let the child explain their emotional state. Ask them why they hit you, and try to get them to explain their feelings at that moment. Give them a chance to talk.You can ask, “Why did you hit me?” or “Why did you just do that?”
If your child is too young to verbalize these feelings, you might try to answer for them. Look into their eyes and say, "You're angry right now, aren't you?" This will teach them how to label their feelings.You can have this talk immediately after they hit or after they have calmed down.
Be aware that your child may be acting aggressively for a variety of reasons certain environmental (internal or external) stressors the child is under (could be anything), not having a routine, over stimulation, physical and/or mental exhaustion, not enough parental supervision or attention, and/or reflecting the behaviors of others (could have seen other children, family, friends, etc. hitting).
 Tell your child that you understand how they feel but that there is no reason to ever hit another person. By starting out with sympathy, you acknowledge and validate your child’s emotional state.You might say, “I know you’re angry because we didn’t make it to the park today, but it is never ok to hit someone.”
A simple way to say this to very young children is "I know you're sad, but hitting is wrong."

, Your child may not realize that what they are doing is wrong. They may be too mad or upset to understand their actions. Always remind them that hitting is painful and that it makes other people feel sad or upset.You can say, “Hitting hurts people.”
You might also say, “When you hit people, it hurts, and they start to feel bad.”
A simple way to tell young toddlers is to say, "Ouch! Hitting hurts." As you say this, you might want to cringe or scrunch your face up. This will show your child that hitting hurts other people.
 A calm voice is always best. Even if your child is crying or screaming, you can help them relax by using a softer voice. This will calm them down while teaching them that yelling is not acceptable.

