 The easiest way to prevent chigger bites, is to avoid the areas where chiggers are likely to reside. Chigger larvae are common in areas with tall grasses and weeds, these include roadside ditches, pastures, woodlots, and meadows. Chiggers also inhabit moist low-lying areas.If you cannot avoid these areas, take the proper precautions and do not sit down on the ground., Chiggers tend to bite humans in tender, soft, and moist areas, such as the groin, back of the knee, and and armpits. Wearing the correct clothing can prevent chigger larvae from arriving at these areas. When you venture into an area that is likely infested with chiggers, wear a long sleeved shirt and a pair of pants. Tuck your pants into your socks and boots., Chiggers are driven away by potent smells. If you can handle the smell of sulfur or vinegar, consider apply these natural chigger repellents to your clothing and shoes.Sprinkle your clothing and shoes with sulfur powder.Pour 1 tablespoon of sulfur powder into a sealable plastic bag. Place your socks in the bag, seal, and shake. Once the sulfur powder has coated your socks, remove them from the bag and put them on your feet.Pour vinegar into a spray bottle and spray your feet, legs, and midsection., Insect repellents effectively keep chiggers at bay. Spray the repellent around the openings of your clothing or shoes, such as near your shirt collar and around the tops of your shoes. Reapply as needed and recommended.


Before using DEET, permethrin, or less potent repellents, always read the product instructions and warnings., When you have spent time in an area that may be infested with chiggers, you can prevent bites by thoroughly checking your body for the mites. After undressing, check the soft, tender areas of your body for chiggers that have attached to your skin and scan your body for fast-moving red dots. If you find chiggers on yourself, take a hot shower immediately. Scrub your skin thoroughly with soap to dislodge and wash away the chiggers.If you find chiggers or discover chigger bites on yourself, wash the clothing you were wearing and any blankets you used in hot water.