 Just the act of separating yourself from your stressor for a few moments can calm you down. You can use this time to think about the situation, why it is stressing you, and how you can resolve the problem.


Whether it’s a bathroom break during a meeting, a brief walk, or just turning away from the pile of papers on your desk for a minute or two, try to take a short break from work. Taking a time out can help increase energy and creativity.Take a break from family, peers, and your social life. When the people around you are causing you stress because of things they are doing or saying, take a few minutes away from them. This way you won’t lash out at the person (or people) as a result of your stress.
Take a break from activities and organizations. Sometimes it is the number of things you are involved in that is stressing you out. Don’t make it a habit, but if you need to, cancel practice or a meeting for the day.;
, Even if you can’t take a break, changing your breathing can calm you down. A few slow, deep breaths can reduce blood pressure, slow your heart rate, relax tense muscles, and other physical indicators of stress such as muscle tension.Focus on your breathing for a couple of seconds. Try to tune out everything else around you except for your breathing. Clear your mind.
Inhale slowly through your nose, try to feel the breath go down to in your belly, then slowly exhale out through your mouth.Try to hold each breath for a few seconds before exhaling it.Imagine the tension blowing away each time you exhale. You will begin to feel your body relaxing a bit.
 Although it may sound a bit corny, thinking about the things, people, places, and experiences that make you happy releases tension.Thinking positive also calms you by focusing your brain on something other than the stressor.Visualize yourself in vivid detail doing something you enjoy. Hear yourself laughing; see yourself smiling.Think about a happy time in your life or a humorous memory. Try to recall what you saw, what sounds you heard, textures you encountered, aromas you smelled, and what feelings you had in those moments.Think about how you will treat yourself later. Savor the thought of the small reward you will give yourself for calming yourself down during this stressful time.

