 Choose a foundation that matches the color of your skin and apply it with your fingers or a foundation brush. Blend the foundation well on your cheeks and around your eyes. This creates an even palette that will help your eyes stand out and look bigger and brighter.








Use either cream or powder foundation, according to the one that works best with your skin type.
Do not apply too much foundation; just use as much as you need. If you use too much, your makeup will have a caked-on appearance, detracting from the beauty of your eyes.;
, If you have under-eye circles, concealer is a great tool to help brighten your eyes. Apply concealer with your finger by drawing upside-down triangles under your eyes, then blend the concealer well. Your eyes will look instantly brighter.









The triangle method of applying concealer has been shown to look more natural than other methods. Two corners of the triangle should stretch from one corner of your eye to the other. The tip of the triangle should extend to the top of your cheekbone. Blend well to make sure the lines aren't visible.
 Highlighter is an increasingly popular product that brightens up the face and eyes. Look for cream or powder highlighter that has a gentle shimmer. It will catch the light and give your face a healthy, youthful glow. Apply highlighter to the following spots:









In an arc just above your eyebrows
At the inner corners of your eyes
Along the bridge of your nose
Along the ridge of your cheekbones

, White or neutral eyeliner will have the subtle effect of making your eyes appear to be open wider. The lighter hues will make your eyes look brighter, too. Apply white or neutral eyeliner along your tear line on your bottom lids.Leave the rest of your eyes liner-free.
 Pale shades of blue, pink, lavender, gold and silver will catch the light and create a brighter look. Choose a shadow with shimmer or simply go with a pastel if you don't want your eyelids to sparkle.
 Curling your eyelashes will make your eyes appear wider and more awake. Use an eyelash curler to curl your top and bottom lashes after you've applied the rest of your eye makeup.
 The dark tone of the mascara will contrast with the light shadow and liner to draw attention to your eyes. Framing your eyes with dark lashes will make them look all the brighter. Apply a coat or two to both your top and bottom lashes to finish your look.








