 There are lots of ways to make a lip scrub or lip balm at home. Some require only a few ingredients that you likely already have at home, such as honey and sugar. Others require more specialized ingredients, such as cinnamon essential oil. Choose a scrub or balm that is most convenient for you; you do not have to make all of the scrubs and balms in this section.
 In a small dish, combine 2 teaspoons of honey with 1 teaspoon of sugar. Massage the scrub into your lips using small, circular motions for 1 minute. Let the scrub sit on your lips for 3 minutes, then wash it off. For extra moisture, apply some lip balm.The honey will help moisturize your lips and fill out any creases, while the sugar will scrub away any dead skin cells and flakes.
 In a small bowl, combine 1 tablespoon of olive oil with 1 tablespoon of brown sugar. Stir in 1 teaspoon of ground cinnamon. Massage the scrub onto your lips, then wait 5 to 10 minutes. Wash the scrub off afterwards.If you can't find olive oil, or if you'd like something more moisturizing, try coconut oil instead., In a small dish, combine 2 teaspoons of sugar with 1 teaspoon of honey. Add 1 teaspoon of almond oil and a dash of ground cinnamon.Stir well, then massage the scrub onto your lips for 1 minute. Wait 3 minutes, then wash the scrub off.The honey and oil will help moisturize your lips, while the cinnamon will help plump them. The sugar will help scrub away any flakes.
You don't need to use lip balm after this scrub, but you can if you want to.
If you can't find almond oil, try coconut oil; it is also very moisturizing.
 In a small dish, combine 1 tablespoon of brown sugar with 1 teaspoon of honey and 1 teaspoon of coconut oil or olive oil. Stir in ½ teaspoon of ground cinnamon, then transfer it to a jar.To use the scrub: massage a small amount onto your lips, and let it sit for 3 to 5 minutes, then wash it off.


For extra flavor, add ½ teaspoon of vanilla extract.Store the jar in a cool place, and use the scrub within one week.
 In a small dish, combine ½ tablespoon of melted cocoa butter with 1 tablespoon of coconut oil and 20 drops of almond oil. Add 2 drops of cayenne pepper essential oil, then pour the mixture into a small jar or empty lip balm container. Let the mixture set, then apply it to your lips.Peppermint essential oil or cinnamon essential oil may also work. Both have lip-plumping abilities.
If you can't find cocoa butter, try shea butter instead.
Melt the cocoa butter in the microwave at 15 to 30-second intervals.

