 Whether you are a part of a planning team, or you have an individual boss to report to, or you just have friends who work in the main office, it is valuable to maintain connections. After all, you do work with these people, even if you are not physically in the office. Participate in regular meetings, either in person by going to the office occasionally, or through webinars or conference calls.Even if a meeting is called that may not directly need your participation, attending is a good idea to keep up your connections with the office.
 You and your team, boss or other contacts at work should establish some basic ground rules for communicating. Communication that is not planned well is not going to serve a positive purpose. For example, if your boss is calling you too frequently, you may feel that you are not being respected or trusted. On the other hand, if you are not providing information to the team regularly enough, they may wonder if you are being productive.You should try to set days and times to check in. If you choose not to make specific appointments (Tuesday at 3:00, for example), you should at least have a good understanding of the frequency that is expected on both sides (once a week, once a day, or so on).
 As a remote employee, you may feel that you are occasionally overlooked or uninvolved. You need to make extra efforts to show your employer that you are valuable. You should volunteer for projects (as much as you realistically can) and make sure that your employer knows the work that you are doing. If you disappear from your employer’s view, this is your own fault for not making yourself visible and valuable., If your remote office is in your home, there may be a tendency to isolate yourself in your home. You could wake up, eat breakfast, do your work, have dinner, go to bed, and never see another person. You need to combat this tendency. If necessary, make it part of your daily schedule to get out and see people. Get out and take a walk at lunchtime. Participate in social groups or clubs that keep you involved with others. These extra connections will help you focus more effectively on your work, when you are working.Working too much in isolation may seem super-effective at first. You might be able to dedicate more hours per day to your work tasks. However, habits like this can lead to burnout, which makes you less effective in the long run.

