 The way we perceive or think about ourselves, others, and the world creates our unique reality. The thoughts we have are directly linked to our feelings. If we think negatively we become more likely to be depressed. Cognitive restructuring is about changing these negative and unconstructive thoughts that increase depression and replacing them with more realistic ideas.If you change these thoughts consciously you may be able to reduce your overall depression.
 This means you either think something is all bad or all good. Try to make room for the middle ground. If you think something or someone is all bad, name at least a few things that are positive and focus on these aspects.
 Blaming the self may look like thoughts such as, “It’s all my fault. Nobody loves me because I am a terrible person.” These thoughts are incorrect because nothing can be all your fault, there are always other factors in any given situation.


At the same time, do not place all of the blame on others.Accept the responsibility you have and try to realistically appraise the situation.
 This means thinking that the worst thing will happen and trying to predict the future.Work toward thinking of alternative ways that the situation might turn out.For example, if you are sure you will not get the job you interviewed for, consider that the interviewers liked you and you still have a chance.
Try to guess how likely it is that the worst possible thing will happen. if you think logically about it, there is probably a low percentage chance that the world will end.
Another option is to think about the worst possible scenario and decide that you will still be okay in the midst of such and occurrence. Thus, if the worst thing is that you won't pass that big test, the reality is, you will most likely survive it and persevere. You will not die from not passing the test. You will move on and learn how to do better the next time. Then perhaps the situation won't seem so bad after all.
 Perfectionism, or thinking that everything needs to be just the way you want it, can lead to depression.This is because if you have unrealistically high expectations of yourself, others, or your environment, you set yourself up to be disappointed. Chronic disappointment can most definitely lead to depressed mood and other depressive symptoms (difficulty sleeping, weight loss or gain, etc.).


Set realistic goals and expectations of yourself. If you expect to lose ten lbs. in three days, you are setting yourself up for failure. This would be very difficult and not healthy for your body. However, if you set a more reasonable goal of losing eight lbs. in a month, this is a more achievable option and can reduce your perfectionist thinking.
Try to expand your viewpoint to include your positive accomplishments, and not just what you didn't do or think you could have done better. Instead of looking for flaws in your actions, include all the things you did right or did well.
Give yourself a break. Think, "I don't always have to do my very best at every moment. Sometimes I will be sick or tired. It's okay to take some time off for myself to recuperate."
Set time limits for working on particular projects and stick to them. If you plan on spending one to two hours completing a small school assignment, then give yourself that amount of time and then stop. This way, you can't continually analyze and re-read your work over and over again, as many perfectionists do. Just make sure you give yourself an adequate amount of time for your limit (not only one hour for an entire essay, for example).
 Be confident in your ability to cope with negative situations and feelings.Your positive thoughts about your ability to cope with depression can actually decrease your depression overall.


If you have negative thoughts such as, “I can’t handle this. It’s too much. I can’t cope,” consciously change your thoughts to something more positive and realistic such as, “This is tough and I am depressed, but I have gotten through it before and I can do it again. I know that I will survive this feeling.”

, Depressed individuals may be less likely to think that situations require their acceptance.However, many situations can be dealt with more easily by simply accepting them. For example, when you feel a negative emotion (such as depressed mood or sadness), accepting this emotion as normal and okay can help you cope with it healthfully. Sometimes not accepting negative emotions creates a block in your ability to process the emotion so that it naturally subsides. By not allowing yourself to process the emotion, you may experience longer periods of sadness or a depressed mood.


Try working on acceptance by saying or thinking to yourself, “I accept that I am depressed. It hurts, but my feeling is giving me valuable information that something needs to change. I’m going to find out what needs to happen for me to feel better.”