 You can use any neighborhood, including an already existing one, but you must switch to the Legacy family right away, and they have to stay active during the entire challenge. Also, you can't use any other neighborhoods after you've selected one.;
, You can't start out with pre-made Sims, or Sims downloaded from The Exchange on the Sims website. They can be male or female. You can use Custom Content if you want. Your Sim must be a Young Adult, an Adult, or an Elder (males only).
 The lot your founder will live in has to an empty lot, and cost at least ยง14,700. For example, in Riverview you would move into 345 Riverblossom Hills Drive, and in Sunset Valley you would move into 15 Summer Hill Court. The reason why it has to be so big, empty, and expensive is because your Sim will be living like this for a while, and further into the challenge as you get richer, you'll have a lot of space for a mansion.
 This is made up of several parts per generation. For a better explanation, the founder must have kids, and grandkids, and so on.


Fall in love. Simple and self explanatory. The only rules are the Sim your founder or heirs fall in love with can't be created by you, or downloaded from the exchange.
Have kid(s). This part is essential to the challenge. You are allowed to adopt Sims, but they won't count for the legacy. Adopted Sims can't be heirs, or earn any points. Also, all traits are random. If you have the ability to pick trait, click the dice in the upper right-hand corner to randomize the trait. Some players choose not to follow this rule, but it can make it a lot more interesting. You can use the birthday cake to age up your Sim only after you have gotten a notification that the Sim has a birthday coming up.
When the oldest child ages up to a Young Adult, pick an heir. The heir will carry on the legacy, and take the role that your founder did. After you pick the heir, any siblings must move out as soon as they can. The heir will stay in the household with their parents and repeat the process.
 In Legacies, sometimes strange or unexpected things happen. These guidelines will be a safety net when you don't know what to do about your situation.


Death. If your heir dies, switch to a spare. A spare is a sibling of the heir, who can take their place if they die. Continue playing as normally with your spare, but if you don't have a spare, the challenge ends. Also, you can't prolong your Sim's life with death flowers, life fruits, or cheats. This will be against the Legacy rules.
No cheating! This means not using any cheats or mods, produced by EA or by a third party to change your money, mood, or needs. The only exception to this rule is if a Sim or lot is glitching in a way that makes it impossible to complete the challenge. Also, the lifespan for Sims has to be set to the default.

