 The most harmful element of the War is that it forces substances out of the normal economy. This raises the prices of illicit goods due to lack of availability, making them both very profitable and draining on the salaries of addicts. This profitability SUPPORTS the drug trade, and is responsible for reports of muggings for drug money: if the drugs were cheaper, addicts could afford them instead of committing MORE CRIMES.;
, As an example, heroin is lethal on its own, but since it cannot be supervised by medical professionals, it also has helped to spread the AIDS epidemic due to dirty needles. In countries such as Amsterdam, where heroin is available, these needles are regulated in such a way that they are far safer to use, and the percentage of overdose occurring is far smaller. Users who buy drugs off the black market CANNOT LEGALLY KNOW THE QUALITY OR DOSAGE THAT THEY ARE RECEIVING.
 Many violent incidents related to marijuana and displayed on television were actually incidents coupled with alcohol. Lung damage associated with marijuana assumes that the user smokes it instead of, say, baking it into cookies. DMT is deemed dangerous because of its reality distortions when in reality a DMT user is not mobile during the experience, and thus unable to cause physical distress to others and their property. (And so much more. See last step)

, For instance, DMT is a schedule I drug (along with heroin and other extremely dangerous substances.) This scheduling implies that it has no medical purpose, is highly addictive, very abusive, and, furthermore, dangerous. The truth is that DMT has not been shown to be addictive, has a "trip" which only lasts up to an hour on a reasonable dose, and has caused no documented death. Compare this to alcohol, which no sane doctor would prescribe as medicine, can cause physiological addiction which can kill, is abused by 10% of its users, and is present in far more deaths than any other illegal drug.
 While liver problems and alcohol consumption dropped during the prohibition, murder rates SKYROCKETED. It was the birth of the gangster culture. As soon as the prohibition ended, murder rates fell, and the health problems from improperly created alcohol (such as blindness and death from bathtub gin) were all but eliminated.
 Even though they should not be prohibited, drugs still do pose a risk to citizen's safety. The idea of regulation (which is impossible under prohibition) is to make laws regarding the age group that can safely use substances, and where they can be used without affecting others, while ensuring that the dosage of substances is not more harmful than necessary and that the substance is not laced or contaminated with something fatal.
 Many modern medicines are derived from substances thought originally to be purely harmful. Even today, various venoms are being tested for use in a cure for cancer. The regulations placed upon drugs stunt research into unique substances (what else is like LSD?) which may provide vast insights to medicine and the function of the human body (both cannabinoids and DMT are secreted naturally in humans).
 This guide cannot possibly explain to you the intricacies of black market economics and human tendency to abuse drugs which are unregulated, nor can it provide you with your own voice in the war against the Prohibition. To make a difference, you must KNOW WHAT YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT.

