 Not only does smoking cause cancer and many other health problems, it may also be the cause of your heartburn. Smoking has been linked with heartburn and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). Studies have found that smoking weakens the lower esophageal sphincter, which is the muscle that keeps your stomach contents from backing up into your esophagus. A weakened lower esophageal sphincter is more likely to allow stomach acids to escape and cause damage to your esophagus. Talk to your doctor about smoking cessation programs in your area, if you want to quit smoking.Try using the START acronym to quit smoking:


S= Set a quit date.
T= Tell friends and family.
A= Anticipate challenges ahead.
R= Remove tobacco products for home, work, and car.
T= Talk to your doctor for more support.
 Being overweight is thought to be a contributor to heartburn because the excess fat on your abdomen puts pressure on your stomach and may force your stomach contents back up into your esophagus. Studies have shown that a drastic weight loss is not necessary to help relieve heartburn caused by being overweight. Even a small weight loss, 5 to 10% of your body weight, may help relieve your heartburn.To lose weight, try to limit calories to 1800 to 2000 kcal a day, while also exercising for 30 minutes five times per week. You can use a fitness tracker or application to log your food and keep track of your activity.
 Tight pants and belts may be contributing to your heartburn by causing too much pressure on your abdomen and causing your stomach contents to back up. Make sure that your pants fit comfortably and that you do not wear your belt too tight. Choose clothing that is a size too big or that has an elastic waistband if your heartburn is severe., If you often suffer from nighttime heartburn, there are two positions that seem to be the most effective against heartburn: sleeping on your left side and sleeping with your upper body elevated. Try one or both of these sleep positions to see if either one helps to relieve your heartburn.


Sleeping on your left side helps aid digestion. Try sleeping on your left side if elevating your upper body does not seem to help.
Sleeping with your upper body elevated reduces the possibility that stomach acid will flow up your esophagus. Try using a wedge-shaped pillow to elevate your whole upper body. Using regular pillows will just elevate your head., Stress may contribute to your heartburn symptoms by causing your stomach to produce more stomach acid. Incorporating relaxation techniques into your daily routine, especially after you eat, may help to relieve heartburn. Try meditation, yoga, massage, aromatherapy, deep breathing, or something else to help yourself relax every day.