 You can try to move on in life by thinking differently about what is holding you back. For example, if you witnessed an assault and you are scared this will happen to you, try asking yourself some questions to avoid this having a detrimental impact on your life.For example, you could ask yourself how rare assaults are in your city or country, where you can browse the internet in search of an answer. This will help you to realize that your probability of being assaulted yourself is very low.
You could also, for example, ask yourself how many times you have been out without having witnessed an assault. This will help you to reinforce just how rare this harmful event was, which will help you to move on in life by changing your negative appraisals of the situation., While it is fine to acknowledge the underlying reality of a situation, know, for example, that you have control over your thoughts and behavior if you were traumatized by someone. That is why it makes sense not to focus so much on what was done to you, but instead to enlist on what you can do about it and about moving on.Don't go too far in the other direction and think that what happened to you is your fault. Think instead about what you can do to feel better,regardless of who is to blame for the incident, and move on.
 There's only going to be one day like the one you are living today. Each day is precious, and time flies. You never know when you will pass away, so live each day to the fullest. Although these may sound like cliches, there is also much truth to them, hence why they are so common! There are a number of ways to be more mindful. You can try those, for example:


Savor experiences by doing your best to focus on the simple sensations that they provide. Pay extra attention to tastes, smells, and the way everything looks and feels.
Breathe deeply in and out and pay close attention to how your breath feels and sounds.
Look at the world from a new perspective by imagining that you aren't familiar to what you do; imagine instead that you are seeing your environment for the first time without your knowledge about it.
 Moving on can be very difficult. Sometimes you may find that you have less control over your mind as it wanders to the past or future when you want it to be in the present moment.Try to avoid becoming discouraged by cutting yourself some slack when you find yourself ruminating or not moving on.
Keep in mind that moving on is an ongoing process, so you are not failing, as long as there is an overall trend toward it. Don't get upset by single instances of mistakes; instead, look at overall trends in your progress.
 If you experienced something traumatic and you are having trouble moving on, consider facing your fears directly to help you get over them.For example, if you experienced a bad car accident and you cannot forget it and won't drive anymore, try gradually exposing yourself to cars and driving again.You could, for example, sit in a parked car for two minutes. After that you could drive around your neighborhood at night or whenever there is most likely to be little to no traffic.

