 Though you can make this pin with normal duct tape, you may find that using metallic silver and gold duct tape gives a more realistic effect appearance. For this project, you will also need:


Duct tape (black and gold)
Eye pin (two inch)
Hot glue gun (and glue)
Permanent marker
Safety pin
Scissors
Seed beads
Wax paper, Cut a square of your wax paper so that it is big enough to overlap the image of the mockingjay you will be tracing.Lay your square of wax paper atop the image and then:


Use your permanent marker to outline the perimeter of your mockingjay pin image onto the wax paper.
 Take a strip of your black duct tape and cover your circle with it so the black tape completely covers one side, extending a little beyond the edges of the circle you have drawn on all sides. You should still be able to see the outer line you have traced on the un-taped, reverse side of your wax paper., The circle you have drawn will form the outer boundary of your pin, so you will need to cut it free from extra tape and paper before moving on. Use the lines on your wax paper to guide your cutting until you have a black circle. When you have completed cutting, remove the wax paper from the tape.


You may want to leave at the end of the outside of your circle. This can make it easier to remove the wax paper from the black duct tape.If you leave a tab, be sure to cut it after you pull the wax paper free so that you end up with a regular circle.
 To ensure that all gray areas on the sticky, reverse side of your circle are covered, you may want to extend your gold tape beyond the edges of the circle.Then you can cut any excess gold tape free by following the outer edge of your black circle and using it as a guide.
 You will be using the negative space (the space not filled with color) of your image to bring out the image of the mockingjay on your gold background. To do this, you'll need to:


Copy your mockingjay pin image, including the bird inside the outer circle, onto the wax paper.
Use a second piece of wax paper to draw the empty (negative) space between the outer circle and inner bird of the image.
Plan to leave tabs on your negative space cutouts to make removing the wax paper easier (optional).
Cut the negative space free, dividing it into four sections: top, wing, left, and right. These sections, when arranged together, should form the outline of a bird.
Layer black tape atop the negative space wax paper cutouts.
Remove any excess tape with your scissors.
 One section at a time, pull the black tape free from the negative space wax paper cutout and adhere it to the gold taped side of your circle. Arrange the black tape so it resembles the image of the pin, so that:


The black tape represents the empty spaces of the pin.
The gold background forms the outer circle of the pin and central image of a bird., The mockingjay pin that Katniss wears holds an arrow in its talons, so yours should as well. Take your eye pin and thread black seed beads onto it until there is only a little metal remaining at the pointed end of the pin. Then you can:


Sandwich each end of your eye pin with one square of gold tape apiece.
Trim the back in the shape of a V, with the top of the V pointing backwards.
Trim the front in an arrowhead shape, with the front of the arrowhead pointing frontwards.
Use a dab of hot glue to attach your arrow to the front of your mockingjay pin., Your mockingjay pin is now nearing completion. You only need to use a thick piece of duct tape to adhere your safety pin to the black back of your design and you should be finished.You might also consider using additional metallic tape along the wings, tail, and head to accent your mockingjay pin.

