 Get in the habit of addressing critical thoughts as soon as they arise. This can help keep symptoms of imposter phenomenon in check. For instance, whenever you find yourself dwelling on a failure, or thinking about how you could have done more, stop and remind yourself that no one is perfect.This is another healthy reminder: persistent self-doubt will make it harder for you to focus on your next goal. Calling yourself out may be enough to keep you from dwelling too much on negativity, especially when you have a task as hand.
If a negative thought persists, simply tell yourself, “this is imposter phenomenon talking” - you’ll be surprised how much it may help.
 You may be allowing concepts like luck or chance to explain achievements that were the product of your skills and hard work. Fortunately, you can re-write the mental programming that allows thoughts like these to undervalue your worth.Start by asking yourself: Did I play a role in my achievements? Hint: Of course you did!


When you accomplish something, congratulate yourself. Sure, anyone can look back at everything they’ve done and imagine how they would do it differently - but it’s simply unhealthy and unproductive to do so. Instead, quietly remind yourself you’ve earned the right to feel good about what you achieved.
Similarly, thank people for any compliments they offer. While you may be tempted to wave off a compliment with a comment like “Oh, I just got lucky”, stop yourself from doing so and say something like “Thanks, I really appreciate that”.
 For instance, maybe you’re an absolute coding whiz, but you fumbled a comment in your company meeting, and have found yourself feeling like you don’t measure up to your peers. Well, remind yourself who’s doing all of the coding. You may be more capable, and more valuable, than all the board-room smooth-talkers combined.Re-frame failures too. When you do swing and miss, don’t let self-doubt beat you up about it. Instead, say to yourself, “This is a learning opportunity, and now I’m better prepared to address a similar scenario next time.”

, It’s likely worth sitting down and making a realistic assessment of your abilities. Often, people who suffer from imposter phenomenon are intelligent, and have achieved a high amount of success. In turn, some high achievers find themselves setting their personal expectations for themselves at unrealistic levels - even a genius isn’t good at everything.It may even help to write out the things you've accomplished, as well as the skill you know you can use to accomplish even more.
Whenever self-doubt does arise, visualize yourself completing a task or nailing a presentation. Not only does this recall past accomplishments, it can help prepare you for the next one. If nothing else, picturing success may help keep your calm and reduce symptoms of imposter phenomenon