 Of course, payment is generally a large part of deciding whether or not to take a job. Find out how payment works, and what exactly you will be getting paid. Start by asking at the base pay you will receive before asking about any other sort of payment (like incentive pay, bonuses, sales commission, etc.) It can help to research what other people are getting paid for the same kind of position that you are thinking about taking.Ask yourself: How much do I think I should get paid for this job? How much are people getting paid for jobs that are similar to mine? Will I be able to live off of the pay that

Ask your potential employer: How does the payment system work at this company? Are employees given bonuses? Is there any type of incentive pay? Is there the potential to increase my salary through good work and time?

, It can make your life easier if the job you are looking at is close to your home. If this is not the case, you will have to figure out how you will get to work, and potentially negotiate terms like flexible hours or working from home.



Ask yourself: How far am I willing to commute for this job? How will I get to this job every day?

Ask your potential employer: Is there a shuttle service for people who do not live close to the office? Is it possible to work flexible hours that accommodate a long commute? Is is possible to work from home some or all of the days of the week?

, It is important to find out what the company’s policies are on vacations, and what benefits, if any, the company will be giving you. If you are a person who does not have health insurance, a company that has health benefits might be a necessity for you.Ask your potential employer: How much vacation will I get? Will this vacation time increase the longer I work at the company? Will I be required to come in on holidays? What benefits does the company offer?

, When assessing a job, it is important to look at how stable and profitable the company is. If it is a new company, this might be hard to do, so do some research on the profitability of companies like the one that you are thinking about joining.Look at:


When the company was established.
How successful the company has been.
The company’s stock.
How often raises and bonuses are given (if you have access to this information).
 If you have to regularly fix conflicts with your boss, you will most likely not be as productive or happy as you could have been at another job. If you meet with your supervisor before accepting the job, look for things like:


Does your supervisor seem approachable or stiff and standoffish?
Does he or she seem flexible when it comes to extended vacations, odd hours, or new ideas?

, If you are in the older sector of the workforce, you are more than likely thinking about retirement savings. It is important to find out what the opportunities for retirement savings are at this company.Ask your potential employer: Does the company offer a retirement plan? How much income will I get when I retire?

, This element is similar to considering the company’s prestige. Your job title can affect your future employment opportunities, so it is a good thing to consider if prestige and job title are important to you. Position titles matter because they present the breadth of your job responsibilities in just a single word. Because of this, if you had a more prestigious title at your last job, it might make your resume look less respectable if you take a new position that has a lower title than your last position.



Ask yourself: Is this new job title above or below my last job title? How will this job title look on my resume?
For example, if you were a Manager at your last company, accepting an Assistant Manager position might not look as good on your resume, unless it is with a more renowned company.

