 There are many different styles of pick up artistry and different teachers or “gurus” teach or advocate for different methods. Research the different styles of seduction and focus on the one that feels most organic to who you are as a person.Some of the different gurus include David DeAngelo, Mystery, Ross Jeffries and JT Tran.
David DeAngelo believes seduction is a numbers game and that you'll only improve by meeting and talking to lots of different women.
Mystery is the most famous pick up artist working and has "trained" many of the other pick up artists working today. He advocates dressing ostentatiously and engaging women in conversation immediately upon entering the room.
Ross Jeffries prefers to talk to women during the day, specifically in quiet places like coffee shops.
JT Tran believes in teaching men self-confidence and communication skills in order to improve their experiences with women.
There are many forums on the Internet devoted to analyzing different methods of study. Do research before pursuing a specific method.
Some gurus also offer boot camps for aspiring pick up artists. These camps are expensive, usually costing upwards of $3,000 and don't offer much beyond what you can for free online.;
, A wingman is a huge asset for a pickup artist; they’re there to set you up, to make you look good and to help you get comfortable as you’re meeting and talking to new women. Choose a friend you can trust and who likes to have a good time, but not such a good time that they can’t focus on the task at hand.Try to find a wingman with a serious girlfriend. That way, you won’t be competing for the same women.
Don’t choose a wingman who is more attractive, fashionable or charming than you. Find someone who is your equal.
 Learning to talk to women is a skill like anything else, and the only way to get better is through study and repetition. Set time aside each week to go out and pick up women. Bring your wingman with you, or attempt to do it alone, but either way, get out there and practice.Set clear, accomplishable goals. Decide to talk to five women a week, or aspire to get one phone number every day.
The more time you devote to your training, the more your anxiety will dissipate when talking to women.
 It’s impossible to pick up women from the comfort of your own home, so a key step in becoming a pick up artist is leaving your house. Try to go out and meet new people several times a week; the more places you go, the more opportunities you’ll have to meet women.Try going to bars and clubs on weekends; they’re usually crowded, so you’ll have lots of opportunities to meet and speak with different women.
Take out your headphones while you’re walking. You can’t have a conversation with someone if you’re not even aware they’re right next to you.