 You can use your debit or credit card at any ATM owned by your banking institution without charge. Your bank card may also be used at ATMs owned by other financial institutions, but there are often fees associated with these transactions. Not only will the ATM operator charge a fee, but your bank may also. Try to choose an ATM that is operated by your financial institution to avoid fees.


Charges by the ATM operator can range anywhere from $1.50 to $10 per transaction in certain locations.Charges from your bank can range from $1.50 to $3.50 per transaction.
 The insertion slot is usually labeled and surrounded by lights. Look for pictures on the ATM machine that demonstrate the proper way to insert your card. If inserted incorrectly, the machine may not read your card.Some machines require you to insert and extract the card in order for it to be read by the machine. Others will pull the card into the ATM and will not return it until your transaction is complete.
 The machine will prompt you to select a language depending on the country in which the machine is located. Press the button that corresponds to your desired language. The machine will sometimes save your preference for future use so you don’t have to repeat this step again., An ATM pin is a 4-digit code that is used to confirm a user’s identity and allow access to banking transactions. This has to be set up prior to using your bank card at an ATM. If you know your 4-digit PIN, use the numeric keypad to enter it, and then press “enter”.Simply press the “clear” button if you make a mistake while entering your PIN.
Always make sure to cover your PIN entry so others can’t gain access to your account.
Make sure you are entering the correct PIN number for your card. There’s a chance that you may be locked out of your account if you enter the incorrect PIN number too many times.
 The ATM will prompt you to choose the bank account from which you want to make all transactions. Select the desired account. For example, if you have both a checking and savings account at your financial institution, you’ll have to select your desired account., The type of transactions vary from machine to machine, but the most used transactions are withdrawals, deposits, and balance inquiries.A withdrawal is when a customer chooses a set amount of money to have pulled from their account of choice, and dispensed directly from the ATM.
A deposit is when the ATM accepts cash and/or checks to add as a credit to the customer’s account of choice.
Balance inquires allow the user to view the current available balance of funds in their account of choice.
 Use the keypad to enter the numerical value of the funds that are being withdrawn or deposited to the ATM and press “enter”. If you are withdrawing, make sure your requested amount doesn’t exceed your available balance.Most ATMs will only allow you to enter funds in increments of 10s and 20s. Except for when transferring funds between accounts or making bill payments, generally avoid trying amounts that involves coinage or are less than $20.
When making deposits, some ATMs require envelopes. Be sure to read the on-screen directions to ensure you are properly inserting cash and checks.
 If withdrawing cash, your cash will be dispensed once your transaction is finalized. Discreetly count your money to ensure you received the correct amount. The ATM will ask you if you require any other transactions. Press “no” (unless an additional transaction is required). When prompted for a receipt, press “yes”. Retrieve your receipt and bank card to finalize your transaction.Don’t forget to retrieve your bank card! This is the most important step in maintaining the safety of your account.
Never leave your receipt at an ATM. Always take it with you to guard against the unauthorized use of your card.