 If you’re lucky enough or have played long enough, you might find yourself with a stock of Redstone Dust and some Iron Ingots. With this you can craft one very helpful tool called a Compass. Unlike real compasses, this one points towards your spawn point (or Bed, if you made one) instead! This is useful if you plan on exploring nearby areas but want to be able to return home just as quickly. You don’t have to “use” it, per se, just keep it in your hotbar or inventory, and even without selecting it, the sprite will constantly be pointing to the general direction of your spawn point.


The Compass is made on a crafting table with 1 Redstone Dust and 4 Iron Ingots. The format is a cross-shape, with the Ingots as spokes and the Redstone as the center.;
, This can be considered as an upgrade to your Compass, or a great partner for it, if you know what you’re doing. It needs Paper to make, though, but is quite worth it. Each map can initially show you the nearby 128 x 128 area (8 x 8 chunks) from where you first use it. In any case, a map can be useful if you want to know the lay of the nearby area while keeping track of where your original home is. When you’re holding your map, it slowly fills and shows a general view of the area you’re in. This, combined with your Compass, will ensure that you know exactly where you are and how to get back home.


On the PC, the Empty Map is crafted on your crafting table with Paper and a Compass. Place the Compass in the middle of the table’s grid, then surround it with Paper. You start with a map in the console edition, but can use this recipe to make duplicate maps. To use the Empty Map, select it then press right-click or LT/L2 in the area you wish to map out, then simply walk and watch it fill itself up automatically.
In the PC edition, the Empty Map becomes a map item with a number (Map #1, Map #2, etc.) and each map depicting different areas are separate items. You can duplicate your map by placing an Empty Map beside it on any crafting menu.
Paper is acquired by breaking Sugar Canes growing beside bodies of water and is crafted by placing three Sugar Canes horizontally on your crafting table.
Preferably, you’ll want to be around or beside your spawn point before using the Empty Map to know where your spawn point is exactly.
 If you don’t have the resources for a Compass or Map, the easiest solution is to lay down blocks, torches, or fence posts as you go along. Avoid blocks that blend too easily to the surroundings, like Dirt Blocks in a Plains or Sandstone in a Desert. This way, when you turn back, the path home is easily seen.
 In general, keeping an eye on your surroundings is a must when exploring. Sometimes, it’s easier following the river back to your home than by looking for several paths and blocks you laid out, or scrambling to find the area home with your Map or Compass. Keep a close eye on memorable landmarks, like large cliffs, a single tree in the middle of a Plain, a cluster of Pumpkins, or even the presence of livestock. As long as you keep a clear head and remember your surroundings, exploration will be much easier.

