 Clarify the significance of the sequence of events that you have arranged. Let the reader know why these events are important.For example, your story might say something like, "My grandfather always made a point of expecting me to do the just and fair thing, in any situation. Now that I am a police officer I understand why he felt this was so important, because those life-lessons are really what sustain me when knowing just what to do in a situation can be so challenging."

, Reflect on the importance or relevance of your story to the reader. Why should a reader care about your story? If you can answer this question, then review your story to see if the sequence of actions you have chosen would lead a reasonable reader to your answer.For example: "Why should we care about Noni and his village? Because the climate change that is flooding the land he grew up on and loves will soon raise the water levels in our own cities, and if we act now we can be more prepared than Noni was when his whole world changed in that storm."

, Whether the “I” in the story is you (the writer) or the voice of a character you have created, you can simply speak directly to the reader.


For example: "I realized, in that moment, that all my hard work and long practice hours had led me to this moment, standing on that incredible stage, warmed by the glow of dazzling lights and the breath and sounds of everyone in the stadium."
Celebrity talk show interviews, for example, will often be nothing more than a series of conversations with no clear structure. However, the interviews we remember most are ones where people give clear, effective stories by explaining in direct language what they feel that experience means and why it is significant., You can have another character or a narrator voice speak for you and convey the importance of the story.


For example: "Denise carefully folded the letter, kissed it, and laid it down on the table, next to the money. They would have questions for her, she knew, but in time they would learn, as she had done, to find their own answers. She nodded, as if agreeing with someone in the room, and walked out of the house and into the old taxi, whining and trembling gently at the curb like a loyal but impatient dog."

, The nature of the section will depend on the genre you are writing in. Academics and scientists agree that a good ending to any writing should end by having the author leave their readers with “something to think about.” This “something” is the story's significance.If you're writing a personal or academic essay, then your conclusion could take the form of a final paragraph or set of paragraphs. If you are working on a sci-fi novel, then the conclusion might need to be an entire chapter or sequence of chapters at the end of your story.
Please don't end with "I woke up and it was all a dream" or a similar one-line conclusion. The meaning or larger point of the story should feel like it flows naturally from the events of the story itself, and not like a tag placed on at the last minute.
 What does your journey (or your character's journey) seem to represent? Thinking about your story as a journey—where you or your main character ends up in a different place, somehow changed from the beginning—will help you see the ways in which your story has its own unique shape, and will help you find an ending that feels right.

