 Either an artificial poinsettia plant or a live one will give you the information you need to paint it. Look for the general shape of the blossoms, how many petals come from the center of each flower, what size and color are the central berries, what shape are the leafs, do the blossoms lie flat or form an umbrella shape, are there layers of red petals and how are they configured?;
, Draw it in pencil. Begin by plotting out large circles for each blossom. If you are aiming for a realistic look, place a small circle within the larger one, but not exactly in the center to create the illusion that the flowers are pointing in various directions as if they were growing. Place small stems under them as if they were standing up.
 There are six main petals, so arrange them evenly around the center, allow them to become elongated ovals, and end in a point. For the veins, draw a slightly curved line down the center of the petal to give them the illusion they are lifting and curving at random. Fill in between each petal with a secondary set of petals for a lush, full flower.
 They are a third layer of petals but will be distinguished as leafs by painting them green.
 It can be a store wrapper around a pot, basket, or vase. If the container is a basket with a handle, let it go off the top of the page to give the viewer the feeling of being involved, not seeing the arrangement from a distance.
 The opening and bottom of the vessel, no matter what type, if it is round, will have curves at the lip and foot. They must be the same.,,, Put undiluted red paint on the tip of your brush and touch it to the petal. The water will carry the paint to all areas that are wet. Add a second dot of another shade of red, if desired.
 If desired, do tributary veins off the main one. Alternatively, paint the veins with a liner or small brush, or use a combination of both techniques., Darken the red by adding a touch of blue or green to it.
 Have some greens lean toward the yellow, and some toward the blue. For the veins, do as you did for the petals., Leaf shapes are good fillers within the flower arrangement. For the all over composition, if the base looks too simple, add twining ivy or holly.
 Wet the entire background, getting water carefully in around the flowers, using a soft wash brush. Make two juicy puddles on your palette of grey and tan. Just add water to the paint in the center of your palette and let the colors cancel one another out to make neutrals. Using a soft brush, paint grey on the top and tan for the table's surface.
