 To do so, double-click on the yellow app icon that contains the letters "Ai," then click on File in the menu bar at the top of the screen, and:

Click on Open... to open an existing document; or
Click on New... to create a new document.;
,

If you want to add a hyperlink to text, you must convert it to outlines first. To do so:

Click on the Selection Tool. It's the black pointer in the upper-left part of the toolbar on the left side of the window.
Single-click on the text on which you're placing the hyperlink.
Click on Type. It's in the menu bar at the top of the screen.
Click on Create Outlines. It's in the middle of the menu. Your text is now a series of individually-editable objects.
Click on Object. It's in the menu bar at the top of the screen.
Click on Group. It's near the top of the menu. Your text outlines can now be moved as a group.
 Use the Selection Tool to select your text or object and place it where you want the hyperlink to appear on your page., It's the T icon at the upper-right of the toolbar on the left side of the window., Doing so creates a text box., Start with "http://" so PDF reader apps will recognize it as a live link, then type the web address to which you want to link., It's the black pointer in the upper-left part of the toolbar on the left side of the window., Use the Selection Tool to do so.

If you wish, you can resize the URL so it fits directly over the text or object. Do so by clicking and holding on the small squares of the selection box that surrounds the text, and stretching or condensing the URL text to the dimensions of the object or text from which you're linking.
 It's at the top of the Illustrator window., The hyperlink on top of your text or object is now invisible., It's in the menu bar at the top of the screen., It's near the middle of the drop-down menu., Do so in the "Save As:" field at the top of the dialog box., It's at the lower-left of the dialog box.,, It's in the lower-right corner of the dialog box., It's in the lower-right corner of the dialog box. When your document is opened in a PDF reader, the app will recognize your text or object as a hyperlink.