 If the child is energetic or aggressive, team sports may encourage them to channel their energy into an organized game. Since cooperation is vital in team sports, they will learn social skills that will help them make friends outside of the team.Good sports for kids with ADHD include soccer, basketball, swimming, gymnastics, tennis, and track.For example, Michael Phelps has said that swimming helped to manage his ADHD symptoms.Martial arts are also good for kids with ADHD because they can help a child to develop self-control and executive functioning skills.
Good activities for kids with ADHD include those that focus on individual growth rather than team competition, offer concrete and attainable goals, include routines that are broken down into manageable chunks, emphasize self-control and concentration, can help with coordination, provide structure and clear expectations for behavior, can provide a safe outlet for excess energy, and that include an environment that is accepting and communal.Before you sign the child up for a sport, talk to the coach and explain the child’s ADHD to them. For example, you might say, “Mike has ADHD, and this means that he struggles with paying attention and cooperating with other kids. Is this something you could help him with?” The coach should understand that the child should not be punished for their ADHD.;
, If sports aren’t the right choice for the child, you might try some non-athletic group activities. These will still provide structure and organization for the child while giving some more room to talk and interact with other children.Some activities you might consider include:


Theater
Choir groups
Science club
Group art classes

, Ask the child what types of activities they enjoy doing. If they have a particular hobby, you might find a club that they can join to help them pursue that interest, or you may be able to find a playmate with a similar interest.Ask the child, "What is your favorite thing to do in your free time?"
If the child enjoys playing video games, you might encourage them to invite a schoolmate home to play with them.
If the child is into anime, you might encourage them to start their own anime club.
A child who likes acting and making videos might want to recruit other children to make their own movie.
 There may be a particular schoolmate or neighbor that they would like to play more with. Ask your child if they have anyone in particular they want to be friends with, and discuss the difficulties they may have with being their friend.


You can say, "Is there anyone at school you want to be friends with?"
If the child expresses they have no friends, ask them, "Who do you like best in your class? Why?"
Try to help your child realize how they could be friends with this person. For example, if they complain that no one ever invites them over to play, ask them if they would like to invite someone over to your house.
 If the child is struggling with meeting friends at school, you might try to look for a playmate elsewhere for them. Repeated exposure to a playmate may lead to a good childhood and promote a lifelong friendship. You can ask your coworkers, neighbors, friends, and family members if they know of a child who would be a good fit.Younger playmates may be better suited for children with ADHD than children of the same age. If you can, find a playmate who is a year or two younger than your child.Small groups are more beneficial for children with ADHD than larger groups. When introducing a new playmate, let them meet one on one before inviting more children.

