 If your thymoma is in its early stages and has not yet spread to the rest of your body, you are an excellent candidate for surgical removal of the tumor, the thymus gland, and some surrounding tissue. This procedure is referred to as a thymectomy.Surgery is the most likely course of treatment in Stages I and II of the disease and may be somewhat effective in Stage III.In the vast majority of cases, surgery by itself is sufficient to cure a thymoma entirely in its early stages.However, surgery can only cure about 25 – 40% of Stage III thymomas.;
, If the thymoma has spread significantly, it might not be possible to remove the thymoma entirely. Surgery can be used, however, to drastically shrink the tumor, thereby relieving symptoms.This is referred to as debulking. This surgery may involve removing a part of the lung or the lining of the lung in cases where the tumor has spread to these areas.Some patients may require radiation therapy after getting debulking surgery to kill any cancerous cells that may have been left behind after the surgery. This is called adjuvant therapy., In most cases a thymectomy is done by a thoracic surgeon, or a surgeon who works primarily on the chest.Your thoracic surgeon should be board-certified, and you should be able to confirm her certification online., If you have some choice in the matter, try to locate a surgeon who has performed many successful thymectomies in the past. Feel free to ask your surgeon questions about his or her experience, including:


The number of successful surgeries performedHospital infection ratesBoard certificationsQuality of the hospital, This is the most common surgery that is performed to remove a Stage I or II thymoma. This involves splitting the breastbone and removing the thymoma and the surrounding tissues, such as the lining of the lung and heart. This is an open surgery, which means that you are more at risk of blood loss and lengthy recovery time. However, this type of surgery does an excellent job of removing a tumor in its entirety.In some cases, you might be required to have chemotherapy or radiation prior to surgery. Chemotherapy and radiation can shrink a tumor to make it easier to remove., This procedure involves making incisions on the patient’s chest and attaching robotic arms on one side of the base unit. Several medical devices are attached on the other side, including endoscopic cameras that help to view the body, sharp instruments, sophisticated sewing tools, miniature scalpels, and lasers. The operating surgeon uses the controllers to manipulate the instruments that are inside the patient’s body. The instruments have the same capabilities as a human being’s wrist. The surgeon makes specific sewing and cutting motions using the instruments. The computer translates the surgeon's motions and performs them inside the body.This approach can cut down on recovery time and blood loss, but is not possible for every patient depending on the severity of their thymoma., This surgery involves making three small incisions on the right or the left side of the chest. Scopes and other instruments are inserted through the incisions so that the tumor can be removed. This type of surgery drastically cuts down on your recovery time, but it might not be possible for all patients., This surgery is done for thymomas that are in the later stages and have advanced throughout the body. This is done when it is not possible to remove the entire thymoma. This procedure tries to remove most of the tumor where possible, and it helps to relieve some of the symptoms. This may also involve the removal of surrounding tissues around the chest, heart, and lungs., You will not be able to return immediately to work, school, or physical activities. For most thymectomy patients, three to six weeks of recovery time is sufficient before returning to normal activity.However, the side effects of thymectomy are relatively minor: most patients are released from the hospital after just a few days, and most do not require serious pain medication.Keep in mind that the thymus gland is not necessary for adults to have a healthy immune system. Most patients do not experience ill effects after thymus gland removal.