 Dirty hair is the best for creating beach waves because it holds the style so well. Start by dividing your hair into three sections: left side, right side, and back. Take a clump of hair from the left section, and wrap it around a curling iron. Hold it for a few seconds, then left go and move on to the next clump of hair. When you are done with the left section, move on to the right, and then finally to the back. Finish off with some sea salt spray, if desired.Set your curling iron to medium heat to prevent any damage.
Use a heat protectant spray to prevent heat damage.
Don't use the clamp on your curing iron. This will help create that wavy look.
 Take a 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) wide section of hair from your left temple, and plait it into a loose braid. Repeat the process with the hair on your right temple. Pull both braids towards the back of your hair, smoothing down the rest of your hair as you do so. Pin them in place at the nape of your neck with some bobby pins or a hair clip.If your hair is too short, you can pin the braids at the back of your head instead.
 This style is perfect for those with very curly or African-American textured hair; your hair should be long enough to pull back into a ponytail. Start by creating a side part above your left eyebrow, then section it off with a long hair clip. Repeat on the right side, just above your right eyebrow. Next, comb the rest of your hair back and up using a boar bristle brush. Pull the hair back using a banana clip that matches your hair color; position the clip at the nape of your neck. Finally, use your fingers and bobby pins to shape and secure your faux-hawk.The two hair clips at the top of your head should be touching in the center.
The longer hair clip you use, the better. It should at least reach to the top-middle of your head.
Set your look with hairspray.
If your hair is too sleek, try a texturizing spray or mousse on it first.
 This style works for just about any length of hair. Get a long, skinny, fabric scarf and wrap it around your head; make sure that the scarf goes under your hair. Tie the ends of the scarf into a tight, double-knot, then move the knot towards the nape of your neck.


For a trendy look, drape the ends of the scarf over your shoulder.
Can't find a long, skinny, fabric scarf? Get a square one instead, and fold it diagonally until it is the right thickness.
You can scrunch the scarf up so that it is more like a headband, or you can left it drape over the back of your head.
Match the color and pattern of the scarf to your outfit.
 A hat works for just about any length of hair. It works especially well for hair that is too short to pull back into fancy braids or ponytails. Simply pick out a hat that matches your outfit, and pop it on. You can also wear a hat with other hair styles as well, such as low ponytails or braids.

