 Teflon fumes are highly toxic to birds and causes death. Teflon fumes may be toxic to everyone including us; excessive exposure might result in fever and/or nausea. Birds on the other hand are not that lucky. When non-stick pans are heated beyond 350F they start emitting fumes; this causes the bird's lungs to bleed internally and prolonged exposure causes lungs to be filled with blood and the bird dies due to lack of oxygen.


There are many reported incidences where pet owners lost their healthy birds and later when probed by the Vet admitted to having cooked a big dinner almost always involving non-stick cookware. The autopsy confirms the cause of death.





;
, The average indoor air is six times more polluted than the outdoor air. It’s a great reason to have an air purifier in the family room that benefits everyone.


Make sure you select a traditional air purifier that has a filter to trap the dust. The latest ionic air purifiers release ozone (three atoms of oxygen) that is an oxidant and not good for all of us.
 Of course, we can’t do much about winter months but do take full advantage of the rest of the year. Fresh air and sunlight are always good and healthy, just like us birds need exposure to sunlight to metabolize Vitamin D.


Avoid leaving windows open in winter for your birds, as the cold drafts can easily make small pet birds become uncomfortable.
 Birds love outdoor sounds, smell and air. The environment is very healthy for your bird and the air is clean.


Avoid taking your birds out in winter as they can become too cold and the weather can be too windy. However, you can take advantage of the warm summer months.
 Spray perfume away from your bird’s room, it’s a good idea to turn your exhaust fan and use the perfume in the bathroom. Air fresheners have chemicals that cause irritation in your bird’s respiratory system and most birds are allergic to such products.
 If you’re a smoker, you must be familiar with the term passive smoking. When it comes to your bird, if you have one cigarette it’s equal of your bird having one pack of cigarettes and just look how tiny your bird is. It’s a battle your bird will lose.
 When burning candles make sure the place is well ventilated to avoid carbon monoxide poisoning.
 If your home has gas cooking having a regular maintenance to avoid gas leakage and taking extra caution while cooking can be very effective to prevent accidents.

