 Where is the violin of your interest made and by whom? What is the reputation of that particular violin maker and for how long has he been in the violin business? Are there any buyer reviews available online? There are several forums, blogs, and review websites available on the Internet that should make your research very easy and bring out the truth about the violin maker you are interested in.


If you choose to buy a violin online, extend your research and try to find out what the reputation of the online violin store is. Try to contact the store via phone, email or filling in a form that is available online and see what kind of response you get; try to see how fast, how friendly, how accurate, how knowledgeable, how useful the response you got was. All these elements of the online communication should give you clues about how your overall violin buying experience is going to be.





;
, The wood used in violin making is of vital importance for the sound of the instrument. Many say that European wood is the best when it comes to instruments that need high quality resonance wood. Violins are traditionally made of flamed maple and resonance spruce. This is the traditional combination that most violin makers use. The top of the violin is made of resonance spruce. The back, the sides, and the neck of the violin are made of famed maple. The accessories (chin rest, tailpiece, pegs, and fingerboard) are made of ebony. The wood must be naturally dried up, in the open, to naturally achieve the perfect internal balance that will prevent the violin from cracking in the future. Wood is a material that changes its dimensions based on fluctuations in external temperature and humidity conditions.
 String instruments in general, and violins in particular, can be finished with either nitro or oil varnish. One recommendation is to choose the violins finished with oil varnish. While the nitro varnish is sprayed on the violins, the oil varnish is applied manually, with a brush. The varnish is applied in several coats, regardless of the nature of the varnish. Before applying the next coat, the previous one has to dry completely.


The difference between the oil varnish and the nitro varnish is that the nitro varnish dries up very quickly, and the next coat is applied within 10-20 minutes. The oil varnish takes longer to dry out, up to 24 hours, and after each coat, the varnished is leveled with a very fine sandpaper, operation which ensures a homogeneous distribution of the varnish and a perfect adherence of the varnish to the body of the violin.






No air particles are allowed in the varnish applied on top of the violins, and the sanding phase ensures this. A violin can have 8-10 coats of oil varnish applied to it, but they all are extremely thin and light. The oil varnish has overall superior qualities. It has a better resistance and behavior in time. The oil varnish is very elastic and can take the dimensional changes of the wood very well.






The nitro varnish, due to its limited elasticity, will crack if exposed to sudden changes in temperature and humidity. For example, if a violin finished with nitro varnish is stored in a room where the temperature is very high, the wood will dry out, which means it will lose water, and its dimensions will reduce. If a violin finished with oil varnish is stored in the same room, under the same temperature and humidity conditions, you will not notice anything. The oil varnish will follow the same pattern and will adjust its size accordingly. Unlike the oil varnish, the nitro varnish, due to its lack of elasticity, cannot lower or increase its dimensions, and it will simply crack.
 In order to establish the correct violin size that you need, you need to extend your right arm and measure the length from your neck to the middle of your palm.


Here is a chart that will help you determine the correct size, based on your measurement:

Arm length: 23″ or more - Recommended Violin Size: 4/4 (full size)
Arm length: 22″ - Recommended Violin Size: 3/4
Arm length: 20″ - Recommended Violin Size: 1/2
Arm length: 18″ - Recommended Violin Size: 1/4
Arm length: 16″ - Recommended Violin Size: 1/8
Arm length: 15″ - Recommended Violin Size: 1/10
Arm length: 14″ - Recommended Violin Size: 1/16



, The price is not always a reflection of quality in the violins’ world. Factors that contribute to price include the wood, workmanship, and set-up. There is a very wide range of prices to fit every budget, from a few hundred to several thousand dollars.

