 This fan is most easily done with approximately half the playing card deck, although it can be done with a whole deck with practice. Practicing with half a deck is recommended.This fan is more difficult than the two-handed fan, and some familiarity with that method may be useful.
Once you are an expert at this fan, try dividing a deck in two and fanning each half with a different hand, simultaneously.
 Square the cards together in a neat stack. Hold the deck with your first and fifth fingers on opposite long edges. Put your third and fourth fingers along one short edge, and your thumb on the remaining short edge. Each finger should cover the entire width of the deck and protrude slightly beyond it.Turn your hand so the deck is held vertically, with the thumb along the upper edge.


This grip should be secure enough that you can lift your thumb and rotate the deck in any direction without spilling cards.
You can skip straight to the position described below, with your thumb in the lower left corner. However, this is a good starting position to practice from if you plan on learning more advanced card tricks and flourishes.
 Remove your thumb from the upper edge. Tilt the deck outward, away from you, and curl up your third and fourth fingers to grip the bottom edge.
 This is the lower left corner of the top surface of the deck, nearest to you. Once your thumb is in position, move your first and fifth fingers away from the sides and down to the lower edge, so all four finger are supporting the deck from below. This can take a little practice to time the movement of your first finger, so as not to drop the cards.









Depending on the length of your thumb, you may prefer to place your thumb along the left edge of the top card instead, less than an inch (2.5 cm) from the lower corner.Placing your thumb nearer the center of the top card is a common mistake, so concentrate.
If you are holding the deck in your left hand, instead place the thumb against the lower right corner.
 Fan the cards by moving your thumb clockwise, while you move all four fingers counterclockwise, in the opposite direction. (Reverse these directions for a deck in your left hand.) A fast spread will make the cards fan more smoothly.








You can think of this motion as "snapping" all four fingers against your thumb.At the end of the fan, the fleshy part of your hand beneath your thumb will help support the fanned-out cards.
 Once you've got this motion down, practice some sleight of hand while using it in your tricks:








Secretly removing the top half of the deck before fanning still results in a fan that looks like a full deck, and will prevent an audience member from picking the top card.
Hold the card fan vertically, directly in front of the audience member's face. This will distract him while your other hand performs an manipulations necessary with the other half of the deck.

