 Scammers often try to cover up the fact that their scam is a scam. There are many different methods of scams, and some might not be the most clever and are easy to detect as a scam, while other scammers are very good at covering up the fact they're a scam. Some common scams include (some scams are not listed because they are no longer possible, such as the World Trade Scam):

Drop Games
Vending Machine Scams
Trust Tests
"I Quit" Scam
Growtoken Scams
Casinos, Treasure Chest, and other games that require you to bet.;
, If you are being asked to drop something, especially when it's something specific that you're wearing or if your asked to drop rare items, it's safe to assume that you're in a scam world. So if you're being asked to drop things, do not drop anything! The scam host is just going ban you and steal your items. Dropping items is a method used in Drop Games, Trust Tests, and betting games.
 Scam hosts sometimes go on other accounts or ask their friends to help them in scams. This method is very common in Drop Games, especially. The way they help is by dropping rare items, leading them to winning the prize (which gets given back after the game has ended) so that the game doesn't look like a scam. To identify a helper, the most common way is by looking at the flag. If the flag matches the host's flag and they continue to win over and over again, there's a good chance that they are working together.


If the world is not world-locked, but instead has something like a/many huge/big/small lock(s) covering the area where the players play the scam, there is a good chance that someone is working with the host. When you have access to a huge/small/big lock, your name doesn't appear as green. It remains white, like any normal player. Scammers use this method by accessing the helper and having them seem like a normal player of the scam, but as soon as someone else drops their rares, they kick the player and take the items. It won't seem suspicious while a player is on BRB or suddenly stops moving/talking/etc. because they aren't the host, so it won't seem like they're about to kick someone.
When you're in a Drop Game that is covered using something that doesn't completely lock the world and you're unsure if it's a scam or not, just ask every player to punch the wall. If it doesn't crack and makes a "clink" sound, that person is not accessed. But if it cracks at all and makes a breaking noise, that person has access to the lock and is attempting to scam. If someone doesn't punch the wall, it's probably because they're trying to cover up the fact that they're a scammer, so it's safe to assume the world you're in is a scam.
 If the prize looks too good to be true, it probably is. In scams such as Drop Games, the host often asks for rare items, making it fair if you win the prize (that means it isn't too good to be true), but in Growtoken Scams where the world is a mini-game world (e.g. "finish this 10+-minute parkour for a rare prize!!"), the host often places a ridiculously easy-to-get prize.


For example, you might have to finish a short parkour, then go into a door, which leads to a super long extension made of dirt where you have to run through it, then you receive your prize. However, you never actually receive the prize, and you just get taken to another world, or it ends with something impossible (e.g. a password door labeled 0-1000).
The host scrapes in Growtokens by using this method because for every hour people besides you and your admins are in your world, you receive a Growtoken. So by having you do a long run for the prize, they get time added to their timer, having the owner of the world get things without having to do any work because the players are doing it for them.
 This technique is exactly what it sounds like- it is not possible to earn the prize. This is used most often in two types of worlds: Mini-Parkour worlds (talked about above) and game worlds such as Fashion Show, Spleef, Dice Game, etc. In Mini-Parkour worlds, the way they use the trick is told above (it never leads to the prize in the end or requires a lengthy task such as a password door labeled 1-1000). When used in game worlds, the players get to play, but never actually win the prize.
 Pay-to-Play worlds are equally scams and equally non-scams, so detecting whether it is or not is a tough task. Pay-to-Play worlds are exactly what they sound like: in order to play, you must pay items (usually locks). There are 2 types of Pay-to-Play scams:







Game world scams - In game worlds, you often don't need to pay at the start, but there is usually an offer that you receive whenever you're about to die: "P or D?". This stands for "Pay or Die?", which means the host is asking if you want to die and drop out of the game, eliminating your chances of receiving the prize, or pay an item that the owner likes (usually a small lock) to receive at least one extra life. Though this is very often not a scam, sometimes the owner will end up just kicking or banning the player after they pay, or putting them back in the game but end up still eliminating them, no matter how well they did in the game, making them ask "P or D?" once again.

So if you are being asked something like a small lock or an item you don't care about or an item of low value, feel free to give it away for extra lives, but if it's something of high value, such as a World Lock, it's probably better to just ditch the prize unless you have so many World Locks that you don't even care if you lose one.



Betting games - In betting worlds, such as Casinos, Treasure Chest games, and other luck-related games, you have to pay before you can play. There is a slight difference between Casino betting worlds and non-casino betting worlds. In Casinos, you drop your bet and play against the opponent until one of the player's lives run out, and once all the lives of that player runs out, the player who is still alive takes both their own item and the other player's item. However, sometimes the bet is specific (e.g. "Bet = 1WL") or the player will bet a rare item without knowledge that the host is actually about to scam them. In the end, there's a chance that the host isn't actually going to let you play casino and will just take your items.

In non-casino betting games, such as Treasure Chest games, you have to pay for each "turn". Still using Treasure Chest games as an example, you usually have to pay one World Lock or more for each search you do in the game. In Treasure Chest game worlds, there will be several closed treasure chests or something that behaves as a treasure chest, and if not a scam, it will include prizes inside. The prizes inside determine whether it is a scam or not (rare = high value/good item and non-rare = low value/bad item): if it includes different rare items in all the chests, it's not a scam. If it includes some rare and some non-rare items, it's still not a scam. If it has only one rare and the rest are non-rares, it still is not a scam. But if it's all non-rares, it's a scam. Sometimes there won't be any item in a chest, and sometimes there won't be any items at all. As long as there is at least one rare item, it's not a scam, there just isn't much luck with it and it's more likely to upset you because you got a bad prize. Sometimes you'll pay only to be banned. So there's an equal chance of getting scammed or not, but it's best to avoid games like this unless you're extremely rich.
 They are uncommon but possible. These kinds of scams include the Trade System scam and the Vending Machine scam. They require you to do a double-take in order to avoid them.






Trade System scam - In this scam, a player will trade you an amazing deal. For example, the price of an average weather machine is usually approx. ten World Locks. In this example, the trader will offer something like a hundred World Locks instead, but keep quickly changing it between one and one-hundred. While you keep pressing the "accept" button, they'll land on one upon pressing "accept", resulting in you receiving just one instead of one-hundred. To avoid this, make sure you look at the quantity of the items you are trading!
Vending Machine scam - In this scam, there will be several vending machines, usually 3-6, and it will be in a giveaway style (door gets unlocked, you rush to the item). Each machine will be separated by a locked door. If there are three vending machines, then the first two will be normally-/low-priced items that you wouldn't usually see for sale. For every e.g. ten seconds, the next door gets unlocked and the players rush to buy it. However, after the first two, the final vending machine will have it extremely high-priced, or have an item of lower value for sale for the same price as the previous machines.

For example, let's say three Moon Weather machines are for sale for very low prices. The first machine is opened, and it costs two World Locks and quickly gets bought. The second machine is opened, and it also costs two World Locks and also quickly gets bought. The third machine is opened, and it costs twenty World Locks for a Sunny Weather machine. It quickly gets bought because the numbers "2" and the words "Weather machine" are seen, but they actually got an item worth only 1-3 World Locks for twenty. The owner ends up with extra money in the end, and the buyer ends up with a drastically lowered amount in the end.


World Trade scam - In this scam, the player selling the world will have a chest full of what they claim to be a good item. For example, they may say that thirty World Locks are in the chest. They'll try and prove it to you by opening the chest. When they open the chest, it will appear that thirty World Locks are in the chest, and they will quickly close it back up. However, once the buyer buys the world, they will open the chest and find that it is actually one World Lock behind thirty Amber Glass Panels.
 If you come into a world that is a scam or you feel it's a scam, you should report it so it gets nuked (when a world gets permanently banned to the public) and/or the owner/host gets banned from Growtopia., It will then ask you if you're sure you'd like to report the world. Accept it. Upon accepting it, you have successfully sent a report to the moderators so the world can be seen later and nuked if moderators ever successfully get to the world and determine if the world is fine or if it should be nuked.
 To do this, first check which moderators are online by typing the slash command "/mods" to view which ones are online. If none are online, use the "/report" method, instead.


If there are any mods online, type in "/msg ". Please do not send fan-mail to mods or spam mods with useless messages as this just makes their job harder.

