 Any exercise that engages your legs and feet may cause an Achilles tendon injury, even walking; however, exercises that are done in excess or that place a great deal of stress on your ankle area may be more likely to cause injury.


Runners are especially prone to Achilles tendon injuries. To help prevent injury when running, make sure you have proper shoes and alternate between long, intense runs and more modest jogs throughout your routine.
People who practice cross-fit are also very prone to Achilles tendon injuries. Limiting the number of cross-fit routines you do on a weekly basis to around three and alternating low impact exercises on non-cross-fit days may help prevent some injury to the area.
Anything that involves a great amount of jumping, such as trampoline training or basketball, can also cause Achilles tendon injuries. Choosing the right shoes for these activities is essential, as is alternating between the jump-heavy exercises and a low-impact exercise.
 Wearing the right shoes for the exercise is important not only to ensure that you are getting the most from your exercise, but also to make sure that you prevent injury to yourself. Something like a running shoe does not provide any lateral stability for cross-training exercises, while cross-trainers might not have the forward padding of a proper running shoe.It may be beneficial to have your food examined and your gait examined by a sports physician or physical therapist. They can help you choose a shoe that will give you the proper support for your particular foot and the type of activity in which you plan to participate.
Improperly fitted shoes, whether too big or too small, can quickly lead to injury.
Try to outfit yourself with a couple pairs of athletic shoes that meet the needs of different exercises. If you enjoy both running and weight training, for example, try to find a durable set of running shoes as well as a pair of training shoes with a good grip on the sole.
 Help keep your muscles loose during your exercise by stretching before you begin. Spend five or so minutes stretching your calves and thighs, or walking at a brisk pace to engage your muscles before exercise.Try standing stretches such as reaching toward your toes or deep lunges to stretch out your legs before exercise. Stand up straight, bend down from your core, and extend your fingers as close to the ground as possible. Breathe deeply and hold this position for five to ten seconds at a time.
Alternatively, if stretching is prohibitive, walk at a brisk pace for five to ten minutes before your exercise. This helps stretch out and engage your muscles in low-impact manner.
 Alternating between high-impact exercises like running or jumping with lower impact exercise such as walking or swimming can help reduce stress on the Achilles tendon area. Create a varied exercise routine that alternates between high and low impact activities throughout the week.Generally speaking, try not to schedule more than one or two days of consecutive high-impact activity. If you prefer a higher impact workout routine, try a schedule like running three days a week, and walking twice a week in between run days.
Also remember that it is important to allow your body time to rest and recover from intense physical activity. Build in recovery days to allow your body to recover properly and protect yourself from injury.
 Stop your activity if you notice any pain in your Achilles tendons and the surrounding area. Rest your legs and cut back on your routine if needed, or opt for more low-impact exercises such as water aerobics and restorative yoga.If you find yourself frequently pained by certain activities, talk to a personal trainer or medical professional about what you can do to alleviate the pain, or what exercises you can swap in to replace the painful exercise.

