 You’ve invested good money in your phone, so you expect it to last a long time. The thing is, even though your cell phone is of high quality, there is still a chance that it will break apart and stop working, especially if you don’t take good care of it. Because of this, it is imperative that you take the necessary precautions to ensure that your phone is kept in tiptop condition. Here are the things that you need to know about taking care of your cell phone.;
, Like any other electronic device, you need to handle your phone with utmost care. Keep it in a secure place at all times. Do not leave it lying around for kids or pets to toy with. One of the best ways to protect your phone is to store it in a durable cell phone case. Cell phone accessories, like cool cell phone covers, can be purchased for a cheap price in many online stores. But, make sure you go for quality and reasonable price at the same time so that the protective cover is strong enough to do the job of protecting your phone efficiently.
 One of the most common causes of damage of cell phones is dropping it. To prevent this from happening, always hold on to your phone tightly. It would be a good idea to make use of a cell phone lanyard so that you can wear your cell phone around your neck and not worry about dropping it on the ground accidentally. Like other cell phone accessories, cell phone lanyards can also be bought via the online route. 

, Do not subject your phone to extreme temperature changes, and particularly to strong heat. Avoid placing it near heat sources like the stove, furnace, chimney, and under the sun. Don’t leave it out in the cold, either. Avoid getting it near a source of moisture. All forms of liquids should be kept a good distance away from your phone. Do not drink or eat while using your phone to avoid accidental spillage. Don’t put your phone near any body of water, like the sea or swimming pool. Cell phones can be damaged even by slight dampness. If ever your phone becomes wet, save it by turning it off, removing the parts like SIM card and battery, and by drying the mechanisms using a clean absorbent towel. Always have a waterproof bag handy so that you can slip your phone inside it in case it rains.
 Whatever you do, never use a spray bottle to clean your phone. You should,  instead,  use a cotton swab dipped in alcohol and touch it lightly over the keypad. Remember to use this only on the exterior part of the phone and never inside. Protect it from theft


Damage in the cell phone’s mechanism is not the only thing that can take your phone away from you. It’s also possible that someone might steal your phone, so guard it at all times and protect it just like you would with any of your valuables.

