 A screenshot will be taken of your current screen and saved to your desktop.

Alternately, you can press ⌘ Cmd+⇧ Shift+4 then click and drag to take a screenshot of a selected area. The screenshot will be taken upon releasing the mouse button., Screenshots are saved to your desktop and designated by the date and time at which they were taken.

If you've changed preferences to open images with a different program, press ⌘ Command + click the image and select "Open With" and choose "Preview.", This button is indicated by a curved arrow and is located at the upper right part of the window., “Tools” is located in the top menu bar and will open a box with options to adjust the width, height or resolution.

Changing the size to be larger than the original will result in a loss of picture quality.
 Click the “Select” tool located in the upper toolbar, click and drag to select the area of the image that you wish to crop. Then select "Crop" from the “Tools” menu in the top menu bar. This will immediately crop your image according to the area that's been selected., A new pane will appear with sliders to adjust the exposure, contrast, highlights, shadows, saturation, temperature, tint, or sharpness.

Your screenshot will reflect your changes as you make them, allowing you to experiment and find the right mix of settings.
Exposure, contrast, highlights, and shadows will affect the brightness and black/white balance of the colors.
Saturation, temperature, and tint will affect the intensity of the colors.
 This button is located in the upper right corner of the window. This gives you access to annotation tools, such as a pen tool, shapes, or text insert.The Pen tool can be used for freehand marking.
The shapes tools can be used to make markings in various shapes, like ellipses or triangles.
The Text tool lets you select an area of the screenshot to enter text with your keyboard.
 You will be prompted to name the screenshot and browse for a save location. Clicking “Save” will confirm your changes.