 Dip a clean white cloth or sponge in rubbing alcohol, then begin dabbing at the stain, blotting gently. If you succeeded in getting out the stain, launder the garment as you usually would.








Don’t use rubbing alcohol on acetate, silk, wool or rayon.
Rubbing alcohol is effective at getting out any kind of ink stain, whether it be from a marker or a ballpoint pen, so it’s a good cleaner to use if hairspray wasn’t powerful enough to get out the stain.
 Mix 1 tablespoon (14.78 ml) of glycerin and 1 teaspoon (4.92 ml) of liquid dish detergent in a bowl. Dip a white cloth into the glycerin mixture and dab at one side of the stain. When you don’t see any more of the stain being lifted, flip the garment over and dab the other side of the stain.








After dabbing, let the garment sit for about 5 minutes. Then use your finger to apply more glycerin to the stain. Then flush the garment with water to remove the glycerin and soap.
Glycerin is a good agent for old stains because it saturates the stain and helps to lift it, which lets the detergent clean it away. It should work on all fabrics.
 To lift up the stain with baking soda, mix together a 2 to 1 combination of baking soda and water in a small bowl to make a loose paste. Use a cotton ball to apply the paste onto the ink stain, then dab with the cotton ball. Once the stain has been removed or is no longer lifting, wipe off the paste with a clean cloth or paper towel.








Baking soda is safe to use on all materials.
 If you have not succeeded in getting out the stain, soak the entire garment in a 1 to 1 solution of white vinegar and water for 30 minutes. While the garment is soaking, gently blot the stain with a sponge or cloth every 10 minutes or so. Then launder your garment as usual.








Don’t use hot water, as hot water can set the stain.
White vinegar is safe to use on all materials.
 There are many kinds of commercial stain removers and dry cleaning fluid on the market designed to get rid of stains. Apply using the instructions on the bottle, then blot at the stain using a clean cloth.








Make sure that you read the label and aren’t using a cleaner that could damage the material of your garment.

