 For this project, you'll need to prepare the pieces as follows:


Find a big plywood base for your castle. For a sample measurement that fits the suggested measurements in this article, make the base piece about 35-40cm x 35-40cm, depending on how much surround area (moat, grassed area, etc.) you'd like around the castle.
Measure out 4 posts of 1-foot (30cm) each for the side vertical posts. These posts should be sturdy and strong; round dowel is a good choice, or straight and clean tree branches. See the image for the concept.
Measure out 4 more posts of the same length for the horizontal base posts. These pieces should be made from a different wood, the same wood that you'll use for the walls. Pine or similar is ideal.
Measure 12 4-inch (10cm) pieces of a different wood. You may need more pieces than this to complete the walls, so be prepared to cut more if needed.

If you need help cutting the posts to size, get someone experienced with a saw to do this.

;
, Glue the vertical posts in place on the board. To work out where they should be placed, slide in the horizontal base posts and at each end of these, place the vertical posts, one at each corner. Allow to glue firmly in place before proceeding. Then, lay down the horizontal posts between each post and glue firmly in place.
 Glue the 4-inch wood pieces in a piled fashion on top of the base horizontal posts. Do this for each side of the castle. Glue firmly in place.
 Leave a hole on side, of the height and width of your choice, for the entrance to the castle. Shortly you'll add a drawbridge to this, so it helps to use the size of the drawbridge planks to help you to determine the width and height of this gap.
 Once you have piled and glued the castle together, your castle should look like the one shown in this image.
 This can be acrylic paint or poster paint with PVA glue.
 Leave a 3-inch (7.5cm) gap between the castle wall and the grass; this will be for the moat around the castle.
 Use a black marker, black felt-tip pen or black paint and a fine paintbrush to draw lines vertically and horizontally to form bricks.


This step is optional; if you find it too difficult, draw a few indicator bricks on just the edges, to give the overall impression of brickwork.
, You can use craft sticks, matchsticks, or similar for making a drawbridge from. Use cross sticks to hold it all together and ensure that it fits the width of the gap that you've left.
 You'll need two ropes for each side of the drawbridge. Attach the rope pieces to the bridge first, then to the wood. Use a thumbtack or similar for when you want to keep the drawbridge in the upright position.
 Add some knights, horses, villagers and royalty and it's all good to play with or display.

