 Overcoming a tendency to cut is hard to do on your own. Your peers may offer support and comfort, but another young person may not know how to get you the help you need. Reach out to a trusted adult and let them know about your cutting history. Make sure they know you are trying to stop, but need additional help.Talk to a teacher, coach, school counselor, parent, aunt or uncle about the problem. You might say, "Excuse, Ms. Brown, I need to talk to someone. I have been cutting myself and I don't know how to stop. Can you help me?"
If you are worried about your parents finding out and your safety and well-being if they do find out, then let that person know about your concerns.
 Professional mental health treatment is a mandatory aspect of stopping a cutting habit. If you are under 18, then your parents will need to schedule an appointment so that you can talk to your family doctor for an outside referral. Or, may reach out to a therapist in your area who works with adolescents and teens.In therapy, you can vent about the struggles or experiences that prompt you to cut yourself. You will also learn effective distraction and coping techniques to overcome this habit. In many cases you may need additional treatment for other issues like anxiety or depression.
 Once you see a mental health provider, they will discuss the many options available for treating your condition. Common types of treatment for cutting may include medication, cognitive behavioral therapy, and/or interpersonal therapy. Work with your treatment team to determine which option is best for you.


The type of medication needed to improve your symptoms will depend on the underlying condition. Some teens may cut due to obsessive-compulsive disorder or depression. Either of these disorders require specialized medications to effectively treat.
Cognitive behavioral therapy helps you identify and change negative thought patterns that contribute to cutting.
Interpersonal therapy helps you learn needed social skills to better manage your relationships.This also often includes family therapy, since dysfunction within a family can contribute to cutting.

