 If you’re replacing your countertop with a limited budget, go with the cheapest option: laminate. Choose from traditional designs or pick one that resembles more expensive materials, like granite and marble.Opt for a textured surface, rather than a flat one, to better conceal any scratches or other wear and tear that may occur over time.Advantages: takes little effort to wash; stands up to abuse (heavy heat, impact, and stains) very well.
Disadvantages: seams allow water to penetrate under the surface and damage the composite wood underneath; surface scratches easily, which is irreparable.
 Give your counters a touch of warmth with this earth-toned surface. Price-compare the different types of wood available to find one that matches your budget. Choose between cherry, maple, teak, walnut, and more.Advantages: enhances rustic-style homes; easily repairable; can be utilized for food prep; resists stains when varnished.
Disadvantages: requires upkeep with regular applications of mineral oil, beeswax, and varnish; easily damaged by heat and moisture; should not be used over a dishwasher or around sinks.
 If budget is no concern, consider this higher-end countertop. Ensure a sense of style with this classic surface that won’t grow out-of-date. Invest in a surface that will match the rest of your kitchen, regardless of its aesthetic.Advantages: takes little effort to wash when sealed; scratches are repairable with polishing.Disadvantages: easy to chip and scratch; requires sealing on a regular basis; susceptible to etching and staining from acidic foods.
 If you want to be more or less done with your countertop once you install it, go with this long-lasting material. Enjoy a countertop that will requires little to no upkeep and stand up to almost any abuse, with one exception. Its Achilles heels are the corners and edges, which are prone to chipping. To minimize this, opt for rounded edges.Advantages: non-porous; waterproof; antibacterial; stain- and scratch-resistant; requires no sealant; easy to clean.
Disadvantages: can be damaged by heat; corners and edges may chip; difficult to repair.
 If quartz is beyond your budget, or if you are frustrated by the its lack of variety in appearance, consider granite instead. Reap the same benefits with only a little more maintenance required.However, expect the same drawbacks: the edges and corners are its weak spot and are difficult to repair. So opt for a rounded edge to minimize the number of hard corners present.Advantages: stain-, heat-, and scratch-resistant and waterproof when sealed.
Disadvantages: requires regular sealing.
 If you want the benefits of quartz and granite but don’t like the aesthetic of stonework, consider this artificial material. Choose from a wider variety of designs. At the same time, save yourself the trouble of regular maintenance.Advantages: waterproof; nonporous; requires no sealant; heat- and impact-resistant.Disadvantages: prone to scratches, but easily repaired with sanding or buffing.

