 For a treadmill workout, as for any other workout, warming up your muscles and your cardiovascular system before upping the intensity is essential if you want to avoid cramps and other injuries.A brisk walk typically is sufficient as a warm-up for a treadmill workout. Other types of warm ups, such as dynamic stretching, aren't the best warm-up for a treadmill workout. Since you're going to be walking or running, you need to warm up the muscles specifically involved in that activity.
If you're using a preset program, the warm-up segment of the program typically will last around four minutes, with the machine at a low incline and speed – basically a brisk walk.
 If you're creating your own intervals on the treadmill, you'll have to experiment to find the speed at which you enter a particular zone while monitoring your heart rate in real time. Use the information you acquire to set the machine to go at particular rates for particular distances or lengths of time.To program intervals, you might set a five-minute interval at a walking pace as a warm-up. Then set alternating two-minute intervals in which you are working at the aerobic zone. Put recovery intervals between each work interval in which your heart rate lowers. The machine will automatically start the next work interval when your heart rate reaches that rate.
For a more intense workout, a 40 year old person with a resting heart rate of 70 might decide to work within the heart rate range of 120 to 170. That person might aim to keep their heart rate above 120 and then slow down when their heart rate reaches 170.
Refer to your treadmill's manual for specifics on programming the machine. If you're using a machine at a gym, you typically can ask a staff member to assist you. Jot down the steps so you can do it on your own next time.
Keep in mind that your zones may change over time as you start exercising more and your heart gets stronger. Recalculate your zones every couple of weeks to make sure you're getting optimal benefits from your exercise sessions as your cardiovascular strength and endurance increases.
 This specific interval training was developed by researchers at the University of Copenhagen and enabled runners to shave seconds off their personal-best runs, even though they trained for only half the time they normally did.To do this type of training, spend 30 seconds jogging, 20 seconds running at a moderate pace, and 10 seconds running fast. Repeat these one-minute intervals without rest for 10 to 15 minutes.
This high-intensity interval training results in intense calorie burn, because your heart rate constantly changes, which means your body never adjusts to the decrease. For that reason, you'll burn calories as though you were going the whole time at 80 to 90 percent of your maximum heart rate.
 Even if you've programmed rest intervals, you still need to include a longer cool-down period to restore your heart rate to normal levels and complete your exercise session. Cool down is just as important as the warm-up to prevent injuries.A preset program typically includes a four-minute cool-down interval. If you're creating your own program, include a cool-down at the end of at least that long.
Extend the cool-down for a longer period of time if necessary. Don't get off the machine until your heart rate has returned to your HRmin or to 100 beats per minute and you feel you can breathe normally. It doesn't have to lower all the way to your resting heart rate, but it should be close.

