 Have you ever tried repeating a word so many times that it ceases to sound like a real word at all? This same idea can be used for jokes. If you’ve got a particular joke that seems to inspire your own laughter, try saying this joke as many times as possible. Say it while you’re driving, while you’re preparing breakfast, or while you are in the shower. Say the joke so many times that it loses it’s power., If you feel the tickle of an uncontrollable laugh coming on, try giving yourself a pinch. Inflicting yourself with just a little bit of pain will be enough of a mental distraction to halt the laugh in its tracks.
 Another simple trick to stop an oncoming laugh is to exhale the air from your lungs, and then hold it. Just stop breathing for a few seconds (you can count to five in your head). This helps to break the cycle you are in, and switch off your instinct to laugh.
 Just as actors use sad memories from their lives to inspire tears on stage, you can use a sad memory to halt a laugh. When you feel a laugh taking hold of you, think quickly of the saddest memory you’ve got. This will interrupt your laugh.
 If you should happen to laugh anyway, consider making it part of the joke. Sometimes owning up to the laugh can be even funnier.Note that, usually, a little snort is a lot less disruptive than a long bout of hysterical laughter. If you need to let out a little laugh, try not to make it long and drawn out. A short laugh can add to the joke telling experience, but a long laugh will almost always distract from it.
Consider Jimmy Fallon’s habit of breaking on The Tonight Show, or comedian Tig Notaro bringing her laughing mother-in-law on stage to tell a joke.
Try making your compulsion to laugh part of the joke.
 Instead of focusing on the words of the joke itself, look at the people to whom you're telling the joke. Are they laughing? Did they find your joke funny? Make mental notes about who laughed and what their favorite parts of your joke seemed to be. It's hard to laugh at your own joke when you're thinking about something else.