 In order to file for divorce in Georgia, you must be legally separated from your spouse. This does not mean that you must be living apart. Rather, you must be no longer engaging in marital relations and both parties must consider themselves separated., Under Georgia law, spouses can seek separate maintenance, which is a court document that formalizes your separation agreement in writing. In this document, a judge will address all of the issues that would be addressed in a divorce case, such as property division, child support and child custody.


Some parties choose to use separate maintenance instead of a divorce.
Spouses may choose separate maintenance if they do not believe in divorce for religious reasons or they want to maintain certain legal benefits such as Social Security or health insurance for their spouse., When choosing to separate prior to divorce, you and your spouse should discuss issues of support. If you cannot agree on issues of spousal or child support, you can ask the court to issue a judgment for support during your separation., In order to file for divorce in any county in Georgia, one of the spouses must have been living in Georgia for at least six months before filing for divorce. A Georgia divorce can occur even if one of the spouses has left the state., In an uncontested divorce, both spouses agree on how to divide assets, debts, spousal support, child support, and any other parenting issues. Once the parties agree on all of these issues, finish their divorce paperwork, and file it with the court, often their divorce can be completed without having to have a hearing.


An uncontested divorce is less expensive and often quicker than a contested divorce.
If both spouses can come to agreement on the issues, particularly when children are not involved, they can save themselves a lot of money by not having to hire an attorney., An uncontested divorce may be the right decision for you if:


You and your spouse can work together.
Your assets are uncomplicated and not difficult to separate.
You have children and you can agree on a joint parenting plan., Georgia is an equitable distribution state, which means that any property gained doing marriage is subject to division in a divorce. Married property can include: pensions; business interests; real estate; and even spousal gifts. When considering divorce, spouses should inventory all of the marital property, have the property appraised if applicable, and decide on how to divide property and debt in a fair way., When deciding child custody, parties have to consider two categories of custody: the right to make decisions on behalf of the child for issues such as education and medical care, as well as where the child will live, also known as physical custody.


In many cases, spouses decide on joint custody, which means that parents share decision making for the children and share physical custody for some period.
Joint custody does not necessarily mean that the children live with each parent for the same amount of time.
Spouses could also agree to sole custody, where one parent is responsible for both decision making and physical custody., In calculating child support, Georgia has specific guidelines that can assist parents in developing a child support plan. Under Georgia guidelines, child support is calculated based upon both parents income, contribution to expenses, such as health insurance and childcare, and the physical custody of the child. Both parents are expected to pay a proportional amount of their income towards the care of their children. Child support calculations take into account:


The percentage of each parents contribution to total income.
Georgia has a table that, based on total parental income, indicates how much total child support is expected.
Once the amount of child support is determined, each party is assigned a share of support, less cost that they pay for childcare and/or health insurance.Georgia created a child support calculator to assist the courts and individuals in determining the amount of child support needed. You can find the calculator at: http://csc.georgiacourts.gov.
 Even if you engage in an uncontested divorce, you can still bring in a neutral third party to help you negotiate the terms of your divorce. Many couples hire a mediator, someone experienced in negotiating divorces, to help sit down with both parties and negotiate agreements as to property, custody, alimony, and child support.


Mediators are trained to help negotiate an agreement that is generally fair to both parties.You can also hire attorneys to help negotiate the terms of your divorce. This is called a collaborative divorce. All of the parties agree that they will not go to court. If the spouses cannot reach a divorce agreement, they must hire new attorneys to represent them at a divorce hearing., As discussed in detail below, once you’ve agreed to the terms of your divorce, you still must file a Complaint for Divorce in your local superior court. Unlike in a contested divorce, the parties will also file their agreement as part of the court process.


The local court’s website or court clerk can provide you with information on the format of all documents and any fees or procedures you must follow., Once you move to the court phase of your divorce, you must decide whether or not you feel comfortable representing yourself in a divorce proceeding or if you should hire an attorney.


If you and your spouse have already negotiated the terms of your divorce, you may be able to file an uncontested divorce petition with little difficulty.
You must comply with all of the court’s rules, which are usually found on the local courts website.
Court clerks can also help you acquire all the documents that you need and assist you in making sure that you file everything properly and in the correct format.
If your divorce is contested, and/or your spouse has hired his or her own attorney, you should consider having an attorney represent your interests in court.
You can locate local divorce attorneys through state and local bar associations. You can locate state and local bar association in Georgia at: http://apps.americanbar.org/legalservices/findlegalhelp/home.cfm.
 You must file for divorce in a Georgia county that either spouse has been residing in for at least the six months prior to filing for divorce. Once you have identified the appropriate county, you will file your divorce paperwork in the superior court for that county. For a list of superior courts by county, visit: http://www.georgiacourts.org/find-your-court?menu=main. This court locator will direct you to the appropriate superior court’s website.


Visit your superior court’s website and look for any forms that they list for divorce cases. You may need to search for the words “divorce forms,” in order to be directed to the proper section of the website.
If you cannot locate the forms, you can call the court clerk and ask how to acquire the forms. You can also visit Georgia Legal Aid’s website, which has links to the forms. The legal aid website is: http://www.georgialegalaid.org/issues/family-law-and-domestic-violence/marriage-and-divorce?channel=forms-and-tool-kits&category=forms-to-print-out.
 Whether your divorce is uncontested or contested, you must file a Complaint for Divorce form. You will have to provide the following information:


Identify the spouse filing for divorce, referred to as the plaintiff or petitioner, and identify the other spouse, referred to as the defendant or respondent.
State that one spouse has been a resident of the county for at least six months.
Identify the grounds for divorce. Your file for a no-fault or fault divorce.
A no-fault divorce means that neither party caused the divorced the marriage is beyond repair.
In a fault-based divorced, you must offer one of the following grounds for divorce: being too closely related; mentally incapacity; impotence; forced to marry; adultery; sentenced to prison for more than 2 years; cruel treatment; habitual drunkenness or addiction; or incurable mental illness.
If you are filing an uncontested divorce, you should also include the agreement between you and your spouse as to assets, custody, support and alimony. You will also have to sign a settlement agreement explaining that both parties agree to the divorce and all issues raised in the Complaint were settled., Contact the local court clerk and ask for the procedures for filing your Complaint. Typically, you will file an original Complaint with the court and have two copies that are stamped by the court. You keep one copy for yourself and legally serve the other document on your spouse., You must provide your spouse with a copy of the Complaint. Depending on the local court rules where you filed your divorce case, you can usually serve your Complaint in the following ways:


With your spouse’s consent, you can provide a copy to your spouse’s attorney. You will also have to file an acknowledgement of service form that states that your spouse consented to service in this manner and the attorney received the document.
A spouse can also agree to service by email.
You can hire a process server to officially serve the Complaint on your spouse., Some courts require parties in a divorce to file financial disclosures. You may be asked to provide the following information to the court:


Information on income, assets, and debts.
Your tax returns, bank statements and credit card statements.
Your personal financial statements, and/or other documents that contain your financial information., Even after you file for divorce, parties can still attempt to negotiate all or some of the issues in their divorce. Only when the parties cannot reach an agreement, with the help of attorneys or a mediator, does a divorce case go before a judge.
 A hearing before a judge typically only lasts one day and may conclude the divorce or put temporary measures in place until the divorce is finalized. These temporary measures can include visitation rights or temporary custody. A trial may take several days to conclude and can be in front of a jury or a judge.


Both parties have the right to present witnesses to support their case at either a trial or a hearing., During a trial, a judge will rule on all contested issues before granting a divorce. These issues may include:


Determining an equitable division of property.
Whether a spouse should receive alimony and the amount.
Whether a custody arrangement is in the best interest of the child.
Rule on the parenting plan that the parents submit. This plan outlines the time the child will spend with each parent and describes each parents' access to the child.
Rule on the amount of child support that must be paid.. , Once the court has ruled on all of the issues in the divorce, it will issue a final judgment and decree of divorce. This document will outline all of the terms of the divorce, including child support, custody and any other issue the judge ruled on or to which the parties agreed. This document marks the official end of the marriage.