 In addition to forming a moisture seal on your lips with petrolatum, beeswax, or oil,a good lip balm will nourish your skin with vitamin E, jojoba oil, or whatever else you find most effective for your skin.


Whether it’s summer or winter, make sure your lip balm has an SPF protection of 15 or higher, which will keep your lips from burning and flaking.;
, This will create a protective moisture seal beneath your makeup, not to mention make it easier to apply.
 Wake up in the morning with smooth lips.
 Staying hydrated is a great way to keep your lips moist. Drink at least eight cups of water daily. Water helps to keep your skin clear,to say nothing of the benefit it will have on the rest of your skin.









Avoid thick or dark-colored lipsticks. A thinly applied, semi-transparent lip stain will show off the texture of your lips, making them appear smoother.
 Here are some suggestions:









Apply a little bit of baby oil your lips. Put it on before you go to bed.
Put Chapstick on at night. Be aware that this isn't for every person; it can actually make lips drier for some users.
EOS is great to apply when you either are going to sleep or going to begin your day.
 Dip a plain toothbrush in petroleum jelly or Vaseline, then use it brush all the dead skin off your lips. Alternatively, mix a tablespoon of honey with enough sugar until you get a body-scrub-like texture, the scrub it across your lips with a toothbrush. Exfoliating will leave them smoother and make them look healthier.
 Leave on for 5 minutes. This will reduce the amount of dead skin cells and blockage.

Put sugar and Vaseline on your lips then rub your lips. It will get the dead skin off.
 Don't over-exfoliate your lips. This action, done too frequently, will strip away the natural oil leaving dry and flaky lips.
 Salt draws moisture out of things, which is why people use it to dry and preserve meat. Eating Cheetos, for example, will leave a salty orange powder around your mouth, causing your lips to dry out.
 Tucking your mouth and chin beneath a scarf during bad weather will help protect your lips from the elements, especially wind.
 Saliva dries out your lips, especially since licking your lips is a quick way to remove both lip balm.
 These will tempt you to constantly lick your lips.
 This habit will not only scrape away the protective seal formed by your lip balm, but can also cause trauma to your delicate skin.
 Breathing through your mouth dries out your lips just like windy weather.
 It disrupts the healing process, makes them look blotchy, and can cause bleeding.








