 Since you won't be sewing this, it would be best to use a fabric that does not fray, such as felt or flannel. You will need about 1 yard (0.91 meters) of fabric for this.You can use this method to create an adult-sized cape too, but you will need to use larger measurements.
 Orient the rectangle vertically with one of the narrow edges pointing towards you., Use a dressmaker's chalk or pen to make a mark along the bottom edge, 11 inches (27.94 centimeters) from the fold. How far down you make it is up to you; the further down it is, the longer the cape will be. Make another mark along the top edge, 5½ inches (13.97 centimeters) from the fold. Connect the lines using a straight edge.If you want a wider cape, and if you have enough fabric, you can make the bottom mark further from the folded edge.
For a more accurate length, add 5½ inches (13.97 centimeters) to your cape length. This will account for the neck opening.
 Find an 8-inch (20.32-centimeter) place or bowl. Place it along the top corner of your folded cloak. The side edge of the plate/bowl should be 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) from the fold. The bottom edge of the plate/bowl should be 5½ inches (13.97 centimeters) down from the top of your fabric. Trace the plate/bowl using a dressmaker's chalk or pen., Try to cut just inside the lines. This way, they won't show on your finished cape. You can leave your cap as is, or try one of the variations below for more character:

Round the top and bottom corners of your cape for a nicer touch.Add scalloped edge to the bottom of your cape.This is great if your kid wants to be Batman.
Cut notches and slits into the bottom edge for a battle-won cape.
 Get some Velcro squares or cut your own. Secure them to the top two "fingers" of your cape with hot glue or fabric glue. One goes on the top side, and the other goes on the underside.You can also use self-adhesive Velcro., Iron some fusible web interfacing to a piece of contrasting fabric. Draw and cut out your superhero's emblem. Pin the emblem to the back of the cape. Iron it down, then remove the pins.

Each fusible web interfacing will be a little different, so be sure to follow the instruction on yours closely.
Alternatively, you can cut the emblem out of felt and glue it to the back of the cape with hot glue or fabric glue.