 If you are preparing to have a second child, schedule regular doctor appointments to monitor your health. Your first pregnancy, as well as the demands of motherhood, may have drained you of strength and nutrients required for a successful second pregnancy. Your physician can prescribe medication or supplements, if needed, or recommend dietary changes to boost your health.Note that your second pregnancy will not necessarily be the same as your first. Your doctor should still screen for pregnancy-related illnesses (such as gestational diabetes), even if you did not experience them during your first pregnancy.
 Look for parental support groups in your area where you can meet and talk with other parents in similar situations. Parents with two or more children may be able to give you advice and insight about the process of bringing home a second child and adjusting to the new addition to the family. Look for online group listing or ask about support groups at your local community center, churches, daycares, or schools., After giving birth, many mothers experience the “baby blues," which are common and generally last a couple of weeks. Others suffer from postpartum depression, which is a serious and difficult condition that should be treated by a doctor. If you suffered from postpartum depression after the birth of your first baby, discuss your concerns and options with your doctor before delivering your second child. Addressing your emotional health preventively will help you stay conscious of it once your second child comes., While caring for a child it can be difficult to find the time to eat nutritiously. Aim to eat foods high in protein, dairy, fruit, vegetables, and whole grains for optimum energy. To make this easier, make healthy meals ahead of time that you can reheat quickly on the go, or buy pre-cut fruit and vegetables for simple snacks that you can share with your child. To get the nutrients that you need, opt for foods like:

Lean red meat
Yogurt
Whole grain bread
Cheese
Apples
Carrots

, Taking prenatal vitamins is an important way to boost your health while you are pregnant, but caring for a child can often distract from such things. Set a reminder alarm on your phone to make sure you don’t forget to take your vitamins every day. You can also put your vitamins into a pre-marked pill box to keep track of what you took on each day of the week.