 Dragon Scale, a blue scale-like object, is a kind of in-game item that triggers the evolution process once a specific Pokémon equips it. It can only be found in specific areas inside the game, which varies depending on the version you’re playing.


Gold, Silver, and Crystal—Can be obtained inside Mount Mortar; can also be acquired by defeating wild Horsea, fellow Seadra, Dratini, and Dragonair.
Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald—Can be acquired by defeating wild Horsea and Bagon.
Fire Red and Leaf Green—Can be obtained inside the Water Path and Trainer Tower.
Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum—Can be acquired by defeating wild Horsea and Seadra.
HeartGold and SoulSilver—Can be obtained inside Mount Mortar; can also be acquired by defeating wild Horsea, fellow Seadra, Dratini, and Dragonair.
Black and White—Can be found on Route 13 and 18; can also be acquired by defeating wild Horsea, fellow Seadra, Kingdra, Dratini, Dragonair, and Dragonite.
Black 2 and White 2—Can be found on Victory Road, inside the Antiques Shop on Join Avenue, and inside the Wild Forest; can also be acquired by defeating wild Horsea, fellow Seadra, Kingdra, Dratini, Dragonair, and Dragonite.
X and Y—Can be found inside the Terminus Cave; can also be acquired by defeating wild Horsea, fellow Seadra, Kingdra, Dratini, Dragonair, and Dragonite.
To find the Dragon Scale, simply walk around the areas mentioned above. When you step on the hidden area where the item is, a message will appear on the screen saying “Your character has found a Dragon Scale,” and the item will be added to your inventory.
Defeating the wild Pokémon mentioned above will also reward you a Dragon Scale although it’s not a 100% percent chance that you’ll get one.;
, Open your bag, select the Dragon Scale, and choose Seadra from the list of Pokémon you can give it to.
 Seadra will only evolve to Kingdra once it gets traded to another player using the game’s trading system. Trading systems and their locations vary depending on the game you’re playing.


For older versions of the game, you can trade Pokémon with other players using the Game Boy’s cable link connection by going inside a Pokémon Center in any town and talking to the receptionist (non-playable character) in charge.
For newer generations (fourth generation to present), trading Pokémon is done using the Global Trade Stations (GTS). To trade using the GTS, go inside a Pokémon Center in any town, and talk to the receptionist (non-playable character) in charge of the system.
 Ask one of your friends to trade Pokémon with you. Select Seadra from the list and trade it with any Pokémon the other player has or is willing to exchange. Once the other player receives Seadra, its evolution will start and will then change to Kingdra.
 Ask the other player to start another trading system so you can have Kingdra back.


You can choose to skip this step if you prefer not to get your evolved Kingdra back.

