 You should be thinking about what colleges you want to enroll in as early as sophomore year in high school. By this time, its important to think about what you would like to major in. Choosing a major is another hard decision, but think about things that you like to do. Do you love math? Perhaps you can major in accounting. Are you great at finding the scoop on almost anything? Journalism can be an awesome major for you. Discover what you love and see how you can apply it in a college major.


By Junior year you should have an idea on what major you will be studying.;
, If you can write down the perfect college, what characteristics would it have? Programs, student to faculty ratio etc.
 This will help you narrow your school choices by tuition, and help your parents figure out a budget.
 Are you planning to stay in-state or go to school out-of-state? This decision can also affect tuition, pricing, and financial aid.
 Once you have gathered this information, you are now ready to research schools. Don't be afraid to research HUNDREDS of schools as there are many opportunities out there.



According to the Higher Education Research Institute at UCLA, the top qualities college freshmen seek in a school include:

Academic reputation
Availability of financial aid
Job placement success
College size



, If you are a small town girl/boy that graduated with less than 500 seniors, a large university may not be the choice for you as this can create stress and you may feel like you don't fit in.
 If you're not the best at taking tests or your scores weren't terrific, there are many schools that are more lenient

, He to she will be able to get you information on tour dates, deadlines etc.
 Most schools have campus tours where you can see classroom size, the population, dorm rooms etc. This can give a bigger picture on what life would be like if you attended this school.
 Make sure to apply to a handful of schools as unfortunately you may get rejected from one.
 You may not get into every school you apply to. Many people also don't get into the school of their first choice. Make sure to have a plan B...and C.
 Prepare to meet new people, make new friends and take the first step into your future. Congratulations!

