 Particularly if you've lost more than one check, or if your purse or wallet was lost or stolen, you need to be vigilant for other possible unauthorized activity. If you spot anything unusual, notify the bank or credit card company as soon as possible.Keep in mind that you're not liable for unauthorized charges, but you have to act quickly to ensure that the entire amount is refunded to you.
If you lost any credit or debit cards, you may want to go ahead and cancel them and have new cards issued, just to be on the safe side.
 If you suspect your identity has been stolen, take a moment to gather everything in one place and make log sheets that you can use to keep track of phone calls, emails, and other interactions with bank, credit card, or government officials.As you go through this process, you need to get written documentation of every interaction that takes place. Since you may have to provide the same information to more than one person, it's a good idea to keep it all together.
Set up a filing system for originals of all correspondence and other personal documents, as well as copies. Print a blank calendar that you can use to mark deadlines related to the possible identity theft and have all of those in one place.
 Under federal law, you are entitled to one free credit report each year. Use this free credit report to determine if there has been unauthorized activity that affects your credit, such as someone opening a new credit card in your name.You can get your annual free credit report at www.annualcreditreport.com. This is the only official website to order your report, and was set up by all three credit reporting agencies together. The website also has information about how to identify unauthorized transactions and other ways to spot identity theft.
If you spot unauthorized or incorrect activity on your credit report, contact the credit reporting agency that issued the report and follow their instructions to correct the listing or get it off of your credit report.
Keep in mind that if there's something unauthorized on one agency's report, it may be on all three. Not all companies report to all three agencies, but many do. And while the one agency may remove the item, they aren't responsible for alerting the other agencies to the problem. If you find problems on one report, you probably need to check the other two as well.
 There are three nationwide credit reporting agencies in the United States. You only have to contact one of them to place a fraud alert. The one you contacted is then responsible for contacting the other two.You can contact Equifax at 1-800-525-6285, Experian at 1-888-397-3742, or TransUnion at 1-800-680-7289. Say that you are a victim of identity theft, and ask to have a fraud alert put on your credit file. There is never a fee for having a fraud alert put on your credit file.
Once your initial fraud alert is in effect, it will stay on your report for 90 days. During that time, any business must verify your identity before issuing credit in your name. An initial fraud alert also entitled you to one free credit report from each of the three credit reporting agencies.
After the 90 days is up, you can renew it for another 90 days if you want.
 If you have discovered identity theft, you should report it to the FTC. Once you have your FTC affidavit, you should report the incident to the police (if you haven't already).You can create a complaint and affidavit with the FTC by visiting IdentityTheft.gov. From the home page, just click the link that says "Get Started." You also can make your report by calling 1-877-438-4338.
Before you start your complaint, get all the information together that is associated with your identity theft. This should be easy if you've created a separate file. When you create your affidavit with the FTC, you will need to include as much detail as possible.
On the website, you also can create your own personal recovery plan. Based on your situation, the FTC provides information and steps you need to follow to undo the damage.

