 Avoid shampoo with sulfate. You can find sulfate-free shampoo in the natural section of the store. Choose shampoo for dry hair that will hydrate your strands. Shampoos with soy and milk have proteins in it that will help your straw textured hair be strong and smooth.Don’t use products that will make your hair dryer. Some products are actually more hurtful than they are helpful. Be careful that you aren’t using products that are damaging your hair. Avoid products with baking soda, sulfate, alcohol, and silicones. , It is important to get conditioner without sulfate and harsh chemicals. Get regular conditioner to use every time you shower to help retain moisture. Use a deep conditioner weekly to repair damage that is inflicted on your hair. When you get out of the shower, use a leave in conditioner on your ends to prevent frizz and tangles.
 If your hair is very dry you can get a treatment at a salon to help bring it back to life. There are various types of salon treatments to revamp your hair. The Nanomax Hair Treatment is a brush that mists your hair, infusing it with proteins that lasts for five weeks. A conditioning treatment and vapor are applied to your hair, making your hair stronger. The Bhave Rescue Hair Treatment is a keratin treatment that does not straighten your hair, but it makes your hair smoother and stronger. This treatment is relatively inexpensive and should be done before you cut or dye your hair. , There are many options for sealant products. Mousses and gels are great for controlling frizz but weigh your hair down and harden in your hair, causing the straw texture to worsen.


Choose products with oils in them such as argon oil, coconut oil, shea butter, and Moroccan oil. .Try products with cranberries and acai berries in them because they have nutrients and vitamins that strengthen your hair. Put the products in wisely. Only put sealant product in your hair when it is wet. If you seal your hair when it is dry it will make your hair hard and heavy. Only put the product on your ends, if you put it on the roots it will increase product buildup. 