 Before the day of the exam, it's important that you thoroughly explain what the exam will involve. The best way to do this is to pretend as if you are performing the procedure on his/her thyroid. This will help your child feel less anxious during the actual thyroid ultrasound, as they will be more familiar with the procedure. To do a pretend exam:


Ask your child to lengthen his/her neck as if he/she were a giraffe reaching for leaves on a tree. Squirt the ultrasound gel on (you can use a little bit of lotion).
Use the backside of an ice cream scooper as the ultrasound wand. Pretend to be pushing buttons and looking at an ultrasound screen while you gently move the spoon around (above or below the thyroid gland).
Remember to treat your child as if you are an actual ultrasound technician. Ask him/her his name, etc.
 Some helpful items might include:


Small toys
Books
Music
Flash cards

, An ultrasound examination is extremely sensitive to motion. Unfortunately, many children cry and refuse to hold still, which simply prolongs the procedure.


Therefore, it's important that you keep you child as still as possible throughout the procedure, using distraction techniques, or promises of rewards afterwards if they behave well.
Ultrasound technicians at the majority of facilities are familiar with the challenges associated with scanning pediatric patients, so they may also have some techniques that will help keep the child still.
 Sometimes children will simply refuse to sit still for the duration of the exam, making it impossible to achieve accurate results.


If the scan cannot be obtained at the radiology center, you may need to take your child to a hospital for his/her scan, where the exam will be performed under sedation
A hospital has the ability to sedate your child while also monitoring him/her during the scan.
 The medication that is frequently used for sedation is chloral hydrate. This is not a form of anesthesia, but a sedative.


Chloral hydrate can be administered via an anal suppository, in a liquid form by mouth or with a naso-gastric tube attached to an oxygen facemask.
You must have the thyroid ultrasound performed at a hospital if your child requires a sedative, because his/her breathing needs to be monitored during the scan. This is done to ensure apnea (a disorder that causes an individual to randomly stop breathing during asleep) or respiratory depression (aka respiratory insufficiency) does not occur.
The effects of the sedative usually last for a couple of hours.

