 Either way, you must mill and clean up the wood before using.


Visually, and by using a handheld nail finder, check for left-over nails and other metal that has been left in the wood. Remove the metal before you use any power tools on the wood for obvious safety reasons.
After removing all nails and metal from the barn siding, cut the wood down to a manageable size. Some of this siding and framing timber can be very large.
Once you have cut down the wood to a size slightly larger than the finished product, take it to the clean up and mill area. This will square up and prepare the wood for cutting the parts necessary for the table.;
,


Cut the table top slightly longer than you need. Once it has been cut, mill the wood so that you have a uniform depth and a straight edge.
Put the edges together and match up the grain for the best look. Mark the edges so that you will know which one joints up to the other.
 Apply glue liberally and lay the boards flat, matching up the marks on the exposed surface.


You are now ready to clamp. Begin by placing clamps on the tops as well. Tighten up the clamps evenly so as to increase the pressure evenly along the edges. Wipe off the squeezed out glue with a damp rag or sponge.
 Use either a hand-smoothing plane or a belt and random orbital sander.
 Cut the table to the desired length with a circular or jigsaw.
 These can be in whatever style or size you design.


Cut the apron from materials matching the top and shape, or cut into any design your plans call for.
Attach the legs to the apron using a jointing method that is within your skill set. The mortise and tendon method provides a nice fit.
Brace the legs by using corner brackets once the legs and apron are attached. These can either be metal or wood brackets attached to the aprons then bolted onto the leg corners.
 This requires a flat area to lay the top upside down. Place the base apron and legs on top of it, centering the legs.
 Use screws to attach the top to the legs. You can also cut a groove with a table saw or a hand-held router. Also, make a guide about .5 inches (1.3 cm) from what will be the top of the apron. You can also use metal table top fasteners, which are available from woodworking supply houses.



Any finish is only as good as the preparation put into it. You don't want to hide the character of the wood, since the look of the table is rustic. This means no filling or patching knots and nail holes.
Just sand all exposed wood parts of the table, beginning with 120 and then 180 and moving to 240-grit sandpaper until all parts are finished. This is the most time-consuming part of the process and it can also make or break the piece.
 This gives you easy access to the table bottom. You don't want to leave the bottom of the table top unsealed.


The type of finish used will depend on the look you want. It can be anything from multiple applications of varnish (rubbing between coats with "000" steel wool) to the use of a milk dye followed with several coats of varnish or polyurethane (to give color to the wood). You will then have a table built from the barn siding that you can take pride in.

