 If you know where someone will be at a given time, it's much easier to avoid them.


Find out where they work, if you don't know already. Avoid their place of work. If you work with the person, ask your manager if you can work a different shift.
Avoid attending parties and other gatherings where you know that this person will be present--or try to stagger your attendance so that you aren't there at the same time. If an event has been organized over the Internet, check the guest list before you show up.
 Identify when and where you encounter this person, and avoid those situations. If you find that you keep running into someone, changing your habits may keep them out of your hair.


If you can't avoid the situations in which you usually encounter the person--say, you have a class together, or you work together--consider taking bigger steps: drop the class, or find a different job. Try to spend your time interacting with other people so that you don't find yourself alone with this particular person.
Take a different route to school or work each day. Take a different route home. If you usually hang out somewhere after school, consider heading straight home.
If you are worried that someone is following you or watching you, change your routines more often. Never take the same way home. Tell a parent, a teacher, or a responsible friend.
 Ignore their messages, and be careful about the personal information that you post. Your online life may be more public than you realize.Consider blocking the person on Facebook. Consider "unfriending" the person, and setting your privacy settings so that they can't see your posts. This step may become necessary if a person won't stop harassing you.
Delete the person from any relevant social media accounts: Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, Snapchat, etc. The less connected you are to a person, the easier it will be to avoid them.
Be aware that if you block or delete a person from your social media profile, he or she may notice. This can send a strong message that you don't want to associate with the person--but it can also inflame the situation further.
 Let the call ring until it goes to voicemail. If you're trying to avoid someone, but they are trying to reach you, they may disguise their number or use a phone that is not their own.


If your caller ID says "restricted" or "private", do not answer. If the call is important, the caller will leave a voicemail or find another way to reach you.
If you live in the U.S., many telephone service providers offer a service that helps you identify your last call: if you miss a call from an unknown number and you'd like to know who it was, dial *69. You will hear the telephone number associated with your last call and, in some areas, the date and time of the call.Consider blocking a number so that the person cannot call you from their own phone., Eye contact is a cue for social interaction, and they may take this connection as an invitation to speak with you.


If you do accidentally make eye contact, do not hold their gaze. Look away quickly, and find someone else that you can interact with.
If you need to walk somewhere and the person is in the way, give them a wide berth. Consider waiting until they leave. Do not give them a reason to speak to you.
 There is safety in numbers. Spend your time in groups, speaking with others, so that you don't find yourself interacting one-on-one with the person you're trying to avoid.


If you're in a group, the person you're trying to avoid may find it intimidating to approach you. Anywhere you go--to class, to lunch, even to the bathroom--try to keep at least one person with you.
If you absolutely must interact with the person one-on-one, try to end the conversation as quickly as possible. Do not let them bait you into keeping the conversation going. Make an excuse ("I need to get to class." or "I'm late for an appointment.") and get out of there.
 If you are trying to avoid someone and they won't leave you alone, you may want to involve the authorities in order to put a stop to the problem.


Restraining orders can take various forms. You can get a restraining order to keep someone from harassing you; you can get a restraining order to keep a person a certain distance away from you (i.e. 50 or 100 yards) at all times; and you can get a restraining order to force someone to move out of your home.If a person is making you feel uncomfortable, call someone. Tell a friend, a family member, a teacher, or any responsible adult. Make sure that someone close to you knows where you are.
If you find yourself in immediate danger, call 911. Tell the dispatcher where you are, who you are, and who is following you. Get to a safe place, like a classroom, a store, a friend's house, or a heavily-populated area. Lock yourself into a bathroom, if you must, and call 911 from there.
 It can be stressful to spend your time walking on eggshells, trying to avoid someone. If you speak to the person directly, you may be able to resolve your problem.


Think about what the problem is, and plan out exactly what you're going to say. Are you causing the problem here, or are they? Try to keep your emotions in check; be calm, rational, and patient.
Be careful. Think about how the person will react. If you're worried that he or she may become violent, consider using a mediator--bring a mutual friend or family member, or hire a professional mediator.

