 It doesn't matter how good your gun is when you don't have goggles. Many serious airsofters invest in ESS goggles, which the US ARMY uses. These goggles can cost up to $100 depending on what they come with. The basic model is generally $60. Popular alternatives include Bug-Eyez, which use a metal mesh instead of plastic polymer.


Mesh goggles do not fog; however in certain lighting conditions they can be very hard to see through. Lower quality bbs also break and the pieces can penetrate mesh. You can also use a paintball mask. Only use safety or shooting glasses for target shooting, as there is a gap between the eyes and the glasses where a BB could go in to and enter the eyes by deflection. These are available at any hardware or sporting goods store. They are lightweight and don't look much different from sunglasses, but are much safer.
Note: Many "Army Surplus" type stores sell (used) issue ESS goggles for reasonable prices. If ESS goggles are not available, another great alternative are the older-issue 'Sand, Wind & Dust' goggles.;
, It's not always possible to spend upwards of $1000 on the best gun ever. The majority of airsofters buy guns in the $200-$600 range. High-end companies such as Tokyo Marui and Classic Army make guns at this price. However, if your budget is tight, clone companies such as ECHO 1/ Jing Gong (JG) and A&K produce clones of high-end guns at reduced prices.
 Do you want to be more up close with your enemy, or would you rather sit back and take shots at your leisure? Many airsoft leagues disallow sniper rifles as many have an unreasonably high FPS (feet-per-second). Depending on your location, it might be smart to buy a CQB (close-quarters battle) gun. Nearly every major airsoft manufacturer makes CQB guns such as the M4A1 and the MP5. However, the choice is yours.
 While most fields do not require specific uniforms or equipment, you will find yourself a bit of a misfit with nothing but sneakers, jeans, and a t-shirt on most serious airsoft fields. For those on the cheap, surplus Woodland BDU's are available at many army surplus stores and online. If you are looking for something unique, consider foreign camouflage patterns. For those with a bigger budget, the Multicam Pattern is popular. One thing many airsofters forget is a good pair of boots. Military combat boots can be expensive, in the $100-$200 range, but a simple pair of water-proof boots from Walmart will do the trick. Yours truly wears a $40 pair of boots from Walmart. Depending on your choice in weaponry, you may want to invest in a chest rig or vest. Many websites such as CheaperThanDirt.com sell chest rigs inexpensively. Chest rigs allow you to buy pouches according to your needs and place them where they make you feel comfortable. Chest rigs can go anywhere from $20 to $100, however higher-end CIRAS vests can fetch prices of up to $700.
 Now what? If you already know of a local league or group in your area, great. If not, think about recruiting some of your friends. Whatever you do, do NOT play in backyards (Unless you get permission from the owner and make sure not to hit anything breakable like windows) or public areas. The risk of being spotted and arrested is too great, and will only damage the public reputation of Airsoft. Many leagues have private fields available for play.

