 It's Ezlo, the soon-to-be-cap that Link is famous for. You have to rescue, since he is a crucial part of the plot. So, go and do it. Slice the Octoroks that are around him then walk away. He'll follow and eventually jump on your head.
 Listen to Ezlo babble for a minute, then hop on the stump. Press R, and let Ezlo do what ever he's doing. Some type of spell. What does it do? It shrinks you!, Ride the lily pad to the other side of the pond, and enter Minish Land!, Follow that road until you reach the top of Minish Village. There should be a bridge that leads into a shiny house, you need to go in there., Follow his instructions, go down the same road but turn onto the bridge that heads right. Go down that ladder once you cross the bridge. Walk over to where some boxes are, and push the one that's in your way to the left. Grab the hopping plant-type thing, and walk back up the ladder and back to the shiny house., Go out the Abbey and follow the road that runs left-right all the way to the left. Go up the small ladder here, and into the house., Pay attention during this part. It's quite important., Just keep walking straight up until you reach the inside of the shrine. Once in, smash a few pots for hearts if needed. But either way, go up and push the statue in the middle to the left out of the way., It really doesn't matter what pattern (though it's probably best to kill the slugs first). Go through the door that opens after snagging the key from the chest., It makes life so much easier when they're not around, even though they aren't much of a threat. With that done, pull the lever and cross the bridge. Pull the mushroom back the length of the bridge, and then just let go. Walk through the door that you can now get to., Go back down the stairs and into the barrel. Go through the other door and go up the steps on the other side. Push the statue onto one of the buttons then step on the other. Walk back into the barrel and stand in the middle. Face down and run. the second door that appears is the one you need to go through. Go through the next door you see after you're out of the barrel., You can't kill them yet, so don't even try. You could get easily killed. Pull back the mushroom to the end of the second markings, go up the stairs and grab what's in the chest up there. It's a map. Walk down the pathway and jump off onto the mushroom side. This time, pull it back to the first markings, walk out the door to the left., It'll break. And it won't come back. You'll have to exit the temple and come back in. Okay, pot on button? Good. Cross the bridge that appears. Go through the door., Then push one of them inside the square until you can get into the square. Go to the other side of the statue and push it back onto the button. Open the chest. Exit the square by pushing either one of the statues out of the way and exit the room. Go back over the bridge and out this room too., Go through the other door and back into the barrel. This time, face up and run. When you get a door in the upper right-hand corner, go through it., Be careful not to pull it back too far. Pull it back about to the end of the line on the floor. Step on the switch to the left to activate the bridge, then use this mushroom to get to the bridge to reach the ledge below., Pull the right hand totem pole past the switch, then push the left one onto the switch and go through the door., Another door will open with a small key. Get the key., Jump off the ledge and go through the door (there will be more red monsters here)., Push the right block up and the left block to the left. There is a compass inside of the chest. Push one of the pots onto a switch to reveal a chest that you can't get right now. Go back up the stairs and take the door in the west wall., Go through the locked door to the left., You'll only bounce off of them., When this happens, run around to it's tail (shaped like a heart) and hit it a bunch of times with your sword until it turns red and starts running around. You can't hurt it when it's red, so stay away until it turns blue again. After it's defeated, you'll get the Gust Jar ] This sucks in air when you press a button and lets it out when you let go. It can clean off dusty or sandy spots (such as those spots of pollen where those walking mushrooms are at; draw in their pollen with the jar until they turn grey, then hit them with your sword) to reveal things like switches. You can also suck up rocks, pots, mushrooms from far away spots, and certain enemies. From here on out, it will become your best friend and become useful in other dungeons., Take the south door to get a piece of heart., Beat the mushroom enemies and clear away the dust to reveal switches, which reveal chests when pressed. The chests contain mysterious shells, which can be traded in for collectible figurines later in the game. Go through the door to the right and clear away the dust to get yet another chest with mysterious shells., Go inside the barrel. Roll the barrel until there's an exit on the upper left. Go through and suck up the dust to reveal another switch-to-chest-with-mysterious-shells-inside., Suck it up and go through it., Drag it towards you with the gust jar, then turn away and let out a short gust of air to propel yourself forward., Watch out, there's flying red monsters called Pestos that truly are pests., Go up the stairs., You might have to get rid of a few to accomplish this., After reaching the end of the water, there'll be a chest with a small key in it., Exit north and watch out for falling slugs., Don't panic. You seem to be stuck, but you're not., Start with the one on the right and continue on until you reach the last one. Stand back a bit from the last mushroom before sucking it in or else you'll fall in the water.,, Step on the blue warp tile again to return to the entrance., Go up the left staircases to get 20 rupees (push a block onto the switch). Go back downstairs and go through the right door.,, Stay rather close so it doesn't jump as much., It will try to fall on you, so stay out of the way. Hit it with your sword after it falls.,, You now get the Earth element and a piece of heart! Now take the green warp tile to get out of there!