 Whether you are bringing home a puppy or a rescue dog, the first thing you will need to do is create a safe space for your Chihuahua. The new dog will be very anxious about its new environment. You can make its transition smoother by keeping your home quiet and relaxed. Once your Chihuahua has settled in, you can begin building a bond between the two of you.Initially, keep your new Chihuahua away from any other pets you may have.
Ask your family members or roommates to be quite while the new dog adjusts.
 Once your dog has settled in, let it investigate its new surroundings. Your new Chihuahua will want to explore and familiarize itself with its new home. By allowing your new dog to explore, you are helping it feel more relaxed and safe in your home. This is particularly important for Chihuahuas who tend to prefer indoor staying indoors. Through exploration, your dog will relax and get to know your scents, facilitating the bonding process. Do not leave the dog locked up in a room. This will increase its anxiety and make it more fearful of you, limiting your ability to bond with it.
 If you have family members or other dogs, you will want to be very careful when it comes to socializing your Chihuahua. Because they form such intense bonds with only one of their owners, Chihuahuas are territorial and aggressive towards anyone or anything that is not that person. Initially, you will want to limit your new dog’s interaction with your family and any other dogs.Socializing a young Chihuahua will help it be less territorial. However, an adopted or rescue dog may not have been properly socialized and have behavioral problems.
A Chihuahua’s territorial nature can be extremely problematic around other dogs. Chihuahuas often pick fights with much bigger dogs and, because of their small frame, they tend to get badly injured.
Unfortunately, because Chihuahuas are so territorial of their owner, your dog may never be friendly to your family members or any other dogs. Be sure to consider this before bringing home a Chihuahua.
 It is important that you start your dog’s feeding and exercise routine immediately. This will help it relax and acclimate to its new home. Feeding and play are also two of the main ways in which you can build your relationship with your dog. By starting a feeding and play routine immediately, you are getting on the fast track to bonding with your Chihuahua.Establishing a regular feeding routine is particularly important since this is the best way to bond with your Chihuahua.

