 Prepare to do the Cup Song by setting a cup down on a table. The cup should be rim down. Give yourself some space on either side of the cup.


A plastic cup is best. Avoid using a glass or heavy cup until you have perfected the Cup Song.;
, Clap your hands together directly above the cup two times. Your hands should be about six inches above the cup.If your hands are too far from the cup, it will be more difficult to increase your speed.
 Alternate your hands during this step. Start with your right hand, then left hand, the right hand. You will use primarily your fingertips to tap the cup.Alternatively, you could tap the table on either side of the cup three times. You would still alternate right hand, left hand, right hand.
 Clap above the cup again. Make sure you are still about six inches above the cup. However, this time, just clap once., Grasp the bottom of the cup with your right hand. Pick the cup up to hover about two to three inches above the table. Try to make an audible sound when grasping the cup., Move the cup about three inches to the right. Set the cup down, making another audible noise. The cup should still be rim down., Clap once again above the cup. Continue to keep your hands about six inches above the cup., Turn your right hand so that your thumb is pointing down and your palm is facing the right. Grasp the cup with your hand., Naturally rotate the cup ninety degrees clockwise. The rim, or opening, of the cup should be facing the left., Use the palm of your hand to hit the opening of the cup. Be sure that your hand connects with the rim to make another audible noise., Turn the cup a little further in a fluid motion. The cup just almost be straight up and down with the rim up., Before the cup reaches the straight up and down position, tap the bottom edge of the cup to the table., Continue to turn the cup clockwise. Grasp the bottom of the cup with your left hand. Try to make another audible noise when your left hand touches the cup. These noises maintain the beat of the Cup Song., Cross your right arm to hit the table near the left side of your body., Cross your left arm over you right and firmly place the cup back down on the table. The cup should land back down on its rim near the right side of your body., Continue to practice the Cup Song until you get faster. Once you feel comfortable with the movements, try putting it to the song “When I’m Gone.” The movements repeat throughout the song.