 Make it clear that you are the boss of your household, and that your rules should be followed.


Demonstrate to your children that your elders should be respected at all times. If your parents play an active role in your life, you can show your children that you respect your parents, just as they should respect you.
Tell your children to treat you with respect. You are a figure of authority and should be addressed and answered appropriately, even during tense situations.
 Your children should have a strong sense of your expectations. You should avoid being temperamental or unclear so that they know what you actually want.


Establish expectations for chores. Your children should know what work is expected of them, whether it is to wash their own dishes, help set the table, or do yard work. Rotating chores can also help mix things up and to ensure that no one member of your household is stuck with the unpleasant tasks, such as cleaning your kitty's litter, every time.
Establish expectations for appropriate behavior. Make it clear that you expect your children to avoid foul language, have dinner at the dinner table, and to maintain a positive attitude when possible. Repeating these rules and others early and often will show your children that you have clear rules for what is and is not acceptable in your home.
Be consistent. Though certain rules may change as your children reach a specific age, be clear about general household expectations. Make sure your expectations are the same for every sibling, so you don't look like you're playing favorites.
 In order to be the head of your household, your children should be aware that they will be rewarded for good behavior and punished for not meeting your expectations.


Have a reward for every occasion. If your child did well in school, passed a driver's test, kicked the winning goal in his soccer match, or reached an important milestone, such as a birthday, it's important to celebrate the occasion. Dinner at the restaurant of your child's choice, a trip to an amusement park or movie, or any other journey to your child's favorite destination, will help show that you care, and that you want him or her to keep succeeding.
Have clear punishments to discourage bad behavior. The punishment of grounding, or not allowing your child to spend time with a friend or at a favorite event, can go a long way in motivating your child not to stay out past curfew, or to skip class. If your child is younger, then having a simple "time out" or keeping him or her from watching a favorite show will demonstrate that you mean business when it comes to breaking rules.
 If you and your spouse or significant other share the head of your household, make sure that your expectations are very similar.


Avoid making important decisions, such as letting your daughter go to a slumber party at a new friend's house, without your significant other. If he or she doesn't agree with your choice, then he or she will look like the bad guy.
Be both good cop and bad cop. Avoid having your children view one of their parents as the lenient one. Both of you should have similar expectations about what is and is not allowed.
 Don't get so caught up in making rules that you forget to enjoy your precious time with your loved ones. Here are some tips for making sure there is more fun than rules in your household:


Make time for family every week. Whether it's for cooking an Italian meal, watching a scary movie, or just having family board game night, it's important to carve out quality time for all the members of your family.
Show your love and affection for your spouse and children. Though you may be an authority figure, you are also a mother or father, and it's important to tell your children how much you love them, to hug them, and to tell them they're special every single day.

