 By learning more about your car, you can find out how it works, learn about its safety features, and learn how to troubleshoot problems. A better understanding of a car makes you feel comfortable with it. Learn about the parts of your car, and then experiment with your driving, away from other cars, to see how they work.


For example, if your car has anti-lock brakes (ABS), try them out in a safe place, before you need to use them. Get up to a medium speed, and press the brake hard. You may feel the pedal pulse, or hear a pulsing noise. That's exactly what it's supposed to do. Anti-lock brakes are designed to stop your car in the shortest possible distance, by automatically pulsing the brakes to prevent you from skidding.
Get used to your own car. It may be better for you to practice driving in the same vehicle until you get more confident. All cars are a little different and have their own quirks.
 Learn how to fill up washer fluid, replace fuses, put air in your tires, or replace windshield wipers. Getting comfortable with the parts of your car, even if they are very basic, can help you feel more confident and less anxious.


Learn how to change a tire. A lot of people are afraid of what they will do in the event of a flat tire. If you can change a tire, you will not need to wait at the side of the road for help. You can feel empowered to solve your problem.
 Consult the highway code or book an appointment with a qualified driving instructor. Feeling knowledgeable about rules and expectations can help your confidence.


Watch safe driving videos online. If you can’t get to a class, try watching videos to build skills and increase your confidence level.
 Learn to identify and correct or avoid difficult situations, before they become emergencies. Your anxiety level may be reduced by feeling more prepared to handle problematic scenarios.Not only will you learn valuable, confidence-boosting driving skills, but you can often get a discount on your insurance premiums for completing a reputable defensive driving training course.