 If you are under age 18, you cannot petition to change your name. However, a parent, managing conservator, or legal guardian can petition to change the name of a minor in certain circumstances. Both parents or guardians must be served with the name change petition.
 If you are petitioning to change the name of a minor child, you will need to complete the PC-8.1 Change of Name form, found here: http://sos.ri.gov/documents/probate/PC8.1.pdf. The process is the same as to change your own name as an adult.


Check the “for minor child” box on the form.
Provide your name, along with the child’s name, full address, name on original birth record, date and place of birth, mother’s maiden name, and father’s name. You will also need to provide your address and any addresses at which the child lived previously.Give the new name that you are requesting for the minor.
 You must be as specific as possible. The most common reason for changing a child’s name is legal adoption. In general, courts will not approve frivolous name change requests for minors. You must be able to prove that the name change is in the child’s best interest.


For example, wanting to rename your child “Harry Potter Smith” might be considered frivolous and not in the child’s best interest. However, changing an adopted child’s last name in order to promote a sense of family unity would be a reasonable reason.
 You must submit the notarized name change form. You can find a local notary online or by asking the court for a referral.
 You will need to turn in the name change petition to the court in your county, along with a filing fee.


The fee varies by county, but can be found by contacting the local clerk. It will generally be in the range of $65.
You will be given a court date approximately 30 days from the date of petition submission and can expect to pick up your decree on that day. Check with your local clerk about details, such as whether there will be a brief court appearance, as this varies with the county.
 Most counties in Rhode Island will not actually require you to publish the minor’s new name (although you can anyway) but the court may direct you to make an announcement, so be sure you are clear about what is needed when you submit your petition.


Publishing a name change can be done by publishing an ad in the newspaper where the minor resides that states the minor’s former and new name.
Upon completion of this step, you will be granted a 'Proof of Publication'. If you have been legally asked to announce your name, you will need to bring this to a hearing so make sure to keep track of it.
 You may be required to attend a hearing, or the clerk may simply notify you that the 'Name Change Decree' is ready.


Depending on the specifics of your case and of your county, the court may hold a hearing simply in order to have an official statement from you. This does not mean your petition is in question.
 If you have changed a minor’s name, you should also change his or her name on the associated government documents. Contact the Social Security Administration to update the name on the child’s Social Security account.If the child is old enough to drive, change the name on his/her driver’s license. You will need to fill out a TR-1 form (http://www.dmv.ri.gov/documents/forms/registration/TR-1.pdf) and provide documentation of the name change, such as the court order.
If the child has a passport, you will need to apply for a new passport under the new name.