;
,, If a blank document does not appear, you can create a new document by choosing "New" in the File menu.
 The page title is the first thing that is usually seen on your webpage and also plays an important role in how search engines index the page. The page title will appear at the very top when your webpage is opened in any Internet browser.


Dreamweaver 3 shows a title icon at the top-left that can be used to enter the webpage title. You can also create a page title by selecting "Head Content" in the View menu. You can enter the title in the title box that pops up.
Dreamweaver 4 already has the title box shown at the top of its user interface. Simply type in the blank area to create your page title.
 There are many options to choose from.


Format: lets you select the size of your heading. Selecting a smaller number makes the heading bigger.
Text style/Text size/Text color: allow you to choose your default text font, size and color.
Text alignment: aligns your text to the right, left or center.
Link: changes the text that you highlight into a hyperlink so when somebody click on the text they are taken to another webpage. You can also create links to an email address or other areas of the same webpage.
Ordered list: changes the sentences that you have chosen into a bulleted list or starts a new list if no text is chosen.
Indent/Outdent: moves the margin for your selected text inwards or outwards.
 You can open this toolbar by going to the Windows menu and choosing "Objects."


Import an image by placing your cursor where you want the image to appear and clicking on the first icon on the object properties palette (it looks like a square with a tree drawn inside).
Select the image file that you want to import and click "Open." A shape will appear on your webpage indicating that an image has been inserted here.
Drag the outlines of the shape to adjust its shape and size of the image as it will appear in your webpage.
 This is important because when you use Dreamweaver to create websites they can be displayed differently depending on which browser is used.

