 Relieving constipation can help to prevent hemorrhoids during pregnancy and otherwise. When you are constipated, you have difficulty passing bowel movements, which in turn increases pressure on the blood vessels in the pelvic area and causes hemorrhoids.Constipation can result due to hormonal imbalances during pregnancy.Reduce or prevent constipation by increasing your dietary fiber intake. Foods high in fiber include fruits, vegetables, and whole grains.
Prune juice or dried prunes are also high in fiber and may support healthy bowel function.Start your mornings with an oatmeal sprinkled with flaxseeds. Oatmeal is high in fiber and the added fiber and fatty acids in flaxseeds can help trigger a bowel movement.
Drink dandelion or mallow tea. Steep the tea bags in boiling water for about 5 to 10 minutes to prepare the tea. Drink dandelion or mallow daily to ease constipation.
Ask your doctor if you should take psyllium. Psyllium helps bulk up and soften your stools and it also promotes healthy bowel movements.Never take over-the-counter laxatives when you are pregnant without asking your doctor.;
, Besides helping to relieve constipation, proper hydration is essential for a healthy pregnancy.Make sure that you are drinking plenty of water every day.


You should be drinking 1 to 2 ounces of water per kg of body weight. For example, if you weigh 154 pounds or 70 kilograms, then you would need to drink 70 to140 ounces of water per day.
If you are drinking enough water, then your urine will be clear. If you are not drinking enough, then it will be a dark yellow color.
Consuming the correct amount of water during pregnancy helps prevent constipation and promotes softer stools, thus decreasing the risk of hemorrhoids.
 Both put pressure on your lower body and slow blood flow to the rectal veins, which increases your risk of hemorrhoids.Take frequent breaks and walk around, especially if your work involves sitting at a desk.
Stretch and take time to sit from time to time if you are on your feet most of the time.
 Pushing too hard during a bowel movement puts more pressure on the rectal veins, which can cause or worsen hemorrhoids.Put your feet up on a stool during bowel movements. This can help relieve the pressure on the rectal area and allow you to pass the stool more easily.
Use the bathroom immediately if you feel the urge to go, this can reduce the risk of hemorrhoids. Passing stool can become more difficult if you wait., This helps keep your bowel movements regular and relieves the pressure on the veins in your rectum. Getting up and moving is essential if you tend to sit for extended periods of time.Try exercises, such as walking, swimming, low-impact aerobics, dancing, yoga, and stretching. These help improve your cardiovascular and muscular health besides promoting healthy bowel movements.Always ask your doctor before starting a new exercise program. It is essential you only do exercises that are safe for you and your baby.
 Kegels strengthen the pelvic floor and increase circulation to the rectum and perineum, which may help reduce your risk for hemorrhoids.Before attempting to do Kegels, empty your bladder. Then, lie down on the bed. Optionally, you can do Kegels while sitting or standing.
Squeeze and contract your pelvic muscles without pulling in your stomach, squeezing your legs together, tightening your butt, or holding your breath. Hold each contraction for a few seconds before releasing.
You can hold your hand on your stomach to ensure it stays relaxed.

