 It's a grey app with a gear icon, typically found on the Home Screen.;
, This option is near the bottom of the screen.
 It's near the bottom of the screen.
 It's below the "Interaction" heading.
 This option is at the top of the page. It will turn green, signifying that AssistiveTouch is now active; you should see a small grey square pop up on your screen after a moment.


You can tap and drag the grey square to relocate it on your screen.
 Doing so will invoke a grey pop-out menu with several options clustered around the middle.
 It's the circle at the bottom of the pop-out menu. Doing so will mimic the actual Home button.


Tap it once to minimize any open apps.
Tap and hold to enable Siri.
Double-tap to view all currently running apps.
 Stock apps on the iPhone include Calculator, Calendar, Weather, and Messages. This method will help reset a Home button that is slow to respond, or one that doesn’t respond at all and requires multiple presses to register.


Make sure you don't have any apps other than the stock app open.
 It's on the top-right side of your iPhone's case. After a few seconds, the “Slide to Power Off” option will appear.
 Do so only when you see the "Slide to Power Off" option appear.
 After a few seconds, the “Slide to Power Off” option will disappear and the app will be force-closed. This action will calibrate the Home button and potentially restore its responsiveness.If you're using the AssistiveTouch Home button, you'll first tap the grey AssistiveTouch cube on your screen.
 Before trying any of the basic fixes listed here (and potentially voiding your warranty), take the phone into an Apple store to have their trained technicians look into fixing it.


If there isn't an Apple store near you, try contacting Apple.
The fix will likely be free if your phone is still under warranty or if you have Apple Care.
 Press and hold the Home button. Take a can of compressed air and blast the connection port at the bottom of the phone. Oftentimes this will clear out some of the gunk that may be causing the button to stick down.
 Drop a small amount of isopropyl alcohol onto the tip of a cotton swab. Press in the Home button as far as it goes and rub the alcohol around the edges. Press the button several times to work the alcohol into the cracks. This can help clean grime out that may be causing the button to stick.This method may void your warranty.
Using too much alcohol can cause water damage to your phone. Only perform this fix if your phone is no longer under warranty. If it is under warranty, attempt to have it repaired by Apple first.
 Place your iPhone on a flat surface. Press and hold the Home button firmly down, and then rotate your phone clockwise while continuing to firmly press the button. This may help reset the button.


This step won't work for phones that use haptics instead of a hardware button (e.g., the iPhone 7).

