 Fill a large pot with 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) of water. Place a large bowl on top of the pot. The bottom of the bowl should not be touching the water. Turn the stove on and let the water come to a boil. Lower the heat and let the water simmer.
 You will need this as soon as your finish heating the clay.
 Break the sheet of beeswax into smaller pieces. This will help the beeswax melt faster. Place the pieces into the bowl and heat until the wax is completely liquid and translucent. The beeswax will prevent the clay from ever drying out, making it similar to plasticine.
 Slowly pour ¾ cup (135 grams) of limestone powder into the wax. The mixture will be a little lumpy, so you will need to stir it until all of the lumps and clumps disappear.
 You will need 4 tablespoons of petroleum jelly, 6 teaspoons of baby oil, and 2 tablespoons coconut oil. Stir the mixture for 30 seconds.
 The clay will will be dull tan color once you finish making it. You can make it more colorful by adding in 1 tablespoon of powdered color pigment to the mixture and stirring to combine it., Once the 30 seconds have passed, take the bowl off of the pot and pour the mixture into the baking sheet. It will start to harden quickly.
 The clay will start to harden after about 10 minutes. During this time, you can test the texture and add more ingredients to resolve any issues.


If the texture is too crumbly, add in some more oil and stir to combine it. The oil will help soften the clay and make it less dry.
If the clay is too hard, transfer it back to the double boiler and let it soften. Add more of the oils and limestone powder.
 Because the clay is made from oils and wax, it will never dry out or completely harden. Once it cools, you can take it off the tray and sculpt with it.
 Although the clay will not dry out or harden like most other clays, it can still collect dust and dirt. Keep your clay looking clean by wrapping it in plastic wrap, sticking it in a plastic bag, or storing it in an air-tight container. Keep the clay in a cool place, as heat may cause it to soften and become sticky.

