 Drinking alcohol has many detrimental effects on the body and having Crohn’s disease only provides another reason not to drink it. This is due to the fact that alcohol has a depressive effect on the digestive system.


Alcohol also contains acetaldehyde which is toxic for the body. This toxin irritates the stomach lining and intestine.
It also increases gastric acid production, which worsens symptoms of Crohn’s disease.
 Crohn’s disease is a chronic inflammation of the stomach and intestinal linings. Therefore it is important to avoid substances that irritate the digestive system further. Examples of such substances include:



Cigarettes: The nicotine found in cigarettes increases gastric acid production that irritates gastric lining. When too much gastric acid is produced, the mucus normally found in the stomach (that serves as protective layer) is damaged, causing stomach and intestinal ulcers.

Spicy foods: Capsaicin is found in chili peppers, which are used as spices in food. Capsaicin is an irritant which causes a burning sensation when eaten. It also causes irritation to the esophageal and stomach linings.

Caffeine: Caffeine may cause increased gastric acid production leading to delayed healing of stomach ulcers. Examples of caffeine-containing substances are coffee, tea, and sodas.
 Stress can cause a flare-up of Crohn’s disease, as stressful situations can trigger symptoms of the disease.


Whenever the body is under stress, the immune system is overactive – calming yourself down helps to limit the worsening of symptoms.
The normal digestive pattern changes whenever a person is under stress, stomach activity is affected causing slower absorption and increased gastric acid production. Stress can be managed through relaxation techniques.
 Exercise helps to relieve tensed muscles and anxiety.. Swimming, jogging, bicycling, and running are all recommended forms of exercise for sufferers of Crohn's disease. Doing exercises 3 to 4 times per week for 30 to 45 minutes can provide great relief.
 Deep and slow breathing can help to relax tensed muscles. Try inhaling through your nose slowly for up to 5 seconds, then exhale through your mouth for up to 7 seconds. You can do this several times per day - it is best done during the morning and evening.
 Engaging in recreational activities can help you to avoid dwelling on your health issues. You can go shopping, watch television programs, surf the internet or just simply spend time with your loved ones. This can bring comfort and relief especially if you are currently on a stressful situation.

