


Special ballots can be obtained by Canadian electors temporarily living away from their electoral districts, Canadian electors who cannot or do not wish to go to an official polling place, Canadian citizens temporarily living outside of Canada, Canadian Forces electors, and incarcerated electors.
The elector must have a civic address of ordinary residence in Canada.
Register to vote by special ballot by 6:00 pm on the Tuesday before polling day.
Realize that once an application to vote by special ballot is approved, that is the only way that you can vote for that election. You may not vote at an official polling place.
Contact the Elections Canada office in Ottawa to request your special ballot kit. You can also apply for this kit on the Elections Canada website.A special ballot voting kit includes a blank ballot, an unmarked inner envelop, an outer envelop identifying the elector and his or her electoral district, a return envelop, and an instruction flyer.



If you were too young to register when you left the UK, you can still register and vote as an overseas voter as long as you are a citizen of the UK and as long as your guardian was registered to vote in the UK within the past 15 years.
Register as an overseas voter by contacting your local electoral office or by filling out the application online.
Overseas voters can receive an early (absentee) ballot by mail and must submit the ballot by mail to their local electoral office. Your local electoral office can be found by submitting your post code of your last registered UK address online.Alternatively, instead of requesting and filling out a paper ballot, you can also vote by proxy. A proxy is authorized to vote on your behalf on the day of the election.,


An absent vote is cast by an elector who is out of his or her home division yet within his or her home state or territory on election day.
An overseas vote is cast an an overseas voting center, such as an Australian embassy or mission, or it can be cast by applying for a specific postal vote.
You can vote early by mail or in person if, on election day, you will be outside of your electorate where you are enrolled to vote, more than 8 km (5 miles) away from a polling place, travelling, unable to leave your workplace, seriously ill, in a hospital, have certain religious beliefs that prevent you from going to a polling place, in prison, a silent elector, or have reasonable fear for your safety.
Mobile polling votes are polling teams that travel to various places before and on election day. These places are usually set up in locations where the citizens there would be unable to leave to vote, including hospitals, nursing homes, prisons, and remote areas.

