 Bullies tend to pick on kids without confidence. If you can build self-confidence, you can help prevent being bullied in the future.Try a power pose. Some research has shown that just acting confident can build confidence. Generally, a power pose involves making yourself larger, more spread out. For instance, putting your hands on your hips and spreading your legs apart is a power pose. Don't forget to hold your head high! Try holding a pose that makes you feel stronger for 2 minutes.Master new skills. Another way to help build your confidence is to take on new skills. As you become better at the skill, it can boost your confidence.Exercise or play sport. Exercising can make you feel strong and confident. You should be getting exercise anyway, so it's a win-win. Martial arts may be a good choice, in case you need to defend yourself., Communication skills are the ways you interact with other kids and teachers. Basically, it's how you present yourself to the world. If you have basic communication skills, people see you as more assertive. Assertive means being self-assured and able to speak up for yourself. The more assertive you are, the less likely you are to get bullied.Being assertive means being able to talk to others to express what you want without being mean. For instance, instead of saying, "Why do you give me all the bad jobs?" you could say, "Would it be possible for me to clean the dry erase boards next week?"Communicating well means you offer leading ideas, ask questions nicely, and offer support when possible. For instance, when a friend does a good job, you say, "You were awesome! Great job!", Empathy means you feel what others are feeling. To be empathetic, you have to listen to what others are going through and try to understand their pain. While it can be hard to encourage empathy, bullying is less likely to happen when kids are empathetic to each other.Pay attention. The first step towards being empathetic is to notice other people. Watch other kids' faces to see how they are feeling. You can usually tell if someone is upset if you're looking at them. They may frown, have watery eyes, or turn red in the face.Talk to the other person. If you see someone looking down, ask how he or she is doing. You could say, "Hey, what's wrong? You don't look so good." Listen to his or her response.
Even if you don't feel what the other person is feeling, it's important to express sympathy for what the person is going through. That just means you respond to what he or she told you in a nice way. For instance, if the person said, "I'm having a bad day. My dog is sick." You could say, "Oh, that's awful. I'd hate that if it were my dog. You must be really sad.", Being bullied can make you want to lash out. You may be tempted to threaten someone who bullies you. However, that just turns you into a bully, and you're perpetuating the problem.In addition, it can make the bully want to fight back harder, which only hurts you.Also, if you do try to retaliate, you could find yourself taking part of the blame, even though the bully struck first.