 Popular software used by professionals, such as Adobe Flash, Photoshop, and Toon Boom Studios, cost hundreds of dollars.Save your money for now and start with a simple app like Animation Creator HD or Animation Desk Cloud, which are easy to use and only cost a few bucks.


Use a tablet if you have one. Drawing directly on a screen is often preferred by artists., Familiarize yourself with the program’s functions and features. Sample the different kinds of brushes it offers. Learn how to duplicate frames, add more layers per frame, and change the rate of frames seen per second.


Practice by animating a stick figure running in place. In the first frame, draw the whole body in a single layer. Add a second frame. With most apps, a new blank frame will appear as a translucent “onion skin” so you can trace the previous frame underneath it. Trace the stick figure’s head and upper torso on the second frame. Next, draw the arms so that one arm rises slightly forward, while the other falls behind. Do the same with the legs. Add a third blank frame. Trace the head and upper body as before and alter the position of each arm and leg again. Continue the process until you’ve created enough frames for your stick figure to run a few strides, then play it back to watch.
Practice drawing in layers next. Animate another stick figure running in place, only this time draw the head and upper torso in a single layer. Add a second layer to the first frame to draw the arms. Add a third layer and draw the legs. Then duplicate the first frame so you now have two identical frames. In the second frame, erase the arms in the second layer and draw them in new positions. Do the same with the legs in the third layer. Duplicate the second frame and repeat the process until your stick figure runs a few strides, without you ever having to draw the head and upper torso more than once.
 Choose the screen ratio that you prefer for your opening shot. In your first frame, create layers for your foreground, middle-ground, and background respectively.


Depending on your app, you may be able to create even more layers; Animation Creator HD, for instance, offers four layers per frame. Feel free to create multiple middle-grounds.
 Think in layers and determine which elements will occupy the foreground, middle-ground(s), and background respectively. Identify which elements will occupy more than one.


Imagine a person seated at a table, facing the camera, with their elbow resting on the table and a can of soda in their hand. To animate them raising the can to their lips for a sip, think of the arm and soda as your foreground, the table and the rest of the character’s body as the middle-ground(s), and the area behind them as the background.
 Use a stylus to draw each element in the foreground, middle-ground(s), and background respectively.


Think ahead. Keep in mind which elements will move from frame to frame, possibly revealing details that are currently blocked from view in the first frame. For example, when a character raises their beverage, their raised arm may reveal more of their body.
 In the new frame, alter the elements in each layer as dictated by your storyboard.
 Play your animation back as you add and alter more and more frames. To slow your animation down, either duplicate each frame without altering any elements, or reduce the number of frames seen per second. To speed it up, add the number of frames seen per second.
 Once you’ve finished each shot, export it to your video library. Open a video-editing app (like iMovie) and create a new "movie" to edit. Import your first animated shot from your video library.
 Import each one into the editing app. Add them in sequence to your video.
 Sync any dialogue, music, and/or sound effects to the video.

