 The three most common types of flat screen TVs are Plasma, LED, and LCD. These types are explained as follows:



Plasma TVs create a picture by sending an electrical charge that is applied to a small sheet of tiny plasma cells.

LCD TVs are composed of liquid crystal compressed between two glass plates and backed by a fluorescent lamp. When you apply an electrical charge to the crystal, an image is created.

LED TVs are LCD panels, but instead of using the fluorescent (CCFL) backlight lamp, they use an LED backlight.;
, Contrast ratio describes your TV’s ability to display bright and dark images at the same time. The higher the contrast ratio, the better the picture quality will appear. If your TV has a poor contrast ratio, you'll lose detail in extremely bright and extremely dark scenes. While this isn't usually a huge deal, it can be a factor in making your decision. Generally, plasma televisions have the best contrast ratios. Backlit LED televisions come in close second. Edge-lit LED televisions and LCD televisions will have slightly lower contrast ratios.


Most LCD screens start at a contrast ratio of about 600:1, while plasma screens start at 1,000:1. Both types can reach up to 10,000:1. However, because there is no standard measure for contrast ratio exists at this time, manufacturers tend to exaggerate the actual output of their TV models. Consult product reviews for additional assessments.
In addition to higher contrast ratios, look for good image quality on black colors. While brightness can be adjusted, many LCD screens have difficulty creating deep blacks, which can result in a picture that appears faded.
 If you watch a lot of fast-paced sports, a plasma TV may be your best bet, since they show the smoothest motion. However, LCD and LED TVs have improved greatly in this field in the last five years, and are both relatively good at showing motion.


Note that plasma TVs run the risk of being permanently damaged by "static images," such as network logos or status controls on video games. These images present a high risk of burn-in that permanently alters the screen.
 LCD televisions usually only require a single fluorescent backlight, whereas plasma TVs require every sub-pixel to be lit individually. Generally, it will cost about 50 percent more to run a plasma television for a year than an LCD television. LED screens use the least amount of power. They use about 40 percent less energy than an LCD TV.
 While none of these televisions have particularly short lifespans, the plasma screen has the shortest half-life—60,000 hours (in other words, it will take 33 years for the TV's brightness to be half a new TV's brightness if used for 5 hours a day). LED televisions generally have a half-life of over 100,000 hours. LCDs fall somewhere between the two.
 Generally, LCD screens are the most affordable options (they may be your only option for smaller screen sizes). Plasma TVs are generally only available as larger screens and are slightly more expensive than their LCD counterparts. LED screens are the newest TV technology and are much more expensive. LED screens are also more difficult to find in stores.

