 You will need a valid passport to enter Belgium. Make sure your passport does not expire before you plan to return home.


Apply for a new passport by visiting the State Department's website at www.travel.state.gov/passport. You can download the application and mail it in with your fee and passport photo.
Allow up to 8 weeks for a new passport. Make sure you give yourself plenty of time to get a passport before you leave for Belgium.;
,


Contact the embassy of Belgium for specific visa requirements if you plan to be there for more than 90 days. The website is http://www.diplobel.us/ or you can call (202) 333-6900.
 Most commercial flights from the United States fly into Antwerp or Brussels.


Check airfares on discount websites such as Expedia, Kayak and Hotwire. You can usually find lower rates on these sites than you can directly with airlines.
Take a train if you plan to visit European countries in addition to Belgium. You can take a train from nearby countries such as France, Germany, the Netherlands and Luxemburg.



Check with TripAdvisor on the most recommended hotels in Belgium. You can read customer reviews, look at pictures and compare rates. Use the same sites you used for your airfare to check for the lowest prices, including Expedia, Kayak and Hotwire.
 You will need to pay for goods and services in euros.


Exchange money at the airport, train station, tourist centers or banks in Belgium. You can also use ATM machines to withdraw euros.
Notify your bank and credit card companies that you will be using your cards in Belgium so they do not think your cards are being used fraudulently.
 There are many sites to see, including battlefield tours in Flanders, hot air ballooning in Bruges and several museums and cathedrals in Brussels and Antwerp.


Read travel books and visit websites for information on what to do in Belgium. Some good resources include Lonely Planet, Fodor's, Frommer's and TripAdvisor.
 There is no need to rent a car in Belgium. You can travel from city to city by bus or train, and all of the towns are scenic to walk through.

