 What is commonly called “squatter’s rights” is legally known as adverse possession. In theory, if an owner allows someone to trespass for years without giving permission, complaining, or taking action, he or she may lose the rights to the land. However, the laws governing adverse possession vary from state to state, and they are often very strict. Contact a real estate lawyer to help you understand and follow the laws of adverse possession that apply in your area.
You can also visit the local library or search online to find your state’s legal code and research the relevant adverse possession laws.
 “Hostile” in this sense has a specific legal meaning, signifying that you are occupying land you do not have legal ownership or other right to. There are two general definitions of hostile occupation. Courts will follow one or the other.Under the “Maine rule,” you must occupy the land for several years, fully aware that you have been trespassing.
Under the “Connecticut rule,” however, you do not need to know that you have been trespassing.
 As the trespasser you must actually be in possession of the property and treat it as if you were an owner. You must have a physical presence on the land, whether you outright live there or you've just built a fence., To gain adverse possession, your use of the land must be “open and notorious.” This means it must be obvious to anyone, including an owner who investigates that a trespasser is on the land. Obvious signs of possession of the land may include, but are not limited to, things like:Building a house.
Planting and maintaining a garden.
Pouring a concrete driveway.
Erecting a fence.
 Adverse possession requires your use of the land to be “exclusive and continuous.” This means you yourself must use the land without interruption, for a period of time determined by your state (typically several years). You cannot leave the land and later return to it, or let someone else use it before taking it back., Some states have additional requirements beyond proving that your occupation of the land has been hostile, actual, open and notorious, and exclusive and continuous. For example, in California, you must also prove that you have been paying property taxes on the land., You will need to build a case against the legal owner, and you should bear in mind the reasons why your claim might be denied. Common reasons an owner might legally retain ownership of the land you want to claim include:Permissive use. If the actual owner has granted you permission to use the property, especially in writing, your possession is not “hostile.”
Insufficient acts. You might have used the land, but not in a way that suggests ownership. For instance, perhaps you walked across a neighbor's field for years to get to the store.
Non-exclusive use. This means you weren't the only person using the land. If both you and your neighbor let cattle graze on a piece of land, you cannot claim exclusive use.
Insufficient time. This simply means that it is deemed you did not use the land as long as your state requires for adverse possession.
 If you have met all of the requirements for adverse possession, you may petition the court with jurisdiction in your area to "quiet title" and declare you the legal owner of the property. If the court grants your petition, the title will be cleared in your name, and you will become the exclusive legal owner of the property.Work with a real estate lawyer to file the petition you need with the proper court.

