 Praise and flattery will appeal to their ego. They need to feel respected and adored in equal amounts. Shower them with flattering statements that focus on their best qualities. It might feel a little excessive to you, but a Leo will enjoy every second of it.


Example: “The presentation you gave at the meeting today was absolutely stellar. You’re always so prepared and you make it look so easy! I’m really sorry that I came in late.”
Example: “You are one of the most punctual people I know and I know how important being on time is to you. I’m sorry that I told you the wrong time and made you late.”

, A Leo tends to need a little convincing that you’re actually sorry. Along with being very sincere, apologize multiple times, in different ways. Once a Leo sees that you are earnestly trying to win back their friendship, they are quick to forgive and they won’t look back.


Leos don’t dwell on the past, so once your apology has been accepted, you shouldn’t either.
 Leos are known to be lavish spenders and they enjoy the finer things in life.If you give a gift to a Leo, make sure it reflects their personality and appeals to their dramatic side. They love fine art and jewelry. Flashy clothing in vibrant colors will also get a good reaction from a Leo. Look for something sophisticated and stylish, which will align with their lifestyle. Dinner at an upscale restaurant is another idea a Leo will love.


You don’t have to break the bank on this if you’re on a budget. Just make sure that your gift shows a deep appreciation for who they are and what they like.
A Leo will appreciate the extravagant gesture and take it as a sign that you care for them.
 Leos are extremely independent and they don’t handle criticisms well.When you're trying to apologize to a Leo, adding a criticism into the conversation will likely result in failure. If you do have criticisms, save them for another conversation.


It’s not that you can’t ever voice your honest thoughts to a Leo, but timing is everything.
Don’t expect to smooth anything over with a Leo if you follow up an apology with a criticism.