 It might be enough to point out that this behavior has been noticed and is causing you to feel that it's coming between you both, or preventing you from sleeping with all the fan whirs, email pings, and keyboard tapping!;
, If it is something like "because I'm too tired to do all this work at my desk", then kindly suggest that they have their priorities out of whack. If they're too tired to keep working, they're too tired period, and doing work in bed isn't going to improve things. Same goes for being "too sick", "too excited about something online", "too engrossed"; there is a time and place for everything!

, Let your spouse know that you don't like having the laptop in bed with the two of you, and that you consider the bedroom is not the place for a computer. Check out wikiHow's article on having a zen bedroom for some good ammunition for your discussion. Tell your spouse that you're concerned about the health implications of having electronic equipment so near, of having quiet time interrupted by an electronic gadget in a place of peace that you'd like to see work-free.
 Maybe your spouse has nowhere to sit with the laptop that is comfortable and relaxing; if so, consider purchasing a good chair and appropriate desk. If your spouse cites too much work as the reason, it is a good opportunity to suggest prioritising the workload and not bringing it to bed, to make a space between work and bedtime. Your spouse may not quite see what a workaholic they have become, or how much they are blurring the lines between being engrossed online and paying respect to a vital, daily ritual of bedtime.
 If your spouse is really adamant that there is nothing wrong with bringing the laptop to bed, consider compromising on weekend morning laptop lie-ins, or something similarly less intrusive. Insist, however, that bedtime is bedtime, and this does not involve sitting in bed with a laptop.
 Think about why your spouse wants to bring the laptop to bed instead of talking to you, or enjoying the time together. Perhaps it's time to re-inject a little fun into your bedtime routine...

