 That is, don't encourage them to try yoga, then send them off to a beginner's class by themselves. Join a class with them. Also, make them feel more at ease by doing things like finding a place in back at class so they won't feel like they are in the spotlight.Find a free or cheap class for them to make yoga even more enticing.Also, make sure to pick a class that fits into their schedule so they can make time for it. It also helps if they don't have to go too far out of their way, distance-wise., Most beginners think they aren't coordinated or balanced enough to take yoga. When looking at yoga poses, it can seem pretty intimidating to a beginner. Remind them that everyone starts out feeling that way, not flexible or balanced enough.Also, tell them that one of the points of yoga is to increase those skills. Doing yoga makes you more flexible and increases your balance.
 Even if you're not a yoga teacher, you can help your friend feel more comfortable by showing them a few poses. Walk your friend through a few of them just so they get the feel of what it's like. Doing a few poses ahead time can make them feel less embarrassed when they do go to class because they now have at least some idea of what to do., Some people may do better if you walk them through a class, as well. You don't need to go through every pose. Rather, you just talk about what they should do beforehand, how a class proceeds, what they'll need, how long they can expect to be doing each part of the class, and what they should do afterwards.For example, tell them it's a good idea to eat a snack and find some comfortable clothes beforehand. Then talk about what they'll do at the studio, such take off their shoes and find a place to set their mat down to do yoga.
 One way you can encourage someone to try yoga is to offer a trade. That is, you could offer to do something they love to do with them in exchange for them trying yoga. You could say, "Hey, I'll try a belly dancing class if you'll try a yoga class!" That way, you'll both be the new kid, just in different situations., If you ask your friend to join you and they say "no," it's best to let it go. No one wants to have a salesperson for a friend, and if you keep pushing too hard on getting them to come to yoga, you may find they don't want to hang out with you as much.