 Dogs like to chase and retrieve items, including bones and balls. If you can, try to train your dog to come to you before you throw the item and then bring it back to you once they retrieve it.Say “come” and get your dog to approach you. Get your dog to sit by putting the ball on their forehead and stating “sit”
When you throw the ball, tell your dog to “get it”. After they retrieve it, tell them “bring it here” to have them take it back to you to throw again.;
, Show off the toy to your dog, but don’t play with it immediately. Try tug toys or braided rope toys that you can play back and forth with them. You can also try teething or training toys that can strengthen your dog’s teeth.Talk excitedly to your dog about the toy by saying things like “Where is it?” in reference to the dog toy. If your dog wants to play, they should begin wagging their tale and get excited.
When you take out the dog toy, play with it first before you start playing with the dog. Use the toy to play with the dog for a brief amount of time before they get tired with it. This will help build their excitement for the next time you break out the dog toys.
 Dogs like finding people and objects that are hidden. These types of games can stimulate your dog’s mind and their senses.While your dog is in the other room, hide in another room. Call them to come and find you. When they do, give them treats and dog toys to reward them.
You can also hide doggie treats somewhere in the yard or in a room. When your dog comes into the room, they should sniff around in search of the treat. Give them encouragement when they get closer or farther away from finding the treat.
 Your dog might get happy when he's around other dogs. For many dogs, having some friendly play with their fellow canines can be engaging and exciting.


Your dog may like to roughhouse, but make sure things do not get out of hand. When they are play fighting, dogs will often avoid really biting the other dog and roll over often.If your dog is growling when playing with other dogs, their play fighting may have escalated into real fighting. You can also tell if they begin baring their teeth while wrestling with the other dog., Dog tricks can be fun, but also very useful. While there are many different tricks you can teach your dog, a few essential tricks can really show off your dog’s ability and make them more playful.Rollover is one easy trick to teach your dog. When your dog is lying down, move a food lure across its muzzle, neck, and shoulders. Use the command “Roll over” while doing so to get them to associate your command with the action.
Stay can also be a very useful command. Ask your dog to sit in front of you while holding a treat and maintaining eye contact. If they are able to stay still, reward them with the treat and add the command “Stay” so they know what to do when you state the command.
A “Go to” command can be useful in directing your dog. With a treat, walk to a whichever place you want them to go and place the treat there. Eventually, they will associate the place with the treat and with your specific “Go to” command.
 Dog parks can a fun place for your dog to play with other dogs. It’s important for your dog to be able to play well with other dogs, so they don’t get into any fights with other dogs.After you’ve walked around the park with the dog to make sure it’s safe, you can take off their leash so they can run around. You’ll want to know where your dog is at all times, but not having a leash gives them greater freedom to roam around the park.
If you have a small dog, try to bring them specifically to a section of the park with other small dogs. Otherwise, they may get overwhelmed.

