 Once your caterpillar has reached maturity and the last stage of its development, it will begin looking for a place to pupate. You may notice your caterpillar being more active than usual as it moves around looking for a good spot to make its cocoon.When it is ready to pupate, the caterpillar may move away from the host plant.
Remaining near the host plant can make it especially vulnerable to predators, so he may look for an unusual spot.
He will find a place to attach himself to form a cocoon, or, in the case of some species, he will dig into the ground and pupate there., You should try to provide plenty of suitable places for your caterpillar to pupate in your container. Put some extra twigs in, and add a fresh layer of soil. Give him options and spots that are a little bit away from the host plant.


For most butterfly species you should supply a vertical surface, such as a twig.
For moths, you should give them some leaf litter or loose soil., In some cases it might be necessary for you to move the chrysalis once it has formed. This should not be taken lightly, but it can be done safely if you are careful. When he emerges as a butterfly, it’s essential that he has enough space to fully unfold his wings. He needs space to stretch out and dry his wings or he won’t be able to fly and may fall and die.If the pupae is on a stick that you can move, try to carefully move it to a more open space in the container.
You might be able to make more space by removing other leaves and twigs while leaving the cocoon itself untouched.
If you have to move a cocoon, moisten the silk that attaches it to the surface and very carefully pull it free.Be sure you keep it the right way up and attach it to a string or stick that has more room.
You can use a straight pin to attach it, or some glue that is warm and tacky but not hot., Once your caterpillar has found his chosen spot and begun to pupate you should keep an eye on him. Not only will you be able to observe an amazing process of transformation, but you can also keep an eye out for any potential predators or parasites. Once he is in his cocoon he has no real defence, so if you have an open container he is very vulnerable.


Most caterpillars will stay in their cocoon over the winter, so if they pupate in the fall, they will likely remain in there for months.
He could, however, only be in his cocoon for a matter of days before emerging, so it’s important to pay attention.
Remember that throughout this time they are still alive and still require some care.
An occasionally misting of the container with water, or the addition of a wet paper towel will help provide the moisture he needs., When he is about to break out of the cocoon you may notice a change to the colour of the pupae. This can happen just a few hours before he emerges. The actual emergence happens very quickly, but then you will be able to observe him stretching and drying out his wings for a couple of hours. Make sure he has plenty of space to expand his wings.The butterfly will fly when he is ready, and then you have to choose whether to keep him, or release him into the wild.
You should only release him if he is a native to your country.