 Dry skin can cause irritation and worsen the appearance of scars and blemishes. A non-comedogenic moisturizer can help prevent dryness while keeping your skin fresh. Aim for a natural, organic cream or lotion with anti-inflammatory plant extracts. Look for ingredients like chamomile, green tea, aloe, calendula, or oats.Moisturizers should be applied regularly after cleansing or exfoliating.
A moisturizer with alpha-hydroxy acids can help reduce the appearance of scars, blemishes and wrinkles. Alpha-hydroxy acids include glycolic acid, lactic acid, malic acid, citric acid and tartaric acid.
Hyaluronic acid is a natural humectant, a compound that helps skin retain its moisture. It is available in many products at pharmacies and cosmetic stores as a lotion, toner or facial mist.
Hyaluronic acid plays a key role in preventing aging by repairing and maintaining the inner layers of the skin.
 Aloe vera contains active compounds that reduce inflammation while stimulating cell growth and repair.It is found as an extract in many commercial moisturizers and as a topical gel. It is available from pharmacies and drug stores. You can apply it regularly to reduce the appearance of scars.
 Calendula, also known as marigold, is another natural substance that is in commercial moisturizers. It is also available as an extract. It is often used to treat scars because it stimulates cell growth and repair.Calendula is also used to improve skin hydration and firmness. Apply it to the skin using a two to five percent ointment.
Apply three to four times per day as needed to reduce the appearance of post-acne scars and blemishes.
You can make calendula tea by infusing two to three grams of florets in one cup of warm water. You can use it as a daily facial rinse.
People who are allergic to plants in the daisy or aster family, including chrysanthemums and ragweed, may have an allergic reaction to calendula.
 Virgin coconut oil contains a blend of vitamin E and fatty acids. These produce anti-inflammatory effects and fight bacteria that can cause other skin infections.Applying one to two drops of coconut oil on the skin twice daily can significantly reduce dryness.
Coconut oil has regenerative properties that may help repair cells and reduce the occurrence of scars.
People with oily skin should use coconut oil moderately, about twice a week. Too much oil can clog up pores and cause more acne breakouts.
Coconut oil is available at most variety food stores. Make sure the coconut oil is virgin, cold pressed and organic. Do not use it if you have nut allergies.
 Avocado is a fruit rich in many vitamins, nutrients and fatty acids that stimulate collagen production and tissue repair. You can make an avocado mask that can help heal your scars.Vitamins A and C have anti-inflammatory, antioxidant properties that help protect the skin from harmful free radicals. Vitamin E helps moisturize the skin and reduce the appearance of scars.
To make a natural avocado mask, remove the pulp from one avocado. Apply it to the affected area for 10–15 minutes. Then, rinse with cool water. Pat your skin dry with a soft washcloth.
If you have sensitive, dry skin, you can apply this remedy daily. People with oily skin should limit this to twice a week.
 Honey has antibacterial and anti-inflammatory properties that may help improve the appearance of scars and reduce inflammation. To use honey as a topical treatment, simply spread a thin layer onto the affected area and cover up with a bandage.Manuka honey has the highest concentration of beneficial compounds to reduce scars.
Honey may help reduce or prevent infection caused by bacteria. Seek the advice from your medical doctor before using it for this purpose.

