 The basic supplies you require may be notebooks for writing notes or a legal pad, highlighter pens and writing pens. You may also need items that are specific to particular subjects. For example, you need a protractor, a pair of compasses and a calculator for mathematics or if you are studying a language it is best to have a translator with you(though not at the test) . Also make sure you have suitable food and drink as staying full and hydrated will allow you to concentrate and work better.;
, The library or a study hall would make a good location. Make sure you have sufficient space for revising as you may need to spread your work out. Ask people around you to keep noise to a minimum. Do not revise with a TV or music playing in the background as you will be doing the exam in silence. If you have younger siblings try to get your parents to get them to bed earlier so you can have a quiet nighttime revision. Having noise in the background does not help your context dependent memory; this means that if you do your revision in a similar environment to when you are doing the test it will be easier for you to recall information. Think wisely about where you want to be - it can be any place that's right for you.


Create a clean space that works for you. Don't get sucked into what your friends want you to do—if you don't feel you're getting work done in their environment, go somewhere else.Remember study how you feel you want to study.
 Also, get out your workbook from school and some paper.
 There are many ways you can revise; everyone has a different techniques. Some of them are: reading through notes you have made in classes, then re-writing them until they are memorised; using revision books; making mind maps and charts; using cue cards to write short condensed notes to make it easier to remember; making a voice recording of the information and playing it back over and over again. You have to find a method that works BEST for you.


Write down any important sentences you noticed and want to learn. Highlight keywords on your piece of paper.
Make some flash cards. Stick them up around the room-great if you are learning a language!
Read your notes that you couldn't remember and learn them in any way possible. This could be by reading them aloud over and over again, writing them out over and over again, putting them into a song, or anything else that works for you.
 You shouldn't work for more than an hour without a break, but keep breaks to a maximum of 20 minutes. Use the break to refresh yourself with a wash or a drink, and do something completely different, though sometimes it is best to revise until you feel tired of revising then take a break

, If you're strapped for time, you may want to search on the internet, but it may help to limit yourself as you can easily get distracted by other things on the internet such as social networking websites.
 Make sure you revise without distraction for at least a few hours a day without forgetting to socialise and relax. Study different subjects on different days and don't stick to one area! Remember, all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy!

