 Uterine massage should be conducted at certain points of your menstrual cycle and avoided at others. For instance, uterine massage should be avoided during menstruation as it may increase your blood flow, and cause discomfort or pain. Aim for the period of pre-ovulation and ovulation, when conditions are ideal for insemination.Avoid uterine massage if you are pregnant, or suspect that you might be, particularly during the first trimester.
 Uterine massage for fertility should be conducted in largely the same way as post-natal uterus massage, if not slightly more intense due to the lack of pain and sensitivity. Use the flat of your hand and fingers to gently press and rub your abdomen in circular motions.Press gently on your abdomen, just above the pubic bone, and push upwards, gently but firmly, as if you move the uterus upwards. Repeat this motion 15 times.The massage should last approximately 5 minutes., To enhance your uterine massage, play tranquil music and use a calming scented oil (e.g. lavender) when massaging your abdomen. Stress can contribute to fertility problems and adversely affect your health, so any relaxation is beneficial in helping you conceive. Group your regular uterine massage together with other calming activities like yoga, light exercise, or journal-writing for additional benefits., For best results, give yourself regular uterine massages for a period of one to three months. Conducting the massage daily (excluding menstruation days) should re-position the uterus and clear any blockages preventing conception within this time frame. Regular massaging will also improve circulation, which will have benefits for your fertility and overall health., Mayan massage has been used to increase fertility, improve digestion, ease menstrual cramps, and improve symptoms of menopause. Look online for massage therapists near you practicing Mayan massage, which is gaining popularity. Schedule an appointment to fall between the end of your period and ovulation, as many practitioners of Mayan massage will decline to conduct the massage when you are menstruating or may be pregnant., Before embarking on any fertility boosting measures, consult your doctor to ensure their safety. Your physician may give you a referral to a fertility specialist who can offer more comprehensive help in your attempts to conceive. You can also contact an organization like the American Society for Reproductive Medicine for more information about reputable fertility specialists in your area.To search for fertility specialists near you, visit the ASRM's website at https://store.asrm.org/Default.aspx?TabID=1527.

