 Try to remember if any friends or family were scheduled to stop by. Check your calendar to see if you made an appointment for someone to come work on your plumbing, electric, or some other maintenance issue. You might be forgetting about plans you made with someone.;
, Try to get a glimpse of whoever’s knocking. If you don’t recognize the person on the other side of the door, don’t open it yet., Go up to a window near the door and see if you can make out whoever’s knocking. Don’t open the door if you’re not confident you know the person.If you can’t see the person knocking through a window, try to get a glimpse of their car. You might recognize it as a friend’s or family member’s vehicle, or it could have the name of a utility company or other business on it.
 If you don’t recognize the person knocking on your door, or you don’t have a peephole and you can’t see them through a window, ask who’s knocking. Stand close to the door so you can hear their response clearly. If you don’t recognize their voice or you’re still not sure who they are after they tell you, don’t open the door.For example, you can go up to the door and ask: “Who is it?” or “Can I help you?”
If you have an intercom system hooked up to your front door, use it to talk to the person knocking so you can hear them more clearly.
 Don’t answer the door unless you’re confident the person on the other side is who they say they are. If you’re not sure, ignore the knocking until the person leaves. Don’t worry about accidentally ignoring a friend or neighbor -- if it’s someone you know that needs to get in touch with you, they’ll call you on the phone., If the knocking persists or you feel like you’re in danger, call the police. Don’t answer the door until the police arrive. Let the person on the other side of the door know that you’ve contacted the police and they’re on their way.
 Don’t do this unless you have something separating you from the person knocking, as they could forcefully push themselves in once you’ve unlocked and opened the door.
 If the person knocking is someone you don’t recognize and they’re claiming to be a police officer or utility worker, ask them to show you the proper badge or paperwork to prove their identity. Grab their credentials through the crack in your door or examine them closely through the security door to see if they’re valid., Be skeptical of wrinkled or dirty uniforms. If someone is claiming to be a police officer, check to see that their police badge isn’t a fake and that they have the proper police gear like a hat, radio, and utility belt. If you see anything that looks off, call the company the person claims to be with or contact the police and ask them to verify their identity., Have them wait outside while you make the call and don’t open the door. Don’t feel pressured to let them inside while you place the call.You can say to the person outside: “I just called for an ambulance/tow truck. They’ll be here any minute to help you.”

, If you’ve determined the person outside has a valid reason for being there, go ahead and open the door. Let them in if they need to come inside, but keep an eye out for any suspicious activity once they’re in your home.
 If you notice something suspicious or your feel uncomfortable at any time after you let someone in your home, leave immediately. Go to your neighbor’s house or a safe public place and call the police.

