 Type 1 and 2 need to maintain a healthy diabetic diet, on schedule (don't get too hungry) to get better. Follow the advice of your doctor or diabetes educator.



Eat slowly; the sensor in your brain needs about 20 minutes to get the "I'm full!" signal.
If you eat quickly, you get full, even overeating -- but still feel hungry.
Drink water with your meal to avoid overeating.
 If it is medically safe, start exercising 30 minutes a day, of vigorous but low impact activity. A 30-minute walk at a quick pace can help to reduce blood sugar, and possibly the amount of medication needed. You can also break your exercise into 3, 10- or 2, 15-minute periods, throughout the day.
, Make and keep appointments with your health team and doctor, and for getting laboratory tests as instructed.Missing your insulin doses can cause hypoglycemia or ketoacidosis (high blood acid) -- either may cause "seizures, coma and death".

Get regular eye, kidney function, and foot checkups.
Communicate with your health care professional, developing an effective treatment plan for diabetes -- by working together with your health team -- so you are better prepared to handle the illness.
 Aim for a value of 6.5% or less as recommended by the American Diabetes Association. This test measures your average blood sugar levels over a period of 2-3 months and is a strong indicator of overall glycemic control.
 Smoking raises blood sugar levels, damages blood vessels which can lead to heart disease and stroke, and adversely affects circulation due to constriction of blood vessels. Heart disease, stroke, and circulation problems are frequent complications of diabetes, even in non-smokers; a diabetic smoker greatly increases his or her risk of developing these complications.



High blood sugar occurs at a level above 126mg/dL (7mmol/L), occurring as a result of stress, insufficient insulin, too much food, or an issue with oral medication.

Watch high sugar symptoms including: frequent thirst, frequent urination, unusual hunger, fatigue, and irritability.
Treatment includes adjusting insulin treatment (frequently, patients using insulin will simply take a correction shot based on the level of their blood sugar), or adjusting oral medications.
Untreated hyperglycemia is a leading cause of complications from diabetes, thus it is important to recognize and treat hyperglycemia as directed by your physician.
While patients taking insulin will typically adjust their insulin dosages to lower blood sugar, patients taking oral medication or patients using diet or exercise will typically have to adjust their carbohydrate intake to control blood sugar.



Symptoms include nausea, vomiting, unquenchable thirst, diarrhea, and muscle cramps. If you are experiencing any of these symptoms of DKA, SEEK URGENT MEDICAL ATTENTION, from not enough insulin.



Hypoglycemia occurs when the blood sugar level is below 70mg/dL (3.9mmol/L). It can occur as a result of stress, too much insulin, too little food for the amount of insulin you used, or an issue with oral diabetes medication.

Watch low sugar symptoms including: shakiness, tremor, rapid heart beat, sweating, clamminess -- even possible seizure, coma or death.

Caution: untreated hypoglycemia can rapidly progress into the worst results of seizures, coma, or death; thus, it is very important that hypoglycemia is quickly recognized and treated as directed by your physician.
In any situation where the patient believes that he or she is suffering from hypoglycemia, the patient should confirm with a blood sugar test; however, the patient should treat immediately, if they feel that the hypoglycemia is severe and it would take too long to test. Mild hypoglycemia can be treated by the patient and usually involves consuming 15 grams of carbohydrates, in the form of sugary (not diet) soda, fruit juice, glucose tablets/gel, or a small snack in the form of crackers, pretzels, hard candy, etc. It is important to note that candy bars contain a high amount of fat and can slow the absorption of sugar from the candy bar; therefore, it is not advised that patients use high-fat candy bars to treat hypoglycemia as the blood sugars may not rise fast enough to prevent drops in blood sugar.;
,


If the blood sugar levels are still below 70mg/dL (3.9mmol/L), the patient should repeat the treatment process, and if upon testing again after 10-15 minutes blood sugar levels are still below 70mg/dL (3.9mmol/L), the patient should treat once again and consult his/her physician immediately.
After successful self-treatment for a hypoglycemic event, if the patient has a meal planned within the next 30 minutes, the patient should continue as normal but continue to monitor his or her symptoms or blood glucose to check for any additional episodes of hypoglycemia.
If his/her next meal is beyond 30 minutes, the patient should consume a small snack (1/2 of a sandwich and an 8oz glass of milk, or a pack of peanut butter crackers).
 Severe hypoglycemia is an urgent medical condition that requires immediate intervention, and can sometimes require intervention from a second- or third-party. It can occur when blood sugars fall so rapidly that the patient is not well enough to self-treat, or when the patient suffers from "hypoglycemia unawareness" (perhaps a child or elderly diabetic).


Severe hypoglycemia can result in fainting, seizures, or death. Treatment may or may not be possible by the patient themselves due to significant impairment, however, treatment remains the same: raise blood sugar levels as rapidly as possible. This may be achieved using oral carbohydrates, if the patient is conscious.
 Contact 911 or emergency medical technicians or paramedics.
 It may save your life, if you have "severe low blood sugar and are unconscious". The paramedics may not arrive in time.

