 Place ⅓ cup (50 g) of unsalted raw cashews in a small bowl. Pour enough boiling water over the nuts to cover them completely.Make sure that the water is boiling so it’s hot enough to soften the cashews.;
, Once the cashews are covered with the hot water, place a small plate over the bowl to cover it. Allow the nuts to soak for 20 minutes so they have time to soften., When the cashews are finished soaking, pour the hot water out of the bowl. Rinse the nuts in cool water and drain them again. Pat them dry with a clean towel, and set aside the nuts for the moment.Drain and dry the cashews as well as you can so there’s no excess moisture when you mix them into the sauce.
 Add 1 ¼ cups (296 ml) of water and ¼ cup (25 g) chickpea flour to a small saucepan. Whisk the two together until the mixture is completely smooth.It’s normal for the flour and water mixture to be slightly foamy.
Chickpea flour, also known as garbanzo flour, is usually sold at natural grocery stores, health food stores, and Indian and Middle Eastern markets.
 Once the water and flour are combined, heat the mixture on medium heat. Continue to cook it until it just begins to bubble, which should take approximately 5 minutes. Remove the pan from the heat and allow it to cool for a a minute.Stir the mixture constantly as you heat it.
 Add the soaked cashews, the flour mixture, 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of lemon juice, 2 teaspoons (10 ml) of olive oil, 2 minced cloves garlic, ½ teaspoon (3 g) of kosher salt, and ½ teaspoon (2 g) of freshly ground black pepper to a blender. Pulse the mixture 2 to 3 time so the ingredients are just combined.If you don’t have a blender, you can use a food processor to make the sauce.
If you prefer a stronger garlic flavor, you can add more cloves to the sauce.
 When the sauce ingredients are just combined, puree the mixture for 5 minutes. You’ll know that it’s ready when it is completely smooth and has a thick, creamy texture., Once the sauce is completely smooth, add 2 tablespoons (5 g) of snipped fresh basil. Mix it into the sauce until it is fully incorporated.You can substitute parsley for the basil if you prefer. You can also use a combination of the two herbs.
 Fill a large pot approximately ⅔’s full with cool water. Cover it, and place it on the stove. Heat the water over medium-high to high heat until the water comes to a full boil, which should take approximately 10 minutes.Use a pot that holds at least 4 quarts (3.8 l).
For the best flavor, add a pinch or two of salt to the water before you bring it to a boil.
 Once the water has come to a boil, add 12 ounces (330 g) of dried whole grain fettuccine to the pot. Allow the pasta to cook according to the package instructions until it’s al dente, which usually takes 8 to 12 minutes.You can substitute brown rice fettuccine for the whole grain pasta if you prefer.
Stir the pasta briefly when you first add it to the water.
Allow the pasta to cook uncovered.
If you’d like to add some veggies to your chickpea alfredo, you can add a cup (125 g) of chopped asparagus to the boiling water when the pasta has 3 minutes left to cook. You can also add ½ cup (75 g) of slightly thawed frozen peas and/or 2 cups (450 g) fresh spinach when the pasta has just a minute left to cook.
 When the fettuccine is finished cooking, pour it into a colander. Shake it well to ensure that it’s completely drained and transfer it to a large serving bowl., Once the pasta is in the serving bowl, pour the prepared chickpea sauce over the fettuccine. Use a wooden spoon to toss the sauce and pasta together so all of the noodles are coated. Top the pasta with some freshly ground black pepper and serve while it’s still warm.If you like, you can also top the chickpea alfredo with shaved parmesan cheese.

