 You need to be confident while having a conversation with a customer. The customer will feel safe when he or she feels that he or she is dealing with someone who knows about his or her work properly.;
, You need to have solid and strong information about your product or services to build trust in your customers. This will help you confidently reply to your customer's queries. If you have done your research very well, then your customer will be impressed by your knowledge and confidence and will be more likely to trust you.
 Words really can affect people. To build trust in a customer, you should always use phrases such as, "I understand how you feel," "I know what you mean," "How can I help you?" and "I am here to help you." These supportive phrases can get you more closer to the customer.
 To build trust, you should tell stories of personal experiences related to the trust you need to earn. When you get personal with the customer, you will be making the strongest trust bond possible; it is the best way to make the trust link between you and your customer. However, you should make to know your limits also in being personal with your customer; if you reveal too much, your customer may get uncomfortable.
 Always assure your customer that you will provide the best help and best service whenever possible. Also, don't forget to be helpful during a particular time of need for your customer; if you fail to do so, you will have a hard time winning the trust of your customer. Ask your customer how you can help and stress that you are happy to answer any questions he or she has.
 You can be convincing but the biggest mistake is to overdo it. You need to convince the customer, but if the customer feels you are forcing them into something, they will never trust you. To gain their trust, try to convince them without forcing them into anything. Give the customer the choice of decision. First, try to understand the need of the customer and then make them understand how your product or services can help them out.
 Show the customer the different options they have. Assure them that they do not have to do anything they don't want to be doing. In this case, the customer would feel the urge to trust you. Always make the customer think that they have the choice, while you can sway them into doing what you want without breaking their trust.

