 Layer a few sheets of paper towels on top of a plate. Remove the blocks of tofu from their packaging and water. Place them on the plate. Then press them to force out any excess water.With many tofu recipes, the more excess water you can get rid of, the better. However, since the tofu here is substituting eggs (which can be pretty moist), how much liquid you want to retain is entirely up to you.
Alternately, you could use either a colander or wire rack in or over the sink instead of a plate and paper towels.
 For now, let the tofu continue to sit on the plate (or your wire rack or colander). While it drains some more, chop your onion into bite-size pieces. Do the same with your peppers. Then chop or tear up your cilantro leaves.If using paper towels and plate for your tofu, you may want to add some fresh towels before chopping your veggies if the originals have been soaked through.
 Coat the bottom of a large skillet with your vegetable oil. Turn the heat to medium-high. Once the oil heats up, place the onion and peppers in the skillet. Saute for three or four minutes, stirring occasionally., Dump them on top of your veggies in the skillet. Then stir everything up until they coat the veggies evenly. Give them roughly a minute to cook, or until fragrant., Break the tofu up into chunks and add them to the skillet. Mash the tofu into smaller pieces with your stirring spoon, then stir in the turmeric until the white tofu turns yellow. Add the beans and stir frequently while they cook. Remove from heat once everything is heated through.If the tofu has been drained pretty thoroughly, it should only take a couple of minutes to cook. If it still has a lot of water in it, you may want to cook it for longer so the excess moisture can reduce.
If desired, mash the tofu up with a fork or potato masher in a bowl before adding it to the pan. But even “extra-firm” tofu is pretty soft, so mash it in the skillet with your stirring spoon if you want fewer dishes to wash.
 Add the cilantro to the skillet and stir it in. Do the same with salt and pepper as desired. Then serve right away while it’s still hot.Tofu scramble can be served as is with a plate or fork, or you can use it to make sandwiches or breakfast burritos.
You can also garnish it further with scallions, avocado, cheese, and/or hot pepper sauce.

