 Take a careful look at your closet; how much of it do you regularly wear? How much of it still fits? How much of it is still in style? There's a good chance that you have a decent amount of money tied up in your wardrobe.


Pull out any items that are still in good condition, make sure they are clean and wrinkle-free, and then take them to a local consignment shop.You should be able to walk away with cash in hand. Just try not to spend it all on new clothes while you're there—unless, of course, that's why you wanted the extra money in the first place!

, If there isn't a good consignment shop nearby (or if you think you may be able to make more by selling your items yourself), you may want to consider selling your no-longer-wanted-or-needed possessions online. Craigslist and eBay are two popular sites to try.Think about offering up your clothes, shoes, bags, accessories, exercise equipment, and/or electronic equipment. So long as it's in decent condition, you can usually find a buyer for nearly any item.
You'll want to take high resolution pictures of your items, and be sure to offer a clear, complete description of the item. If you have warranty information, manuals, or brochures that accompany the items, you may have better luck making a sell.
 You can also set up shop in your own yard (or drive-way, or garage). Many areas have active yard sale scenes, and it takes minimal work for you to be able to meet up with those who are looking for great deals.


Post fliers around your neighborhood, and remember to place an ad in your local paper if they advertise garage/yard sales.
Be willing to negotiate with buyers, and don't set your expectations too high when you set your prices. At best, you may only be able to fetch 25% of the original price you paid for an item. , If you are good with the written word, you should be able to find plenty of opportunities to write (or edit others' work) online.


Search for freelance writing and editing gigs. The rates for these jobs vary: you may be paid by the word, be offered a flat rate for a project, or in some cases can be paid an hourly rate. You typically won't be able to retain copyright over your work or collect royalties, however. Even so, by doing freelance work you can build a portfolio and make valuable connections which may later pay off with more stable job opportunities.
 If you want your work to remain your own, and if you want the freedom to write about whatever topics interest you, you can think about creating your own website or blog. If you get enough followers, you can start to bring in revenue through advertising.


You'll only make a few cents per click on the ads on your page, but with enough followers, this can add up for you over time.
 If you prefer visual media and are great at creating videos which are funny or informative, you may also be able to make money by creating a YouTube channel with advertising.


See our related wikiHow on how to earn money on YouTube.
 Do you love do-it-yourself projects? Are you able to knit, crochet, work with wood, or craft hand-made jewelry? If so, you may find a good client base by setting up shop on sites like eBay or Etsy.


You'll need a PayPal account, a good camera to take quality pictures of your crafts, and a way to organize your orders.
 If you have basic computer skills and don't mind doing repetitive work, you may be able to find work stuffing envelopes, doing data entry, or working as a telemarketer from your home.


These jobs typically can be done in your spare time and require minimal training from the employing company.
 If you already spend too much time surfing or shopping online, you may be able to find a way to turn your time-wasting past time into a profitable venture. There are various business which offer you small amounts of money to take surveys (such as iPoll.com), download apps or listen to music.


The money you'll be able to make will probably only amount to pocket change—you'll be offered a few cents to a few dollars per task—but it can add up over the course of time, and will certainly help you feel less guilty about the occasional latte splurge.
 There's a lot of potential money to be made in the mobile app business. If you've got an idea for a great new app that can either provide people with a fun diversion or help them organize their life or learn in creative new ways, you may be sitting on potentially lucrative idea.


There are many tutorials available which offer helpful advice, and you can even create an app if you lack coding experience. See our related wikiHow on how to create an app.

