 Check out 4.3 for the parking rules and regulations at York – if they cannot prove that you are the driver or the owner of the car, they cannot penalize you.

Simply put, as a family member with the same mailing address, York does not have any case to punish you for anything you did. http://www.yorku.ca/parking/documents/Rules_and_Regulations.pdf



 

;
, Preparing answers ahead of time will help you prepare in advance for the session (via phone or in person). See Sample questions under the Additional hints (below) for further detail.
 After grilling you, York University will ask you to settle at this point and give you two basic options:1) Pay upfront or 2)They will give the owner a call to discuss the dispute

, There are two ways to go about this:

1. Say that they could contact your parents through the mail and then revert back to your own personal situation. Remember, this has nothing to do with you, so there shouldn’t be any sanctions put in place of your situation. Even if they press on, the key point is not to give out any personal information. You MUST be assertive in this stance, otherwise you’ll have to proceed to ..
2. (See Tips for sample dialogue on 1).
 Then, wait a day before you call York back saying that the owner does not want to contact York because they’re convinced they’ve already paid.
Demand that the sanction be lifted from you.
 York may threaten to have the collection agency after the owner (as last resort guilt and to try to coerce you into paying, but stay firm!) they will say that it will affect the credit rating of the owner but whether or not the claim goes through depends on the amount that you owe and whether York is competent to actually file a report/claim.

This is why it is important to not provide any personal detail about anything. Moreover, if they do sell their debt to a collections agency, there are a bunch of ways to revoke it. The key point that must be considered is if they send the debt to the collection agency, you should not pay a dime.
Doing so can lower your credit rating. Refer to the sources in this article for further detail. If you don’t pay, your credit rating will remain unaffected. York’s threats are mostly empty as long as you don’t give them any personal information (especially with credit/debt card information, phone numbers, etc.)







