;
, In post-game, after defeating the Champion, Professor Birch will award you with an S.S. Ticket. This item allows you to board a cruise ship to the final frontier of the game: the Battle Tower. Take either the cruise ship to the Battle Tower, or have a Pokémon use Fly to the location if you have already taken the ship.
 You want to make sure they are each within the LV. 85 - 100 range; otherwise it will most definitely be impossible to beat the Tower. Anything lower will generally result in a one-hit KO from the opposing Pokémon.


Pokémon eggs and legendary Pokémon are forbidden by Tower rules. However, lower-tier legendaries are allowed. The lower tier legendaries tend to be legendary Pokémon that run in trios. The entire list for this game is as follows: Articuno, Moltres, Zapdos, Entei, Raikou, Suicune, Regirock, Registeel, Regice, Latios and Latias.
 Equip each one of the Pokémon with a hold item (many hold items can be won in the Tower after battle 42, for each consecutive win of 7). Leftovers, Choice Band, and Focus Band are generally a good three to use.


You should use Leftovers because of the healing properties it has (it will heal some HP (hit points) to your Pokémon at the end of every turn).
You can use Choice Band because it will significantly raise the attack of one move your Pokémon can use. The key here is to attach the band to a Pokémon you know only one move is necessary for. For example, you can use it on Hariyama and have him/her use Brick Break, which is pretty effective universally except for on Ghost-types.
Using Focus Band is a great decision because it will save your Pokémon from fainting occasionally when hit by an opponent, giving you the extra attack you may need to win. In addition, a Pokémon specializing in defense, one specializing in special attack, and one specializing in attack are a sure-fire way to win.
 The order cannot be switched until you either lose or you have won consecutively seven times in a row. Be wary that the enemies increase in difficulty as you advance. Their attacks will become more competent, they will target your weaknesses, and the opposing trainer will begin to use specific strategies, such as having all three of their Pokémon know Explosion/Self-Destruct, which is extremely harmful to you and your team.
 Pay attention to type match-ups, switch out team members if need be, and win. The key during the battle step is to focus and not make any mistakes, such as using ineffective attacks.


After winning seven consecutive rounds of seven battles (49 battles), the desk attendant will tell you that for each seven battles you win from this point on, you will get awarded with a ribbon. Which is of course, the goal you are striving for.
 Be extremely careful because the enemies are ruthless and many are lower-tier legendaries like Latios or Regirock. The game, at this point especially, is trying to get you to lose, as this ribbon is a grand prize of sorts for the game.
 After winning Battle 56, each one of the three Pokémon you used for the last seven matches will each get a ribbon and as long as you don’t lose, each consecutive win of 7 will get the ribbon for other Pokémon. Good luck, and remember that it may take more than one try.

