 When you go in for a physical exam, especially if you have a family history of pancreatic cancer or are having symptoms you cannot explain he or she will check for indications of pancreatic cancer. Take a serious warning from non-specific symptoms, such as: unexplained tiredness, nagging abdominal or middle back pains, especially with nausea, bloating, loss of appetite, and significant, unexplained weight loss. There are other physical symptoms, such as masses/tumors or fluid buildup in your abdomenal cavity (ascites), which may be caused by gallbladder or liver inflammation (perhaps cirrhosis) and is possibly from pancreatic cancer spreading:Examining the whites of your eyes and your skin for jaundice (commonly called "yellow jaundice") may reveal yellowing of these areas due to bile (elevated bilirubin in blood count).
If you have jaundice, it may be because of a tumor at the head of your pancreas that has blocked the bile duct or merely a gallstone. It is necessary to ascertain the cause/kind of obstruction of the bile duct. If here is a tumor in the head of the pancreas, then to open the flow of bile they may put in a stent, and if so, it may later become clogged, so watch for a return of your jaundice.

If that tumor is cancerous, they might also be able to remove the tumor (Whipple procedure, major surgery), or it may not be operable, as when it has spread to the liver, abdominal/peritoneal lining, lymph-system/-nodes, or has encased crucial nerves and/or blood vessels near the pancreas.


Checking around your collarbone or around the neck region the doctor may find swollen lymph nodes, which can be from various causes or because of pancreatic cancer spreading through them.
 If your doctor is unsure about the cause of your symptoms, this will call for taking blood to check your levels. The blood can be checked for proper liver chemicals, including ammonia, tumor markers (typically CA19-9), and to measure pancreatic hormones.Blood tests will help to find or rule out other causes of your symptoms as well.
 If the doctor is unclear about the cause of abdominal pain, or if you want a less expensive test first, and may perform an abdominal ultrasound to look for anything unusual that might indicate whether your pain is caused by a pancreatic cancer or other tumor in the abdomen. The abdominal ultrasound uses a wand shaped emitter-receiver across your abdomen, which bounces inaudible sound waves off your organs to create an image that must be interpreted by experts.Your doctor will be able to detect any obvious/larger tumors that may be present in your pancreas or abdomen.
 A more precise test for pancreatic cancer is an endoscopic ultrasound. For this test, you will be placed under sedation. Then, an endoscope with an ultrasound probe on the end is threaded down your nose or mouth, through the esophagus and stomach, into the duodenum, upper area of your small intestine.


This puts the scope in close proximity to the pancreas, so the images will be detailed.
 CT-/cat-scans, which are cross-sectional x-rays, will show a detailed picture of the pancreas and surrounding organs. It will help show whether your pancreas contains a cancerous tumor and whether it has spread to other organs in your body.It will also help decide whether surgery is your best option, or you are not eligible.
Before your CT, you may have to sip several ounces of oral contrast over about 45 minutes, which is a liquid that will help your organs (esophagus, stomach, intestines) show up better on the scan. And, you may be given an intravenous (IV) iodine/contrast to make blood vessels stand out clearly.
Your doctor may also perform a CT-guided needle-/or laparoscopic- (microsurgical) biopsy if a tumor is visible on your scans in order to help see whether it in cancerous or not.

