 Many financial advisers even suggest going further, saving for at least 9-12 months, but 3 is the absolute bare minimum that you should have on hand in case of emergencies. This money is only spent if you absolutely need it, like if you lose your job or need to pay medical bills.What are your fixed and essential expenses for one month? Multiply this number by 3-6 months to get your minimum emergency savings.
 Are you planning for retirement or a vacation to Aruba next year? Depending on what you want to save for, the amount you need to save each month will change drastically. Make a list of events you want to save for, their costs, and then the number of months until the event occurs. For example, you may need to buy a car for a new job next year. You've got your mind on a used car for $5,000, and the job starts in 6 months. This means that you need to save roughly $834 each month to pay for the car.


Start saving for the holidays 5-6 months in advance. Even $50 a month will give you a cushion of $300 for gifts by December.
Saving to send your kids to go to college can't start early enough. Make separate savings accounts for them when they're born and make saving a priority.
 Placing $5,000 a year in retirement savings in your 20's earns you twice as much money when you retire as someone who invests $20,000 a year in their 40's.This is because, with time, a small amount of money gains interest. That interest then gains interest as well, quickly multiplying your money. Long story short-- saving now will pay big dividends later on in life.
 Do not try and prioritize one at the expense of the other, as you could actually be losing money. For example, you can write-off $2,500 of your student loans on your taxes, and the interest rates will always stay fixed. This means paying the minimum now and pocketing any excess cash in savings will actually make you money, as the write-off can offset interest payments and the savings have more time to grow with interest.The exception to this is high-interest credit card debt. If you find yourself sinking into a hole of credit card payments or are only able to pay interest, you may save more money by taking 2-3 months to pay them off.
 Whenever possible, take additional cash and throw it into savings and investments. You may be tempted to buy a nice new car or toy, but saving the money now will make a huge difference later in life.


When you get a raise, add that amount to your monthly savings. You will keep your same quality of life and save much more in the long-term. , Many companies that offer 401k investments offer matching benefits as well, meaning they will double what you pay for your own future. The benefits of this cannot be overstated -- it is literally free money for your retirement. Talk to your HR department to see what options you have -- some companies also have matching college saving programs and stock or investment options as well.Never remove money from a 401k or long-term investment before it matures -- you may have to pay a fee or relinquish all the gains you've made.

