 Millet is a general term for annual grass crops grown in the warm season, so there are many species, varieties, and hybrids to choose from.Some farmers grow millet as forage crops or to attract wildlife, while farmers in India, Africa, or China harvest the grain to sell as food for humans. Be sure to select a variety suited to your purpose and to your local climate and soil. The following are the most common types of millet, but note that each one has many subtypes with varying characteristics:



Pearl millet is most commonly grown to produce birdseed or poultry feed in the southwestern United States, or as human food in India and Africa.Foxtail millet grows reliably in semi-arid conditions, and has a fast growing time that allows it to be planted later than other crops.Proso millet is another hardy millet with fast growing times. Inside the United States, its growth is concentrated in Colorado, Nebraska, and South Dakota.Finger millet can grow at higher altitudes or hillier conditions than many other crops, and is favored by some subsistence farmers due to its cheap cost and long storage times., Millet is sensitive to cold and should only be planted when soil temperatures at a 1 inch (2.5 cm) depth are consistently at 65ºF (18ºC) or above to ensure reliable sprouting. This is typically three or four weeks after corn planting time and one to two weeks after sorghum planting time in your area.Most millet grows to maturity within 60 or 70 days, and some in even shorter periods if the climate is warm.
 Clear the seedbed of all weeds and prepare it depending on soil type. Deep-till hard or textured soil to break up hardpan soils. If your soil has high clay content or erodes, you may have better success with no tillage or conservation tillage (leaving last year's crop remains on the soil). For limited tilling, planting later is advisable as these seedbeds will be cooler.You may plant some varieties of millet on fallow fields, although you will likely not receive maximum yields if you do not provide nitrogen fertilizer.
 Standard millet planting depths range from 1/2 inch to 1 inch (1.25–2.5 cm), as the seeds are rarely strong enough to reach the surface if planted any deeper.You may wish to plant to a depth of 3/4 inch (2 cm) for small seed.


A seed drill with a small seed attachment may be required for some varieties. The seeds can also be planted by hand in furrows that are closed over them., Soil type, climate, and millet variety all affect the density your field can support, so seeking local advice is recommended. As a general rule, millet can produce good forage when sown at 4–5 lbs/acre (4.5–5.5 kg/ha), but can support seeding as high as 20–30 lbs/acre (22–34 kg/ha) if irrigated.Space millet rows farther apart if grown for cultivation rather than forage., Many millet varieties can grow in poor soil or even fallow fields, but fertilizing is recommended for higher crop yields. Apply 40–50 lbs of nitrogen per acre (45–56 kg/ha) after planting, and another 40–50 lbs/acre (45–56 kg/ha) after three or four weeks. Some soils may require potassium, phosphate, magnesium, or sulfur as well.If you cannot find recommended levels of these minerals for your millet, you may follow guidelines for sorghum instead.


Drill row fertilizer applications may harm millet, unless the fertilizer is straight phosphorus., Foxtail millet, and possibly other varieties, deteriorate quickly if left alone after the growing season. Swathe and windrow them instead, leaving the cut plants in the field until late fall or early winter to dry before you bale the hay.
 Millet is a type of grass, and so can be killed by some grass-controlling herbicides; other herbicides and insecticides may not be safe for use on forage crops, cultivated crops, or both. The exact diseases and insect pests that attack millet crops vary widely by region, and can be best prepared for with crop rotation and seed treatment. Learn as much as you can from local millet farmers or your regional agriculture department or society.
 Keep a careful eye on grain development and bird activity, as the harvesting window can be short between the ripening of the grain and the appearance of large bird flocks. Harvesting methods vary by millet variety and intended use, but be sure to cut low enough to obtain the entire ear.


Millet seeds should be stored at 13% moisture or less.