 In general, treatment of insect bites in toddlers is symptomatic, meaning you treat the symptoms caused by the bite, like itching, rather than the bite itself.


In general, these symptomatic treatments include washing the bite and applying soothing lotions. These will be covered in the following steps.;
, Try as much as possible to prevent your toddler from scratching the affected area because scratching the bite can make the itching worse, and may cause an infection if your child manages to break the skin.


Try to keep your child from scratching bites on the arms and legs by dressing him in long sleeves and long pants. If the bite is on his feet or ankles, put socks on your child.
 Topical corticosteroid creams are used to control inflammation at the bite area, and itching.There are several types of corticosteroid creams that range from very potent, to less potent. The one you choose to use will depend on your toddler's specific bite.


Examples of corticosteroid creams that you may use for your toddler are Aveeno, Bactine, Cortaid and Dermolate. Apply the cream to the area one to three times a day. Apply a small “dot” of cream and spread it over the affected area.
 Calamine lotion is an over-the-counter lotion used most commonly to relieve pain, itching and minor skin irritation caused by insect bites. Apply the cream one to three times a day. You can use a cotton pad to apply the cream. Allow the lotion to dry completely on the skin.Do not get the calamine lotion in your child’s eyes, nose, or genital area.
 You can use ice wrapped in a cloth or a cold compress to relieve the itching sensation caused by the bite.However, do not apply ice directly to your child’s skin, as the ice can burn your child’s sensitive skin.


Hold the cold compress to the bite for 15 to 20 minutes.
 In rare cases, you may need to administer medications such as oral antihistamines like diphenhydramine (Benadryl). This, however, should only be used if your child is having an allergic reaction to the bite.


Talk to your doctor before giving your child antihistamines of any kind. There are child-friendly antihistamines available at most pharmacies.
 Most insect bites will usually only result in mild local reactions that are contained within the area where the insect bit or stung your toddler. Among these reactions are:


Itching: this is the most common manifestation of an insect bite and happens because your body attempts to combat the poison or saliva of the insect. Your child's body releases histamine, which can create an intense itching sensation in the spot where the insect bit your toddler.
Swelling: this occurs directly over the bite site. Swelling is also a result of histamine being sent to the area to combat the toxin released by the insect
Redness: your toddler’s body will also send blood to the area, which will cause the bite site to turn red.

