 This method works best if you braid your hair while it's wet or damp, then leave your hair to dry. Use a volumizing or curl-enhancing shampoo and conditioner, and make sure to rinse your hair well afterwards.


Brush out your hair in the shower while you still have the conditioner in, using a wide-toothed comb. This will make it easier to work out any tangles and will cause less damage to your hair.
Towel dry your hair once you get out of the shower. Try to wring out any excess moisture. If your hair already has a bit of natural curl to it, you're probably fine to work with damp hair; if it's stick straight, though, it's best to braid it wet.
 Applying a curl-enhancing product to your hair will help it to keep the shape of the braids even after you've unbraided it. It will also give your hair a glossier and more controlled finish. Just work a small amount of your chosen product into the ends and mid-lengths of your hair, avoiding the roots.


Curl-enhancing or volumizing gels, mousses, sprays or serums will all work well. Use a product with a texture and scent that appeals to you.
If you want looser, less structured curls, you can skip this step.
 The number of braids you put in your hair will determine how your curls look:


More braids means tighter curls. For instance, you'll have more crimps in your hair from doing two braids than you will from one, and more from four than two.
However, more braids means more work. If you're not totally comfortable braiding or you're short on time, stick to the lowest possible number that gives you the curls you want.
 If you're doing more than one braid, parting your hair into sections will make braiding easier and your finished curls neater looking. They don't have to be perfect, though!


Use a comb to part a straight line from your forehead back to your neck. Then divide each half into however many sections you like, using the comb to ensure they are a fairly uniform size.
 Doing a French braid, instead of a regular braid, will curl the hair up around your scalp as well.









See How to French Braid for more detailed help.
Ask someone else to help you. It's almost always easier to braid someone else's hair than it is to do your own, so consider asking for assistance.
 Tie off each braid with a non-rubber hair elastic. Try to put the tie as close to the end of the hair as possible, otherwise the tips of your hair will look straight and it will ruin the effect of the curls.









Rubber can damage the hair shaft, and is especially menacing on wet hair. Avoid at all costs!

, After your hair's had six to eight hours to dry, gently undo your braids. The easiest thing to do is to leave them in overnight. Run your fingers through your hair a few times to get out any knots, but avoid brushing it as this will make to too fluffy looking.


Finish with some hairspray. If you're worried about your curls falling out during the day, set the style with a spritz of hairspray.

