 When facing a terminal prognosis, you will be dealing with a range of emotions. One of those will likely be grief, as you come to terms with the fact that there is a timeline for your final time. Be kind to yourself and take some time to process your emotions. Make sure to remember that there is not a "right" way to feel. Everyone handles the news differently, and that is okay.For the first few days, your emotions might seem to change from moment to moment. It is normal to feel anger, denial, fear, and sadness. Acknowledge how you are feeling, and know that what you are feeling is understandable.
 One of the strongest emotions you feel might be worry. Logically, you will worry about dying and what will happen after you are gone. Research tells us that one of the most effective ways to mitigate worry is to focus on what you can control. After you have had time to begin to process your grief, you can start thinking about options for your care and making plans for when you have passed.For example, you can begin making choices about the medical treatment and care that you want to receive for the rest of your time. Make sure to consider several options, and make a choice that feels the most comfortable to you.
 Your diagnosis might be that you have days, weeks, months, or years left to live. When living with a terminal diagnosis, it can be very difficult to focus on anything else. However, it is important that you try to live your life while dying. Try to focus on the things that you are still able to do, and make sure to spend time with your loved ones.If you enjoy being outside, make it a point to enjoy the sunshine each day. Ask a friend or family member to take short walks with you when you are feeling up to it.
Many times you might still feel healthy, despite your prognosis. If this is the case, don't be afraid to do the things you've always wanted to try. For example, maybe you've always wanted to travel abroad. If your doctor says that you are healthy enough, go for it.
 Coping with a terminal illness is incredibly difficult. It is important that you surround yourself with your loved ones and try to let them help you. This may be difficult for you, as you might not want others to see you as sick, or you might not want to bother your family with the amount of work it will take to help you manage your illness.. Those feelings are normal, but you and your loved ones will both feel better emotionally if you resist the temptation to distance yourself from others.There are many support groups for people coping with terminal illness. Ask your doctor to recommend a local group for you to join. It can be comforting to be around others who are in a similar situation.

