 There are factors that predispose you to AF. Knowing these predisposing factors can help you to manage your AF. While some of these risk factors cannot be controlled, knowing what they are can help you to prepare for them, and will help when coming up with a management plan with your doctor.They include:


Increasing age. Stroke and heart attack affect people of all ages, but the risk increases as you get older.Gender. Men more commonly develop medical conditions caused by AF.
Heredity. People whose close blood relations have had a stroke have a higher risk of stroke, heart diseases, and AF.
History of heart problems. If you have previously had a stroke or heart attack, your chances of having AF or other heart issues increases., Irregular heart rhythms due to AF can cause pooling of blood in the heart, which can lead to the formation of clots. These clots are at risk of being dislodged and traveling to the brain, where they can block blood flow and cause a stroke.


You may also suffer from heart failure due to AF, because it causes the heart to beat irregularly. Over time, the heart muscle can become weak and this can result in poor circulation of blood throughout the body and eventual heart failure., When you have AF, your doctor may choose to routinely monitor your condition through a variety of tests that will provide a clearer picture or you condition. These tests may include:


ECG, a diagnostic test for atrial fibrillation. Your doctor will be able to visualize irregularities in your heartbeat and interpret new and ongoing issues with your heart.
Lab test for thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), because elevated levels can cause your heart rate to rise.
Lab tests for electrolytes such as potassium, sodium, magnesium, and calcium, which work for the proper functioning and timing or your heart muscle. Imbalances can affect your heart negatively.
CBC or PT/INR, which check for the quality of your blood composition which affect your heart’s ability to pump blood.
Imaging, such as a chest X-ray, if cardiopulmonary disease is suspected. This can allow the doctor to actually see what is physically wrong or damaged in your heart.