 The best lead guitarists don't just know what to play, but when to play it. In particular, lead lines tend to muddle up singing, and so most guitarists tend to fill in the gaps between words instead of playing on top of them. Your goal, always, is to be a part of the song, not to try and stand out on top of it. Other strategies to consider include:


Letting your lead lines mimic the song, such as playing the melody the singer sings or synchronizing with the bass line.
Using lead lines to transition in and out of intros, choruses, bridges, etc. instead of constantly playing them.
Making each note count instead of seeing how many notes you can play.
 For a masterclass in expression, listen to B.B. King. On paper, many of his solos don't seem that impressive. But live, when you hear the incredible emotion and tone he drips on every note, you realize why he is one of the greatest to ever live. If you focus on making each note compelling and enjoyable your solos will become exponentially better. Remember that the guitar is a physical instrument-- get physical with the strings:


Vibrato, or shaking a note back and forth, is a great way to drag a note out artfully.
Bending into and out of notes allows to literally "manhandle" the note into the tone you want.
Slides let you move gracefully around the fretboard, gliding notes into one another
Hammer-ons and pull-offs help your play quick sets of notes with extra emphasis and speed., It may sound cliche, but Jimmy Page's "Stairway to Heaven" solo is a masterclass in how to build a compelling, gripping guitar solo. Think like a storyteller -- with rising action, a climax, and a resolution. "Stairway's" solo starts slow, building power until it crescendos in the blistering licks the song is known for.


Don't ever play your best stuff first -- save it for the climax.
Restraint is key. Remember that what is hardest to play is not always what sounds best.
Find a "home base" lick to keep coming back to if you get lost in the scale. This gives your solo a recognizable structure or theme as well.
Tension is caused by contrasts -- a fast section sounds far quicker when played after a slow one., Even if the lines and solos in your band's songs are usually written in advance, improvisation is one of the top ways to explore the fretboard and expand your musical creativity. Improvising is, naturally, a personal effort, so you can and should go about it however you'd like. Some good ways to get started include:


Look up backing tracks on YouTube, like "Blues in A-minor," to play basic scales along to.
Learn your favorite solos, then experiment with rearranging the notes in new ways over the same song.
Get a guitar partner, make up a quick chord progression, and trade solos back and forth, alternating the rhythm player.
 One of the biggest mistakes a lead guitarist can make is thinking they're better than or above the rhythm player. Nothing is further than the truth, as the best lead players must know chords inside and out. Think of it this way -- a chord is simply a collection of single notes all played at once, meaning all of these notes are plum for the picking in lead lines. If you know the rhythm section backward and forwards you'll be able to write unique, blistering lead lines and solos to mesh with it.


It's generally good practice to be able to play the rhythm section proficiently before crafting lead lines., Music is a shared art form and one that can be learned much faster with others. You pick up tricks, share and receive new chords or scales, and learn to play on the edge of your seat. Playing with others is the closest you can get to being on stage while still practicing. Furthermore, surrounding yourself with better musicians is the fastest way to get better yourself. When jamming, remember to:Play both rhythm and lead. No one likes a solo hog.
Ask questions if you're confused. Learn the chords in the beginning, not when it's your partner's chance to solo.
Play with the other instruments, not on top of them. When everyone is playing together, everyone sounds better., A mode is simply a set of notes in the major or minor scale that you highlight instead of playing the entire scale. In a sense, they are entirely new scales to play, though they take a little study to master. Pick one below that sounds good and look it up online. Each mode emphasizes certain notes to get totally different moods and styles:


Ionian -- your basic major scale
Dorian -- a bluesy minor key sound.
Phrygian -- a Spanish-sounding minor mode
Lydian -- very close to the major scale, but with a slight cool-jazz tint
Mixolydian -- a bluesy major key sound
Aeolian -- an almost identical minor key, but playable over major chords
Locrian -- very unstable sounding mode, sometimes used in death metal and atonal jazz.