 Oil, dirt, and dead skin can create an impossibly thick barricade for your hair follicles to break through. You can grow facial hair much faster if your face is consistently kept clean.


Wash your face with warm water and a gentle facial cleanser once in the morning and once in the evening. A gentle cleanser is recommended over standard soap, since standard soap can be too abrasive for the skin on your face and may cause irritation.
You should also wash your face any time of the day that it gets notably dirty with sweat or oil.
If an itchy rash develops as your facial hair grows in, try using a dandruff shampoo two to three times weekly to relieve the irritation.Switch to an exfoliating facial cleanser once a week to strip away dead skin cells.
After washing your face, use a moisturizing facial lotion to keep the skin hydrated and to prevent dead skin cells from gathering and clogging up your follicles.;
, As such, one of the best things to do in order to keep your facial hair grow faster is simply to let it grow without disruption.


Hair growth increases faster immediately after you shave, but it decreases hair growth shortly thereafter. As such, any increase in hair growth that does result from shaving gets canceled out.
Note that your facial hair can get a bit unsightly as it initially grows out, so it is recommended that you start at a time during which you do not need to appear at work or any formal social events.
 While this may seem a little unconventional, a light massage over your face can encourage the hair follicles there to grow in faster and thicker.


Apply gently yet even pressure along the areas of your face over which you want to stimulate hair growth. Rub in small circular motions, and massage your face consistently for about 10 to 15 minutes twice daily.
 Simply put, stress thins out your hair, making it difficult to grow a beard, mustache, or goatee. Reducing stress as much as possible can greatly increase the rate at which your facial hair grows.Both mental and physical stress can cripple your immune system, thereby limiting your ability to grow facial hair.
Stress can be nearly impossible to eliminate completely, but you can take small steps to limit the amount of stress in your life. Try meditation or exercise as a means of releasing anxiety or talk to others about effective ways of reducing stress.
 Proper rest is a key element in maintaining all of your body's functions, including hair growth.


Sleep is a period of time during which your body regenerates lost cells, and hair growth tends to increase during periods of sleep. If you sleep for less than six hours each night, growing facial hair quickly is all but impossible. For best results, sleep for at least eight hours nightly.
 As with sleep, regular exercise is also a key element of maintaining bodily functions, including hair growth. Focus on aerobic exercise, which improves blood circulation.


Good blood circulation helps you to maintain a high metabolic rate. In other words, all of the nutrients you take in that can help stimulate hair growth will reach the hair follicles in your face much faster if you have the sort of good circulation promoted by aerobic exercise.
Even mild to moderate aerobic exercise is better than nothing. Take a brisk 30-minute walk each day after work, or better yet, go for a jog.
 Smoking weakens the body's immune system, and with a weakened immune system, your body may not be able to grow hair as effectively as it could.


Nicotine reduces your body's ability to absorb nutrients. As a result, the nutrients needed for hair growth cannot reach your hair follicles well enough to work.
Moreover, nicotine also constricts blood vessels, which prevents your blood from going where it needs to go.



The hair itself is built partially of protein, and healthy hair is coated in oils and fats. As a result, a healthy, fast-growing beard or mustache needs both protein and fat. Additionally, protein and fat can increase testosterone, another key player in growing facial hair.
Beans and fish are healthy sources of protein, and eating more of these foods can stimulate faster, bushier hair growth.
Eggs and animal fat can be effective, as well, but limit your overall intake of these fats since they can cause circulatory problems if consumed in excess.
 Sugar, on the other hand, can actually make hair weaker. Eating too many foods high in sugar can make it harder to grow facial hair.


Natural sugars found in fruits and dairy are less harmful than those found in candy, baked goods, and soda. ok

, Vitamin B7, also called biotin, is one of the most important vitamins to have when trying to grow facial hair. Vitamins B5, B3, and B9 are also very important, though.


Biotin is found in nuts and egg yolk. You must ingest the biotin for it to be effective, though. Applying it topically will not help. If you cannot get biotin naturally, take a biotin supplement daily.
Vitamins B5 and B3 improve your circulation and can be found in chicken, beef, fish, egg yolk, avocado, milk, and many whole grains.
Vitamin B9, or folic acid, directly impacts your ability to grow thicker hair and can be found in cereals, nuts, and leafy green vegetables.



Vitamin A helps maintain your follicles and sebum, and it can be found in carrots, broccoli, and leafy green vegetables.
Vitamin C improves your immune system and can be found in potatoes, citrus fruits, green peppers, tomatoes, and dark leafy green vegetables.
Vitamin E improve circulation and can be found in beans, nuts, and leafy vegetables.
 In order to stay in your peak bodily condition, you need to be fully hydrated at all times. Only in your peak condition can your facial hair grow as fast as possible.


As a general rule, drink roughly eight 8-oz (250-ml) glasses each day.
 Eucalyptus is thought to help stimulate hair growth, but you should never apply eucalyptus oil directly to the skin. Instead, dilute it with water or use facial skin care products containing the plant as an ingredient.Dilute eucalyptus oil by combining four parts water with one part eucalyptus. Apply directly to the skin with a cotton ball and let sit. Note, however, that if your skin becomes irritated, you should wash the treatment off and avoid it in the future.
Facial cleansers and moisturizers with eucalyptus are more highly recommended than oil.
 Amla oil is thought to be one of the most helpful natural oils you can use to coat the follicles in your face.


Mix 1/4 cup (60 ml) Amla oil with 3 Tbsp (45 ml) mustard leaves, blending until a paste forms. Apply this paste to your face and let it sit for 20 minutes before washing it off.Any remaining paste can be saved in the refrigerator for two to three days.
In addition to Amla oil, other oils that help with facial hair growth include jojoba and grape seed oil. These oils can be applied directly to the skin without mixing them with mustard leaves.
 These ingredients can be combined into a thin paste that should be applied to your face twice daily to help stimulate facial hair growth faster.


Combine 1 Tbsp (15 ml) ground cinnamon with 2 Tbsp (30 ml) vitamin-C-rich lime juice. Apply this to your face and rinse off after 25 to 30 minutes.
Stop immediately if irritation occurs.
 This topical hair growth drug is traditionally used to stimulate hair growth on the top of your head, but some preliminary findings suggest that it may help stimulate facial hair growth, as well.


Purchase a bottle of minoxidil. Hold the can upside-down and press the nozzle to squeeze out some of the foam onto your fingers. Gently massage this foam into your face, concentrating on areas in need of speedy hair growth.You should usually only apply 1/2 capful of foam or 1 mL of solution two times daily. Read the instructions on the label to avoid accidental overdose.
Consult your doctor before trying to use minoxidil to stimulate facial hair growth.
 This is an oral drug traditionally used to stimulate hair growth on the top of you head, but as with minoxidil, some findings indicate that it may help facial hair, too.


This drug can increase your testosterone by 10 to 20 percent, resulting in increased body and facial hair.This medication is only available by prescription. Follow the instructions carefully to avoid accidental overdose.
Usually, the medication will be taken in tablet form once daily. You should take it around the same time each day., Men who really have a hard time growing facial hair may lack the testosterone needed to do so. Careful testosterone therapy can help remedy this problem.


Therapy is usually performed through injections or topical applications. There are oral treatments, as well, but these can cause liver damage and are not recommended.
Your doctor needs to monitor testosterone therapy carefully. Too much of this hormone can actually further inhibit your hair growth.
Note that this may not be a “fast” solution, since testosterone therapy can take up to a full year to really kick in.
 If you are desperate enough and no simpler solution has worked, a plastic surgeon might be able to transplant some fast-growing hair follicles from other parts of your body to your face.


The treatment is simple and usually performed on an outpatient basis. You may experience minor skin irritation, but that is usually the worst of it.
As with testosterone therapy, however, this is not the quickest solution possible. You may need to wait up to two full years before adequate facial hair growth is achieved.

