 When you look at a chat box's layout, it can seem confusing to some people. To those who know Xat.com, it's as easy as pie, and they can do anything in one click. However, there is a way to learn about it...;
, It's for typing what you want to say, it's the thing that practically manages your chatting.


There is an arrow button next to the typing space. Click it when you are done typing. Or you can press Return, or Enter as it is on my computer. This button, when clicked, will post your message for everyone to see.
You can add emoticons to your message. You can even buy more emoticons with "xats", which is the currency on Xat. But Xats are hard to get, so be sure that you don't use them unwisely and waste them!
Always remember that you should follow the rules of a chat box. Ask the owner of the chat box for rules,or if you already know them, just start to follow them as you come to the chat box.
Keep in mind that you could get Kicked or worse, Banned. Kicking doesn't really hurt you. It is just an expression of annoyance to the person who is being kicked. Banning does. It will suspend you from the chat box forever. Always follow the rules.
 Your posts can be seen here, too. You can also see the person's picture and username.


In this box, you can see your own picture and username too. You can click your username to edit your profile.
 It displays the total number of people, the people on or off, and the guests.


The total number of people registered as members on the chat box and the guests currently on are displayed there. It tells if they are on or not. A red guy means they're off, and a green guy means they are guests, and a blue guy means they are on.
By clicking on your name in the box, you can also change your profile.
 You will see a bar containing different links (like the doodle tool.) Explore these links carefully and find out what they do. You may need to use them someday.

The links are mostly for fun, but still you might need them someday, maybe for a certain chat box who are playing a doodling game or such.
 That's the whole point of it!

