 Such as chili, fried rice, or food that can be whipped up in large portion so there'll be leftovers for later use. Then create a list of ingredients that could make it possible.;
, Because the food might go to waste if you don't know how to use it in the first place.
 Such as large bags of potatoes, large bag of rice, or large packages of chicken, etc. Buying in bulks will generally save you money rather than buying them individually or small portions.
 Meat is pretty expensive in the long run and can rack up the food bill really fast. You could still eat meat but consider buying meat just twice a week.
 Those items normally does contribute to large food bills. Drinking tap water is highly recommended and is a better and cheaper option, but using a water filter is recommended, but is not required.
 Generic doesn't always necessarily mean worse, but it can definitely safe you money rather than buying food from a well known brand. Examples of generic brands would be: Great Value (Walmart), No Name, etc.
 If you ever have leftovers, consider storing them in a container of some sort and keep them cool in the fridge. They could be used for something later on.
 You could easily spend your entire week's budget just by eating out one day.
 Don't always go out and buy food if you already have some laying around in your disposal. Be creative with what you have.
 If you ever see a "Buy one, get one free", don't buy 2 with really different weights. Try to buy 2 of the things with the same weight unless if it's a prepackaged with the same weight.
 Sometimes, stores does have some sort of promotional deals or special offers where you can save big bucks on food. If you happen to have a coupon on the special in-store deals, then you might be able to save even more money on it.
 If you don't plan to use a certain ingredient for some time, consider putting them in a safe secure container and put them in the freezer for later use. Doing this will help making sure it doesn't go bad and letting it go to waste in the end.

