 One way to stop child abuse before it begins is to help educate parents. Many people don’t know how to raise children and base what they do on the way they were raised. This can lead to a limit in effective parenting skills, which may result in abusive behavior like yelling or hitting.Communities can offer parenting classes for parents to learn the skills needed to be a successful parent. These skills may include avoiding some actions like shaking, how to manage stress and work in a healthy way, how to create structure, the importance of getting enough sleep (for parents and kids), and how to use positive reinforcement and other effective discipline techniques.;
, Child abuse often occurs with small children who are too young to understand how to behave perfectly or follow their parents’ directions. The parents may demand that the children sit still, be quiet, stop crying, or stop messing up things. However, for infants and toddlers, this is not something they can developmentally follow.Try to teach parents how to prevent issues and set themselves up for success, such as by ensuring they get proper sleep, nutrition, socialization, play, and rest
Helping parents understand what is reasonable for their child’s developmental stage can help them not become frustrated or expect “better behaved” children at the wrong age. For example, redirecting or distracting the child may be better when they are very young than trying to get them to understand and learn from their actions.
Teaching parents of children with mental or physical disabilities what to expect from their children can also help lessen the stress and frustration that could lead to abuse.
 Many parents may move towards abusive discipline while thinking that they are doing what is right for their child. To help parents, you should explain what is considered abuse and what is considered appropriate punishment.Spanking is a controversial topic. Some believe it is fine, while others believe it is abuse. Find out what the laws concerning spanking are for your state. Then, advise that parents only spank on the buttocks with their hand. Using tools, such as cords, rope, shoes, or rulers, can be considered abusive.
Explain that parents should never strike a child in anger. Any hitting that is above the waist is considered abuse.
Make sure to emphasize that discipline never causes injury, even spanking. A spank should leave a red mark that goes away quickly. Any physical contact that results in bruises, swelling, blood drawn, or medical attention is abuse.
 Physical punishment is not the only type of discipline that can lead to abuse. Some parents may go too far with non-physical punishments that result in emotional and mental abuse or neglect. These generally occur when a “time out” or loss of privilege is taken too far.For example, putting a child in a closet or a dark room is abuse. Locking a child in a room for a long period of time and depriving them of food until they are starving is also considered abuse.
Any time of confinement that includes tying up and gagging is abuse.
 You can help parents by referring them to helpful programs in your community. This is especially important for parents who have no extended family to help with things like babysitting, parenting tips, and support.For example, you may tell the parents about latchkey programs, parenting classes in the area, STAR programs, or support groups for parents.
Parents Anonymous is an organization geared towards parents who are at-risk for becoming abusive. You can contact them at 1-909-621-6184.
 If you know of parents or families who are struggling, offer to help out. Too much stress often leads to child abuse. By offering support to the parents, you can help lessen the stress and make a positive change before any abuse occurs.For example, you may offer to help with chores or tasks like shopping, offer to babysit, or bring dinner to the family.
Also, identify various sources of support the family may have and help them to line up assistance from these individuals on a regular basis.
 Parents should take care of themselves and actively work to reduce stress. This helps them not get overwhelmed, frustrated, or angry, all of which can lead to child abuse. If the parents don’t know how to relieve stress, help teach them.Stress relief activities may include deep breathing exercises, yoga, a walk around the yard, listening to soothing music, taking a bath, or doing a relaxing activity.
Show the parents how to access mental health care as well.

