 During winter, you will need a water proof coat. You do not want a coat that will get damaged by snow and rain. Make sure the outer shell of any coat you choose is marked as water resistant.Check the label to see if the coat's material is waterproof. You should also see how many layers of waterproof material cover the coat. The more layers, the better protection you will have against water.
Materials that feel similar to a rain coat are more likely to block out water.
Make sure your coat is insulated. Not all coats, like wool and leather coats, have insulation. This may be important if you live in a very cold area.;
, There are three types of insulation for a winter coat: down, synthetic, and pile fabric. Choose an insulation that will keep you warm in the winter months.Down is a classic insulator, and is great for providing warmth in the winter. The main downside, however, is that it does not hold up as well against moisture. If you live in a environment prone to a lot of precipitation, down may not be the best choice for you.
Synthetic fibers tend to hold up better against moisture. However, synthetic fibers do not last as long as other options. They tend to wear down faster over time.
Pile fabric is similar to sheep's wool. It is water resistant and lasts longer than synthetic fabric. However, it's difficult to make a very thick coat with synthetic fabric. If you need something very thick for the winter, try a different insulator.
 You want to make sure you're protected from the cold. Examine zippers and cuffs to make sure they're made from high quality material that will last.Sometimes, fabrics in coats are waterproof but the zippers are not. Check the label to make sure any zipper used is waterproof. If you're buying a parka, look for a two-way zipper for added warmth.
Make sure the cuffs of any jacket you choose are tight. Tighter cuffs will provide you with more protection from the rain and snow.
 Once you've found a coat you like, examine it to make sure it really is high quality. Examine the seams to make sure there's no thread hanging out. Make sure there are no holes where fabric is escaping. Stitching should not go through the insulation in a coat.It's also a good idea to review a store's return policy, just in case you don't like the coat after taking it home.
 In terms of style, think about the material you like. Coats come in a variety of materials and you want to choose one that's appealing to your sense of style.Leather coats are both stylish and durable. If you like the look of leather, a leather coat can be a great option for you. If you like the look of leather and want something more casual, you can try suede.
Wool coats are also durable and come in a variety of stylish cuts. You can also choose wool in a variety of colors, so wool can be great if you're looking for a specific color.
A cotton coat is similar to wool, but may hold up better in the rain. However, it may not be as warm as wool.
A faux fur coat can be great for a vintage style.
 Trench coats are a popular item if you like the look of a long, slimming coat. Trench coats are generally weather resistant and light weight.Trench coats can generally be worn with any type of outfit, so if you want one coat to last you all season this is a great option. They can be worn in many temperatures as well as in many different situations.
 A pea coat is a great gender neutral coat that is considered a style classic. If you want something that will be in style for years to come, opt for a pea coat made out of quality materials.Go for a double breasted pea coat for added warmth.
The one downside to a pea coat is that they are not very long. They may not be the best option if you live in a very cold area.
 A parka can be as stylish as any other coat option if you opt for a classic cut. Parkas have a more relaxed style, if that's what you're looking for, and are excellent for very cold areas.Parkas are great if you prefer something with a looser fit. If you feel more comfortable and stylish with something that sags a little, go for a parka., Military jackets are stylish options for both men and women and tend to stay in style long term. Military jackets are both warm and form fitting, so they're somewhat in between a parka and a pea coat.Military jackets have a double-breasted closure, which can be great for extra warmth., A hood is a great option for a winter coat, especially if you live in a cold area. However, you may not want a hood on all the time. If it gets warmer out, a hood can be bulky. See if you can find a jacket in your style with a removable hood. This will make your coat more versatile., There are a variety of extras that come with certain coats. Look for extras that serve more than an aesthetic purpose. Extras should also add warmth.Things like drawstrings, fur ruffs, and fleece-lined pockets all add extra warmth.
 It's important your zippers are covered by wind flaps. If you live in an area prone to extreme weather and wind, wind can cut right through a zipper. This will leave you cold. A wind flap is vital to any winter wardrobe.