 If you look for switchgrass at your local nursery you may just find a plant that's labeled "switchgrass," but there are actually several varieties that differ in color and size. Switchgrass blooms for almost half the year, and during the winter and spring it's usually brown. These are factors to keep in mind when you're choosing a variety for your garden. Here are a few types commonly grown in home gardens:


Northwind: Grows four to six feet tall and produces yellow blooms.Cloud Nine: Grows five to nine feet tall and blooms bright yellow.Heavy Metal: Grows four to five feet tall and blooms light pink.Shenandoah: Grows just three to four feet tall and blooms rusty pink.Rotstrahlbusch: Grows four to five feet tall and produces pink-tinged flowers.Warrior: Grows four to six feet tall and blooms green.;
, Depending on the variety you have, switchgrass can grow anywhere from three to nine feet tall. This is something to take into account when you choosing the right place to plant it. Planting it in the background of the garden, behind smaller plants, will ensure it doesn't obscure the smaller elements in your garden.Make sure it has room to grow without blocking windows. Place it strategically so that it falls in between them instead of planting right in front of something you don't want to block.
While switchgrass gets tall, it won't grow very wide. Don’t worry about spreading; it’s never more than half as wide as it is tall.
 Switchgrass is native to prairies and savannas, wide-open spaces with bright, sunny skies. Find a spot in your yard that emulates this natural habitat, a place with plenty of sun and not too many shady trees or buildings that shadow the area for most of the day.


Too much shade will cause the roots to crawl from side to side, which weakens the switchgrass. In the right conditions, switchgrass roots grow very deep.
Partial shade is fine if you don't have a completely sunny spot, but full sun is best for thriving switchgrass.
 Switchgrass is a hardy plant that can survive in soil that isn't very rich. Since it’s a native species, it’s quite low maintenance, and there's no need to pre-treat the soil before planting. If you're concerned about your soil quality, check the type of switchgrass you have and look it up to make sure it likes the ground where you live.


Sandy or loamy soil are both fine for most varieties of switchgrass, so there's no need to treat your soil to change the texture.
Dry or moist soil are both fine as well, although you wouldn't want the roots to be completely waterlogged.
 If you live in one of the few places where switchgrass won’t grow naturally, like the west coast of the US, you can grow it in a pot instead. Choose your switchgrass variety and plant it in standard, untreated potting soil. Make sure the pot you use is sturdy and deep enough to hold the roots without cramping them.