 This is probably the most important part of your work, as it's where the guidelines for the rest of the project should be set. Most of the steps on this section will be developed at the same time, you must try to keep ideas sorted all the time to ensure coherence and prevent mistakes. There are no rules about how to do this, but you should look for a method that works for you. Some people will draw on a sketch book, others will write everything on cards, mind mapping, software assisted, etc., you should try what works better for you.
 Once again, write a list of ideas for your story. This is where you should think of the overall storyline of the show. For example, Glee is a wildly popular and amazing show about high school students with different personalities and they all happen to be in a glee club. With romance, comedy and drama you become hooked to the mini musical every Tuesday/Friday. An interesting and original plot is vital for a captivating show, so put a lot of thought into it.
 Consider the plot of your show and try to decide on a genre that best fits. Is it a mystery, soap opera or comedy? The possibilities are endless and it's possible for your show to fit into multiple categories. Glee, for example, would be a musical comedy drama. Then you must carefully define your objective market, there is a world of differences between writing a show targeted for kids from 2-5 years and a teenagers soap opera, or between a show that should be broadcasted on an American TV station, and one that will be watched by Asiatic people around the world.
 You'll need a pilot if your show ever gets filmed. The pilot is what gets people interested in your show. It has to be filled with detail but at the same time, you have to leave your audience craving for information so that it gets viewed they will want to see another episode.
 Describe some of the main settings in the show so that later on you can reference to it if your show ever gets filmed. Timeline, epoch, weather, locations, dresses, languages and idioms.
 Every show needs interesting characters to entertain an audience and to contribute to the show itself. It's important to consider both the plot and the genre when developing characters. Make sure your audience can connect with a character. That will make your audience even more eager to watch your show.
 With this step, you need to make three lists. A Conflict or Disagreement list- this will be a list of two or more characters that just simply cannot stand each other. You may want to include on the list why they fight and what they fight about. A Friendship List- Write down groups of characters that are friends. Also write how strong their friendship is and if it will last the whole show. A Love List- write down two characters that are dating, married or like each other and will eventually get together during the show.
 It's really critical to get your work done right on this stage. If you make a mistake here it will be harder and more expensive to repair it later. For this reason it is strongly recommended to get help from some other people with more experience.|}}

, Now, if you hadn't done it already, you should take care of picking all the details for your project. Be sure to double check your finer details for consistency:


Plot
Setting
Characters
Special items or tools

