 You can get this from gta4-mods.com. There are several programs that allow you to install mods, but this program is the simplest way for cars.;
, See this guide for details on extracting files. In most cases, you can simply double-click the downloaded ZIP file and copy the contents to your desktop.
 In the folder that you extracted, you will find a setup program. Run it to install the mod installer. Most users can leave all the installation settings at default.
 Your computer may warn you that the file is unknown, but it is safe to proceed.
 In the field at the top of the window, you should see the path to your GTA 4 game directory. If it was not detected, click Browse and set the path yourself.
 Before installing a new vehicle, it's always a good idea to backup your save file. While you usually won't run into problems, save files can occasionally get corrupted. Make a copy of the save file in a safe location.


You can find your save file in the game’s directory.
 You can download vehicles from a variety of locations, but you'll find the best compatibility with the mod installer if you download the vehicles from gta4-mods.com.



Make sure that GTA 4 is not currently running. If GTA 4 is running, the mod installation will likely not work.
 This will allow you to install the car mod directly from the downloaded archive file.
 Click the Browse button towards the bottom of the window and navigate to the archive you just downloaded.
 Click Next after selecting the vehicle file.
 The installer will show the changes to the GTA 4 files it will be making. As long as there are green checkmarks for each entry, the file new car should install correctly. Click Next to continue.
 GTA 4 only supports a certain number of vehicle types. Select the vehicle in the game that you want to replace.


Make sure that you don't select a boat to replace, or the car will appear underwater.
 Your newly-installed vehicle will spawn wherever the old vehicle would have. This means you usually just have to wait until you see one parked or in traffic. You can also use cheats to spawn the new vehicle, using the old vehicle's name.
 The GTA IV Vehicle Mod Installer allows you to restore the original car back into the game.


Make sure that GTA 4 is not currently running.
 This will revert the car mod installation.
 When you start GTA 4 again, the car will be reverted to the original.

