 Plug in your flat iron, put it on the lowest heat setting, and let it heat up for a couple of minutes. The heat will help loosen up any buildup or grime that may be on the iron, which will make it much easier to clean effectively.





;
, Let your flat iron cool on a heat-resistant mat or hand towel for about 5 minutes after you’ve turned it off and unplugged it from the outlet. Don’t set your flat iron directly on the counter or on the edge of the sink because it could burn these surfaces.
 While your flat iron is still cooling down, hold your hand about an inch above the flat iron to determine if it has cooled off enough to touch safely. Once it feels slightly warm to the touch, lightly dampen a washcloth or paper towel with warm water. Wipe all surfaces of the iron to complete a basic cleaning.
 Beauty supply stores carry many different professional cleaning products created specifically for hairstyling tools. If you’ve used your flat iron hundreds of times and this is your first time cleaning it, you may want to use a professional cleaning solution in order to complete a more general cleaning successfully., First, make sure that the flat iron is completely cooled off and soak a couple cotton balls in rubbing alcohol. Wipe the flat iron with your cotton balls and use a q-tip to clean nooks and crannies. After doing this, lightly moisten a clean cloth with water and wipe your flat iron again., Put about ¼ cup of baking soda in a bowl. Then, squirt in hydrogen peroxide and mix the two until the mixture resembles paste. Rub the paste onto the flat iron with your fingers to remove gunky buildup of hairspray and other hair products., Using a gentle abrasive, such as a toothbrush or magic eraser, gently scrub tough spots, including the lip between the plastic and the plate.Magic erasers contain a combination of melamine, formaldehyde, sodium bisulfite, and water, which make easy removal possible., Cream relaxers are typically used to chemically straighten curly hair, but they can be used to clean your flat iron as well. In order to clean your flat iron with a relaxer, do the following:

While the flat iron is unplugged, apply an even layer of the cream to the flat iron plates.
Plug the iron in and leave it on for about 10-15 minutes.
Turn the flat iron off, let it cool completely, and then remove the relaxer with a washcloth moistened by water.