 The two most common ways to ship a dog are by air and by automobile. The method you choose will depend on the length and timing of the journey, the size and variety of the dog, and the funds you have available to ship your dog.


Note that both the U.S. Humane Society and the ASPCA caution pet owners to avoid shipping animals as cargo on commercial airlines whenever possible.;
, Some countries and states strictly regulate the importation of dogs. Check the laws for your destination early to ensure you can get any health documentation and permits you may need in time for your trip, and that you understand any quarantine rules that may apply upon your pet's arrival.
 There are many agencies worldwide that can facilitate and/or provide transportation for your pet, by land, or by air. Given the complexities of shipping a dog, it might be worth it to work with one of these companies. The International Pet and Animal Transportation Association maintains listings for both air and ground pet transportation services.
 On most commercial airlines, dogs can only ride in the cabin with you if they are small enough to travel in a carrier that fits under the seat. The exact specifications vary by airline, but the space allowed is generally 8-9 inches tall by 12-13 inches wide, by 15-23 inches wide. If the dog's carrier doesn't fit under the seat, it will have to travel in the cargo hold of the plane.Chartered private flights generally allow larger animals in the cabin, but this is a very expensive option.
 Talk with your vet before your trip to find out if your dog's health or breed will require any special shipping considerations. Note that brachycephalic or "snub-nosed" breeds of dogs, including pugs, bulldogs, chows, etc. are at greater risk from the dangers of air travel. It is strongly recommended that these animals never be shipped in the cargo holds of planes, and many airlines refuse to transport them., While airplane cargo holds are pressurized and have some climate-control, animals in the hold will be subject to outdoor temperatures whenever the plane is being loaded and unloaded. For this reason, airlines restrict the transport of animals when extreme temperatures are expected at any of the plane's stopping points. Some airlines won't transport animals during the winter at all, and all companies take into account daily temperatures when deciding whether or not to permit animals in the cargo hold.If you must ship your dog during periods of extreme heat or cold, automobile transport may be your safest and most reliable option.
Research various airline policies before making your reservations. Some airlines offer specific advice (e.g. only ship animals on daytime flights in winter, etc.) that can help alleviate temperature concerns.
Some airlines will also allow you to present an acclimation certificate from a certified veterinarian stating that your animal can handle extreme temperatures (usually cold) and should be allowed to fly even if the airline cannot guarantee recommended temperatures., Whether you ship your dog by air or automobile, you should secure a shipping crate for the dog that is well-ventilated and large enough for the dog to comfortably stand up, turn around, and lie down in.Be advised that some airlines have additional crate requirements.
If you will be travelling by car, look for a crate that is crash-tested, and is designed to be secured with car restraints.
It is best to acquire your crate in advance so that you can get your dog used to it before you travel.
 Begin getting the dog used to its crate several weeks in advance. Begin by simply placing the dog in the crate for some time every day. Then try driving the dog around town in the crate for increasingly longer periods of time to get it used to the sensation of travelling.If you find your dog is extremely anxious when travelling in the crate, speak to your veterinarian to determine if sedation would be helpful or necessary.

