 Put on workout clothes and supportive tennis shoes.;
, Stand with your feet hip width apart and place your body weight in your heels. Sit down as if you are sitting in a chair, do 2 small pulses and rise to a standing position.


Repeat this exercise for 30 seconds. Rest for 30 seconds and repeat the set again. , This squat borrows the second part of the move from ballet. Do a squat, and as you rise, lift your right leg as you bring your hands forward.


Transfer all your body weight to your left leg so that you can balance.
Your arms and legs should form a straight line with your body.
Lower your leg and return to a squat.
Repeat 15 times on each side. , Stand in front of a tall table, counter or steady chair. Lean forward slightly as you lift your right leg off the floor.


Put a slight bend in your left knee, pull your stomach muscles inward and square you hips to the ground to prepare for the movement.
Raise your right leg almost to the highest point you can hold while keeping your hips square.
Pulse the right leg upward slightly and lower it back down. Repeat 30 times and switch legs.
Use the chair or table for support as you lean forward.
 Stand with your feet hip width apart. Step 1 leg forward 2 to 3 feet (0.6 to 0.9 m) and bend both knees at once.


Pause for 2 seconds or do 2 small pulses, then rise back to standing.
Repeat this exercise for 30 seconds, rest and repeat a set with the opposite leg.
 Stand with your feet hip width apart. Step out to the right and bend your right knee, keeping your left leg straight.


Pause while you are at your lowest point, then rise up to standing. Repeat for 30 seconds. Rest, then repeat on your left side.
Make sure your right knee does not extend over your right toes.
For an extra challenge, raise your squatting knee as you come up to standing between repetitions. , Find a cushioned bench or bed to lie down on. Lay down with your hips on the edge of the bed and your legs extended out behind you.


Lift your legs upward as high as they will go.
Hold them for 3 seconds and lower them to the height of the bed. Repeat for 30 seconds. Rest for 30 seconds and then repeat.
For added effort, do 20 small pulses upward at the end of each set of repetitions. 