 The first step to advertising your business online is to build a professional website that effectively represents your brand. It should be aesthetically pleasing, easy to navigate, and inform viewers about your business. If you don’t have experience with website construction, consider hiring a graphic designer or bartering with a friend skilled in graphic design.Look at other business's websites to find ways of organization information that you like.
Decide what content and pages you want to include on your own website. Your pages could include a section about the store, contact information, links, photographs and descriptions of products, and general information about recreational or medical cannabis.
Use software, like Adobe Dreamweaver, or a content managing system, like Wordpress, to create your website. If you don't have experience with HTML, a content management system will be easier for you to use.
If you haven't already, you'll need to acquire a domain name. Network Solutions, GoDaddy, or Register.com are budget-friendly options.;
, An effective SEO strategy will help you take advantage of search traffic. You should build a well-constructed website, frequently update your site, and include links to other high traffic sites in order to improve how search engine algorithms evaluate your site.You should also include links to your social media profiles to your site, create a mobile-friendly version, and use targeted keywords across different pages in order to optimize your search traffic.
 Post animated GIFs, videos, written copy, and infographics on your blog. Create your own original content or share informational or entertaining content from other industry-friendly sources.You could write about your daily operations or what it's like to run a cannabis-related business, share video of you and your staff at work, and create infographics about the pros of recreational or medical marijuana use.
When you see compelling media posted by larger industry publications, get in touch with them about regularly sharing their content. Even the largest marijuana marketing and media entities are eager to work with small businesses in the interest of spreading positive, informative industry-related content.
 Industry-related websites have garnered millions of viewers, since most mainstream advertising channels aren’t accessible for marijuana-related businesses. You can reach these potential customers and online viewers by advertising on websites including Leafy, Cannasys, Hemp American Media Group, and Mantis Network.Visit their websites and click on the links labeled "For Advertisers." There, they'll tell you about their policies, rates, and who to contact if you want to advertise with them.
 Look for local or regional newspapers or magazines that your customers and potential customers read. Check their websites and read their advertising policies, and consider purchasing ad space.Ask your professional network and friends which local publications are most popular. Find out if their popularity includes both print and online readership.
 Use promo codes and tracing URLs to track your campaigns’ success. Keeping track of your efforts will help you optimize the time and money you invest in advertising.For example, if you’re offering a special deal that’s been advertised online, include a promo code to track its adoption.
You can use Google’s URL builder to build a tracking URL.

