 This can mean in a clinical laboratory setting. You can find suitable laboratories at most colleges and research institutions. Working at home is also possible but requires caution - manufacturing your own biodiesel may be illegal and can put your house at risk of a fire, smoke or carbon monoxide.


A good work place will be well-ventilated and have clear access to running water, eye-wash stations, fire extinguishers, spill containment supplies, a fire alarm and a telephone to use in case of emergencies.;
, Most laboratories will have posted dress instructions you should follow. You should always wear a long-sleeve shirt, long pants, and shoes in any laboratory setting.


When making biodiesel, you should also wear a heavy-duty apron, chemical-resistant gloves (butyl rubber is best when handling methanol and lye) and protective goggles or eyewear.The gloves should come up to your elbows or have cuffs you can pull over your long-sleeve shirt.
 The easiest oils to use for biodiesel are neutral vegetable oils like canola, corn, and sunflower oil - these oils are readily available at grocery stores and have a low melting point, which means they won't solidify if they get too cold.


Avoid using peanut oil, coconut oil, palm oil, tallow, and lard. These sources of oil solidify at relatively high temperatures. Biodiesel usually has a lower melting point than the oil it's made from, but these oils can still be difficult for beginners.
Also avoid olive oil. It, peanut oil, palm oil, tallow, and lard all contain more acids than in the recommended neutral oils. These extra acids can interfere with the reactions that take place to create the biodiesel.
It's also possible to use waste vegetable oil which has been used for cooking. However, waste oil should be filtered to remove particulates, then allowed to settle for 24 hours to separate the oil from any water or other impurities. Pure oil will be clear and bright, with no sediment., Only use containers for making biodiesel - don't use them for storing food afterwards, even if you wash them well.

