 You may not have room for a large set of cabinets. Instead, hang a couple of shelves on the wall for drink and glass storage. Add a rack that hangs glassware upside down to existing cabinetry for more storage.


Hang shelving at about chest level so it is easy to access. Shelves don’t need to be large. A two foot long shelf that’s six inches deep will hold more than you might think.
Look at antique stores or home improvement stores for wall-mount storage options.
Using an old medicine cabinet will give you a good amount of storage and won’t take up much room on the wall. You also have the option to keep it closed when the bar is not in use.
 No matter what type of bar you set up, trays are a great way to keep the area organized. Use basic wooden serving trays or shiny metal ones, depending on the look you want. Trays are easily moved, so they’re great for setting up a short-term bar for an event.When you have room, set up a tray for drinks, a tray for glassware, and a tray for extra stuff, like stirrers and shakers.
Keep an extra tray or two on hand to use for carrying drinks to serve to guests.
 Get a bar spoon, which is extra long, or a swizzle stick for mixing cocktails. Have a couple of shot glasses or small measuring cups for measuring out ingredients. Have a paring knife for cutting fruit. Have a shaker and strainer for mixing shaken cocktails., Place tools for stirring, crushing, or measuring in an open-top container. Make sure you don’t cram them too tightly or they will be hard to get out. Set them somewhere in plain sight on the bar so any time you have guests they’ll be easy to find.Jiggers, shakers, and other larger items won’t fit in the container. Set them right next to it to maintain an orderly setup.
 Think about how often you spill something in the kitchen, then translate that to a place where the sole activity is pouring liquids. Keeping towels at your bar will help keep messes contained. Without a towel, you’ll waste time running to find one frequently.If your bar setup allows for a towel rack, this is always helpful. If not, set towels on the shelf where your assorted bar tools are kept.

