 Music has a huge affect on mood and mental state; in addition to the ability to change your emotional state, music can also increase your energy levels. One major study done showed that people who listen to music, regardless of the volume or tempo, were more energized than people who did not. So, grab your iPod or turn on your favorite radio station and crank up some tunes!, Our breathing patterns are altered by our emotional and mental state, even when we aren't aware of it. If you’re stressed and tired, it is likely you are taking “chest” breaths that don’t supply enough oxygen to the brain.


Try breathing in slowly, imagining that you’re filling your stomach with air like a balloon, and then breathing out slowly. Doing this for a minute or longer will help wake up your brain and de-fog your thoughts.
 These often talked about nutrients are beneficial for wakefulness, among other things. If you’re pondering your lunch or dinner menu, throw some salmon on your plate and consume all those awesome omega-3 fatty acids. If you’d rather not eat fish that often, substitute with fish oil pills on a daily basis.
 Throwing a bucket of cold water on a sleeping friend isn’t just a great prank, it actually helps to wake them up. If you can’t seem to do anything to stay away, splash your face with cold water or hop in a cold shower. The cool temperature and feeling of the water will improve circulation and have you concentrating a bit better than before.
 Fiber, unlike many of the foods we eat, takes a very long time to digest fully. Therefore, eat some fiber-filled foods and allow them to slowly release energy into your body over the course of the day. Try out an apple with the skin, some black beans, or a bran cereal and let go of your weary ways., Long naps during the day can disrupt your sleep later in the night, but taking short, timed naps in the afternoon can be just what your body needs to refresh itself. A veritable reboot can be performed by taking a nap that is 20 minutes long. This is just enough time for your body to fall asleep and kick out fatigue-causing stressors that have built up in your mind.
 Your sleepiness could indeed be due to a basic lack in vitamins and minerals. If you aren’t getting enough magnesium in your diet, try taking a magnesium supplement. These are available at most health food stores and can be taken on a daily basis.
 If you have a messy desk, ongoing argument with a friend, or an overwhelming amount of work to do, it could be stressing you out and making you more tired than you normally would be. Deal with the stressors you are aware of, whenever you are able. Managing anxiety-provoking things as they pop up will improve your overall mental health, as well as keep you focused throughout the day.
 Studying or working in bed or on a comfy couch is a great way to make yourself tired. Rather than imposing fatigue on yourself by staying in a location that is much too comfortable, move to a place you are less likely to fall asleep in. Working in a coffee shop or at a hard desk will make it much more difficult to want to sleep than piles of cozy blankets and pillows will.