 Many people with unhealthy relationships with food let the foods they eat influence how they feel. If they get off their eating plan, eat more calories than they think they are allowed, or splurge on food, they get upset and think they are bad people. It may also negatively affect their self-worth.If you splurge on a cheat food or if you eat more calories than you usually do, you may think that you are a bad person. You may beat yourself up about it and think that you are not worthy due to deviating from your eating structure.
You may call yourself a failure or think you are fat if you don’t stick to your food structure.
 Not liking how much you weigh or what size you wear can lead to food restriction and unhealthy choices. Many people base what they eat on what they look like, so they cut out food groups, skip meals, and fast, all of which robs your body of essential vitamins and nutrients.For example, do you want to "be skinny" or lose weight, and cut calories or avoid eating certain foods to accomplish this? If you are unhappy with your body, it could result in an unhealthy relationship with food.
 People who do not look at food as fuel and a way to nourish their body may see food as the enemy. Because of this, they may try fad diets. Yo-yo dieting can lead to a lack of essential nutrients and even more weight gain.Ask yourself how many times you have tried a new "guaranteed" diet. Evaluate your reactions when someone says they have a new diet to lose weight quickly. If you immediately think that you should try it, it could point to an unhealthy relationship with food.
 Constantly obsessing about your weight and getting on the scale can point to a problem with food. You connect your self-worth to your weight, and if you gain weight or haven’t lost weight, you feel terrible.


If you can’t weigh yourself, you may get anxious. If the scale moves upwards, you have a meltdown. These indicate an unhealthy relationship with food.
 Exercise is part of a healthy lifestyle, but connecting exercise directly to food may indicate an unhealthy relationship with food. Many people punish themselves for splurging or eating foods they think are “bad” with extra exercise. Look at the way you exercise and if you have to exercise more if you eat something you think you shouldn't.For example, if you go eat ice cream with friends, you have to go run or get on the elliptical for hours to compensate.

