 Falling asleep for even just 10 minutes can help improve your energy, concentration, memory, and focus. Indeed, napping should be considered an asset in improving productivity. Consider building naptime explicitly into your schedule so that you can maximize your potential at work or school.Taking a longer nap is not recommended, since it increases your likelihood of being noticed without providing the maximum benefit. Try to keep your naps to just a few minutes in length when you are at work or school.;
, In an ideal scenario, you will be able to nap in complete privacy, so that your colleagues and bosses do not realize that you are napping. Find an out-of-the-way location where you can stretch out and close your eyes for just a few minutes.If you can, see if you might be able to nap in the following places:


Your office
Your car
A bathroom
A seldom-used storage room

, You don't always have the option of napping in private. If you have to go to work or school exhausted, try to get a seat toward the back of the room, away from the speaker or teacher. Give yourself some space to rest without getting caught. As long as you remain at the back of the room, it is unlikely that someone will notice that your eyes are closed., If you feel yourself begin to nod off at work or school, put on a pair of sunglasses. Not only will you be able to sleep more effectively in a dark environment, but it will be less likely that you will be noticed. Nobody will realize that your eyes are closed.If you do not have a pair of sunglasses, consider wearing a hat or cap that you can pull over your eyes during key moments.
 One of the giveaways that you are sleeping isn't your eyes at all: it is your body language. A slumped posture with a slack jaw, open palms, and open mouth is much more likely to draw attention to your nap than your eyes. When you fall asleep in public, rest your elbow on the desk in front of you and bend your arm 90 degrees. Then prop your head up on your closed fist. This will help keep your head upright and will disguise your nap., If you are forced to nap among your colleagues or fellow students, enlist a friend who can assist you if you are in danger of being noticed. Your ally might wake you up if your name is called or nudge you when everybody is moving their seats. Be sure to return the favor if your ally also wants to take a secret nap every now and again.
 Microsleep is a condition when your brain falls asleep while you are in the middle of a task such as driving or working. Your eyes might remain open during this period even though your brain is not functioning normally. This condition can be powerful, since nobody will realize that you are asleep, and your eyes might indeed remain open. However, this is also a dangerous condition, especially if you are driving a vehicle or operating machinery. If you find yourself losing a few minutes of time, you might be experiencing microsleeps.Microsleeps are more likely to occur if you experience a prolonged period of poor sleep.They are also more common among those who work second or third shifts.
You cannot intentionally microsleep; they are caused by chronic sleeplessness and exhaustion.

