 Use extra ripe mangos for easier slicing. Try to get Champagne mangos (also called Ataulfo, yellow or baby mangos) or Manila/Philippine or Mexican mangos.


These are oblong-shaped golden yellow mangos with very thin skin. They are sweet and not fibrous.
You may need to venture to an Asian of Latin market during the summer months to find them.
If you have trouble finding the right mangos, you can still use any mangos you can find as long as they are nice and ripe!
Make sure you peel your mangos first. Mango skin is bitter, and you don't want this ingredient in your cake.
 Place small slices of mango into a blender with 1/2 cup water. Blend until smooth.
 In a chilled bowl, use a handheld mixer to whip the cream into soft peaks (about 3 minutes).


Add the condensed milk. Continue to mix the cream and slowly pour the condensed milk into the bowl. Whip to firm peaks.
Add the vanilla extract and mango puree.
Add a small amount of honey if your mangos are a little tart, or if you prefer a sweeter overall cake.
 Use a baking pan with a removable bottom for ease in serving. Line the parchment paper along the bottom and the sides of the pan to allow for easy cake removal.


Line the baking pan with a layer of graham crackers. Cut the crackers to fit the pan.
 Pour 1/3 of your sweetened whipped cream mixture onto your graham cracker lined pan. Use a rubber spatula to evenly distribute the cream.
 Spread them evenly and use about 1/3 of your mango and almond slices.


Repeat this twice to create two more layers.
On the third layer, add the maraschino cherries for garnish. Add all the mango and almond slices you have left. You can add as many mango slices as you have available.
 Place a layer of plastic wrap over the top of the pan and put it in the fridge for at least 4 hours. Let the cake chill overnight for the best results. Chilling your cake allows for the cream to soften the graham crackers, creating a sponge-cake like texture. The whipped cream will firm up a bit and turn into a rich, luscious frosting.


You can also freeze your mango float for more of an ice cream cake like texture. Freezing your cake will soften the graham cracker but also allow the cream to freeze.
 Gently grab the edges of the parchment paper and lift the mango float out of the pan. Slice and serve.

