 You will be taken to a page to select your country and method of verification.



If you are not signed in to your YouTube account, you will be prompted to do so before proceeding.;
,, Both methods will provide you with a 6-digit verification code to enter on the page.



Some countries may be limited from receiving text messages from Google, in which case you will need to opt to verify using voice call.,, You will either receive a verification code by text message or via an automated phone call depending on which method you selected.



You should only have to wait a few seconds for either text message or phone call. If you do not receive the code within a reasonable time frame you can request a new one.
Only two accounts may be verified per phone number per year. You will receive an error if you have reached this limit., A message will display notifying you of the successful verification.
 You will be taken to a page that displays your accounts various privileges. Previously ‘ineligible’ features, like external annotations or custom thumbnails will now be labeled as ‘enabled’.



Your verified status will be displayed below your username.
 Your ratings status is displayed on this page under your username. After 3 infractions your rating will lower and you may lose access to some of your account benefits (such as uploading longer videos or live streaming) depending on your violation.



A green status with a smiley face indicates a normal rating without infractions.
Checking your ratings is a good place to start if you are having problems taking advantage of new features.
 Annotations can be added to videos to provide in-video information or links. External Annotations can link to sites outside of YouTube as well as promote monetization.
 A video thumbnail is the preview image that displays on the video listing. You can now customize these during the upload process or add them to your existing uploads by going to the Video Manager and selecting “Edit > Custom Thumbnail” for a video.
 Although verifying your account will give you access to live streaming, you must still enable the feature from the Features page by clicking “Enable” under the Live Streaming header. Once enabled, you can broadcast content live to YouTube.Once access to Live Streaming is granted, you can also enable the ability to embed a live stream into other websites from your YouTubes Features page.

