 Normally, you would want to wash your hair a few times a week. However, the lengthy time it takes to wash hair with a weave in makes it impractical to do more than once a week, and a weave may be damaged with excessive cleaning. Washing your natural hair once a week, and washing your weave twice a month should be sufficient in most cases. Try to approach these two things relatively separately.

Washing your natural hair once a week, and washing your weave twice a month should be sufficient in most cases.;
, Using a brush, comb or your fingers, get any snags out of your hair. Hair weaves can be notorious when it comes to tangling, so delicately smoothing it out is necessary for a proper cleaning. Begin from the roots at the top of your head, and gently brush downward. Make sure to keep the brushing in a relatively fluid motion; that way, you'll minimize the risk of tangles.


For any kind of hair extensions, you should be using a looper brush or a smooth comb. Looper brushes have no tips on the end of the bristles, meaning they won't snag any hair piece.Be very delicate and meticulous; natural hair is very easy to untangle compared to a weave, and any extra force runs the risk of permanently damaging the fixture. , Pouring warm water on your head and parting your hair from the centre will make it easy to identify the wefts (individual parts of the weave) in your hair. That way, you'll have an easier time trying to figure out which parts of your head you should be focusing on the most., Weaves tend to need more attention and meticulous care than your natural air, as they're not being regularly supplied with the same oils from your scalp. Rub some of your favourite shampoo into your scalp; from there, you can gradually tease the weave with the shampoo, stroking it downward.


Make sure not to use the traditional circular rubbing method with your weave, as it will encourage tangling. The way you touch the hair should go from top to bottom. Be patient and gentle.
 There's a good chance you would use conditioner following shampoo as part of any hair routine; because hair weaves aren't naturally with oil however, conditioner becomes that much more important. Apply it in the same way as you did with the conditioner, starting from the top, and applying it downwards.

Because an excess of conditioner can result in tangling, it's recommended you find a leave-in conditioner for this purpose.
 Many people who use hair weaves have complained of a smell that comes after it's been wet for too long. This is usually caused by a build-up of mold. Buy a relatively inexpensive anti-bacterial hair spray (such as the Salon Pro 30 Second Spray ) and give your hair a spritz while you're waiting for it to dry. , Making sure to dry your hair thoroughly is very important when you're using a weave. Otherwise, a weave left wet runs the risk of acquiring mold, which will leave your hair smelling far worse than before. At the same time, you want to dry it lightly enough that you don't run the risk of causing heat damage. There are a few ways to do this:


Sitting in front of an oscillating fan and letting the air to its work is time-consuming, but it's ultimately the safest way to dry your leave-in weave and hair.
Hair dryers come with the risk of heat damage, but hooded dryers can alleviate some of the cons. Start with the ends and work your way up to the scalp. 