 If social interaction stresses you out, think of a few topics that you are comfortable discussing. Before the party, come up with questions or responses you might give regarding these topics. If you practice possible conversation scenarios ahead of time, you won’t have to worry about thinking on the spot. Possible topics include:


Memes or viral videos you think are funny.
The latest celebrity faux pas posted to social media.
Opinions on new music and film releases.;
, You might be super excited about your topic for the final paper, but will your peers grasp the main idea while they’re dancing to loud techno music? Think of topics that can be easily understood in a loud and over-stimulated environment. These topics might include music, class schedules, or anything else that is simple and within your conversation comfort zone.
 This short story could stem from personal experience, an episode from your favorite TV show, or a post you saw on social media. Add some humor if you can, but don’t panic if you can’t. Humorous or not, snippets from your personal life will flow easily because they are genuine.You could say:


“For the longest time, I thought Prince was singing, ‘Don’t party like an overlord’ in ‘1999.’ Good thing I never tried that song at karaoke!”
“I still can’t decide if my favorite of the Doctor’s companions is Martha or Rose. They were both equally great.”
“George Takei is one of my favorite celebrities to follow on Twitter. He’s either thought-provoking or flat-out hilarious!”

, Almost everyone attending a college party is connected to social media, giving them common ground when it comes to current events. However, specific topics will depend on the type of party. If it’s a toga party, you’ll want to focus on pop culture references or on-campus quirks that interest you. If it’s a Pride Week party, you could talk about politics or activism.
 If you recognize a classmate who you’ve never talked to, here’s your chance. If you see someone who also looks a bit nervous, a conversation eases both of your anxieties. Simple ice-breakers include:


“You sit behind me in physics, right? I’m Jennifer. Nice to meet you.”
“So what brings you here tonight?”
“I’m actually a physics major. What about you?”
“I hear these parties are always a hit. Is this your first, or have you been to a few before?”

, Stand close enough to glean what others are saying. Introduce yourself to the people closest to you, and ask if you could squeeze in. Observe the reactions of the others in the group, and do what they do. For instance, if someone tells a funny joke, laugh when the others laugh.