 To get Dr. Shrunk’s club, Club LOL, you must first upgrade Nookling Junction to T&T Mart, which can only be upgraded if you’ve upgraded your tent to a house. Before you can do this, though, your town must be at least 10 days old.

If you’ve been playing the game for more than 10 days, proceed to Step 2.;
, Do this by giving Tom Nook a down payment of 10,000 bells. Your tent will upgrade to a house the next day., You can find Nookling Junction in Main Street. Once you’ve spent 12,000 bells there, after completing all of the above requirements, Nookling Junction will close for a day of renovations. After this, it will reopen as the T&T Mart., Before you can approve the construction of new stores, your approval rating must be 100%. To know how much approval rating you currently have, journey to the Town Hall (the purple marker on the map at the bottom screen).

Enter the Town Hall and sit in the mayor’s chair located behind Isabelle’s desk. Isabelle will approach you once you sit down, and speak to you, giving you a variety of dialogue options.
Select “Check approval rating” to see how the villagers view you. If it is not yet 100%, there are several things you can do to quickly reach the perfect goal. If it has, proceed to Part 3.
 There are several actions that can raise your approval rating by 3; however, you will only receive points the first time you do the action:

Changing the town music—Speak to Isabelle in the Town Hall. She will give you the option to change the town music, but only if your town is two in-game days old or more.
Changing the town flag—Speak to Isabelle in the Town Hall.
Putting something up for sale at Re-tail—Visiting Re-tail (the pink arrow icon on the map at the bottom of the screen), and talk to Reese, the pink alpaca.
Posting something on the bulletin board—Go to the bulletin board next to the train station (northernmost part of town) and hit “A” on your console, and then enter your message.
Donating a fish, bug, or fossil to the museum—This can be done after capturing a fish with the fishing rod, catching a bug with the net, or digging up a fossil with the shovel. Enter the museum, which is on the far left side of Main Street, and talk to Blathers.
 These actions can be repeated:

Removing trash from the water by fishing—At times when you fish, rather than pulling up an animal, you will come up with a piece of junk, which can later be disposed of. Note that this is a random occurrence.
Introducing yourself to villagers—This can be done by approaching villagers and hitting the “A” button to converse with them.
Sending letters—Buy letter paper at the Nookling Junction. Open it in your inventory, enter a message, and send it by giving it to the duck working at the Post Office (found on the left hand side of Main Street).
Pulling weeds—This can be done by standing over weeds, which appear as brownish green sprouts of grass, and hitting the “Y” button.
Watering flowers—This can only be done if you own a watering can, which can be purchased at the Nookling Junction. With the watering can equipped, stand in front of the flowers and hit the “A” button to water them.
 You will earn 3 extra points per day simply by playing., The day after you completed the requirements mentioned in Parts 1 and 2, Dr. Shrunk will be waiting for you outside your house. He will inform you of what he wants to build and ask your permission for the construction.

After giving him the OK, he will hand you a petition and request that you collect 6 signatures from your villagers.
The petition is an item that cannot be dropped, put into storage, sold, or thrown away; you are stuck with it until you collect the correct amount of signatures.
 Any villager will sign the petition, and they can be asked while wandering around town or while in their homes. When you find a villager, hit “A” to talk to them., One of the options that will pop up after the initial greetings is asking them to sign the petition; select that option, and the villager may sign the petition. Don't worry if they don't, sometimes this happens.

Repeat steps 2 and 3 for the next 5 villagers.
 Once you have collected all 6 signatures, go talk to Dr. Shrunk, who can be found walking around the Main Street in the shopping District, and give him the petition.

Within the next 4 to 8 in-game days, Club LOL will begin its construction and open.
 After Club LOL opens, pay Dr. Shrunk a visit during its daytime hours, 12 p.m. to 8 p.m. The club can be found on the left side of Main Street., Dr. Shrunk will thank you for helping with the construction of the club, and mention his ability to teach emotions.

The first time you talk to Dr. Shrunk after his club opens, he will hand you a joke book, which contains all the emotions you learn.
 If you brought a piece of fruit, when you talk to him, a “I brought you a snack option” will appear. Select this to give him the fruit, and in return, he will teach you an emotion.

Right after the exchange, the new emotion will be accessible to the player.
Only one emotion can be learned per day, and Dr. Shrunk can only teach them before 8 p.m. After 8, the club will become a dance floor.
 Access the joke book by selecting the purple book button on the bottom of the screen. Click an emotion to have your character perform it. Some villagers may respond to emotions such as showmanship, disbelief, heartbreak, mischief, and more, while other emotions won't lead a reaction by villagers, like cold chill, daydreaming, and surprise.