 Offer your child at least 32 ounces of water or diluted juice every day. Try to make 75% of that water, since juice contains sugar that can cause diarrhea. This extra fluid in the stool will make it softer and easier to pass.To dilute juice, add 1 ounce of water for every ounce of juice. Avoid using juices that have sugar added. Consider diluting prune, pear, or apple juice.;
, If your child is between one and three years of age, she should get 19 grams of fiber a day. If she's between four and eight years of age, she should get 25 grams of fiber a day.Fiber is critical in helping bulk up stools. To increase the amount of fiber in your child's diet, offer:Fruits (leave the skins on since they contain fiber): pears, prunes, apples, figs and peaches.
Berries: blueberries, strawberries, raspberries and blackberries.
Unprocessed whole grains which contain the bran (the outer layer of the cereal grain): oat, wheat, corn and rice bran.
Beans: a variety can also offer minerals, but introduce these slowly because your toddler may get gassy.
Vegetables: leafy green vegetables (like mustard, collard, turnip greens, beet greens, spinach, kale, swiss chard), broccoli, Brussels sprouts, squash, cabbage, cauliflower, peas and carrots.
Nuts and seeds (including ground flax seeds): Only offer these to children over 5 years of age since they may be a choking hazard in younger children.
 Processed foods are usually high in sugars and low in fiber. This combination can cause diarrhea, add extra calories, lead to obesity, and contribute to childhood diabetes (all of which are on the rise). You should also avoid foods that have a binding effect which makes constipation worse.Avoid or cut down on these foods for a while:


Unripe or green bananas
Dairy products: milk, yogurt, cheese, ice cream
Red meat
White rice

, Monitor your child's stools for at least five days once you've started hydrating and increasing fiber. If you don't notice an improvement, talk with your child's doctor about recommending an over-the-counter stool softener designed for children.Realize that using any sort of suppository, laxative or stool softener can make the problem worse in the long-term because your child can come to rely on these for bowel movements. However, short-term use of medications until dietary changes take effect can be safe and effective, especially if constipation is severe.


Suppositories and enemas can be a traumatic experience for your toddler, so you should try to avoid using these if possible.
 Stimulate your child's bowels by gently massaging his tummy. Use gentle, circular motions to apply pressure. Start at the lower right part of the belly and massage in the circular motions up and then across the belly. Keep doing this down to the lower left part of the belly. Be prepared in case the massage stimulates a normal bowel movement.


Never press hard. You may feel a mass, especially at the lower left part of the belly. This is normal. You are just feeling the stool. Avoid the temptation to push down hard on this mass.
 If you force toilet-training, your child may become stressed, causing her to actively resist bowel movements. Your child may see toilet training as a punishment and something to be avoided. Instead, make it a pleasant experience. Reward your child for using the toilet and spend the time that your child is on the potty reading to her or telling her a story. Stay with her the whole time, remaining happy and positive.Try getting your toddler in the habit of sitting on the potty shortly after eating, for about 10 minutes, each day.
Your toddler may be exploring the areas of her life that she can control, which includes pooping (to some extent). Work with her to toilet train. Don't simply force her.
 The act of walking or running actually keeps the contents of the bowels massaged making activity a natural remedy for constipation. Try to let your toddler run around and play for at least one hour a day.


Show your child how to slither on his stomach. This is a great way to put direct pressure on the bowels, helping to loosen stools., Your child is considered to be constipated if she's under four years old and is experiencing two of the following conditions:Two or fewer bowel movements per week
Loss of control over bowel movements (fecal incontinence) at least once a week after learning to use the toilet
A history of holding in her stool or resisting potty training
A history of painful or difficult bowel movements
The presence of a large stool in the rectum
A history of large stools that may block the toilet

Imagine your child touching her thumb and index finger together, making a circle. If your child's stools are larger than the diameter of that circle, she may be uncomfortable passing stools.
 There's a wide range of what's considered to be "normal" frequency of bowel movements, just like for adults. Most infants pass two to four stools a day. By the time they get a little older, toddlers consolidate their bowel movements and pass between one to two stools a day.


If your child tends to have fewer bowel movements but does not show any discomfort or difficulty, that is probably what's normal for your child.