 Senior executives need to know about the organization's mission and goals. This understanding has to be clear because mentoring will be more effective when the mentor is well-versed with the direction of the organization. Mentoring can be viewed as guiding an employee within the boundaries of the organizational culture.;
, The CEO has to start the ball-rolling by declaring who is part of his internal circle and if he is also getting advice from a mentor who has no vested interest in the organization. This is a signal to the rest of the organization that their leader is open-minded and has a sense of flexibility that can weather any business dynamics. No employee likes to be in an organization that may go under because of the authoritarian leadership of the top management.
 Business mentoring accountability and remuneration is an area of discussion that has yet to be fully developed in current business literature. This must change because ineffective mentors can chart the organization into rough waters rather than out! This is hardly surprising if mentoring is done in an ad hoc manner because the choice of mentor is not structured and at the same time, the mentor is not motivated to give his best advice.
 Every worker should be a member of a mentoring team. In the case of middle management, they should also help be mentors as well as be mentored, especially when the mentoring system has just been set in place.
 Many organizations create a board of advisory that consists of various industry experts who also play the role of mentors. This is a good starting point but the organization must also ensure that there is no "kingdom-building" and regularly change the board of advisory to suit the dynamic economic environment.
 The mentor-protégé relationship is not only based on trust and respect; there must be confidentiality. This has to be taken in the light of current wave of social networking sites (Facebook, Myspace) and blogs (LiveJournal, Blogger) where organizational secrets can be easily shared with a large online community.

