 If you have a physical copy of the movie, simply put it in to play it. You will need to appropriate device, of course. Almost all computers and laptops can handle DVDs now, and many can handle Blu-Ray without a hiccup. Most video game systems, too, can play Blu-Ray/DVD. If in doubt, check your players specifics and look for the appropriate designation (DVD, HDDVD, Blu-Ray, etc.) right on the disc.



Most computers simply need a program to play DVDs. If one doesn't come with the computer, as it usually does, look up "DVD Playback Program" online..;
, If you're connected to the internet, these are your best bets to find and enjoy films. You can search through genres, actors, and ratings and start movies instantly, all for one flat monthly price. There are even some free sites, including:



YouTube: Any movie that is no longer copyright protected (including many classics from the 50's, 60's, and earlier), can be streamed for free online.

Crackle: A collection of free-to-watch movies.

Top Documentary Films: Free, legal documentaries.

SnagFilms: An app-based movie platform for phones and tablets., Usually found in the "On-Demand" section, there is a group of free and paid movies that you can watch anytime. There are movie-specific channels too that show movies and film-related documentaries all day. Hit "Menu" on your remote and search for "Movies," often under "find channels," "on-demand" or "programming."


Go online and sign in with your cable/satellite information to see a collection of all available "on-demand" movies.
 These streams are illegal to put up on the internet, but not strictly illegal to watch. That is, as long as you don't download the file or show it to many people. Streaming is what YouTube does -- showing you a copy of the video without having to download it.While this is oversimplifying things a bit, the key point is that you won't get in trouble for streaming, though the website owners might. If that doesn't bother you, simply search online for "+ Free stream." Even first-run movies are often uploaded, though the quality can be suspect. Since the sites get taken down often, you may have to do some digging to find your movie.


Only click on the triangular "Play" button or the "Close to Watch Movie" buttons on these sites. Many pop-up ads are meant to trick you with fake "Download/Play" buttons and special offers to view the movie on another site.
 Torrenting gives you a digital copy of the movie that you can put on a disc/phone/tablet or watch directly from your computer. If you've never torrented before, be sure to read up on safe torrenting practices. Some tips to find your movies include:


You'll need a torrent client, like uTorrent or BitTorrent, to get and see torrent files.
Always click on the "magnet link" for safer downloads.
Only download torrents with lots of "seeds" and high reviews. If there are no reviews or comments, it might not be worth the risk.
If a link doesn't feel safe, look for another one.