 This is the simplest choice. It doesn’t get any lower calorie when it comes to vodka than to drink it straight. Because this option requires absolutely no other ingredients, you won’t need to worry about having a stocked refrigerator or pantry—just pour and enjoy!


There are a couple of common ways to enjoy vodka straight. You can drink it very quickly, as a shot. Or, you can put it over ice and sip it (this is called "on the rocks").
For even fewer calories, consider brands that market a lower calorie vodka. Skinny Girl Cocktails makes a few different reduced-calorie vodkas. A 1.5 ounce serving has 75.6 calories, compared to typical vodkas which have 96 calories per 1.5 ounce serving on average.This can definitely add up!
Do note that most reduced-calorie liquors achieve lower calories by reducing the proof. So, you would need to drink more to achieve the same effects as regular liquors. But, depending on the reason for your alcohol consumption, this may not matter to you.;
, Flavor-infused vodkas are flavored vodkas without any extra calories. Many brands of vodka sell infused varieties, including Belvedere, Burnett's, and Gray Goose, and it’s been a trend for years in the vodka world to come out with different flavors of infused vodkas.


Infused vodkas can make for a more flavorful and interesting experience when drinking vodka straight and can also eliminate the need for various traditional higher-calorie mixers like juice. Many of the infused vodkas sold in stores are infused with things you might expect, like lemon or berries or cucumber. But there are also exotic infusions like horseradish, bacon, and smoked salmon.It’s also very easy to make your own infused vodka! You can use most types of fresh fruits and vegetables. Some people even infuse their vodka with coffee beans. Simply place your flavor in a canning jar and pour vodka inside. Wait a few days and then strain the liquid out and voila: flavored vodka!You can make your own delicious watermelon-infused vodka. Fresh watermelon or watermelon-flavored candy will do the trick.
 Diet Coke and other diet sodas are popular mixers that add zero calories to vodka. Other common options are light cranberry juice, diet iced tea, diet lemonade, and lime juice.Because the calories in vodka tend to be pretty standard across the board (unless you opt for reduced-calorie vodka) the only way to have a cocktail without a lot of calories is to be mindful of what you mix in with your alcohol.
Sugar is the main culprit for calories in mixed drinks. This is why so many of the options for low-calorie mixers are low in sugar or have switched out the sugar with a sugar substitute like Stevia or Sweet'n Low. There’s even sugar-free Triple Sec.
If you’re using mixers that do have a fair bit of calories, simply use less. It may end up tasting different that you’re used to, but it may still be delicious. However, using a small amount of a caloric mixture doesn’t have to affect the taste. In fact, a traditional vodka martini uses dry vermouth but uses so little that it doesn’t make the drink very high in calories.

