 Make any corrections for typos, wording , or desired changes to artwork. This is a good time to set the final title for your book, or keep the working title if you like it! When you like what you see digitally, you will be ready for the next step., Both Lulu.com and CreateSpace.com encourage you to order a proof copy before you approve your picture book file and cover for publication. While proof copies are only between $7 - $20 in cost depending on page count , color use and publisher chosen, you should make as many changes in the master Illustrator file after viewing the digital / free copy of your book.

Get your book close to typo free and perfect before you order the first proof. Use printed proofs to see how the publisher is true to color, how you like the placement of text and artwork, and for any creative changes you wish to make. Your goal is to need no more that 2 or 3 proof copies in getting to a perfect, printable file!

, At each proof, check for typos, color, text and art placement, and for any changes that will enhance your story. Carefully check your cover, front and back, and the outside and inside margins and gutters.

Did the color "full bleed" if you intended it to, (color right to the edges of the pages)?
Is the inside white gutter just right, or showing too much white?

, Use of color can create emotion and tone, grays for rainy scenes, greens and yellows for spring, happy times, etc. Consider "sub visuals" - any artwork or drawings that show activity, emotion or tell a separate story from that which is the main story of the book. Sub visuals can add another layer of interest to a story, gently and visually., Ask those you trust to tell you truths. Honest criticism will only improve the story and your work., Beyond marketing, the success of your book ultimately depends on whether it is a good read for the preschool set. Create stories they want to hear about issues that interest them, that have a bit of fun, and a bit of life in them. Don't talk down to your audience; use DR Seuss, Where the Wild Things Are, If You Give a Mouse a Cookie, and other standards of picture books -- to set the level of writing. The days of "Run Spot, Run" are long gone!