 Many courts have prepared forms for motions, or a blank motion form that you can adapt for your purpose.


You may be able to download forms on your local court's website, or the website of your state's highest court.
Forms also may be available at the clerk's office, although you may have to pay a small fee for paper copies.Since both you and your spouse want to end the separation, you need an agreed motion, which would be signed by both parties.Different states require different documents to reverse a legal separation. For example, in Connecticut you must file a "declaration of resumption of marriage,"while in California you file a motion to vacate the legal separation order.;
, You should copy the caption from the order you have granting your legal separation.


Usually the caption includes the name of the court, the names of the parties, and the case number. This information should remain the same in both content and format for all documents filed in your case., The title tells the court what the motion is about. To ask the judge to reverse a legal separation order, you typically would use a title such as "Motion to Dismiss" or "Motion to Vacate Order."Usually the title is centered two lines below the caption in bold-face type. Some jurisdictions format the title differently, such as underlined or in all-caps. Look at other motions filed in the same court as a guide if you're unsure.
 The rest of your motion sets out for the court the factual reasons you desire to end your legal separation and your joint plan to reconcile.


Start by identifying yourself and your spouse, and listing when and where the Order of Legal Separation was entered.You also want to note that your marriage was never dissolved and that you never filed for divorce.Typically you need to explain to the court the reason you and your spouse agreed to end the separation, such as that you've reconciled or that you were concerned for the emotional condition of your children., At the conclusion of the body of your motion, you need to create a space to sign it.


Before the space for your signature, include the statement "I swear the information contained above is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief."
Under the line for your signature, type your name, address, telephone number, and email address.
Make sure to duplicate this block so your spouse also has a place to sign.
 If your motion includes any statements of fact, it must be notarized. You can find a form for the appropriate notary block for your state and county on the internet., Most states have a fill-in-the-blank form for the notice, which usually can be found at the clerk's office or on the court's website.


If you can't find a form, you can make your own by typing a centered line that reads "Notice of Hearing" about two lines below the last line of your certificate of service, or on a new page.
Under the title, type "This motion is set to be heard by _________ on the _____th day of ______________, 20__ in Room __________ of Courthouse at ." Use the appropriate name and address of the courthouse. The blanks will be filled in by the clerk after you've filed your motion., Before you file your motion, you may want to consider having an attorney look over it and make sure your formatting is correct and you've included all the necessary information., Both you and your spouse must visit a notary public and sign the motion before it is filed.Many banks provide notary services free of charge to their customers. You also can find a notary at certain private businesses such as shipping services or check-cashing companies, although you will have to pay a small fee.
There also are notary public locator services online that you can use to search for the notary nearest you., After you've signed your motion, you'll need to make at least one copy for yourself and another for your spouse, as you'll file the originals with the court.
 You'll need to give your originals to the clerk and pay the filing fee. The clerk will stamp your originals and copies with the date.You should also make copies of the original legal separation order and attach one to your motion., If your court has a special method of scheduling motions, the clerk will let you know. Once the clerk sets the date for your hearing, it will be entered on the original and all your copies of your notice of hearing., Both you and your spouse must appear for the hearing.


Try to arrive at the courthouse early so you have plenty of time to park and go through security. Dress neatly and conservatively, and leave any cell phones or other electronic devices in your car or at home rather than attempting to take them into the courtroom.
Be polite and respectful to all courthouse staff.Bring at least one copy of everything you've filed in your case, including your motion and the original order granting your separation.
 Stand when the judge calls your name and explain that you and your spouse have reconciled and you want to end your separation.
 The judge likely will confirm that both you and your spouse want to dismiss the legal separation order, and that you both understand what that means.
 Often the prevailing party is responsible for drafting the order, which the judge signs.


If you don't have an attorney, the judge may simply get someone on her staff to type up the order. However, consider drafting an order before your hearing date so you will have it with you if the judge asks.
To prepare the order, prepare a document with the same caption as your motion, titled "Order." State the date the hearing was held and that the judge granted your motion and dismissed the legal separation order. End your order with the judge's signature block, which should be available from the clerk's office or can be copied from the previous order.