 Your feelings of stress are connected to the “fight or flight” response that humans have experienced since our earliest ancestors were running away from sabre-tooth tigers. Even if modern stressors are not typically so life-threatening, your body responds in a similar fashion.When a potentially dangerous or challenging situation arises, your body releases hormones such as adrenaline and cortisol, which give you increased energy and focus, among other changes. In small doses, these changes can help you accomplish tasks more successfully. If you are stressed too much and too often, however, they can damage your health.;
, How do you explain to someone what it feels like to experience stress — say, when you realize the term paper that you haven’t started is due tomorrow? A pounding heart? Sweaty palms? Trouble catching your breath? An inability to focus, or perhaps instead an extreme focus? Stress is a unique experience for each person, but there are some common physical symptoms.The release of hormones in a stress reaction can cause, among other changes: an increased heart rate and breathing rate; increased blood pressure and metabolism; increased blood flow to major muscle groups (arms and legs, for instance); dilated pupils, enabling you to see more clearly; profuse sweating (to cool the body); and a burst of energy caused by the release of stored glucose (your body’s fuel).
These changes are natural and beneficial if they enable you to focus on and complete an important task (like that term paper). Feeling stressed too often, however, can have negative physical consequences.
 In the short term, after the burst of energy that stress gives you, you may feel more tired or irritable. If you experience too much stress too often, you will begin to notice more significant long-term changes in how you act and feel.Long-term effects of excessive stress in teens can include: anxiety; depression; insomnia; digestive problems; reduced immune response (more colds and illnesses); constant bad mood; trouble getting along with others; substance abuse; and self-injury.
Essentially, if you are feeling too stressed too often — for instance, if your parents are going through a divorce or you are failing three classes — you may feel physically and emotionally drained all the time., For some people, the signs of excessive stress may be too subtle to notice. Other people may willfully ignore or deny the signs, or simply attribute them to some other cause — the flu, a few bad nights’ sleep in a row, etc. Sometimes, however, you can recognize your stress by observing how other people are responding to you. If people are treating you differently or telling you that you seem different, it may be due to stress overload on your part.Friends or family may say you seem more distant, or disinterested; that you are more moody, irritable, or unpredictable; that you lash out more, or that you seem to be “beating yourself up” over every little thing; that you look tired or sick; that you aren’t as much fun anymore; or that you “just don’t seem like yourself anymore.”
Use the clues provided by those around you to help you identify whether you are experiencing excessive stress, what is causing it, and what you can do about it.
 Sometimes adults like to say that kids and teens “have it easy,” because they don’t have “important” things like mortgages and insurance co-pays to worry about. However, the teen years are a legitimately stressful time for many boys (and girls). As a teen, you are undergoing many rapid changes and beginning to establish yourself as a unique individual — and that means that causes of stress can be everywhere.


Common sources of stress for teenage boys can include: school work; peer pressure; romantic relationships; family troubles; sports and activities; body image issues; bullying; discrimination; substance abuse; and high expectations, among others., Grab a physical or digital notepad and jot down common activities, situations, or people who stress you out. Taking some time to do this kind of journaling regularly — simply writing down how you feel — is actually a good way to deal with stress on its own.The Holmes-Rahe Stress Inventory is commonly utilized by professionals who deal with stress. It lists 43 common stressors by general severity, and assigns each a point total. By marking down the stressors that impact you and adding up your total points, you can get a general baseline of your overall stress level.
 Some of the stressors you deal with are unavoidable, but others can be avoided. After you have identified the causes of your stress, you can set about finding ways to ignore, change, or prevent those stressors that are avoidable.If being late all the time causes you stress, work on strategies to be on time more often. If a certain friend causes you excessive stress, reconsider your relationship with that person. If reading others’ comments about you on social media causes you stress, spend less time looking. Control what you can control to limit unnecessary stress.
 Avoiding stressors is one way to be proactive about dealing with stress; planning ahead to “nip” stress “in the bud” is another. If you become more assertive in addressing potential stressors, you can contain and limit their impact before they affect you. Try, for instance:


Getting organized. A messy living space tends to cause more stress, especially if you can never find what you need when you need it.
Learning to say “no.” People with excessive stress often accept too many commitments and can’t keep up. Know your limits.
Carving out time for relaxation. When you do reduce your stressful commitments, try to fill at least some of that time with stress-free activities that you enjoy.
Working on your problem-solving skills. If you can solve a potentially stressful issue before it fully blooms, you can save yourself a lot of time and trouble.
Surrounding yourself with supportive people. Give more of your time to friends and family who show understanding, compassion, and support for the stress in your life.
 Sometimes, a simple change of scenery can positively impact your feelings of stress. Take a walk; get some fresh air; find a new spot to eat lunch; find a different after-school hangout.


Once you’ve identified places and situations that tend to cause you stress, you can work on avoiding or limiting your time there.
Sometimes you can simply adjust an existing environment, by, for instance, playing relaxing music, introducing pleasant aromas, or tidying up.
 Stress is real, and the negative impact excessive stress can have on you is also very real. Often, the act of talking to someone about your stress can help manage or even eliminate it. Seek out a parent, a trusted friend or teacher, or a professional counselor or therapist. There are plenty of people out there who want to (and can) help; you just have to let them.If your stress ever causes you to consider harming yourself in any way, talk to someone immediately. Call emergency services or a crisis hotline. Do not be too proud or too afraid to get the help you need.If you know someone else who is considering self-harm due to stress, get help for them. Be a true friend.
 Think of the list of stressors you draw up as a list of opponents to “pick off,” one by one. You can’t conquer them all, but you can get rid of plenty of them with methodical, thoughtful planning.Start at the bottom of your list, with less severe stressors that are easier to address. For instance, if being late to school or work all the time stresses you out, develop a strategy for getting ready faster.
As you work your way up the list, the task will become more difficult. Some stressors simply cannot be overcome. For instance, you may not be able to avoid worrying about your math grade. You can, however, improve the situation by seeking tutoring, perhaps.
 Quiet, calming, thoughtful activities can help reduce your stress experience. Turn to them when you are feeling stressed out, but also use them as preventative measures, to get you in a less stressful frame of mind before a big test, for instance.When it comes to calming the mind, everyone is different. Some common options include: reading; laughing; positive-thinking exercises; deep-breathing exercises; meditation; prayer; or whatever works to calm you and help your stress melt away.
 Calming the mind and calming the body often go hand-in-hand. In combination, they can help you deal with many common causes of stress, from a bad breakup to your basketball team’s losing streak. Try, for instance:


Taking a bath.
Listening to relaxing music.
Painting.
Giving yoga a try.
Taking up a new hobby, or returning to a favorite one.
Getting outside. Take a walk. Breathe in the fresh air. Clear your mind and relax your body., Study after study has shown that most people (including teens) don’t get enough sleep, and that a lack of adequate sleep can cause a host of physical and emotional problems. Among the many negative impacts, inadequate sleep increases your stress hormone levels, even before factoring in your actual sources of stress.Everyone’s sleep needs are different, but the average growing teenager should strive for 8-10 hours of sleep per night. Try to get that same amount each night, and try going to bed and waking up at the same time each day (yes, including weekends and summers!).With adequate sleep, you will be more focused, in a better mood, and better able to deal with your stress.
 Excessive stress negatively impacts the body, and so does unhealthy eating. Maintaining a healthy diet, full of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and lean proteins, will help you be more physically able to deal with stress, and can even reduce stress hormones and increase stress-fighting ones.People often turn to sugary snacks or other junk food as “comfort food” to deal with stress. This might temporarily reduce your stress, but will not provide any lasting benefit. Focusing on your overall health by way of a healthy diet, and dealing with your stress directly, with effective stress reduction strategies, is the better option.
 Physical exercise is not only good for your muscles and cardiovascular system, it can help you reduce your stress levels as well. Exercise can be a calming distraction, and it also causes a release of endorphins, which naturally improve your spirits.Studies have shown that exercise is one of the most effective stress-reduction techniques, including among teens. Strive to get an hour or more of exercise every day, or at very least several times per week. Try walking, running, swimming, biking, team sports, or other activities you enjoy.