 In order to make the best possible manuscript, you need to be very honest with the author. Don’t coddle the author. Tell him what you really think about the manuscript. The point is to help the author make the best work possible. If you are not honest with critiquing the work, then you are shortchanging the author and the readers. , Even when you need to be brutally honest, a good editor will still give positive feedback. Tell the author what you love about his work. This will also work to soften the blow when you give feedback about things that need to be changed., Authors tend to be very connected personally with their works. It’s your job as an editor to maintain professionalism so that the author knows you’re not attacking him when you give feedback. For example, if you think the author runs on and on, you can tactfully comment on this. Don’t respond with a comment like, “Just shut up already!” Instead, write, “It’s time to move on to a new subject.”

, Your author is trusting you with helping to shape her work into something that represents her creative voice. Be supportive of what your author is trying to accomplish. And then it’s your job to bring that work to a publishable state.


If you get a work that is particularly rough, encourage the author by saying, “This is a good start. Let’s work with what you’ve given to expand it.”

, Your job as editor is not to leave your imprint on the work. You are a behind-the-scenes contributor. The author makes particular choices about how she writes, the words she uses, and the rhythm of the sentences. Your job is to make sure the author communicates effectively with the reader. Don’t apply your own preferences to the work.For example, you may detest certain words and try to avoid using them. But if your author is using one of these words, it should stay in the text. Your author chose it for a reason.
 A good editor will know exactly why a change or edit needs to be made. She will be able to explain in detail why the edit improves the text.Don’t hem and haw over your reasons for making certain edits. Be assertive with your author., When the manuscript is completed and the editing is finalized, send the manuscript back to the author. Then the author can review your changes to make sure her writing still says what she wants it to say.