 For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms.;
,, During the difficult times we should not listen to the lies of the accuser. When you are sick do not allow the devil to tell you that you are sick because you have sinned. Believe what the Word of God says pertaining your situation that you are healed through His stripes on the cross. When you experience financial difficulties do not allow the accuser to attack you with lies that you will never be able to come out of debt. What does Gods' word says about finances? Philippians 4:19 says, And my God will meet all your needs according to His Glorious riches in Christ Jesus. Do not allow the enemy to tell you that God does not care for you, or that He does not have time for your problems. God loves you and will help you. Those who call upon the name of the Lord will be saved, and if not in this life as we hope, then in the better life to come.
 Our right standing in God. God has forgiven all our sins and we are righteous through Jesus Christ. Romans 8:1 Therefore there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ. Do not allow the accuser to condemn you, Jesus died for you and we can have a relationship with our Heavenly Father.
 The armour also includes the preaching of the Gospel of peace. Telling co-workers, friends, everyone you meet of Jesus Christ. This is part of the full armour.
 Jer. 29:11 says, For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord, plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you hope and a future. When it seems to you that the situation you are experiencing is so dark you cannot see the end, have faith and know that God has a plan for your and it is one of prosperity not to harm you. Hebrews 11:1 Now faith is being sure of what we hope for and certain of what we do not see. We have to have faith that God has already provided us with a job, our debt has been paid in full and that God has already healed us. Although we cannot see it yet.
 Do not think thought of defeatism; think what the Word says that you are more than a conqueror through Christ Jesus. Only, accept doctrine clearly based on Biblical teaching not ones opinions or imaginings.
 Jesus said to Satan in Matthews 4:3-4 The tempter came to Him and said if you are the Son of God tell these stones to become bread and Jesus answered "it is written.....". We have to follow Jesus' example and use the Word of God as our sword.
