 Certain foods can slow down the body’s healing process, impair the immune system, and increase inflammation. These should especially be avoided by people with autoimmune diseases, people taking medications for heart, lung or digestive conditions and those who have recently had a cold, cough or fever. If you have a cold sore, you should also avoid these foods that can cause chronic inflammation:Refined carbohydrates, such as white bread, pastries and donuts
Fried, fatty foods
Sugar-sweetened beverages, such as soda or energy drinks.
Red meat such as veal, ham or steak, and processed meats such as hot dogs
Margarine, shortening and lard

, While some foods can cause inflammation, certain foods can actually help to reduce inflammation. A Mediterranean-style mainly consists of these inflammation-reducing foods, including:Fruits, such as strawberries, cherries and oranges
Nuts, like almonds and walnuts
Green leafy vegetables, such as spinach or kale which are high in antioxidants
Fatty, Omega-3-rich fish, like salmon, mackerel, tuna and sardines
Whole grains, such as brown rice, quinoa, millet, oatmeal, and flax seed
Olive or canola oil

, The herpes simplex virus requires arginine, an essential amino acid found in many foods, for its metabolism. Experts suggest that reducing the intake of arginine-rich foods from your diet may help control the occurrence and recurrence of cold sores, while also reducing inflammation in existing cold sores..


Arginine-rich foods include chocolate, cola, peas, refined grain cereals, gelatin, peanuts, cashews and beer.
 Research has shown that vitamin C plays a vital role as an antioxidant and promotes immune functions, lowers the risk of developing various diseases, aids in healing, and improves the skin’s natural appearance. Vitamin C can be taken as a dietary supplement (1000 mg/day) or by adding vitamin C-rich foods to your diet. It's very easy to get vitamin-C through food - just eat more fruits and vegetables! Good natural sources of vitamin C are:Sweet red or green peppers
Citrus, such as oranges, pomelo, grapefruit, limes or non-concentrated citrus juices
Spinach, broccoli and brussel sprouts
Berries, including strawberries and raspberries
Tomatoes

, Garlic has antiviral and anti-inflammatory properties that can help speed up the healing process. It is also rich in antioxidants, such as vitamin B6, vitamin C, and manganese, which help boost immunity against infections such as herpes.Garlic is best taken as a raw clove to release alliin. Each clove is approximately one gram. To make it more edible, you can also crush the garlic into a spoonful of honey or olive oil. This natural treatment will help strengthen your immune system and reduce the likelihood of recurrent sores.
For a topical ointment, you can make a paste by crushing two to four cloves of garlic and applying it to your cold sore with a cotton ball for 10 to 15 minutes. This may cause slight stinging and have a sharp smell, but the antiviral properties of garlic help disinfect the site and reduce the healing time.
Note that too much garlic intake may cause bad breath and low blood pressure, so limit your intake to two to four cloves of garlic a day. Garlic should not be used prior to surgery or if you have a bleeding disorder. If you experience side effects such as bloating, fatigue, loss of appetite, muscle aches, vertigo, allergies such as an asthmatic reaction, skin rashes and skin lesions, stop using garlic and see your doctor immediately.
 Zinc is an essential trace mineral found in many foods that you eat on a regular basis to keep your immune system strong. Zinc has antioxidant properties that help protect cells in the body from bacteria and viruses, such as the herpes simplex virus. It’s common to have slightly low levels of zinc, but taking a multivitamin and eating a healthy diet should give you all the zinc you need. The best dietary sources of zinc are oysters, shellfish, red meats, poultry, cheese, shrimp, and crab.You could also try a zinc ointment to sooth the cold sore and speed up the healing process. Simply put a small amount onto a cotton ball and apply to the cold sore for three to five minutes, up to two to three times daily.
Zinc is available as supplement and is in many multivitamin capsules. Speak with your doctor before taking zinc supplements. If you have a digestive problem, such as acid reflux, consider using more easily absorbed forms of zinc such as zinc picolinate, zinc citrate, zinc acetate, zinc glycerate, and zinc monomethionine. The amount of zinc is listed on the product label (usually 30 to 50 mg). To determine the amount to take in supplement form, remember that you can get about 10 to 15 mg from food. The recommended daily allowance for adults is 8 to 11 mg. You should not take high doses of zinc for more than a few days unless your doctor tells you to.
 Lysine is an essential amino acid obtained through dietary sources, such as salmon, tuna, chicken, non-fat milk, parmesan cheese, soybeans, eggs, lentils, sprouts, kidney beans, chickpeas and quinoa. You can also take lysine supplements. People who have more than three cold sores a year should supplement their daily diet with 2000–3000 mg of lysine to reduce the occurrence of cold sores over the long term. Take 1000 mg of lysine three times a day on an empty stomach. Do not take it with milk.Do not take lysine without consulting your healthcare provider, especially if you have high cholesterol or heart disease.

