 One of the best ways to burn fat and stay fit is through strength training. For every pound of muscle you gain, you burn more calories per day. After a good strength training exercise, you continue to burn calories for days after you are done while your body works to replenish the energy it burned and repair the muscles it worked. It also makes you healthier overall by helping bone density, blood pressure, heart health, blood sugar levels, cholesterol levels, and blood flow. Your improved body functions will help you keep the weight off.


The best way to see the most results in weight training is to do circuit training. To do this, choose 5 exercises and repeat them 8-12 times or 20-30 seconds each. Do the whole circuit 3 to 4 times. You can mix and match the exercises, choosing between stationary lunges, walking lunges, body weight squats, push ups, sit ups, planks, plank ups, jumping jacks, dumbbell rows, deadlifts, pull ups, and bicycles, just to name a few. Any strength building exercise would work in this routine.Don't rush through these exercises. You want to make sure that your form is solid and that you are engaging your muscles as you do them. Don't let momentum help you to do the exercises. Also remember to breathe as you do the reps.
You should do strength training three times a week, with a rest day in between each day of training. This gives you maximum results and your body time to heal. On the off days, do cardio exercises., Although strength training does get your heart rate up, you still need to incorporate a few days of cardio workouts into your weekly routine. It helps you burn calories and increases endurance, heart health, and overall fitness. This will help you feel better and burn more calories on a daily basis.


One of the best cardio exercises is running. It is really tough for some people, though others are natural runners. If you can't run for a long time at first, work up to it through intervals with programs such as Couch to 5K. You can go at your own pace and work up to running for longer periods of time. Over time, this will help you keep your weight off.If you hate to run or have bad knees or other injuries, try lower impact cardio such as elliptical or spin machines. Elliptical machines work much like running on a treadmill, but it decreases the impact by making it a continual motion with no impact involved. Spin, which is intense stationary cycling, also decreases the stress put on your legs by running. Try to find a spin class at the local gym. These workouts are intense but fun, incorporating music with high intensity cardio.
One of the best cardio motivators is good music. If you find yourself struggling to keep going, put some songs on your phone or music player that make you feel happy, energetic, and strong. Listening to them will make you want to work out longer and harder. Eventually, cardio will become part of your weekly routine, which will help you keep your weight off., If you want something a little more advanced for both cardio and strength training, try high intensity interval training (HIIT), which is the alternation of intervals of high intensity with moderate to low intensity, usually done in a 1-2 ratio. It burns more fat. It also keeps burning fat after you work out because the intervals jumpstart your metabolism and you burn calories for up to 24 hours after you work out.


For cardio, start with a 3-5 minute warm up. Then, sprint as fast as you can for 30 seconds and then walk or slow jog for 60 seconds. Do 5-10 cycles of this, then cool down for 3-5 minutes. You want to get your heart rate way up with the sprints and then get it lower with your moderate to low intensity interval. You can also go up in your time as you get better, to 60 seconds sprinting and 120 seconds walking or jogging.For strength training, the ratios are flipped because the intensity is not as extreme. Start with a 3-5 minute warm up. Then, do eight rounds each of 20 seconds intense, 10 seconds rest intervals of the exercises such as squats, jumping jacks, lunges, planks, plank ups, push ups, sit ups, bicycles, skaters, and high knees. Since you want to hit around 30 minutes of intense routine time, choose 8 exercises to run through the intervals. You can change up these exercises and do whichever you think will help the areas you are trying to strengthen.There are many HIIT channels for free on YouTube, such as Fitness Blender and Body Rocker.
 It can be really difficult to motivate yourself to workout if you have to work out alone. Check into your local gym and see if they have classes that fit into your schedule. Many gyms offer weight training classes, cardio classes, as well as classes that mix the two. Find the kind of class that works for you so you will be excited about going to it. Try to fit two or three into your schedule each week to help you lose and keep your weight off.


If you like weight training, find a class like power, body combat, or other strength training focused classes. They make up routines for you and make it fun by putting them to music.
If you like dancing, try a class like zumba. It is a great mixture of cardio and muscle toning that is also really fun to do., If you find that you have a really tough schedule that doesn't leave much room for a ton of exercise, try to incorporate as much as you can at intervals throughout the day. Take a fifteen minute walk around the block, do a few sets of push ups, squats, lunges, or sit ups when you have a few minutes free. If you slowly start integrating it into your routine, it will help you burn more calories.


Only do this on really busy days. You should still try to work out on a regular basis, but this method works on those days that are just too busy to fit a 45 minute routine into your day.Make it a group endeavor to help you stick to it. Instead of going out for food or drinks with your friends or colleagues after work, go work out at the gym or for a walk or run at the local track. This will allow you to keep your time with your friends but will help all of you be healthier and lose weight.