 A good date means that both of you are having a nice time. Be true to who you are and your needs along the way.Remember that you want to put your best foot forward, but that doesn’t mean changing your personality. If you want to start a meaningful relationship, you’ll have to show your true colors eventually!

, Dating can cause anxiety, but you have to relax to have a good time. Smile and enjoy the moment. Be fully present and aware of how you are both feeling. Let the chemistry arise organically. If it doesn’t happen, it’s okay to part ways.


Ending a date early can be awkward. Some people are comfortable making up excuses about meeting friends or running an errand. If you really aren’t having a good time, you can also try saying something like, “I’m not feeling so great, I think I’m going to head out soon.”

, To have a good flow of conversation, ensure that you both have equal talking time. Don’t ask too many questions back to back, and don’t only talk about yourself! Think of things you would like to know about your date. Ask questions about his or her hobbies, goals, or experiences. Strike a balance and share your stories as well. For example, you might ask an open ended question like, “What are your favorite things about playing soccer?” This may lead you to more questions or things you would like to share about yourself. For example, “I also love running. I hope to join the track team later this year.”

, Actively listening is a great life skill. Show that you are listening to your date by facing him or her and looking him or her in the eye. Do not check your phone while the other person is speaking. Verbally confirm that you are listening by repeating what was said or pausing before you respond. For example, your date might say, “My cousin went to the World Cup a few years ago.” If this is impressive to you, turn your body toward them and say, “Wow! The World Cup!” Then let them continue with the story.
 Do something flirty like touching the person’s arm or shoulder. Share a dessert or snack as a way to show intimacy and interest.


Use body language to let them know if you want a kiss. Step closer to them, or linger when you say goodbye. Note that the other person will reciprocate if they also want to kiss.Don’t get between the sheets too soon. Sleeping together before you get to know each other can cloud your judgement and cause you to miss any red flags.