 You can make goals that will allow you to thrive despite your blindness or visual impairment. One central skill you will need is to read and write in Braille. Sign up for a class on Braille so you can learn this skill. Use hands on training and practice to get better at reading Braille. Work with other people who are blind or visually impaired to improve your ability to write in Braille.


Start slow and learn basic skills in Braille first, such as how to read the positions of the dots in Braille or how to write basic sentences and phrases in Braille. Over time, you can challenge yourself to learn more complicated terms and sentences in Braille.
 People who are blind or have a visual impairment will use a white tipped cane to help orient themselves in a space and to walk in public areas on their own. You can first choose a cane to suit your needs and then focus on learning how to use the cane so you can feel more comfortable moving around on your own.


You can sign up for a class on how to use a cane if you are blind or visually impaired. Search for classes on cane use online or speak to your doctor to get a referral for a class.
 You may set a goal to learn how to prepare a meal on your own as a blind or visually impaired person. Take a class on meal preparation for the blind or visually impaired. Invest in kitchen tools to help make preparing a meal easier on your own.For example, if you are visually impaired, you may get contrasting cutting boards to make it easier for you to see food as you are cutting it. Use contrasting measuring cups and pitchers to help you see the contents more easily.
To achieve the goal of making coffee on your own when blind or visually impaired, put a water sensor on your coffee cup so you know when the cup is full.
 If you want to get better at browsing the internet and reading content online, you can use audio tools, such as text-to-speech software or screen reading software. Download this software and use it to read online content. The more you practice using the software, the better you will become at access written online content.You can also try using audio tools like audio books on CD or online. Audio books can be a great way for you to access written content, such as novels or articles, without having to learn Braille.
Don't forget about the wide world of smartphone apps. Consider the following:

KNFB Reader allows you to take a photo of a document (a bill received by mail, for instance) and the phone will read the document aloud.
TapTapSee, which allows you to take a picture of an object and the app will identify it, telling out out loud what it is.
LookTel Money Reader will tell you the value of the cash you have (for instance, if you are holding a five dollar bill).
VizWiz can help you get answers about your surroundings. You can snap a photo, ask a question about those surroundings, and then get a spoken answer from someone in the VizWiz network.



