 If your school doesn't have a uniform, make sure you're dressed appropriately. Go for a nice skirt or dress that's not too short, dress slacks, khakis, and a button-up shirt. Don't just wear a t-shirt and jeans and avoid clothes that are ripped or make controversial statements.


Take the time to iron your clothes and tuck your shirt in to avoid looking sloppy.
 Try not to be nervous and stressed when it's your turn to present. If you’re speaking in front of your class, remember that everyone has to make a presentation and is probably a little nervous, too.


It’s a good idea to use the restroom before you have to present your project.
 Chances are, your teacher will be grading your presentation based in part on your public speaking. Try to pronounce words clearly and speak loudly enough for everyone in the room to hear you. Avoid mumbling and looking down.It can be really hard to resist, but try to avoid saying “um” or “uh” during your presentation.
Speaking when you have a dry mouth can be difficult, so it’s a good idea to keep a water bottle handy.
 Try to be both conversational and knowledgeable when you make your speech. Remember not to simply read off notecards, your display board, or your PowerPoint. Make eye contact, use hand gestures, and direct their attention to your display with your hand or a laser pointer when necessary., Even if you do trip up your words, keep calm and carry on. If necessary, use your notecards or your display board to get you back on track. Do your best to stay positive and enthusiastic instead of getting sidetracked or upset., When you're finished making your presentation, ask if anyone has questions or feedback. Be prepared to respond or clarify, and use any positive or negative feedback to improve your public speaking skills for future assignments.


Remember it’s better to be honest if you don't know how to answer a question instead of making something up. Ask the person who asked the question to repeat or rephrase it, or say something like, "That's certainly an area I can explore in more detail in the future."

