 From your iPod you can import your contacts from an outside source onto your iPod. Google, iCloud, Microsoft Exchange, Yahoo, Outlook Address, AOL are accounts that you could sync to your iPod. All of your contacts will be transferred to your iPod without having to manually enter the information yourself.


If your phone has an account linked to your contacts, this will be the account you will most likely want to use.
You can also go through this process several times to add the contacts of multiple accounts.
 The Settings icon is a grey gear. Swipe right or left to find the the Settings icon. If you have difficulty locating it, keep swiping right until you get to the search bar. Type "Settings" into the search bar, and click on the icon in your search results.
 Click on “Mail, Contacts, Calendars” under "Settings", click on “Add Account”, click “Other”, and then click “Add CardDAV Account”. Type the following information into the required fields:


Server: www.google.com (or other)
User Name: Type your complete email address
Password: Type appropriate account password

, Navigate to your “Advanced Settings” tab in your Settings. Turn on the SSL, and make sure the port number is 443, then select next. Changing these settings will allow your contacts to sync to your iPod.
 The syncing process will start automatically. It can take up to a few minutes for your contacts to sync. Check your Contacts icon again in a half hour to make sure they have transferred to your iPod.


If you receive a username or password error, you may need to get an app password for an iOS device. Go to the app password page for your email service provider. If you are using a Google account, you can follow this in this in-line citation to get your app password.It will take you to your Google account where you can sign into your account. Select app, select your iPod, click on “Generate”, and “Done”. You can use this password to sync your Google contacts to your iPod.
If your iPod is not connected to the internet it will not be able to sync your contacts. Make sure you have a stable internet connection if the contacts are not transferring.

