 Foreclosure is the process by which a mortgage lender sells or auctions off a piece of property to recover the losses from a mortgage loan that has been defaulted.Who sells the property depends on the terms of your mortgage. Most mortgages will specify that the bank earns the right to foreclose on the property if the homeowner fails to meet the agreed upon repayment terms.In some states the foreclosure auction may be run by the local sheriff's department, called a Sheriff's Sale.Some states permit the lender to foreclose without having to go to court or involve the sheriff's department. These foreclosures are called a Trustee's Sale, and typically involve a trust deed instead of a mortgage., Anyone who defaults on a mortgage runs the risk of having the property foreclosed. A homeowner is considered to have defaulted on the mortgage after one month of missed payments. After a payment is 10 to 15 days late, lenders may begin to tack on late fees. The homeowner then typically has an agreed upon grace period in which to make up the missed payments plus all accrued late fees before the lender may begin the foreclosure process.Some mortgage lenders will allow borrowers to work out a special forbearance, which adjusts the terms of the mortgage to avoid going into foreclosure., In some places, a homeowner who has lost his home due to foreclosure has up to 12 months to acquire the necessary funds to buy back a foreclosed home. This is good for the homeowner who initially defaulted on his loans but bad for investors, who may buy a foreclosure property only to lose that property within a few months of the auction.This is known as the redemption period. Generally banks will not resell a foreclosed property during the redemption period and will maintain the property during this period of time.
 Foreclosure of one home can affect the entire neighborhood. Having a neighborhood house foreclosed on can affect the property values of surrounding homes, as potential buyers may shy away from buying into the neighborhood. A foreclosed home may also fall into disrepair, which can make the property less appealing to potential buyers.