 The goblet squat hold strengthens and stretches your hips, hamstrings, and glutes. Since this isn't a dynamic stretch where you'll be moving around a lot with the weight, you can use a moderately heavy kettle bell.#*Turn the kettle bell upside down, holding it in front of your chest by the bell rather than the handle. Lower into a deep squat with your elbows pressed just inside your knees.


You can use your elbows to press your knees outward, giving you a little more stretch.
Hold the position for a minute or so, breathing deeply.
 The figure 4 stretch is modified from yoga and externally rotates your hip to hip stretch and strengthen your hip joints and muscles. Find a box or table that is about at hip height for this stretch.Place one leg on top of the box or table, bending your knee at 90 degrees. Stand up straight (not leaning over your leg) and engage your core. Try to keep your leg as flat on the box or table as possible.
Hold for a minute or so, breathing deeply, then switch and do the other leg.
 Deep squat stands are a dynamic version of the same deep squat you used for the goblet squat holds. In addition to improving your mobility in your legs and hips, this exercise also provides your hips and hamstrings with a good stretch.Engage your core as you go into a deep squat, keeping your chest upright and open. Grasp your toes, taking care that your knees remain above your ankles.
Extend your hips backward to stand, keeping your hands on your toes. Then lower into a deep squat again. Do 10 repetitions of this exercise.
 Stretching the front of your thighs lengthens your hip flexors as well as the surrounding muscles. Use a folded blanket or towel under your knees to relieve pressure.Step one foot forward in front of you so that your foot is flat on the floor and your knee is at a right angle. Your thigh should be parallel to the floor with your knee directly over your ankle.
Put your hands on your hips and push your hips forward until you feel a stretch in your back leg. Keep your back straight, and focus on pushing forward with your hips, not pulling forward from your knee. Hold the stretch for 15 to 30 seconds, breathing deeply, then repeat on the other side.
 To get into boat pose, sit on the floor and straighten out your legs in front of you. Extend your arms a little behind you, resting your palms on the floor behind your hips with fingers pointed forward.Bend your knees and lift your legs in front of you. Straighten your knees if you can, although you also can keep them bent with your shins parallel to the floor.
Lift your arms and extend them on either side of your body. Be careful not to hunch your shoulders. Engage your core and make sure your weight is distributed evenly across your sit bones and your tail bone.
Hold the pose for 5 to 10 deep breaths, then release your body to the floor.

