 Understand that transferring seedlings into new soil can be a shock to their system. Check the forecast beforehand. If light rain and/or cloudy skies is due in a few days, wait for them to arrive, since these conditions will help them recuperate.If a heat wave is on the way, wait even longer.
 Once you decide when you will transplant, spend the day or two beforehand strengthening the seedlings. Water the food tray enough to keep the soil consistently moist. Feed them liquid fertilizer to boost their nutrient levels. Ensure that they are as healthy as can be before disrupting their growth.Also check the garden’s soil for dryness. Keep it moist (not soaking wet) so it’s ready to receive the seedlings., Wait until the late afternoon before transplanting. Allow your seedlings to recuperate overnight before having to face a full day of sun. With a gardening trowel, dig a hole of equal depth to the seedling’s roots in the tray. Make it twice as wide as the root itself so the root isn’t damaged from contact with the hole’s sides. Then:If each seedling is currently in a small tray of its own, spread your fingers around the stem, slowly turn the pot or tray over, and gently catch the soil and root as it falls loose. Pat the bottom of the tray lightly to nudge the seedling out if it doesn’t budge at first.
If each tray has multiple seedlings, don’t turn it over. Use a knife to cut through the soil well around each root. Then use a spoon to scoop the root out.In both cases, avoid handling the stem once the root is clear. Gently cup the root in your palm instead or use a large spoon.
 Although this sounds counterintuitive, don’t shake off any soil clinging to the root. Instead, be on the lookout for soil that falls away on its own, revealing roots that have tangled themselves into a solid ball.


If no soil falls away, treat this as a good sign. This means that the roots are growing outward into the soil, where they will reach the most nutrients.
If the roots have tangled into a dense ball, gently work a few loose with a finger, fork, or similar tool.
 Gently insert each one into its designated hole in your garden’s soil. Fill the hole with soil. Cover the roots all the way up to the base of the stem, but keep the soil on top loose and breathable. Don’t suffocate the roots by packing soil in too densely. If you planted a summer garden with compost and soil nutrients, the soil should still be healthy enough to support your fall garden. For added insurance, feel free to layer more compost over the soil.
Once planted, check the soil for dryness frequently, especially toward the beginning, when the weather may still be hot. Water immediately if the top inch of soil feels dry and crumbly.
 Depending on your climate, protect your fall garden by shielding it from the elements. Purchase floating row covers to drape over your vegetables. Shield young seedlings from the sun in the late summer. Insulate them from the cold at night once fall weather settles in.The fabric for covers comes in a variety of thicknesses. Consult local nurseries and farms to find out which is best suited for both your climate and the particular vegetables you’re growing.
Although you can simply drape these directly over the plants, they may weigh down on your plants, especially when wet from dew or rain. To keep the cover off your plants, build a simple loop house to support the fabric.