 A good salesperson can spot a customer drifting throughout the store, unsure of what he or she wants want, a mile off. Look intent in your clothing options, like you know exactly what to choose from. If a salesperson approaches you, don’t say anything that opens yourself up to an unwanted sales pitch.


For example, don’t use the phrase, “I’m not sure…” if he or she ask you what you’re looking for. The salesperson will jump at the opportunity to make suggestions, and before you know it he or she is piling clothes in your hands.
 The answer you’ll politely give is no – you can’t help me find something.


Try saying short abrupt phrases, like “no thanks,” or “I’m good.” Being curt sends the message that you don’t want to start a conversation.
 After giving a quick “no thanks” to his or her offer to help you shop, turn away and keep browsing. This may feel a little unfriendly, but it is a universal cue that you want to shop alone. After all, you don’t need to be friends with this person, and you probably won’t interact with him or her outside the store., A great way to get a salesperson to leave you alone in a store is making it clear he or she won’t make a sale. Tell him or her you are just looking today, but will think about coming back to buy something later. The salesperson should wander off if it seems his or her time will be wasted pitching to you.


Say, for example: “I’m just looking today, but I think I will need to get a new pair of running shoes in the next month.”
A little white lie is fine in this situation. For example, say that payday is in a couple days.
 If you’re comfortable with it, just look at him or her with a look of exasperation, or sigh. Persistent salespeople don’t want to be around unpleasant people either, so you can up the ante on his or her behavior if you want. If the salesperson just won’t leave you alone, say you really want to shop alone in a firm voice., If you are uncomfortable, or the salesperson just won’t leave you alone, leave. It should send a message that you would rather leave then talk to him or her. Often, a salesperson’s training in persisting until completely shut down gets in the way of his or her self-awareness. A customer walking out of the store in frustration should be a wakeup call.

