 Lightly grease a 11 by 7-inch (27.94 by 17.78-centimeter) baking pan, then line it with parchment paper. Leave the parchment paper hanging over the edges by at least 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) so that you can pull it out later. Grease the parchment paper with butter, then set the pan aside., Make sure that the saucepan is large enough to hold 3 quarts (3 liters). You won't be making quite that much candy, but you need extra room in your saucepan in case the mixture starts to boil over., Once the butter has melted, pour in the sugar, salt, corn syrup, and milk. Stir everything together to combine, then allow the mixture come to a boil. Stir it constantly as it cooks., This will take about 40 to 50 minutes. Do not stir the mixture as it cooks, and do not let the tip of the candy thermometer to touch the bottom of the saucepan., Use a rubber spatula to scrape everything out of the saucepan, and guide it into the baking pan. If you need to, use the rubber spatula to smooth out the top of the caramel., The caramel must be completely cool before you add the chocolate. If it is too warm, the chocolate won't set fast enough, and it might mix into the caramel instead., Put the chocolate chips into a microwave-safe bowl, then add the vegetable oil. Place the bowl into the microwave, and heat for 30 to 40 seconds on high. Every 10 seconds, pause the microwave, and give the chocolate a stir. Keep doing this until the chocolate is all melted.Chocolate melted in the microwave tends to keep its shape until you stir it.
Every microwave is different. Your chocolate may be ready sooner than that. It may also need more than 40 seconds to melt.
 Working quickly, pour the chocolate in an even layer across the caramel. If you need to, use a rubber spatula to help spread it from edge to edge, corner to corner., Using your fingers, take a pinch of coarse or flaked sea salt, and sprinkle it over the chocolate while it is still wet. You will need about 1 teaspoon of salt, although you can use a little more or a little less if you want to. Once you have salted the chocolate, transfer the entire pan into the fridge so that the chocolate can set up and harden., Grab the excess parchment paper, then carefully lift it out of the baking pan. Set the parchment paper down onto a flat surface. Use a sharp knife to cut the caramel into 8 rows and 6 columns.If the parchment paper is sticking to the sides of the caramel, carefully peel it away first.
 Store any leftovers at room temperature. If you plan on putting them into a container, store them between sheets of parchment paper or wax paper.