 Spend some time visiting florists in your town to find a solid provider. You can also look into online sellers or even grocery stores if local florists are too expensive.You should do some general research first. Figure out roughly how many flowers you need and what type you want. This can help you figure out which providers work best with your budget.;
, You don't need to stick to a single shade of purple for your bouquet. In fact, doing so may be a little boring. Try using many different flowers to create varying shades of purple.English cabbage roses, peonies, and sweet peas all come in deep shades that blend well together.
You can also use variation of color with your ribbon. A silver or gold ribbon can pair nicely with purple flowers.
 If you want something purple but a little quirky and fun, look into fuchsia flowers. This will give your bouquet a bright, vibrant color that could work well with a slightly untraditional wedding.Peonies, lavender roses, and orchids all have a fuchsia shade. You could use these combination of flowers for a bright, attractive bouquet.
 Season is important for your wedding. Flowers that are out of season may be harder to find and more expensive. To help with this problem, try to include a few purple flowers that are always in season.Peruvian lilies are lovely light purple flowers. They are in season year-round.
Larkspur come in shades of deep purple and are in season year-round.
Calla lilies are not purple, but can come in light pinks that could compliment a purple bouquet. They are also in season year-round.
 If your wedding is going to be in spring or summer, don't limit yourself to year-round flowers. Seek out beautiful purple flowers that will be in season during your wedding.Irises come in a light shade of purple and peak during summer and spring.
Stock are long flowers with clusters of petals blooming around the stem. They grow in spring and summer.
Anemones are a great shade of dark purple and bloom during the spring. Hyacinths can be lavender or purple and bloom during spring.
 If you're going for a fall wedding, this can change your choices in flowers. Be on the lookout for attractive fall flowers that will make your bouquet a stunning shade of purple.Scabiosas come in shades of purple and bloom during the fall.
Dahlias bloom in fall and come in shades of purple.
Larkspur blooms in both fall and summer and comes in a dark shade of purple.
While not purple, coxcomb come in crimson and burgundy shades that could potentially compliment a purple bouquet.
 If you want a particularly light or dark bouquet, be aware of the flowers you're choosing. Some purple flowers are darker or lighter than others.


Light purple flowers include things like lavender, catmint, and balloon flowers. Flowers like allium have a brighter look, which can compliment lighter colored flowers well.Orchids, which come in purple, tend to have darker leaves. Lisianthus flowers have darker colors towards the centers and look something like purple roses. Morning glories come in purple and have many dark marks on the petals., If this is your first time making a bouquet, a classic style may be easier for you. It can also be helpful to go for a more classic style if you have a more traditional wedding. A classic bouquet has a timelessness that goes well with many weddings.A classic style is simply a dense bunch of flowers that's anchored around a base. It usually forms a dome-like shape.
If you're doing a classic style, you can assemble your flowers however you want. You can, for example, separate them by color or have lighter flowers on the bottom and darker flowers near the top.
 A cascade is a kind of fun, bohemian style. If you're looking for a less traditional wedding, try going for a cascade style.The cascade has a waterfall feel. You anchor all the flowers around a base at the bottom, tying together their stems.
From there, you let flowers hang looser than you would in a more traditional bouquet. The flowers spill out, resembling a tiny floral train.
 A composite bouquet wires all the flowers around a single stem. Instead of bunching all the stems together, you would choose a thick stem. From there, you would wrap the other stems around the center stem. This makes your bouquet look like one giant flower., This can be fun if you're using many different types of flowers. You can create a design in which there are small circles of flowers of different colors. You can group light purples, dark purples, fuchsia purples, and so on to create a nice design with color., If you've never assembled your own bouquet before, professional guidance is recommended. A wedding planner or florist can give you advice on which flowers pair well together and what sort of shape would best match your vision for your special day.It may be particularly helpful to seek professional advice if you're going for a more complicated bouquet shape. Something like, say, a cascade effect may be best achieved via professional services.
 Before you assemble your bouquet, you will have to trim your flowers and cut the stems. Use some floral shears to trim down your flowers, removing uneven or unwanted petals.Cut all the stems to the same length. If you're dealing with roses, remove any thorns.
Trim off any damaged petals from your flowers.
Trim all the stems so they're roughly the same length. This will help you as you form the base of your bouquet.
 Regardless of the shape you're making, you will need to form a square-shaped base from which to build your bouquet. Use one hand to take one stem at a time and add it to your bouquet. With your other hand, fold the stems in place.Start with four flowers. Place them together in a square shape. This will form a sturdy base from which to build upward, creating the perfect shaped bouquet for your wedding.
Build a dome shape, which will also be your base, by adding other flowers circling around the four flower square in the center. Build a base as big as you need for your desired bouquet.
Choose whatever flowers you feel would look best at the base. If you're combining colors, for example, you could place darker purples at the bottom and gradually build your way up., Once you've built as big a base as you want, you will need to secure it in place before continuing your bouquet. The flower stems should naturally join together about 3 to 4 inches from the flower heads. Use some floral tape to gently bind the stems together.Use another piece of floral time to bind the ends of the stems. About 2 inches from the ends of the stems, wrap the stems together with a piece of floral tape.
If you're going to take a break before you continue with your bouquet, place the ends of the stems in water before proceeding.
 Regardless of the shape you're creating, use one flower at a time. Insert the stems of your flowers into the bouquet, gradually building the shape you want. Always work around the square-shaped base you created in order to achieve your desired shape.You can form the shape you want as you add flowers. If you're opting for a traditional bouquet, form a dome shape. If you want a cascade shape, attach the flowers to the base by the very edges of the stems, so the flowers spill outward and create the waterfall effect.
Keep the look you want in mind in regards to color as well. If you want a very uniform bouquet, match flowers based on color and size. If you want a less stringent bouquet, vary the types of flowers. Pair light ones next to dark ones, for example., When you're done with the bouquet depends on your personal preferences and the style you want to create. Once the bouquet is in the shape you want, and the size you want, you should secure it so it stays in shape leading up to your wedding day.Cut your stems so they're all the same length. You should have about 7 to 8 inches of stems at the bottom of the bouquet.
Cut off a piece of ribbon. The ribbon should be about 3 times as long as the full length of the stems.
Tuck one end of the ribbon into the stems near the flower heads. Wrap the ribbon around the full length of the flower stems. Then, secure the ribbon with a couple of pins.
If you want a bow, cut out a separate piece of ribbon and tie it around the stems in a nice bow.
 You do not want your bouquet to go bad before your big day. Gently wrap the bouquet in tissue paper and then store it in the refrigerator. Keep the stems in water.The freshest bouquets are assembled the morning of your wedding day.

