 Going to your check-ups and appointments will help you manage your antidepressant side effects.Doing this will keep the lines of communication between you and your healthcare provider open. It will also give you and your healthcare provider the opportunity to identify any general health issues or side effects of your antidepressant that you may not have noticed.


Attend your annual check-up and any other regularly scheduled health appointments that you have.
Use this time to talk about how your antidepressant is working and about any side effects.
Establishing a good physician-patient relationship is key in the course of your treatment and for helping to identify any side effects that you experience.
 You can manage many of the side effects of your antidepressant by being physically active on a regular basis.For example, exercise can you help you manage side effects such as insomnia, weight gain, and drowsiness.


Start taking yoga, zumba, or martial arts classes. The social aspect will give you a chance to meet new people while you are managing your antidepressant side effects.
Start or end your day with a walk. It doesn’t have to be long and can be as brisk or as leisurely as you like.
According to the President’s Recommendations it is important to get 30 minutes of exercise five days per week for a total of 150 minutes a week. Exercise can be broken up into 5 to 10 minute intervals.
Exercise causes the release of endorphins, which may help you with depression.
 Nausea, constipation, and diarrhea are some of the common side effects of antidepressants.Maintaining a healthy diet will help you manage these antidepressant side effects by reducing the chances that you will have other digestive issues complicating the situation.


Drink plenty of water throughout the day to remain hydrated. Try and get 8 eight ounce glasses of water a day.
Eat plenty of fiber by including fruits, vegetables, and whole grains in your diet.
Try to avoid foods that normally cause you to have upset stomach, gas, or indigestion.
Short term therapy with antidepressants usually does not cause weight gain. However, long term therapy does. Make sure you keep track of what you are eating and try to eat a well-balanced diet.
 Feeling tired in general can make it difficult to navigate the day. Add the drowsiness or fatigue that may be a side effect of your antidepressant and you may find that it’s a challenge to get anything done. You can manage some of your antidepressant side effects by making sure that you are getting adequate rest.Set a regular bedtime for yourself that will allow you to get 7 to 9 hours of restful sleep.
Remove any distractions or anything that might disturb yourself. Turn the TV off and put your phone on vibrate.
Make sure that you are waking at a regular time each day, as well.
Avoid caffeine, alcohol, or smoking before bedtime.
Resolve concerns or worries before you go to bed.
Do not exercise right before you go to sleep, but try to get 30 minutes of exercise a day.
Practice good sleep hygiene in general.

