 During your undergraduate studies, think about which professors and/or employers would be willing to write you a letter or recommendation. Any volunteer or research experience may also be a great source of relationships from which you could derive a letter.Ask for letters at least two weeks before they are due. The more time you can offer someone, the more likely they will be able to devote attention to your letter.
If applying directly to individual programs, arrange to have letters sent directly to the programs themselves.
Plan to have letters sent directly to PharmCAS in July or early August. Remind those who wrote letters for you that they will be prompted to submit their letters to PharmCAS electronically. You may also need to have letters sent directly to specific programs that require it.
 Choose from several dates during registration. The best time to take the PCAT is late summer or early fall of the year you are applying. Shoot for a July date. Take the test at least six months before any program application deadlines. Be sure to prepare for the exam by completing preparation materials on your own or taking a PCAT prep class.Pay the $210 fee at registration. You may purchase a study guide for $25, and practice tests are also available, for additional fees.
Be sure to fill out personal information carefully while registering, and to bring state ID with matching information when you report to the testing center.
Registration for July, September, and January dates opens in March, while registration for October and November dates opens in September.
Be sure to keep all records of your scores, as well as your PCAT Candidate Identification Number (CID).
 Write a personal statement conveying your interest in becoming a Doctor of Pharmacy. Briefly mention the reasons you want to be a pharmacist, as well your qualifications and experience. If you have specific reasons for applying to certain programs, add this information to your generic letter for the corresponding applications.
 It can be helpful to include information about activities that won’t be on your transcript. For instance, note any volunteer or work experience, as well as clubs or leadership societies you are involved in. Compile all of this information into a single document to keep it organized and accessible, as different applications may ask for this information to be submitted in different ways.
 The American Association of Colleges of Pharmacy (AACP) has compiled a document containing all of the requirements of accredited PharmD schools in the U.S. This document is called the PSAR, and can be purchased from the AACP for $35.While it is not vital to purchase a copy of the PSAR, it can streamline your application process, particularly if you plan to apply to a large number of programs.
If you choose not to use the PharmCAS application service but do intend to apply to multiple programs, the PSAR may prove especially helpful.
 While every program is different, almost all will have online portals that will require you to create a personal account. From there, you will be prompted to provide the information required to complete the application. Double check all of the information you enter before submitting, and be sure to pay any application fee before the program’s application deadline.


Quickly complete any supplemental application materials that the school provides.

