 This may be some belief or aspect of the worship experience that is a normal part of the church's culture, or programs or upcoming events that may be of interest to the wider community. Knowing specifically what you want to advertise will make it easier to choose the right methods to reach people who are more likely to respond.;
, Some local papers offer special rates to faith-based organizations that want to run ads for specific events. Local publications sometimes have religion editors who are happy to write a small blurb about a church or some upcoming event. Find out how much these types of ads will cost, as well as what types of free advertising in the form of short articles or community notices can be placed in local and weekly print publications and reach a sector of the community.
 Many churches today create and maintain web sites that provide information about worship schedules, ministries offered, and upcoming events. Consider including audio or even video links to past sermons or worship services so people can get an idea of how the services are structured. Don't forget to include the ability for visitors to the site to make contact via email if they have any questions.
 Creating groups or pages on major social networking sites can be a great way to get in front of people who live in the area and make use of this communication tool regularly. This tool also makes it easy for members to share information about upcoming events with their friends by linking over to the page or group. Many of these social networking sites are free to use, making them ideal for use by non-profit organizations.
 Support efforts of members to spread the word about upcoming events that would be of interest to others in the community. Provide simple handouts and brochures that members can leave with friends, and that those friends in turn can pass on to others. This simple approach is often effective over time, enhancing the reputation of the church as being a welcoming and friendly place.

