 After class, and as soon as possible, take time to reduce your notes by completing the cue column. The cue column is important for identifying key words or phrases that will trigger your memory to recall large amounts of information. Begin by highlighting key ideas, definitions, or phrases to identify what trigger words you will use in the cue column.
Create questions that help you recall the information in the note taking column. This active learning technique avoids passively staring at a bunch of trigger words and, instead, helps you anticipate questions for the examination.
If you are a visual learner, consider drawing pictures in the cue column rather than using trigger words.
 Taking notes, highlighting key phrases, and using trigger words is not always enough. Sometimes you need to ask yourself important questions and mull over your notes to digest all of the information properly. Place these important thoughts and answers in the summary column at the bottom of the page. Try answering questions about how well you understand all of the information. Could you teach the same lesson in your own words to a friend based on the notes you took?
The summary section should only be a few sentences that condense and sums up that particular page’s notes, not the entire days’ lecture. This should be completed at the bottom of each page of notes.
 After completing all of the above steps, you should have a ready-made study guide. As with any type of note taking, you should prepare for the examination a few days prior so that you do not cram. When studying, focus on the cue and summary columns. This is where all the important information should be located.
Try not to move on the next page until you have mastered the information on the page you are studying. If you are having trouble, then you might have to take extra time to review the actual notes you took before breaking down the information.
The Cornell outline method is not only designed to help you study better and get good grades but also to help your time management skills.

