 Tropical fruit and spicy peppers are good choices for your first batch. Try a single ingredient before moving on to more complex infusions.






;
, Choose the unbruised and best fruit for this purpose. Try the fruit so you can ensure it is sweet and delicious.









Purchase one quart (1 liter) of berries for strawberry tequila.
Buy three large jalapeños for jalapeño tequila.
Use half a ripe pineapple for pineapple tequila.
Get ten limes or lemons if you want to infuse citrus rinds.
Use three mangoes or stone fruit for mango tequila or peach tequila.
 Purchase a small to medium bottle of 100 percent agave tequila so that it is smooth and lacks a lot of additives. Blanco, reposado and anejo tequila all work well with infusions.









Blanco tequila will work best if you are planning to use it in a cocktail, like a margarita.
Try anejo if you want an infused sipping tequila. The aged taste may require a more precise pairing of flavors.
 If you want to do several smaller infusions, you can try eight to 16 oz. (0.25 to 0.5 l) canning jars and split your bottle of tequila between two or three containers. Run the jars through the dishwasher to sterilize them.
 Then, scrub the surface of the skin.
 Remove pits, bitter peels and rinds. Cut the fruit up into sections to increase the surface area of the fruit that will be touching your tequila.









You can leave peach peels, strawberry skin and other mild fruit skins intact.
 Use a citrus stripper for best results, because it will remove the peel in strips and leave the rinds. Juice the citrus.
 Wear rubber gloves to reduce the risk of irritating your skin.
 Add the juice if you are doing a citrus infusion.
 Seal it and set it in a cool, dark place.
 The time you choose should be based on how intense the infusion should be. Jalapeño tequila should be infused for no more than five days the first time you try it.









If you are infusing a subtle fruit, like pear or star fruit, you can leave it infusing for up to 21 days.Taste the infusion every three to four days using a clean spoon to test how strong the flavor is.
 It will break down the fruit and mix the juices.
 Open your infusion jar and pour it through the strainer to remove the fruit. Repeat with a piece of cheesecloth over the strainer if you still find pulp in your tequila.
 Insert a funnel into the top and pour the infused tequila into the bottle.
 Drink within one year.







