 Keep your horse at a lively, balanced walk. Check that he is "on the aids" (which means listening to your signals) by speeding up and slowing down at the walk. When you are ready, shorten your reins and give him short, brisk squeezes with your legs until he begins trotting. If your horse needs extra encouragement, you can say "trot!" or give him a quick kick with your legs. Don't think you are going to hurt them. They are stronger than you but, don't kick too hard.;
,


When you first begin trotting, you should only trot for a little while before walking again. For example, you can count five trot strides and then walk.
You will probably be very bouncy and unbalanced when you first start trotting. In order to prevent pulling on your reins and hurting your horse's mouth, it's best to hold on to the pommel of your saddle or your horse's mane.
 When you first start trotting, it's a good idea to keep your horse at a very slow, steady trot. This will help you relax and follow your horse's movement. Remember not to grip with your thighs, knees, or calves - they should rest evenly against your horse's sides as you balance yourself with your seat. Keep your hips, knees, and ankles as springy as you can - imagine that they quietly absorb the jolting movement of the trot.
 Posting means to rise up and down with the strides of your horse's trot. Remember not to try to force yourself to post - the trot is bouncy enough that it will move you softly up and down. The pressure on your stirrups should remain steady as you rise and sit; instead of bracing your ankles and forcing yourself upward, you move gently up and down with springy, supple ankles.
 When a horse trots, he uses diagonal pairs of legs together. First he reaches forward with his left foreleg and right hind leg, and then he reaches forward with his right foreleg and left hind leg. This makes the trot a two-beat gait - you can count "1-2-1-2" or "clip-clop" as your horse trots. When you are trotting correctly, you should rise up as your horse's outside shoulder (the shoulder closest to the arena fence) moves forward.


When you have had a lot of practice at posting, you'll be able to simply feel whether you're on the right diagonal or not. While you're learning, however, you can check by peeking out of the side of your eye. Try not to tip your head - this will unbalance you.
 Once you can post the trot with balance and coordination, you can begin to improve your sitting trot. Begin by sitting the trot only for five strides and then walking or posting the trot. You can go on a circle and switch between posting and sitting, or you can post the trot on the long sides of the arena and sit on the short sides. Remember to keep your hips, knees, and ankles supple and springy, and try to feel your seat melting deeper in the saddle. Be careful not to brace your legs at the sitting trot, or grip with your knees - if you do, simply slow your horse down until you can balance again.


Some horses' trots are easier to sit than others'. It's best not to learn how to trot or sit the trot on a horse with a very bouncy, uncomfortable trot.
 Trotting is a lot of fun once you've gotten the hang of it, and it's a great way to improve your riding. Don't forget to give your horse a treat after your ride, but be sure to take off the bridle first.
 Make sure that your horse is always on your rein and you keep contact via their mouth and girth. Keep a good position while you ride and remember to sit lightly. And when you want to stop, rest your reins at the beginning of your horses mane.

