 The normal respiratory rate for a dog is 10-34 breaths per minute at rest. Obviously a dog will breathe more quickly if he has exercised and if he is hot he may pant, so the crucial word here is "difficulty".


Normal breathing movements involve the expansion of the chest wall and ribs on an in-breath, and the incursion of the ribs on the out breath. This is normal effortless and there is no movement of the abdominal wall involved.;
, Depending on the nature of the breathing difficulty, the respiratory rate may be raised to 60 breaths a minute, which is rapid shallow breathing. This is a significant sign of distress.


However, not all dogs with breathing difficulties breathe more quickly, some try to compensate by taking deeper, slower breaths and using their stomach muscles to try to suck air in.
Interpret the respiratory rate by taking into account recent exercise, whether it is hot, and if the dog seems happy or distressed.
 Dogs with breathing difficulties may have exaggerated breathing movements. One sign of this is that they use the abdomen when breathing. To spot this, watch the belly closely.


A dog struggling to get air into his lungs may expand his belly to try to fill his chest with air. Then on the out-breath he may squeeze the muscles of his abdominal wall to help force air out of the lungs.
If this movement of his abdomen is easy to spot then it is likely the dog is struggling to breathe and veterinary assistance is necessary.
 If a dog is struggling to breath he may adopt the air hunger position. This is a stance that maximizes his capacity to breathe, mainly by straightening his airways and relieving compression on his chest.


The air hunger position is recognizable because the dog stands or lies with his head and neck held in a straight line (he is trying to open up his windpipe), and holds his elbows away from his chest (to decrease pressure on the ribs).
He usually breathes through an open mouth, but in a gasping way rather than panting.
 A healthy dog with well-oxygenated blood usually has pink gums. The gums are covered in mucous membranes and their color is a good indication of health.


The gums should be pink (of course, some dogs do have dark pigment in their gums which makes it impossible to see the pink). If the dog is struggling to breath it is likely that his blood will have low oxygen levels, and high levels of carbon dioxide.
Low oxygen levels become evident as a blue tinge to the gums, which deepens in color depending on how severe the problem is.
 Weakness or extreme lethargy should be gauged against the dog's normal behavior. If your dog is an energetic beagle that suddenly can barely stand, then this is significant and should not be ignored.


Weakness is often the result of muscular weakness which, if it comes on suddenly, could be the result of a serious internal problem such as internal bleeding, or a potentially serious electrolyte imbalance.
There are many reasons why lethargy and weakness may develop, from heart disease to running a fever, but what they all have in common is that the dog needs veterinary attention.
 If your dog has ingested a toxin, do not hesitate to seek veterinary advice. The effects of the toxin will depend on exactly what type of poison it is, how much was eaten, and the dog's size.


There is a golden window of opportunity when treating such cases, in that if the dog is seen within two hours of eating the poison, the vet can make the dog vomit (i appropriate).
Although some of the toxin will have been absorbed into the blood stream, if the dog vomits within two hours, the rest of the stomach contents will be emptied out and the effects of the poison will be minimized.
 If your dog's abdomen swells visibly over a period of minutes to hours, this indicates an acute emergency (that said, even if the tummy swells over several days there is likely to be a problem present that needs veterinary attention).


The two major problems that pose a life-threatening risk, of which a swollen abdomen are a sign, are severe bloating and internal bleeding. A stomach dilated with gas may twist on itself and this is a genuine, serious emergency.Likewise internal bleeding such that the volume of blood is sufficient to distend the belly will result in shock and organ damage, and urgent attention is needed.
 This includes road traffic accidents, fights, and falls. Severe trauma such as a dog hit by a car is not difficult to spot, because there will be deep scrape wounds, cuts, and possibly broken bones.


Even if the dog is able to walk, it is best to treat this as an emergency because pain can push a dog into shock, which can be life-threatening.
Also, the veterinarian will need to monitor the dog for signs of internal damage or bleeding.
 These all involve the loss of consciousness, and as such should be treated as an emergency.


Fainting is subtly different from a fit because it is usually caused by a cardiovascular problem, rather than a neurological one, as for fits and seizures.
However, any issue that is severe enough to cause the pet to pass out or have a fit needs to be urgently assessed by a veterinarian.
 This includes your pet responding in a bizarre or unusual manner. Common signs include a pet walking into things, or not recognizing you. Altered mental status can indicate significant metabolic disease and urgent advice should be sought.


Altered mental status can be difficult to assess, because you need to be able to recognize what is normal for your pet. A change from this normal behavior where the pet is consistently and repeatedly acting in a strange and worrying manner could be described an altered mental status.
Examples of this would be when a pet that is normally excited in company fails to respond and if roused behaves in a zombie-like way.
 Vomiting and diarrhea represent fluid loss from the body, and if this is protracted the dog may become dehydrated. Signs of dehydration can be subtle in the early stages, so if in doubt contact the vet. The symptoms of dehydration include gums that are dry to the touch and a delayed return of the scruff to normal when it is lifted.


The latter refers to lifting the scruff over the shoulders blades. Use the finger and thumb of one hand to grasp a fold of scruff and raise it away from the body, then let go. In a well-hydrated animal the scruff springs back to the original position without delay. In a dehydrated animal you can watch the tissue slide back down as the fluid loss reduces the elastic recoil of the skin.
However, you should interpret vomiting and diarrhea in light of the dog's overall demeanor. If he has only been vomiting for 2-3 hours and yet is very depressed, contact the vet. Also, if the diarrhea contains blood, do not wait 24 hours but contact the surgery immediately.
 Being unable to walk is a form of collapse and should be treated as an emergency.


The options for collapse range from an old dog so stiff that he cannot get his legs underneath him to a dog with circulatory problems as a result of heart disease.
Either way, the pet needs attention, be it pain relief or heart medications, and the inability to walk should be treated as an emergency.
 Signs of straining include repeated cocking of the leg, or squatting, but when the dog moves off the ground is dry.


The dog may also lick his or her genitals excessively, as if attempting to relieve discomfort. He or she will also seem restless and unable to settle, and be off their food.
Not being able to pass urine is a genuine emergency which requires immediate veterinary attention. Failing to do so could result in the bladder bursting, kidney failure, or even a heart attack.
 Heavy bleeding needs to be controlled before the volume of blood loss becomes critical, thus it is an emergency. Likewise visible heavy bruising could be an indication that the dog has a clotting problem. If he has a clotting problem then there is also a risk of internal bleeding and he should be checked immediately by a veterinarian.


Heavy bleeding is described as blood pumping out of an injury, or constant dripping. Non-life-threatening bleeding would include bleeding that stops when pressure is applied over the site of the bleed, and the bleeding does not resume when the pressure is removed.
Any bleeding that resumes once pressure is removed should be treated as an emergency.

