 Some ingredients taste better than others when they're reheated after being frozen. Most lasagna recipes that call for fresh ingredients will be just fine after freezing, whether you freeze them unbaked or baked. However, if the recipe uses items that have already been frozen and thawed once, it's best not to freeze and thaw them twice. This increases the chance that the food could be contaminated by bacteria.


For example, don't plan on freezing lasagna made with sausage or ground beef that was previously frozen. Instead, use fresh meat or leave it out completely.
Food that is frozen and thawed more than once also suffers when it comes to flavor and texture. Choosing a recipe that calls for fresh ingredients will result in the best-tasting lasagna.
If your favorite lasagna recipe calls for a frozen ingredient, the final dish usually won't be too affected by substituting the fresh version instead. For example, instead of using frozen mushrooms, just use fresh. In most cases you will have needed to thaw them anyway.;
, Look for a "freezer-proof" label or be certain that the dish can be frozen as well as used for baking. Most glass or ceramic casserole dishes are fine for this purpose.


Avoid using an aluminum pan for long-term storage of lasagna. The food might end up picking up a tinny taste.
If you don't have a dish that can be used to both bake and freeze lasagna, you can bake it one dish and freeze it in a freezer-safe food storage container.
 Lasagna that has been baked before freezing will still taste great after it has been reheated. Lasagna that has been assembled and frozen before baking is delicious, too. Use whichever method is most convenient for you, since the final texture and taste of the dish won't be too affected either way.


You might decide to freeze pre-baked lasagna if you have leftovers after making a big batch.
If you'd rather freeze it before baking, consider making two lasagnas next time you're having lasagna for dinner. You can bake one and freeze the other to eat later.
 If you want to freeze baked lasagna, it's necessary to make sure it has cooled entirely before you freeze it. Otherwise, the texture of the dish won't be as pleasant when it's time to eat it. After making the lasagna, set it aside for one hour to cool. You can also place it into the refrigerator to chill. Before placing it in the fridge, cover the lasagna with two layers of plastic wrap and one layer of kitchen foil.
 Don't use aluminum foil, since it might affect the taste of the lasagna. Cover it with several layers of plastic wrap to keep it fresh in the freezer. You may want to wrap the plastic around the entire dish, rather than just over the top. That way, you can make sure there are no gaps in the wrap where air could get in and cause freezer burn.


Consider cutting the lasagna into individual portions and freezing them in bags. This way you won't have to reheat the entire thing if you only need a meal for one or two people. Cut the lasagna into serving sized-portions after it has chilled. This will help the pieces hold together better instead of falling apart. Put each piece in its own freezer-safe storage bag.
No matter what, make sure it is double wrapped to prevent the lasagna from drying out.
 Label it and place it in the freezer. It can be frozen for up to three months, whether it has a meat or vegetable filling.

