 Begin by perusing the company website. From there, reach out to the company management, including the current CEO and board members.


It will be simple to gather this information if you have worked at the company for a substantial amount of time. If you’re less familiar with the company, you will need to research the company and its business goals.
In addition to managers, interview employees who have worked for the company. They may have some interesting information to include on the company profile. Although not everything you discover through these interviews will make it to the finished profile, providing human-oriented detail will grab your readers’ attention.Talk to the key people from the company’s management or heads of departments. These people may be able to share relevant facts on the company with you.;
, Most company profiles describe the company’s beginning. State who founded the company, what was the initial goal or intent, and how the company grew. Include a paragraph that describes:


Where and how the company was founded,
The company’s business model and practices.
The purpose, vision, and goals of the company.
 As interesting as the past of the company may be, its future will be of greater interest to prospective clients. In clear language (avoid business jargon), This should include:


The company’s business model and outlook.
How the company plans to expand its goods and services offered, or how it plans to increase the number of company store locations.
 Once you’ve done your research and have a thorough understanding of the company, you can begin to outline and assemble the company profile. The following key points are a summary of what should be included in company profile. Plan to devote at least a paragraph to each:Size of the company (big or small).
Location of the company.
Brief story of the company’s inception and history.
Who founded the company, who owns the company, and who currently directs the company.
Summary of the services or products that the company provides.
Summary of the company’s mission, values, and business model.
 Keep in mind that, although ideally everyone who opens the company profile will read the whole document, many readers will stop after the first couple of paragraphs. Put what you consider to be the most important information in those paragraphs, and then move on to secondary information.


Lead with your strongest points about the company.Whether that’s your company’s sales record, innovative practices, or ethical business practices, put the company’s best face forward.
Highlight the company’s services and products in the first paragraphs. Your readers can continue to peruse if they want to know specific details about business model, location, etc.
 “About Us” pages can be dull or off-putting if they’re written through a third-party lens. This provides objectivity, but can feel uninviting to readers. Instead, write from a first-person perspective to make readers feel welcome and to make your company profile feel friendly and personable.Use the pronouns “I” or “we,” rather than objectively describing “the company… .”
Write as if you’re speaking to website visitors and potential clients face-to-face. Write something like, “We’re thrilled that you’re taking the time to read our company profile. We hope this page tells you some useful things about us, and don’t hesitate to contact us with any questions about our product or company.”
Instead of writing, “employs 55 workers,” say, “I work at along with 55 friends and co-workers.”

, Most of the individuals who view your website company profile will be potential clients.These people will want to know about the history and business plan of the company, and will look for the company profile to serve as an introduction to the business overall.


Keep the profile tone conversational. Save the jargon for business meetings, and orient your company profile towards non-business-savvy clients.
Instead of writing, “seeks to increase production and expand its client base in coming years,” say, “We here at are looking forward to meeting new customers in new places this year.”

, Address ways in which your company is different from its competition, without mentioning any competitors by name.As businesses (and business websites) proliferate, it’s valuable to show how your company is unique. For example, include things like:


The education and personal history of company founders.
If the company has been given any special awards or accolades.
If the company reaches out to the community it’s located in.
 Since the profile will serve as the company’s introduction to new website visitors and potential clients, it’s important that it not be buried in an obscure corner of the website. Put a link to the profile at the top of the Home page (or wherever the navigation bar is located).


It would be appropriate to have a sentence on the Home page reading: “If you want to learn more about us, check out our company profile!”

, Clients who come to your company profile will expect to see honest claims about your company, and will feel confused or discouraged by opaque writing or a lack of information.


Individuals who may invest in your company will also begin by looking at the profile. For their sake, include information about the company’s funding model and finances., Generalities have their place, but you should not include them in your company profile. The profile should present a straightforward, fact-based description of company practices and their benefit.For example,


Rather than explaining that your company’s business model “increases productivity,” be specific and say that it “increases productivity by 18%.”
Clearly state what types of problems your business addresses or solves.
Explain your company’s management structure and plans for growth.
 Your profile should be intuitive to readers and they should feel drawn into the page. Avoid being overly technical in your business descriptions, and keep sentences short and written mostly in the active voice.


Include one or two interesting, personal, or slightly humorous anecdotes about the company from company founders or current leadership.If your company profile is more than a few paragraphs in length, consider adding graphics or images to generate visual interest., Readers will appreciate the transparency, and you’ll be able to put a positive spin on the profile without having to use self-flattering language.Include links to other websites that show:


Any press releases or recent news about the company.
Endorsement from current customers, celebrities, or industry experts.

