 Some potential risk factors are to do with the healthiness of your lifestyle, but there are some things that you cannot influence or change. There is a significant increase in the rates of stomach cancer of those over 50, and most of those diagnosed are between 60 and 80 years old. Stomach cancer is also more common in men than in women.

In the US, stomach cancer is more common in Hispanic Americans, African Americans, and Asian/Pacific Islanders than it is in non-Hispanic white Americans.
People who live in Japan, China, Southern and Eastern Europe, and South and Central America are more likely to get stomach cancer than people who live elsewhere., There are significant potential risks associated with your lifestyle and diet. Smoking and drinking alcohol increase the risk of stomach cancer by introducing harmful substances into the body. A diet low in fiber increases the risk of stomach cancer by lengthening the body's exposure time to the carcinogens present in food. Long-term consumption of salted, dried, and smoked food items with high levels of nitrates also elevates your risk.It is thought that being overweight or obese may be a cause of cancers of the cardia (the upper part of the stomach).
If you work in the coal, metal, or rubber industry, your risk of stomach cancer may be higher. Workers in these fields are exposed to more carcinogens than workers in other industries., Keep a close record of your personal medical history, and be aware of previous illnesses and treatments you may have had that could increase your chance of later developing stomach cancer. Be especially vigilant if you have a history of Helicobacter pylori infections, chronic gastritis, atrophic gastritis, pernicious anemia, or gastric polyps, as all of these conditions predispose you to stomach cancer.Stomach cancers are more likely to develop in those who have previously had part of their stomach removed in surgery.
Stomach cancer runs in families, so find out about your family medical history. However, keep in mind that adopting lifestyle changes, such as following a healthier diet, can help to reduce your risk.
If you have a close relative who was diagnosed with stomach cancer, you are at a greater risk than someone who has no family history of stomach cancer., If you are unsure of, or worried about, your risk of developing stomach cancer, get in touch with your doctor. A doctor can help you evaluate your existing risk, as well as give you advice on modifying your lifestyle to help you lower your risk in the future. An early diagnosis can make a big difference to a prognosis, so act quickly if you are concerned.