 From fiery red to the darkest black- pretty much anything will do. Try to stay away from the skinny jeans with animal prints on them while going to school. Patterns can sometimes look like you're trying too hard. But other than that- yellow, orange, green, blue, purple and many other colors will be just fine! Skinny jeans or straight legged jeans are the best if you're aiming for that "scene" look. Oh- ACID WASHED skinnies are good too!;
, You can find band tees practically anywhere- from Hot Topic to Wet Seal. You could try all different colors of V-necks too. Sea foam green V-necks with purple tanks under look stellar. Even though they are expensive- shirts from ZOOYORK, DC, and VANS are cool too! You can wear layered tanks with bright jackets over too. Try layering white, gray, and black tanks with a bright yellow jacket over. You can pretty much wear whatever you wish, but try to stay away from "preppy" labels like American Eagle and Hollister. If you can't resist from buying from these brands, try to steer clear of the shirts with their NAME BRAND written on them!

, If you're really artistic and want "one-of-a-kind" shoes, buy a pair of white Converse and a pack of Sharpies and decorate them however you want. Replace the laces on your shoes whenever you get sick of your old ones. It can really give shoes a brand new look without spending too much money. DC's are really nice too. Also, every "scene" girl should own at least 2 pairs of flats, as they go great with everything Blue, green, pink, gray... they come in handy, so stock up on them.


Belts: All or close to all of your belts should be studded. They can be any color: from black to white, red to blue, green to purple and rainbow. Wear belts that are the same color as little designs on your band tees. It really makes the color pop.






Hair accessories: Buy cute bows from Hot Topic, Wet Seal, and Pac-sun. They come in almost every color. Whenever you're done doing your hair, grab a matching bow and clip it in your fringe or the opposite side of your fringe. Buy headbands stretchy or regular, whichever you prefer. Whenever you put regular headbands, make sure you don't pull your fringe back, as it completely takes away the look. Also, buy bobby pins to put in your fringe while you grow it out or if you just like the way it looks. Little clips are adorable too.






Jewelry: You can wear pretty much any jewelry and make it look good. Wear necklaces that have things like Hello Kitty, Invader Zim and Gir, Strawberry Shortcake, Courage the Cowardly Dog, Brass Knuckles, Guns, Crowns, Diamonds, Owls, and anything else you like on them. Wear a few bracelets too! Neon Silly-Bands are cute, but never overdo it. "BFF" Bracelets and rubber ones too are adorable. Wear little silver rings or something with a character on it. EXAMPLE- But only wear a Hello Kitty ring if you're wearing a Hello Kitty shirt. Necklaces, watches, and bracelets are fine to wear.
 Try to tone it down some; you're not going to a concert. Try not to wear your clip-in coon tails to school either. Little clip in colored extensions and regular extensions are fine, but nothing too ridiculous. Plus, some schools have rules that you can't dye your hair crazy colors, so extensions are a good way to go! Use little bows and clips and headbands. If you use all these elements right; you can look amazing.
 Try to use basics: concealer, foundation, powder, eyeshadow and mascara if you can. You can wear your eyeliner thick, but don't make yourself look like a raccoon. With the mascara and eyeliner, try to stick with black and dark blues if you will. Tone down the eye makeup. Stick with whites and grays, and a few bright colors. But try not to make your eyes look like the rainbow, especially if you are young, like going into junior high. Know the basics: clean-looking face, pretty eyes with mascara, nude lips, and a little bit of blush. Not too much- you'll look like a clown.

