 Confident people don't feel the need to criticize others to make themselves look better. When trying to correct someone or help them out, be sure to provide constructive criticism.Praise others for what they did right, and when necessary, offer feedback about the topic you're addressing rather than about them as a person.
 Arrogance is often indicated by a tendency to hog the attention. Cocky and conceited people may dominate conversations discussing their own achievements. A person with the right degree of pride understands that you become more likeable when you share the spotlight in conversation. People like to talk about themselves, so be generous and give them the opportunity.


When you find yourself talking about your own achievements, subtly redirect the topic back to the other person. You might say, “Enough about me. Please do share with me how you managed to get that project in a week before deadline. That was unprecedented!”, Boastful people want to dwell on their own talents while minimizing others’. Counteract that tendency by uplifting others when they do well. Friends, family, and coworkers will all view you more favorably when you praise them for their successes. It shows that you can see the best in others without feeling threatened.Prevent coming off as smug or jealous by being there to pat others on the back. You don’t have to exaggerate it, but do make a point to extend your well-wishes to someone who excels. Take them out to lunch. Buy them a drink. Or, brag on them a little to others.
 Cocky people generally have the big-head syndrome, which makes them unable to see pass their own awesomeness. People with pride are willing to share positive attention, especially when it’s deserved. Don’t take all the applause when you are celebrated for a team effort. Mention the efforts of those who helped, too.You might say, “I am truly pleased that you all liked the film, but many people were involved in this project with me. I’d like to give a round of applause to each of them also.” Then, call out their names to give them a moment in the spotlight, too.
 Favors from conceited people often are bestowed at a price. These people may not choose to do anything nice for others without expecting something in return. A humble person extends a helping hand to those in need without questioning what they’ll get for it.


If a friend is in trouble, come to their rescue without hoping for credit or compensation. Say, “If you need me, let me know. I’m here for you.”
Another great way to humbly help others is through volunteerism. Find a cause you like and reach out to help those in need. Examples might include building homes for the needy or reading to kids at your local library.