 Check out http://www.lissaexplains.com. It's a great website for beginners and a fun and easy way to teach yourself HTML!;
, Ask yourself the following questions:

What kind of colors and/or graphics will fit your audience?
Are you entertaining or trying to do business?
Should the website be built for ease-of-use or design?

, Let's make your graphics first (or if you have your own already, skip to the next step).


To make a simple button, select New from the file menu. When the dialog box pops up, select 88 x 31 Micro Button from the Presets menu, or type in your own dimensions. Flood fill your button with your desired color, and add any desired text on now. Then go click the Effects menu, select 3D effects, and then Buttonize. You can mess around with the variables if you like, but once you're done, click okay, and viola. There is your button!
To make a matching divider, mess with the picture size dimensions until it's the size and length you want and do the same thing!
If you need backgrounds, search the web for royalty free images, there are tons of them out there.
 Your website likely has more than one page, so let's make a frames page as your index.


Select New from the File menu, If a Templates dialog does not open, check to your right, and select More page templates.






Click the Frames Pages tab, and find the one that suits you and your website. For this example, we'll use the Banner and Contents.






To adjust the frame sizes, drag near the borders where the little arrow pops up, until the size you want is reached. If you want to keep the frames as resizeable in the browser, leave them alone. Otherwise, right click on the page and select Frame Properties. Down the the bottom, uncheck where it says Resizeable and browser, and presto.






To set the backgrounds on your newly created pages, right click anywhere in the white and select Page properties. Click the Formatting tab and select either the color you want or the image you wish to use. Generally, your menu bar (or button links) are stationary in one or more of the frames pages, with the center page being the one that displays your linked pages.
To add your buttons, pick your menu page and select Insert, Picture, From File, and get it from your computer. Don't worry about linking right now, we'll get to that later.
If you want to get rid of the scroll bar, right click on the page, and select Frame Properties. At the bottom where it says Options, choose between Never, If Needed, and Always.
Add your homepage content. You may want to consider adding a link back to your homepage if there is any important information on it.
Name your frame pages. Right click anywhere on each page, and select Frame Properties. Right at the top is Name; name them whatever you want (i.e. home, menu, banner, etc.) Save everything, making sure that you name your Frame set index (index is the page that your browser will automatically link to when opening a website).
 Your linked pages are the pages that your buttons will be leading to. Select New and keep it a blank page; this will go inside the page you set as your homepage in the frame set. Add your content and save.
 To link a button to your page, right click on it, and select Hyperlink. Find the page you created for this button, highlight it, and on the right hand side, select Target Frame...From here, highlight the frame you want your page to be displayed in, and hit ok. Test out your link; right click on your button, and select Follow Hyperlink...if you did it right, you linked page will be displayed where your homepage was before! Sometimes, FrontPage can be goofy, so if that doesn't work, try linking to Parent Frame instead.
 To get links to open in a new window, do the same thing, only instead of selecting your home frame, select New Window.
 The FrontPage help file should explain it pretty well. Once you start doing this more and more, you'll find that all those things you thought you couldn't do, you can, and making really great websites will be a breeze. Check out the Layout land link for a great tutorial on how to create websites using iFrames and Macromedia Fireworks.

