 Physicians often recommend the BRAT method when someone is suffering from acute diarrhea, which is diarrhea that last for less than 14 days. This method, which is a diet of bland foods incorporated into your diet, helps settle your stomach and helps you recover from a gastrointestinal infection that causes diarrhea. BRAT stands for bananas, rice, applesauce, and toast. These foods are typically recommended because they are easy to digest, are well tolerated by most people, and low in fiber to help firm up stool.


This is not a weight loss method and it not recommended for the long term. This diet is low in protein, fat, and fiber and lacks key nutrients needed to live over time. Only use this method for the few days it takes to be able to stomach normal food when you have diarrhea. Make sure you stick to it for at least 24 hours to help with your symptoms.Indeed, the major concern that doctors have about the BRAT diet is that it is unnecessarily restrictive and provides suboptimal nutrition. You should not stay on it for more than a few days until your diarrhea subsides.;
, The first step in the BRAT method is to eat bananas. Bananas are great when you are suffering from diarrhea because they are bland and easy on the stomach. They are also helpful because they are rich in potassium, which will help counter the loss of nutrients from diarrhea. Eat plenty of bananas while you are suffering from diarrhea. Do not over stuff yourself and cause more stomach issues. Only eat what you can without making yourself sick. Bananas contain about 422 mg of potassium making bananas a potassium rich superfood with 13% of the RDA of potassium in one banana. Potassium in an important electrolyte responsible for providing energy for the cells, tissues, and organs of the body.Green bananas are preferable due to the increased mounts of pectin.
 While rice is a great, bland starch that can easily be tolerated when your stomach is upset. Eat it by itself without added butter or salt. The extra ingredients may upset your stomach even more, especially in the first few days of the diarrhea.Don't eat brown rice. Brown rice has increased fiber, which can make your stools loose and may make your diarrhea worse., Applesauce is also bland but also has added sweetness and natural sugars. This is easily digested and easy to tolerate, even if your stomach is upset. You can buy individual applesauce cups for ease or large jars of applesauce to serve in bowls. Eat multiple servings of applesauce a day to help your calorie intake and keep your stomach settled.Avoid buying the flavored types of applesauce because they have increased sugar content and may upset your stomach more.
One concern is that doctors have is the consumption of simple sugars. Simple sugars, like the sugars contained in applesauce, increase stool output and are low in sodium and potassium, which are key electrolytes of the body., One of the blandest foods you can eat is plain bread. It is a good source of bland carbohydrates that are easy to digest when your stomach is upset. White bread is better because the flavor is milder and there is less fiber and will help firm up your stools.Avoid putting butter and sugary jams on your toast. Butter is high in fat and sugary jams can make your stomach worse., There are two common variations in the BRAT method. There is the BRATY method, which adds yogurt to the method. Plain yogurt has increased potassium and good bacteria for your system. You can also try the BRATT method, which adds tea to the routine. Gentle herbal teas can help keep you hydrated and settle your stomach.


You can combine them all to make the BRATTY method if you think all the different components work for you., In recent years, there are some doctors that believe the BRAT diet may be too restrictive for children with acute diarrhea because it lacks the nutrients their bodies need to get better. These doctors suggest this diet in the first 24 hours of the condition. After this period, they recommend adding in more nutrient rich foods from the children's normal diet while avoiding foods with simple sugars. These include soda, juice, gelatin desserts, or other highly sugared foods, which may worsen the diarrhea. Once the illness is over, children should receive additional nutrition to compensate for any nutritional deficiency that arose during the illness.


Certain guidelines have recommended avoiding fatty foods, but maintaining adequate calories without fat is difficult, and fat might have a beneficial effect of reducing intestinal motility. Instead, don't give your child overly greasy foods with little amount of nutrients in them.
Try to make them eat the foods of the BRAT method in the first 24 hours, even if it is in small doses to avoid them getting sick. The somewhat common practice of withholding food when diarrhea is first developed is inappropriate. Early feeding decreases changes in intestinal permeability caused by infection, which can reduce the duration of the illness duration and improves the outcome. Doctors recommend an age appropriate diet with complex carbohydrate, lean meats, yogurt, fruit, and vegetables. These are better tolerated than fats and simple sugars., If you do not like bananas or want to get your potassium from other sources while you are sick, there are many additional bland foods that can provide potassium for you. White beans, baked potato with skin, dried apricots, and avocados are great sources of potassium and can help you recuperate during bouts of diarrhea.Only eat these foods if you think your stomach is ready for them. You don't want to upset your system even more than it already is.

