 Standing water is a breeding ground for mosquitoes, so it's best to remove water from your yard if possible. Birdbaths, empty pots, and tin cans that fill with water can lead to more mosquitoes, so be vigilant about draining these areas.If you want to keep your birdbath, trying changing out the water once a week.Also, look for anything that collects water, such as empty pots or small dishes. Try to remove these from around your house. In addition, fill in any potholes in your driveway or sidewalks, as well as holes in your yard.
Kiddie swimming pools and pet bowls can also breed mosquitoes. If you have a water dish for your dog outside, make sure to change it daily.
Be sure to check around air conditioning units and faucets for standing water. Also, check flat roof spaces., If you keep swimming pools clean and flowing with the proper chemical balance, they shouldn't breed mosquitoes. Therefore, make sure to keep your pool maintained even when you're not using it. Also, make sure to check the cover doesn't collect water., If an area of your yard naturally collects water, you may not be able to drain the water. Instead, use a product that contains methoprene, as these products inhibit the growth of mosquitoes. Spray the product in the area to help keep mosquitoes from breeding.If it's your grass or garden that's not draining, try aerating it so it drains better.
 If you enjoy having a small pond on your property, you need to treat it properly to stop mosquito growth. One option is adding a waterfall or fountain to help keep the water moving, making it more difficult for mosquitoes to breed.You can also add fish that enjoy eating mosquitoes, such as koi, goldfish, and mosquito fish.
Another option is adding a biorational larvicide. While these products will kill off the mosquitoes, they won't harm the plants or fish in the area. Look for products such as Mosquito Dunks or Microbe-Lift Liquid Mosquito Control.
 You may not think about your rain gutters much. However, if you have leaves or other items clogging up your gutters, you could have standing water up there. It's best to get up there and clean them or have someone come and do it for you to help keep mosquitoes from breeding., If you have tarps or other clothes covering anything near your home, check to make sure they aren't collecting water. If they are, try to move them around so the water won't collect, as they'll breed mosquitoes, too.