 Annuals can be planted in any type of container, such as clay pots, window boxes, wire hanging baskets, wood planters, whiskey barrels and flat-sided baskets. To show off the colorful annual blooms, select a container that draws attention to the plant, rather than the container.


Select a container that has drainage holes in the bottom or sides. Drainage is a key factor in growing healthy annuals. If the containers don't provide adequate drainage, the root systems of the annual plants may rot.
Choose a container that is big enough to support mature plants. Annual seedlings are small, but grow quickly. Ensure your container is large enough to contain fully grown annuals.;
, Each type of annual requires different growing conditions, such as sunlight, wind and heat. Choose the annuals based on the desired location of the container. If the container will be placed on a sunny patio, select annuals that thrive in full sun and high heat. If the container will be placed under a tree, select annuals that thrive in cooler temperatures and in the shade.


Consider combining several different types of annuals in 1 container. When placing several types of annuals in a single container, make sure the plants have similar growing requirements. Shade-loving and sun-loving plants are not likely to thrive in the same container because of their different growing condition requirements.
Select annuals based on the type of container used. For hanging baskets, select cascading or trailing plants. For pots on the ground, choose upright plants.
Add texture to containers. Add texture with foliage annuals, such as dusty miller, coleus, ivy, spikes or asparagus fern. The foliage annuals do not produce flowers, but provide interesting textural elements to the containers.



Mix together equal parts potting soil, perlite and sphagnum moss. These materials can be purchased at most local garden centers or through online retailers.
Fill the container with the potting medium. Do not fill the container completely, but leave about 1 or 2 inches (2.54 or 5.08 cm) unfilled at the top of the container.
Water the sphagnum mixture in the container. Add warm water until the water begins to flow from the drainage holes in the pot. When the water drains, the growing medium is sufficiently moist throughout the container and ready for planting.
 Lightly place the annuals in the container before planting to evaluate the placement and spacing between plants. Annuals can be planted closer together in a container than in a garden bed. A good rule of thumb is to leave about half the suggested spacing around annuals in a pot. For example, if an annual requires 4-inch (10.16-cm) spacing in the ground, it may be planted 2 inches (5.08 cm) away from another plant in a container.


Place taller plants in the center of the container, with small plants around the perimeter.
 Dig holes that are the same depth of the cell packs or nursery pots. Place each annual in a hole, keeping the root ball intact. Using the palm of your hand, cover the hole with the growing medium and gently tap down around the plant.
 Be sure to water the annuals immediately after planting.


Check the soil in the container daily to determine if the annuals need more water. How often you water will depend on the type of annuals, the container size and weather conditions.
Water enough to soak the growing medium until excess water begins to flow from the drainage holes in the container. The growing medium should be moist, but not soggy. The sphagnum moss will help the annuals retain water more effectively than plants in other growing media, so annuals planted in a sphagnum moss mixture typically require less water.
 Fertilize with a water-soluble fertilizer once a week. Apply the fertilizer at a quarter of the recommend rate on the label to avoid burning the annuals. Too much fertilizer will kill the plants.
 To promote healthy growth, trim dead leaves and remove spent blooms. Annuals will bloom longer if you deadhead faded blossoms, which prevents the flowers from going to seed.

