 Both groups put a lot of emphasis on music, but for emos it’s a way of life. Since music is important to both, if you want to be both emo and scene, you’ll need to listen to music from both sides. Emo music is loud, emotional, guitar-centric and often angsty.Scene music is pulled from the genres of electro-pop, dubstep, dance-pop, and house/techno.


Popular emo bands are Rites of Spring, My Chemical Romance, Get Up Kids, I Would Set Myself on Fire for You, Saetia, Embrace, Moss Icon, Sunny Day Real Estate, Drive Like Jehu, Fugazi, Jawbreaker, Dashboard Confessional, Jimmy Eat World, The Promise Ring, Brand New, Hawthorne Heights, Black Veil Brides, Bring Me The Horizon and Fall Out Boy.Popular scene bands are Millionaires, Blood on the Dancefloor, Breathe Carolina Master of Death, 1800 Zombie, J Bigga, Owl City, Family Force 5, Brokencyde, Scene Kidz, Dot Dot Curve, Skrillex, Knife Party, deadmau5 and Jeffree Star.
 Look for bands that feature the guitar-centric and emotional sounds of emo music while also including some of the electronic and pop elements championed by scene kids. There are plenty of bands that fall neatly into one genre or the other, but there are definitely groups out there that straddle the line between the two.


Both cultures seem to be embracing bands that have elements of pop and punk in their music. Some examples are: State Champs, Sleeping With Sirens, We Are The In Crowd, and Against The Current.You may have to do a little digging and exploring to discover these new bands, but that’s part of the fun.
 Because music is so important to these subcultures (especially emo culture), you will have to openly like both kinds of music to fit into either camp. Wear band t-shirts that feature names from both sides. Attend concerts that are both emo and scene. “Like” the different bands on Facebook and follow them on other social media.


When you’re in the car with friends, alternate the genres. Make some mixes that feature both styles equally.
Defend bands on both sides if provoked or asked to choose.

