 Voters don't connect with a set of bullet-pointed policy positions—they connect with a narrative. Rags to riches, the underdog fighting against entrenched interests, a movement that takes the community back from outsiders or insiders that have undermined it—these are narratives people believe in. Your campaign has to tell voters a story about you—and themselves—that moves them and gets them excited to vote for you. Your campaign materials should describe your vision of what this election means and where the community is going.
 It's perhaps a sad truth of politics that people prefer to vote for the most likable candidates over the ones that are more experienced or that offer better policies for their demographic. Many great candidates have thrown away an election by appearing too stiff or aloof. People need to feel that you are like them, that they could be friends with you or at least share a meal with you. Do everything you can to be charismatic, humble, polite, friendly and humorous, and avoid sounding elitist or like a career bureaucrat.
 Both the media and your opposition will be trying to get you to talk about scandals in your past, issues where you stance doesn't resonate with voters, or whatever story dominates the current news cycle. Don't get distracted! In debates and campaign events, always try to bring the topic back to your core message and areas of strength.
 Make it short and sweet—it has to be something that people can remember. Try to make it rhyme, alliterate, or give it a cadence that people can chant. Bonus points if you can use it to help people remember your name. Nuanced policy papers can help you win endorsements, but the average voter is only going to remember what as much about you as you can fit on a bumper sticker—so make sure it distinguishes you from your opponents and connects with something they care about.


If there is a single issue that dominates the campaign that you can take a stand on, don't be afraid to make that your slogan, like: "John Smith: People Over Pipelines" or even "John Smith: No to the New Stop Light."

, Call out your opponents on any controversial positions they may have held in the past, or any personal skeletons they have in their closet. People don't like negative campaigning, but it still works. Too much mudslinging can backfire on you, but successful campaigns have to have some bite. A vote against your opponent is usually as good as a vote for you.


If you can manage it, try to have a third party do the criticism while you appear to stay above the fray. Successful presidential candidates often let their running mates act as an "attack dog" while they focus on the positive.

