 Make certain to catch the three springs. Hold the mechanism together as it slides off the bar. Remove the trigger and the spring under it, too. You must have all of the following parts available to make the clamp work when it is reassembled:


The bar and two plastic retainer pins––save the pins for later. (See Tips below if these are missing.)
The end pad––save for later.
The plastic mechanism case.
The plastic ratchet handle.
The "flat" coil spring––this is about 2 inches long.
The leaf spring––this is about 4 inches long, flat, with and oblong hole and a bend.
A flat steel ratchet plate.
A steel ratchet plate with a hook on the end.
The steel release trigger.
The V-shaped trigger spring.;
, With the ratchet groves facing away from you, fit the plastic mechanism case over the end of the bar and slide it on, going through the hole in the end opposite the pad, through the U-shaped guide inside, and then through the trigger hole in the pad-end. If it does not slide easily, flip the bar upside down and try the other end., The ratchet groves must face the inside of the case. Let the case rock back to reveal the end of the bar.
,  Either end can go down.,, With the pin end of the handle up, and the hook pointing up, slide the plate into the second hole in the handle such that the plate sits nearly flat against the handle end.  The hook must catch on the pin such that the hook folds over the pin and points to that end of the handle. If it points toward the open U-shaped end of the handle, it will not work.


Thread the hook-end ratchet plate and handle over the exposed end of the bar, placing your index finger on the hook to keep the plate flat to the handle end. 
Slide the handle down to the flat ratchet plate.


 

The first trick is to make sure the end of the bar is even with the handle opening. 
The second trick is to grab the handle with your hand, sliding your finger under the leaf spring with your thumb on top of the ratchet hook. 
Squeeze to compress the flat coil spring against the ratchet plates and handle end. 
Then slide into the space in the mechanism cover between the U-shaped guide and the trigger end. 
Push it in so that the end of the bar is visible through the trigger opening.



 

Place the two free legs of the trigger spring down into the cup around the trigger opening, then place the unhooked end of the trigger into the notch in the mechanism cover with the trigger hook pointing up. 
Depress the trigger slightly and slide it over the end of the bar and the entire assembly down on the bar 6 inches.
 Check that it moves the mechanism up on the bar and that the trigger must be squeezed to move the mechanism down on the bar.,