 Gnats collect in bodies of still water. If you locate the source of your gnat problem, you can keep them from breeding and swarming and thereby reduce the chances of a painful bite.Remove gardening items that can collect rainwater, like buckets or flowerpots.
Clogged gutters and storm drains also attract gnats.
Cover swimming pools with a pool cover or large tarp when not in use.
 If the soil in your garden is attracting a lot of gnats, you may be over watering your plants. If you notice puddles, wait at least 24 hours between watering to let the soil dry completely.
 Gnats are attracted to food items in open containers, and to dirty dishes left in the sink. Wash and dry dishes and countertops, and put dishes away. This will help avoid colonies of gnats that may bite.
 Bleach kills gnats, so pour a small amount of household bleach into the water pans under your refrigerator or freezer. Check and empty the pans regularly, remove the dead gnats, and add more bleach.


Pour a quarter cup of bleach down your drains, especially garbage disposal drains, to discourage gnats from collecting there.
 Close any gaps in the insulating seals around your doors and windows, so gnats can't get in from outside. This will help prevent gnat bites.Pay special attention to the sealant around window-mounted air conditioner units, which produce moisture that attracts gnats.
 Don't leave wet towels on the floor of the bathroom, or leave damp dish cloths on the kitchen counter or bar. Eliminating damp areas in your house will keep gnats from colonizing.
 Instead of using dangerous pesticides that can harm you or your pets, create a trap for gnats instead. Empty the traps regularly and refill the traps – this will help keep you and your family from getting gnat bites.Fill a mason jar (or any jar of similar size) with apple cider vinegar. The jar doesn't need to be completely full – half full works just as well.
Close the lid and poke 5 or 6 holes in the lid. If you don't have the lid, cover the top of the jar with cling wrap and poke holes in that.
The gnats will be attracted to the vinegar and will enter the jar, but won't be able to get out of the jar.
If you don't have apple cider vinegar, use regular vinegar with a few squirts of dishwashing liquid. Gnats are especially drawn to lemon scents.
 The gnats will be drawn to the yellow color and will get stuck in the honey. This will help prevent a build-up of biting gnats.Attach a yellow index card to a popsicle stick, so it looks like a little sign. Gnats are attracted to the yellow color – plain index cards won't work as well.
Coat the index card with honey, and stick the popsicle stick into the dirt near plants where gnats tend to collect.
Replace the used cards with new ones when they fill with gnats.

