 You will automatically be a U.S. citizen even if you are born outside the U.S. if both of your parents are U.S. citizens at the time of birth and are married to each other. At least one parent must have lived in the U.S. or a territory before the child’s birth., A child can also automatically qualify as a U.S. citizen at birth if one parent is a U.S. citizen, provided the parents are both married to each other. This parent must have been present in a state or territory for at least five years in their life before the child is born.


The parent also must have spent at least two of those years in a state/territory after they were age 14.The child must have been born on or after November 14, 1986.
There are some other circumstance, which you can read about at the USCIS website.
 A child can automatically qualify as a citizen at birth if their parents are unmarried. Consider the following situations:The mother is a U.S. citizen at the time of birth and the mother has been physically present in the U.S. or an outlying territory for at least one year.
The genetic father is a U.S. citizen at the time of birth. The child’s mother can be an alien. However, you must prove with clear and convincing evidence that the father is the genetic father, and he must agree in writing to provide financial support for the child until they are 18. The father also must have been in the U.S. for a certain amount of time.
 A child can automatically qualify for citizenship if they were born after February 27, 2001 and meet the following requirements:One parent must be a U.S. citizen.
The child must be under 18.
The child should reside in the U.S.
The parent who is the U.S. citizen must have legal and physical custody of the child.
If the child was born before February 27, 2001, then different requirements apply.
 A child living legally in the U.S. with parents who have legal and physical custody can become a citizen by virtue of their adoption. One of the following conditions must be met:The parents adopted the child before the child’s sixteenth birthday and reside with the child in the U.S. for at least two years.
Alternately, the child was admitted into the U.S. as an orphan (IR-3) or Convention adoptee (IH-3) and the adoption was completed outside the U.S. The child must have been adopted before their 18th birthday.
The child was admitted into the country as an orphan (IR-4) or Convention adoptee (IH-4) who arrived to be adopted. The child must have been adopted before their 18th birthday.

