 Facebook has a simple app you can install that allows you to set up a poll on your Facebook page. Unless you're operating a social media presence for your business on Facebook, Facebook polls are usually more casual. You may be asking your friends what color they feel you should dye your hair, or asking for advice on which summer job to take. To start a Facebook poll, first find the app.Search "poll" in the Facebook search bar.
The first thing that comes up should be a simple app titled "Poll." This is an easy app to use to post a poll on your personal Facebook page.
 Click the "View App" just to left of the app icon and description. The app will request permission to access some of your Facebook information. It will let you know the specific information the app will have access to. If you are comfortable with allowing the app access, click "Allow.", From here, you can enter a question and potential answers. The process is very straight forward and should not take very long.On the bottom of the page, there will be a button that says "Click here to get started." Click that button to begin making your poll.
There will be a bar where you enter your question. For example, "Which bar should we go to for my 22nd birthday?"
There is a larger box below where you can enter your answers. You write one answer per line. For example, you would write "Crunchies" and then hit the enter key. On the next line, you would write, "Harper's." Then, you press enter again and write down "The Peanut Barrel." Keep hitting enter and writing down bar names until you have a suitable number of answers.
 At the top of the app, there is a small section with a drop down menu titled "Post to page." You can decide whether you'll post your poll on your personal Facebook page, in a Facebook group, or send it as a message. In the above example, you're probably polling a specific group of friends. Therefore, it's a good idea to send it as a message to those friends rather than post it on your personal page., Once you're finished with your poll, click "create poll." Your poll should post to your chosen page, or be sent to a group of people as a message.