 List the fields of study that interest you, and come up with a list of courses you would consider studying based on these interests. Add the topics that you were most interested in during school as well as jobs that you envied others for.;
, The internet, newspapers, television and people around you are the best sources of information. Check online about the courses you are interested in and find out about the career prospects and the other info. Speak to people who are in your interested profession and find out what it is to choose your future career. People who have completed university courses can give you an insight from a student’s perspective - they can tell you the pros and cons.
 To avoid making mistakes, make sure you review the course outline of the course(s) you want to apply for. Have a look at the subjects you must undertake and the types of learning, assignments and examination tasks involved. This will enable you to form a rough idea of what lies ahead for you.
 If you are set on going to a particular university, don’t let this completely dictate your course selection. Compare course outlines and studying facilities between universities to make sure you make the right choice for your educational needs and preferences. If possible, visit the university and attend some of the lectures to get a feeling of what some of the subjects will be like.
 To be certain that you will be committed to your studies, find out the duration of your course. Taking double-degrees, full time or part-time depends on your personal choice. Ensure that you will be able to balance your other priorities along with education. Study flexibility varies amongst universities.
 It is more difficult to get accepted in to competitive courses, especially those which are in high demand. This is a good measure of whether you are actually capable of doing well in the course or not. Unfortunately, some courses are too hard to get in to, or just too hard to actually succeed in completing, so be honest with your course selection. You should research other universities or similar courses if you are not confident in being accepted into your first preference course.
 Affordability is another aspect you need to consider while deciding on your course, as well as the additional costs that occur, such as text books, field trips etc. However, do not let cost hamper your career choice, as there are a number of financial assistance options available to complete the course.
 Look at the career prospects of the course before selecting one. Consider various factors such as income, job security, stress, responsibility and other benefits while researching a profession. It is also useful to find out if a future employer will invest in your education.

