 Every time you log in to your blog, the design of it ideally should motivate you to write. For some people, a simple write background, mimicking a blank page, sets the heart aflutter. For others, an intricate houndstooth pattern does the trick. How do you want your blog to look?


Choose a simple background over a loud and in-your-face one, although do what pleases you most. Here are some ideas for simple backgrounds you can mull over:
A photograph of you and your family on vacation
A simple, unobtrusive pattern that provides texture but doesn't take away from the words
A map of picture of a map
A writing object, such as a fountain pen, typewriter, or ream of paper
A simple background in your favorite color



, If you want your blog to be personal and de-indexed from search results, so that only you see it, check this option. In many blogs, there is also an option which allows you to keep your blog entirely private, where a password is required to access it. Look for this option if you want your blog to be truly secret.
 If you make categories into which you place your blog posts, try ordering the categories by popularity. Why put the blog post you visit least right up there at the top, and the blog post you visit most near the bottom? Design with simple navigation in mind.


Reduce the clutter. Just because you have the option of creating dozens of plugins and widgets doesn't mean you need to use them. If this blog is indeed about you and your thoughts, make them stand out instead of extraneous stuff.
 In many public blogs, your first post is a short explanation of who you are (some secrets are kept) and why you decided to blog. It's an online introduction of sorts. Because you're building a personal blog, however, you need not be so formal in your first post.


Write about what motivated you to start a blog. It may help to put things into writing. This is often a cathartic act, too, releasing certain tensions and stress. Try it on for size and see how it feels.
Write about what you intended to write about. Jump right in. Your blog can turn into a diary of sorts, or it can be a place where you gather interesting articles from around the web and comment on them. Of course, it can be anything in between. Write or post about what makes you happy.

