 Add 1 cup (230 g) of unsalted butter that’s been softened to room temperature to the bowl of a stand mixer with the paddle attachment in place. Turn the mixer on medium, and beat the butter until it is smooth, which should take approximately 30 seconds to 1 minute.If you don’t have a stand mixer, you can mix the cookie dough with a handheld electric mixer. You can also mix the dough by hand, but it will be a little more time and labor intensive.;
, Once the butter is smooth, mix in ⅔ cup (83 g) of confectioners’ sugar that’s been sifted. Beat the mixture again until it has a silky, smooth texture, which should take approximately 30 seconds.Using confectioners’ sugar instead of granulated sugar helps give the dough a smoother texture.
 When the sugar is blended with the butter, add 2 large egg yolks that are at room temperature, a pinch of salt, and 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla extract. Beat the mixture until all of the ingredients are thoroughly combined.You can substitute almond extract for the vanilla if you prefer.
If you want to add dried fruits, such as raisins or cranberries, or whole nuts, such as walnuts or pecans, to the cookies, mix them in with the eggs, vanilla, and salt.
 When the eggs, vanilla, and salt are incorporated, turn the mixer’s speed down to low and slowly add the flour. Blend the mixture until the flour is just incorporated.Be careful not to overmix the flour into the dough. You’re better off under mixing with the stand mixer and using a spatula to fold in any flour that hasn’t been incorporated.
 To make chocolate slice-and-bake cookies, substitute ¼ cup (30 g) of unsweetened cocoa for ¼ cup (35 g) of flour in the base dough recipe. Mix the dough as normal.For even more chocolatey flavor, mix in ½ cup (90 g) of mini chocolate chips after the dough has come together.
 If you prefer a nutty flavor, replace ½ to 1 cup (70 to 140 g) of the flour with the same amount of ground nuts and mix the dough as normal. Walnuts, pecans, almonds, and hazelnuts are all delicious options.You can bump up the flavor of the cookies by mixing chopped nuts into the dough. Add them with the egg yolks, vanilla, and salt.
 Give your cookies a tart flavor by adding ½ cup (60 g) of finely chopped dried cranberries and the zest from 2 oranges to to the dough with the egg yolks, vanilla, and salt. Add the flour as directed above.You can substitute lime or lemon zest for the orange if you prefer.
 Add a spicy flavor to the cookies by mixing in 2 teaspoons (5 g) of cinnamon with the flour. Blend the flour and cinnamon into the dough as normal.After you’ve formed the dough into logs and are getting ready to slice them, roll it through a plate of cinnamon sugar to coat the outside of the cookies.
 For a simple twist on basic slice-and-bake cookies, add ½ cup (90 g) of mini peanut butter or chocolate chips after you’ve mixed in the flour. Fold the chips in with a spatula until they’re fully incorporated.You can try other types of chips as well. Toffee, butterscotch, pumpkin spice, and other flavored chips can make the cookies even tastier.
 When all of the ingredients are mixed, dump the dough out on a counter or cutting board. Use your hands to form a ball, and divide it into two equal parts.If you find that the dough is sticking to the counter or work surface, lightly dust the area with flour.
 Once the dough is divided into two balls, wrap each one in plastic wrap. Place them in the refrigerator, and allow them to chill for 30 minutes., After the dough has chilled, remove it from the fridge. Place it on a flat work surface and carefully roll each piece into a log that is approximately 1 to 1 ¼ inches (2.5 to 3.2 cm) thick.You don’t need to pay much attention to the length of the logs. As long as they’re the right width, you’ll wind up with proper cookies.
 When you’ve shaped the dough into logs, wrap each one in plastic wrap. Return them to the refrigerator, and allow them to chill for 2 hours.If the dough is wrapped up airtight, you can keep it in the refrigerator for up to 3 days or 3 months in the freezer.
 After the dough has chilled for a couple of hours, remove it from the refrigerator. Unwrap the dough, and roll the logs through a coating of your choice if desired. Granulated sugar, cinnamon sugar, and chopped nuts are all tasty options.For holidays and special occasions, try rolling the dough in colored sugar or sprinkles to give the cookies a more festive look.
 When you’re ready to bake the cookies, set the oven temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (180 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully preheat. Next, line two cookie sheets with parchment paper or silicone baking mats to keep the cookies from sticking to them.If you don’t have parchment paper or silicone mats, you can grease the cookie sheets with nonstick cooking spray or butter.
 To create the cookies, use a sharp knife to slice the dough into ¼-inch (6.3-mm) thick discs. Turn the logs a quarter turn after each slice to help keep the cookies round.If the dough gets soft as you’re slicing, place it back in the refrigerator to firm up. It will cut more easily if it’s cold.
 Once you’ve sliced all of the dough, place the cookies on the lined cookie sheets. Make sure to space them ½ inch (1.5 cm) apart because they will spread during baking.If you would like to add granulated sugar, chopped nuts, sprinkles, or other toppings to cookies, sprinkle them over the dough before the cookies bake.
 Place the cookies in the oven, and allow them to bake until they are set without browning. It should take approximately 12 to 14 minutes.For softer cookies, bake them for 12 minutes.
For crisper cookies, bake them for 14 minutes.
 Once the cookies have finished baking, remove the trays from the oven. Use a spatula to transfer the cookies to a wire rack and allow them to cool completely, which should take 15 to 20 minutes.Cookies that are stored in an airtight container stay fresh for up to 5 days.
