 Crate training is a way to condition your puppy's behavior, help with house training, and stop it from acting out. A dog’s crate should be a place it feels safe in and wants to inhabit. Buy a crate that will accommodate your puppy when it has grown to its full size. Your puppy should have just enough room to stand up, turn around, and lie down comfortably, so use a divider to block off part of the crate while your puppy is still small.Visit the Association of Professional Dog Trainers website at https://apdt.com/resource-center/choosing-right-crate-size/ to see what size crate your fully grown dog will need.
 Make the crate inviting and comfortable by lining it with a soft blanket, and leave it out with the doors open so that your puppy can explore it on its own. Use treats and toys to encourage it to go inside. Start feeding your puppy meals inside the crate to increase its comfort and positive associations with it., Gradually start to close the door when your puppy is inside of the crate, for a few seconds at a time at first (preferably while your puppy is eating a meal). Stay close to the crate to reassure the puppy. If the puppy seems okay with being in the closed crate, try leaving the room for very short periods of time (i.e. a minute or two), and reward and praise it heavily once you come back and open the crate. Stay outside for longer, gradually., Be mindful of how long you leave your puppy in its crate. Puppies younger than 6 months old should not be crated for periods of more than 3-4 hours as they have to eliminate more frequently than older dogs. Crate training uses a dog's natural inclination to preserve its "den" and avoid soiling it, making it a good strategy for house training. As time goes on, your puppy will learn to hold on and relieve itself when let out.One common rule of thumb for how often you should let your puppy out is an hour for every month of age. So a two month old puppy should be let out every two hours or so. In addition to that, they should be taken out immediately after waking up, playing, and eating or drinking., Keep training your puppy by leaving it in the crate alone in a room for longer and longer periods of time. Once you hit the 30 minute mark, try leaving the house with it crated. Lead it into the crate about 15-20 minutes before you step out so it doesn't start to associate time in its crate with you leaving. Be calm and subtle about leaving and returning, to avoid getting your puppy riled up., Make sure to keep crating your puppy while you are at home, and not just when you leave the house. It is important that your dog's crate feels like its safe place, regardless of what is occurring around it. When your dog is grown, you should be able to leave the crate out (unlocked) as a refuge for your pet, and use it periodically for transport., Try crating your puppy overnight, keeping the crate in your bedroom at first so that you can let your puppy out if it needs to relieve itself during the night. When your puppy starts sleeping through the night without trouble (e.g. whining to be let out), try moving it to another room. As your puppy gets older, it should sleep through the night without anxiety.