 (The Game Channel)

The Start/Wii Menu screen will appear. Select Start.

After a few tips on how to keep people or items around you safe while using the Wii Remote, the game's title page will pop up. Press A and B simultaneously.

There will be several asteroid-like bodies on the next page. Select one by pressing A.

The game will ask you to choose an icon to represent your game file. Select one.
;
,, After a short cutscene, Mario will appear in the Mushroom Kingdom. Use the Nunchuck to control Mario, so you can have the power of navigating through the game. To do this, tilt the analog stick in the direction you want Mario to run. Tilt lightly to walk, and a lot to run., Press A on the Wii Remote to jump. If you jump while running, you will jump forward in the direction you are going. Also, while running, when you jump, press A a second time right when you land, and a third time when you land again. This will allow you to perform an extra high triple jump, which can be very useful during difficult levels., While running, press Z on the front of the Nunchucks and then, very quickly, press A.(Make sure you are still running.) Press them almost simultaneously, but press Z just a little before A. You will perform a jump that stretches over a very long area. This is a very important move. You should learn to do this, or you will have a lot of trouble later on in the game., If you hold down Z and walk, he will slowly walk while crouching. Press A while doing this to do a very high backwards somersault. (This is also a very useful move. Learn it and use it.), While running, quickly tilt the analog stick on the Nunchuck in the opposite direction you are heading and press A. He will perform something like a sideways jump in an arc form. Use these moves to navigate your way throughout all levels.,, There will be another cutscene showing Bowser's airships pulling Peach's castle out of the Earth and a creature (a "Magikoopa") shooting Mario off the castle steps and into space.,, Have fun!