 Most likely eczema — in its various forms — will appear on your baby’s face, elbows, behind the knees, and on the hands and feet. Like most irritated skin, eczema will only worsen if scratched. In infants, eczema usually begins around the age of six to twelve weeks. The acute form generally lasts about one to two months and is followed by the chronic form noticeable by its big splotches of red, irritated skin.;
, There are six predominant types of eczema. If you can properly identify the type of eczema your child has, you’ll be able to better treat their condition. Some forms are the product of allergens like eggs, milk, soy, wheat, peanuts, fish, dust mites, pet dander, or mold spores. Other infants with eczema might simply have a genetic predisposition towards skin conditions.Atopic dermatitis: This is what is most commonly referred to as eczema, and it is common in infants. It is a reddish rash that can be itchy. It is usually chronic, or long-lasting. Allergic contact dermatitis: This form is often caused by contact with allergens such as nickle, topical antibiotics, poison ivy or poison oak and causes a red, itchy reaction at the site of contact. It does not spread.
Contact eczema: This is similar to allergic contact dermatitis, but it caused by an irritant. It does not spread once it has appeared on the skin.Dyshidrotic eczema: This type of dermatitis appears on the hands and the soles of the feet with moderate sized, clear blisters that are itchy and tend to burn.
Nummular eczema: This skin condition produces round, coin-shaped patches that are common on the arms, the back, the buttocks, and the lower legs.
Seborrheic eczema: This eczema type causes oily, yellowish, and scaly patches of skin to appear on the scalp, face, neck and chest.This type is common in infants.
 In most scenarios, you’ll want to visit a doctor to get a diagnosis and to learn about treatment plans. Some cases of eczema are so mild that you may simply overlook them. In other cases, eczema can be a major irritant and seriously painful to your infant. In these cases, visit your doctor immediately. Remember that eczema can lead to pain, infection and even scarring if left untreated.See a doctor right away if your baby has signs of infected skin (increased redness, swelling, drainage of pus, warmth of the skin, fever, or is very irritable). Also to see your doctor if the eczema isn’t getting better or is getting worse, or your baby is very uncomfortable or unable to sleep due to their eczema.Doctors prescribe anti-inflammatory medications, like topical steroids or topical calcineurin inhibitors (TCIs), to treat inflammation. Oral antihistamines may be recommended to help with itching and to help your baby sleep at night. Occasionally, oral anti-inflammatory agents are needed to treat the most severe cases.In most other cases, your doctor will prescribe soothing baths and moisturizers designed to combat eczema.

