 One of the best ways to communicate that you care is to spend some uninterrupted quality time with your mother. If you’re celebrating your mom’s birthday, don’t spend half your time together checking your phone or chatting with a friend.Turn your phone and other distracting devices off in honor of her big day.
When you’re together, focus on having conversations and engaging with her. Even if you’re in a group, your mom should be your top priority.;
, You’d be surprised how much your mother would appreciate a break from a routine task, like cleaning the house or washing the car. Show you care by taking on the work for her.She’ll appreciate it even more if you choose a chore that she finds especially onerous, like doing the laundry, cleaning the bathroom, or raking the yard.
 Giving your mom your time and effort is a wonderful way to show you care while helping her accomplish something that she has been meaning to do. Pick a project that has been on her plate for a while, and lend her a hand to get it done once and for all.For instance, if she has been meaning to plant a garden, help her pick out some seeds, put on some gloves, and pick up a spade!
If she would like to redecorate a room, help her shop for supplies, move furniture, paint walls, and hang up new art.
Be sure to let your mom supervise the project, so it's completed according to her vision. You want to support her efforts, not take them over. Consult with her about how you can be the most helpful.
 Sometimes, the best gift you can give your mother is some free-time to enjoy herself however she wants. To do that, make arrangements in advance to cover any obligations that she might have on her birthday.For instance, if she has other children, arrange a babysitter or babysit yourself. If she has a dog, volunteer to take care of it for the day or while she spends the night elsewhere.
Oftentimes, just letting your mother sleep in is a much appreciated gesture. If that’s the case, give her the gift of not bothering her in the morning, and bring her breakfast in bed when she wakes up.
 Your mother will feel appreciated if you can recall memories and anecdotes that you both cherish. Be sure to pick out a couple examples of times when she saved the day or did something wonderful to express your gratitude and show that you’re paying attention.It's as easy as saying, "Mom, remember that time when you surprised me with a party at the skate park for my birthday? That was awesome."
Bring up things like your family camping trip to Yellowstone, the time your mom came to your rescue when you were stuck at an airport six hours away, or the holiday traditions that you learned from your mom that make each celebration so special.
You can even make this concept into an unforgettable gift idea by creating a memory jar. Pick a pretty container, and fill it with slips of paper that you’ve written your favorite memories of your times together on.
 Listening to your mother’s life stories shows that you’re interested in her as a person. You’ll also be grateful you took the time to learn something about what her life was like before you were around.You can spark a conversation about her past by saying, “Hey mom, what’s the first birthday that you remember?” or “What’s the coolest thing that you’ve ever done to celebrate your birthday?”
You could even sit down together and look through an old photo album or two to jog her memory. If you see an image that intrigues you, ask her questions about it, such as: “Where was this taken?” or “Who is that sitting next to you?” or “How old were you then?”

