 When you reference information from another author or source, you are supposed to tell the reader where you found that information. To do this, you can provide an in-text citation, meaning in the midst of your paper, and a reference sheet at the end of your paper.The in-text citation for a Chicago style paper is a footnote. A footnote is a number inserted at the end of a sentence that corresponds to a citation found at the bottom of that page in your essay.
 For an in-text citation, click at the end of the sentence you are citing, putting the typing bar there. Click “References” on the ribbon bar in Microsoft Word, and hit “Insert Footnote.” That will insert a superscript number that corresponds with a number at the bottom of the page.


Doing this also re-numbers the footnotes as you add new ones, so you don’t have to number the footnotes manually.
 Put the author’s first and last name in the footnote, followed by a comma and the title of the book in italics. For example:


“Georgina Victoire, Robin’s Eggs”

, After the book title, type an open parenthesis, and the place of publication, followed by a colon. Follow that with the publisher’s name, a comma, and the year of publication. Close the parenthesis. For example:


“Georgina Victoire, Robin’s Eggs (Atlanta, Georgia: Peaches and Cream Publishing, 1982)”

, Finally, add a comma and the page number you found the information on. Finish your footnote with a period and remember to leave a line space between each footnote.


“Georgina Victoire, Robin’s Eggs (Atlanta, Georgia: Peaches and Cream Publishing, 1982), 84.”

, An in-text citation of an article would look very similar. It would look like this:


Author, Article Title, Journal’s Title, Volume Number, a comma, and “no.” plus the issue number.
For example: “Livia Hodges, ‘The Joy of Plants,’ Biology for Geeks 25, no. 3 (2001): 27.
 For an interview you perform, you only cite the source in-text. Use the person’s name you are interviewing as the author’s name, just as with other citations: “Brett, John,” Follow it with the person’s occupation in parenthesis, if relevant. Add a comma, followed by reference to yourself and the date:


“Brett, John, (lawyer), in discussion with the author, June 19, 2002.”

