 The trick here is planning. Of course, there are places on your body that you can't hide with your clothing, but if you plan ahead, most areas are concealable with the right wardrobe choices. If you're worried about cuts on your thighs, simply avoid shorts in public. For cuts on your neck, try collared shirts. All this may seem obvious, but sometimes it's your best line of defense.;
, This is most relevant for cuts on your wrists, which you can often conceal fairly easily with bracelets or watches. If the cut is fresh, it's important to find accessories that won't aggravate it and disrupt the healing process, which can cause more scarring down the line. The best option is to protect a fresh cut with a flesh-colored bandaid, then conceal the bandaid with accessories.
 As we all know, cuts in certain areas are red flags. You can do your best to hide your cuts, but sometimes people will notice them. Depending on who's asking, you may not feel comfortable explaining where they came from. If your cuts result from self harm, it's strongly recommend that you talk to a friend, family member, or seek professional help. Having said that, if somebody notices your cuts, you might not feel compelled to tell them the whole truth. Think of a believable backstory for your cut, so you'll be prepared if somebody puts you on the spot.


If you're an athlete, consider attributing your cut to a sports incident.
Blame it on a cat. Cats scratch people all the time, and sometimes the resulting cuts are severe.
Attribute it to a cooking accident.
Attribute it to an arts and crafts accident.
 In general, it is not advisable to use makeup on a fresh cut. Not only is it often painful to apply makeup to an open wound, but it greatly increases your chance of infection, as makeup often carries bacteria, and its application will make the wound more difficult to clean. Oil-free makeups may be ok to apply once the wound is mostly healed. Your best bet at covering your cut with makeup is to cover the wound with a transparent bandage, and apply foundation on top of the bandage. This may adequately disguise the wound, but use the technique sparingly, because it will prevent your cut from breathing, and slow the healing process.
 If your cut is fresh, the first step is to stop the bleeding. Follow these steps:Apply pressure with a clean cloth or paper towel.
Raise the cut above your heart, if possible, to reduce blood flow.
If the bleeding stops, clean the cut with soap and water, and do your best to rinse out any foreign material, like dirt or glass.
 Before you treat the cut yourself, you need to make sure that it doesn't need stitches. Of course, in the short term, stitches are hard to hide, but they'll help prevent scarring over time, and if the cut is really bad, stitches could save your life. A cut needs stitches ifit won't stop bleeding, even after you've applied pressure and elevated the wound.
it's deep enough that you can see yellow, fatty tissue under the skin.
it's so wide that you can't pinch it shut.
it's in an area of your body that's frequently in motion, like your kneecap, which will prevent the cut from healing on its own.
 Infection is one of the main reasons a cut will leave a scar, so we want to do everything we can to prevent it.Treat with an antibacterial like Neosporin, as directed on the packaging.
If the cut requires a dressing, change it regularly to keep the cut clean.
 Once the cut has healed—that is, once it's no longer an open wound—wash your hands and massage it with a lotion that contains Aloe or Vitamin E. This helps prevent scar tissue from building up. Massage the cut twice a day for two weeks, then once a day for two weeks after that., Because the scar tissue that develops after a cut heals is different from your ordinary skin, it will tan a darker color if it's exposed to the sun. The best solution is to keep the cut out of the sun altogether, but if that's not possible, use an extra strong sunscreen—SPF 50+—before spending time in the sun., On any given day, sunscreen won't conceal your scar. But in the long term, consistently protecting your scar with a broad-spectrum sunscreen will prevent discoloration, and facilitate the scar's fading., Scars over two years old aren't very likely to fade, but younger scars can be improved with the right skin products. Look for skin creams with the following ingredients:Quercetin, which is an antioxidant.
Petrolatum, though some medical professionals discourage its use.Vitamin C

, Exfoliating before applying makeup to a scar is critical, because scars tend to have a particularly high concentration of dead cells. Use a gentle exfoliant, though, to avoid aggravating the wound., After exfoliating your scar, apply a gentle moisturizer with a self-tanning aspect. Not only will this soften the skin and make it more receptive to make up, it will help neutralize the difference in color between your scar and your regular skin, without exposing your scar to the harmful effects of the sun., Before applying foundation and concealer, choose a color corrector with the opposite tones as your scar. If your scar is green, apply a red corrector; if it's yellow, apply a purple corrector, and so on. Gently use your fingers to work the corrector into your skin.
 The next step is foundation and concealer. Ideally, use a silicon-based product, as it will even out the texture of your scar, which will make the next step easier.
 Blend your color corrector and concealer, and set with a lightweight powder. Use a soft brush to keep your color blend intact.

