 If they stubbornly cling to their clothing choices, find a way to respect that. Don’t feel the need to offer disingenuous compliments, and instead, focus on the things you like about their style. Offer positive reinforcement by paying special attention to those details.Be specific about things you like about outfits you might ordinarily want to insult. If she’s wearing a dress you don’t particularly care for, touch on aspects about it that you do like. Is it the way it shows off her legs or the way it accentuates her hips? Mention those things.For men with style that could be worked on, ignore the graphic tee with too many holes that you hate, direct your attention to the way it shows off his arms or focus on the lower part of the outfit: his jeans. Find something you like about it and mention it.
 When your partner wears something that you don’t like, distance yourself from using questions like, “You’re wearing that?” and instead ask honest, thoughtful questions that might help you better understand them and their clothing choices.That way your questions sound more interested than judging.


For most people, their personal style is an extension of who they are. Ask questions that touch on that feeling. “Whose personal style do you most admire?”, “What is it about your favorite item that draws you to it?”, or “Do certain types of clothing make you feel more or less confident? Why?”
Have an open mind to the answers he or she gives you, really listen to them, and get a better understanding of the things that inspire their clothing selections., Don’t be pushy about sharing fashion tips and tricks. Wait for him or her to come to you about wanting to take their style to the next level. Them feeling like it is their decision to upgrade their wardrobe is a great way to not alienate them about what they like or find stylish.If your partner comes to you and ask you to help them pick a couple of items, go for it. Do a little personal shopping for them and see if they like anything you’ve chosen for them. Again, if they don’t, be understanding.If they are not into the idea of changing up their looks, accept it and respect it as their decision.
 In other words, choose your battles wisely. Since you’re making it a point to be respectful of your partner’s clothing choices, only make style choices for them when it’s absolutely necessary. If they enjoy wearing what they want to wear on an everyday basis to do chores or to hang out with friends or to run errands, let them be. But if it’s an important occasion, like a friend’s wedding or a networking event and their trying to wear what they normally wear – you might have to say something about it.Make exceptions for special occasions where you feel like the clothing choice they’ve made is disrespectful or one that goes completely against what the occasion calls for (casual at a formal event).
Give context about their outfits when appropriate. This goes in situations where they might be too informal for a formal event, as well as in situations where you feel like cutting back on their sense of style might be best. For example, if they are dressed too “quirky” for a job interview. They shouldn’t mind it if you voice an issue like this every once in a while., If you are a control freak about the way your partner looks, this is the step you need to employ the most. Refrain from micromanaging your partner’s wardrobe. Respect the boundaries you’ve established between your wardrobe choices and respect the fact that your partner is an adult.Do not pick outfits for them to wear every single night. You are not your significant other’s parent or their keeper as far as their outfit choices go.
Do not take it upon yourself to get rid of a pair of ripped, holey jeans that you know is your partner’s go-to jeans to wear. Do not get rid of the skirt you feel hikes up too much in the back while your partner walks. It’s not your place to decide what gets thrown out of their closet, especially if they don’t ask you to.

