 Self-doubt creeps up at the worst times. When you are having a bad day or are feeling low, self-doubt will come out and attack your thoughts. Even when this occurs and you feel like giving up, don’t. Stay focused on your goals.Don’t think about the endgame. That may be too far off. Instead, think about small steps you can take right now to move yourself ahead. Taking a small step towards your goal can help you feel positive again.
 Figuring out what you want and setting goals is a step towards getting over your self-sabotage. You can never better yourself or succeed if you don’t dream of better things or set goals. Hoping that good things come to you helps you move forward instead of sabotaging yourself.Don’t be afraid to set big goals for yourself. There’s nothing wrong with wanting a good future.
Take some time to think about what you really want. Do you want a promotion? Financial stability? Better health? More rewarding relationships? To travel more? Be honest with yourself about what you want.
After you have taken time to think, write down the things you want, or consider setting up a vision board to help you visualize your desires. Prioritize your list or board. What do you want the most? Which things are attainable now, and which are long-term goals?

, Unclear goals are a way you can self-sabotage. Having nebulous goals doesn’t give you anything to work for so you can’t take strides to achieve anything. You should make a specific goal that is clear and defined.To set a measurable goal, make sure the goal has a distinct end outcome, such as getting a new position or learning a new skill. Break the goals into smaller milestones that you can meet while working towards your goal to chart your progress.
 Often, people get nervous when they decide to work towards their goals. Because of this, they do everything they can think of instead of working towards their goal. Stop avoiding the work and tasks it will take to move forward so you can be successful.For example, you may clean, organize your office, answer old emails, or find a new project. All of these things are distractions that keep you from your ultimate goal of success.
 Setting goals is important, but it is equally important to enjoy each step. Rather than being rigid about crossing goals off your list as fast as possible, try to find something enjoyable in each step.This can also help you reduce stress as you work toward what you want and keep you focused on your current task.
Try to have a mindset of being firm in your goals, but flexible in your approach.

