 Bicep curls are a fairly common strength-training exercise. Doing them while sitting on a stability ball keeps your core engaged and adds whole-body difficulty to the exercise.To start, choose dumbbells of between 1 and 5 pounds, holding one in each hand. Sit on the top of the stability ball with your knees at right angles and your feet together. Position your hips slightly forward with your arms straight down beside you.
Face your palms forward as you bend your elbows to slowly raise the weights towards your shoulders. Curl upwards until the weight is about a fist's width from your shoulders, then lower the weight in a controlled motion to return to the starting position.
Keep your movements slow and steady, avoiding jerky movements or relying on gravity to drop the weight back down.
Do two or three sets of 10 to 15 repetitions each of this exercise to build the strength in your biceps muscles.
You can also do this exercise while standing and hold the ball instead of holding dumbbells. Holding the ball between your hands and doing curls with it will engage your biceps and pectoral muscles. You can even stand on one leg while doing this exercise for a balance challenge.;
, Forearm curls increase the strength in your forearms and wrists. Avoid this exercise if you've recently had a wrist injury, or if you have carpal tunnel syndrome.You want to use a lighter weight for this exercise than you did for your bicep curls. These are smaller muscles, and typically two or three pounds will be enough. You can use lightweight objects if you don't have dumbbells that small, just make sure the objects are identical.
Sit on the ball as you did for bicep curls, but with your feet about shoulder-width apart. Rest your elbows on top of your thighs and hold the weights with your palms up.
Curl your knuckles towards your elbow, bending at the wrist, then lower the weight back down to starting position.
Make sure your movements are slow and controlled. Don't jerk your wrists. Do 2 to 3 sets of this exercise that consist of between 10 and 15 repetitions.
 While tricep extensions target your triceps almost exclusively, you also get a decent back and core workout because you must maintain your balance on the stability ball.If you prefer to stand or don’t have any dumbbells, then you can also do the French press while holding the stability ball over your head.


Get a single dumbbell and hold it with both hands, or hold the stability ball in your hands. As you inhale, tighten your abs and stabilize your back and core, pulling your shoulders down.
Press the dumbbell or stability ball up until your arms are straight, pointed towards the ceiling, with the dumbbell or stability ball over your head. Be careful not to lock your elbows.
Start this exercise by sitting on your stability ball, or by standing and holding the ball over your head.
Bend your elbows to slowly lower the dumbbell or stability ball behind your head as you exhale, bringing it back up to starting position as you inhale and repeat.
Do 2 to 3 sets of this exercise, with 10 to 15 repetitions in each set.
 The effectiveness of any strength-training exercise will diminish over time if you don't gradually increase the weight of your dumbbells. If you find you're able to complete your routine without breaking a sweat, it may be time to add a pound or two.Keep in mind that increasing the weight is not going to cause you to bulk up. To build bulkier muscles, you must do a different workout targeted specifically to that purpose.
When strength training, your arms will gain strength over time if you're doing the exercise correctly. As your arms get stronger, you must add additional weight to get the same workout or even to maintain the strength that you've built.
You'll build strength more rapidly if you choose the maximum weight you can use to complete the repetitions required in your workout. This way you're working your muscles to exhaustion.

