 You can find them in a variety of sizes at any craft store or even in the crafting section of a big-box store.You can choose any size styrofoam ball you want, but approximately three inches in diameter will make a good-sized pygmy puff to prop on your shoulder like Ginny’s.
 You have a couple different options for the fur. Whichever material you choose, you’ll be able to find much more variety in texture and color at a fabric store.


For a super fluffy, shaggy pygmy puff, choose a bulky fur-type yarn, which is often branded as Fun Fur. For a super soft, fuzzy but less shaggy version, pick a fluffy type of wool strips.
If you’re trying to make a pygmy puff just like from the books, then you should pick a shade of purple or pink, but realistically, you can make it whatever color you want.
 This is especially necessary if you’re using the long strip of wool to make your pygmy puff.Once the hot glue has dried and one end of the material is firmly attached, you can start winding the material around the foam ball.If you’re using yarn, you can simply wind tightly. If you’re using wool, you’ll need to add dabs of hot glue to the underside and press them to the ball to get it to stick.Turn the ball as you wind, moving it with every loop around.Keep building up the material until you can no longer see the styrofoam peeking through the fur anywhere.
 Once you have covered the foam ball completely, you can cut the yarn or wool and hot glue the end to the rest. Don’t worry if you can see the very end tip of the yarn or wool because you can cover this spot when you make the face for your pygmy puff.
 Pick a piece of felt in a lighter shade than you made the body—baby pink for a pink puff or lavender for a purple puff. Cut a 1.5” square out of it for the head. You’ll use this to form the shape of the head for your pygmy puff.Shape the felt for the head. You’ll need to use a bit of filling to give the head shape and make it retain the shape. Place something small and pliable, like a cotton ball, inside the piece of felt and wrap the felt around it.#* If you wish, you can also take something small—such as cutting off the tip of a Q-tip—and you can hot glue one end to the cotton ball and the opposite end to the inside surface of the felt. This will help hold the head shape in place, and it will also form a small little muzzle for the nose and mouth.
Glue the head together. Once you’re happy with the shape of the head, hot glue the felt together at the back of the head.You’ll probably be able to trim some excess felt away before you finish gluing.
 In the movies, Ginny’s pygmy puff has very beady black eyes, so you can simply use two small black dots of felt and hot glue them above the little nose muzzle you shaped in the face.


If you want the eyes to have a shinier look than that, you can easily find two small black beads at the craft store while picking up the rest of the supplies.If you want to make it sillier looking, you can simply use googly eyes from the craft store., Use a decent amount of hot glue on the back of the head, and hold it in place against the body until it dries. If you were able to see the seam or any matting where you glued the end up the yarn or felt in place on the body, then make sure you attach the head over the seam.


You may also want to brush the fur out of the way before you attach the head; otherwise you can accidentally end up with sticky hot glue clumping the fur together.
 When everything has dried, roll the little guy around in your hands and scruff up the fur to give it plenty of texture and body.

