 If a federal agent comes to speak to you at your home, you should meet him or her at the door. You are not obligated to allow the agent into your home, unless the agent has a search warrant. Even if the agent says something like, “I just have a few questions,” or “It would be easier to do this inside,” you should ask him or her to stay outside.Stand your ground. If the agent insists on coming into your home, you have the right to say, “I would rather speak with you here,” or “Unless you have a warrant, I do not want you to come in.” If the agent says that he or she can get a warrant anyway, say, “That’s fine. When you have a warrant, then you will be able to come in. But not now.”
If the agent physically forces his or her way into your house, do not take physical action to resist. If you react physically, you may only provoke further action or provide some rationale for the agent to arrest you.
 As soon as possible, inform the agent that you wish to contact your lawyer. You should then call your lawyer and let him or her know about the situation before you continue saying anything to the agent.If a federal agent comes to your home to question you, the first thing you should say (as soon as you realize what is going on) is, “I would like to talk with my lawyer before I continue this conversation,” or, “I will not answer any questions until my attorney is present.”
Justice Department policy directs federal agents to cease all questioning as soon as you inform them that you are represented by an attorney.
If you do not have an attorney, you should still give the same responses. As soon as the agent leaves, you should find one. See Find a Good Criminal Defense Law Firm or Find an Experienced Criminal Defense Lawyer for help in selecting a good attorney to help you.
If the agent presents you with a search warrant, notify your attorney of this and describe the details of the warrant.
 A search warrant, if the agent has one, provides the agents with the right to search your premises, but it does not compel you to speak. You may ask questions about the warrant and about the search, without giving up this right. Do not feel compelled to answer any questions that any of the agents may ask you while conducting the search.If anyone persists in questioning you during a search, you should respond that you do not want to speak without your attorney. Just say, “I’m sorry, but I wish to have my attorney present before I say anything.”

, If someone comes to your door and identifies himself or herself as a federal agent, you should ask to see some identification. The agent may show you a badge of some kind. You should also ask for a business card, so you will have contact information to pass on to your attorney.While remaining respectful, you can ask, “May I see some identification?” and then follow that with, “Do you have a business card with your contact information?”

, If an agent arrives at your home with a search warrant, you have the right to review it before granting access. Ask to see the warrant right away. The search warrant must describe, in some detail, the location that is to be searched and the purpose of the search. Make sure that the location given on the warrant accurately describes your residence.Before allowing anyone into your home, ask, “Do you have a search warrant, and if so, may I see it?” Then, review the warrant’s details. Do not feel pressured to rush or hurry. Take your time and read the warrant carefully before granting access.
For example, if the warrant gives a different address, you should point this out. If the warrant only says that it authorizes a search of your garage, for example, you should not let the agents into your house.
 As much as you can, follow the agent or agents as they conduct their search. Watch what they do, where they search, and make mental notes of their conduct. Pay attention to anything that they collect. If you are not allowed to follow the search, or if the agents require you to stay outside, do not resist or take any action to oppose them., As soon as possible, get some paper and make written notes of the agents’ visit. Make note of the date, time, identity of the agent or agents present, and a summary of the incident. As much as possible, record what the agents said to you.Deliver your notes of the search to your attorney as soon as you have the opportunity.
If the agents conduct a search with a warrant, be sure to keep a copy of the warrant and include that with your notes.

