 You can stick to one kind or both, and it is a good idea to vary the colors if possible. For example, lentils come in a range of colors, including browns, blacks, yellows and oranges. Beans come in different shades and patterns too.


Keep the size differences in mind. Placing too large a bean or lentil next to a much smaller one may not be the look you're after in the mosaic design. Think about how you want the general design to be in terms of sizes before selecting the lentils and/or beans.;
, It can be a canvas, a tile, a CD case or a wooden board. A canvas tends to look more professional for a wall hanging but it's really up to you and the end purpose to which you'll be putting the mosaic.
 The design can be sourced from your imagination or from the internet (check art sites such as DeviantArt or Etsy and image sites such as Pinterest or Flickr for inspiration). Some design examples to help you include:


Abstract: Randomly placed lentils/beans, perhaps varying in colors and sizes. Abstract is likely to be the easiest choice for the beginner mosaic maker.
A landscape: Use the colors and shapes of the lentils/beans to depict trees, flowers, fields, the sky, people and animals, etc.
A portrait: Choose a famous person or a family member to replicate in a lentil/bean mosaic.
A tracing: For example, trace around a hand, a foot or an object that you like the shape of.
Make a rough draft of your drawing first so that you can have an idea of certain features, such as placement and defining of specific objects.
 Transfer your final design onto the chosen canvas, outlining the areas clearly. Do not draw anything too small to add the lentils/beans to––keep the size of your mosaic objects in mind as you draw.
 Follow the design and the color scheme you've chosen. Apply the liquid glue to a small area, then sprinkle the lentils/beans over the glue. After few seconds, press gently on the lentils to help them to adhere firmly to the canvas.
 Continue working in sections, adding glue, then the mosaic items, until the drawing is filled.
 In order for the mosaic to last a long time, spray varnish across it. This will also give it a glossy and firm look, which provides for a pleasant presentation.
 Hang or display the mosaic for your family to see.

