 Open your web browser and go to https://my.bitcasa.com/.;
, Use your Bitcasa account username and password to log in. Click the green “Log in” button to continue.
 You will notice three icons at the leftmost header action menu. The last icon here is Versions (with the clock picture). Click on it to go to Versions.
 The upper half of the page contains a calendar and time scroll bars.

The calendar is where you set the date, and the scroll bars for Hour and Minute is where you set the exact time of day.






The lower half of the page contains the actual state or instance of your Bitcasa files and folders at that particular moment in time. These are actual files you can view, download, and share.
 Use the calendar on the upper half of the page to navigate through a past date you’d like to go to.


You can go back to at most 30 days from the current date. Choose your date by clicking on it on the calendar.
 Use the time scroll bars for Hour and Minute to set the exact time of day. You don’t necessarily need to know the exact time; an estimated time will do.


Scroll left and right for both scroll bars until you’re satisfied with the set time.
 The lower half of the page where the files and folders are located will automatically be refreshed to reflect the files and folders from the past date and time you’ve chosen.


These may not be the current and updated files.
 While in the past instance, you can navigate through your files and folders the same way how you navigate normally.

Clicking on folders will open them, and clicking on files will load them for viewing.
 If you’d like to share or send these deleted files, select them by ticking on the check boxes right in front of them.


After selection, click the “Send” button found on the header action menu. Share links will be created for further sharing. Refer to this article for more details.
 Once you’ve found the deleted files or the previous versions of existing files that you need, select them by ticking on the check boxes right in front of them.


After selection, click the “Download” button found on the header action menu. Your files will immediately be downloaded to your computer.
 After you’ve gotten the deleted or historical files that you need, go back to the current instance by clicking on the green “Return to Today” button found right below the time scroll bars.


You will be brought to the main folder page of your Bitcasa account.
 You can re-upload the files you’ve recovered to Bitcasa’s current instance.

This will essentially bring these files back to the present state and make them valid and active once again.
Just click and drag the files you’d like to upload to the browser with your Bitcasa open, and they will get uploaded right away.

