 This is the number one step you can take to care for your teeth. Using a soft or medium bristle toothbrush and fluoride toothpaste, be sure to brush in the morning and evening every day. Set a timer for two minutes or listen to a short song to keep time.


Don't "scrub" your teeth hard — hold the brush like a pencil and brush in light circles and vertical strokes which will prevent gum recession. Focus on the gums as well. Your gums are a delicate tissue that act like a barrier against bacteria.Hold the brush at a 45 degree angle, just along the edge of the gum line.
Be sure to brush your tongue and the roof of your mouth as well.
Replace your brush every two to three months or when the bristles become worn.;
, Flossing is still the most effective way to remove food and plaque from between your teeth, where it can irritate your gums if not removed. Be sure to get each tooth from each side.


The floss should form a "C" shape around the tooth.
Do not push too far into your gums — goes as deep as the gum line but no further.
Do at least four vertical movements which will extract the bacteria underneath your gums.
 Your teeth only make up 25% of your mouth, and you need to keep the whole thing clean to prevent infections that lead to unhealthy gums. Use antibacterial mouthwash a few times a week, but avoid mouthwash with alcohol in it, as this causes more harm than good.Another option is a chlorhexidine mouthwash. Do not use it for longer than two weeks in a row as it might stain your teeth

, Sugary snacks, gum, and sodas all promote the growth of unhealthy bacteria in your mouth which lead to gum disease. Potato chips, crackers, and dried fruit can also stick to your teeth, and the residue can cause damage if it is not wiped away quickly. Since most people do not brush their teeth after snacking, these particles can remain on teeth for hours.


Foods rich in calcium, like dairy, are great for tooth health.
Vegetables, hummus, and fresh fruit are all healthy alternatives for your mouth.
If you do eat sugary foods, rinse your mouth out with water afterwards.Wait at least half an hour before brushing if you ate sugary food or fizzy drinks.
 Saliva is crucial for keeping your mouth healthy and the bacteria in balance. Drink 4 – 8oz of water every hour — especially when you feel thirsty or your mouth is dry., They are trained to notice any problems with your gums and can give you personalized suggestions to help you keep your gums happy and healthy. Be sure to make regular appointments, even if you don't think you have any problems.

