 If you like to video chat with your friends, iPad 2 will be your perfect assistant thanks to its two cameras and a wide choice of video conferencing apps. If you are a Skype user, iPad 2 can offer you to enjoy all advantages of this popular service with its Skype application. At the same time, you can try other video apps as well - such as FaceTime, Fring, Seen, etc. Regardless of your choice, iPad 2 will give you with a great video conferencing experience.;
, If have an iPad 2, you don't need a specialized e-reading device, as you already have a perfect one. iPad 2 has a large backlit color screen with multi-touch functionality, thus providing better reading experience than monochrome displays of e-readers. It also allows you to choose among several e-reading applications, including Apple's iBooks, Amazon Kindle iPad app, Barnes & Noble iPad app, and lots of others, which makes it an ideal device for reading any books you prefer. All of them offer wide choice of books, and you will be able to find those you like best. iPad 2 is also great for reading newspapers and especially magazines - thanks to its color screen.
 iPad 2 has 9.7-inch backlit widescreen display, which makes it a great video device. It gives you a possibility to choose among a variety of video apps - Netflix, Hulu Plus, ABC Player, Joost, and many others. And of course you can transfer your favorite TV shows, movies, and music videos to your iPad 2 and watch them anytime and anywhere you like. Don't worry if the format of your video files is not iPad compatible - a good iPad converter will help you solve this problem with just a couple of mouse clicks.
 With iPad 2 you will always stay in touch with your friends wherever you are, as it gives you an access to any social network account with the help of a number of social networking apps offered by iTunes Online Store. You can use Facebook app or Twitter to keep up with the latest news, or WordPress app if you like blogging, or any other social media application you prefer.
 The apple store has classes to teach you how to use your iPad 2. They are often free and are very useful. If you prefer an interactive learning, this variant will be great for you.

