 You will be able to speak, and print, with confidence if you can support them with data that you have collected through study. Being better informed will also help you formulate your presentation.;
, Not anything is going to be attaining by cram. You will be talented enough to imagine better and clearly if you are calm. Naturally, don't be overconfident about the circumstances, but do stay calm enough that you can think clearly.
 Prepare your presentation, class, or talk. The usual rules apply. Also, prepare your notes and any slides you will use.
 Remember that printed material handed out at the beginning of the presentation can compete with you for your audience's attention if you're not careful. (Slides should also be kept to a minimum number of words for this reason.) There are several ways to keep the attention focused on your presentation.


Hand out materials at or near the end of your presentation.
Keep printed materials brief enough to read inside of a few seconds.
Use the printed material simply to recap the presentation, so there is no need to read it during the presentation.
Give your audience time to read or work through the printed materials during the presentation, particularly if the presentation materials include worksheets or group activities, or if the presentation is structured as a class or workshop.
,


Keep your audience in mind. What parts do they already understand? What parts will they need to remember after the presentation? What do you want them to look at or do with the presentation materials during the presentation.
Estimate the size of your audience. Will you print ten copies of your materials, or 100, or 1000? Will you give your presentation once or multiple times?
Make the page layout clear and readable. Leave space around the edges, choose compatible, readable typefaces, and make sure the size of the type will be readable when it is printed out.
Make sure that the type will contrast clearly with the background as it will be printed, especially if you are printing materials in color.
If you have a lot of printed material to distribute, consider making up a folder, booklet, or binder to go with it. Print and copy shops can bind and collate materials, too, and help direct you to economical binding options for print jobs on the scale you need.
 Ask someone else to give their opinion on the layout, content, and any other factors that matter to you and your audience.
 Many things are easier to see in a hard copy, so it's worth printing a rough draft or two before printing a larger batch.


Proofread the hard copy, or have someone else do so. This is also a chance to review and adjust the layout and design.
 If you have them professionally printed, work with the printers to provide a file in the correct format and to assign colors and other values that will print the way you intend.
 Typical per-copy printing costs are low compared to setup costs. You never know when an audience member will want a spare copy for a friend. Your audience, too, may be larger than you planned. It will be easiest if you have at least a few copies in reserve. You can recycle the leftovers, use them for a subsequent presentation, or use them to write your next presentation.
 If you will be adding materials that were printed separately to the presentation packet, make sure they get into all the packets, and make sure you have enough. Such materials might be things like your business card or standard sales brochure. If you're having the materials professionally printed, find out whether the printers can assemble them, too, and what they charge.


Make sure all your packets are consistent and complete. Don't waste valuable time with your audience handing out an insert to people who don't have it or explaining that you ran out of something.
 You want them to listen, recognize and like what you are saying. Come equipped, and be confident.

