 After placing your Patrol Boat, you'll hear, "Recon 1 or 2 reporting. Enter coordinates.", Enter any of the 5 coordinates representing your carrier's position and then place a red Recon Plane on that space on your carrier., Enter the coordinates for your second plane and then place a blue plane on that space on your carrier.

If you chose a pre-programmed fleet configuration, the spaces for your Recon Planes will be provided. Place them on the carrier in the places designated by the auto-configuration.
 You can perform reconnaissance with either your Submarine or your Recon Plane.

Your Sub can scan a 3x3 grid for a target. Press "Scan" and then the Submarine button. Enter the letter-number coordinate of the center of the area you wish to scan, mark your target grid with a blue peg, and then press "Scan" again. If 1 of your opponent's ships occupies any portion of that area, you'll hear, "Sonar system detects enemy craft, precise location unconfirmed," and can then surround the blue peg on your target grid with 8 more. If none of the 9 spaces are occupied by an enemy ship, you'll hear, "Sonar system confirms clear waters," and can then mark your target grid with 9 white pegs.
Your Recon Planes can pinpoint enemy locations. Choose which plane to send out ("Recon 1" for the red plane, "Recon 2" for the blue plane) and enter the coordinates to target. Move your plane to that location on your grid. On a subsequent turn, you can scan for enemy vessels by pressing "Scan" and choosing 1 of the 2 scan patterns. (Neither allows the plane to scan directly beneath it.) If an enemy vessel is found, you'll hear "Enemy sighted," followed by the coordinates; mark those coordinates with blue pegs and the rest of the pattern with white pegs. If no vessel is found, you'll hear, "No enemy sighted"; mark all 4 spaces in the pattern with white pegs.
 Your Aircraft Carrier, Battleship, Destroyer, and Submarine each has special weaponry that can target multiple spaces.

Your Submarine has 2 Torpedoes, which can fire on either a horizontal or vertical line. Press the Submarine button and enter the starting coordinate of the torpedo's path, then the direction. If your Torpedo hits, you'll hear "Sonar confirms hit at," followed by the coordinates; mark those coordinates with a red peg and the rest of the path with a white peg. If it misses, mark the entire path with white pegs.
Your Destroyer has 2 Apache Missiles, each of which can target a 3-space horizontal or vertical line. Press the Destroyer button, choose the firing pattern (1 for horizontal, 2 for vertical), and enter the center coordinate of the pattern, then press "Fire/Enter" once to confirm and again to fire. You'll hear an explosion if the missile hits something and silence if nothing was hit.
Your Aircraft Carrier has 2 Exocet Missiles, each of which can target a 5-space orthogonal ("+") or diagonal ("X") criss-cross pattern. Press the Aircraft Carrier button, choose the firing pattern (1 for "X," 2 for "+"), and enter the center coordinate of the pattern, then press "Fire/Enter" once to confirm and again to fire. You'll hear an explosion if the missile hits something and silence if nothing was hit.
Your Battleship has 1 Tomahawk missile, which can target a 3x3 grid. Press the Battleship button and enter the center coordinate of the grid pattern, then press "Fire/Enter" once to confirm and again to fire. You'll hear an explosion if the missile hits something and silence if nothing was hit.
You also have an Anti-aircraft Gun to shoot down your opponent's Recon Planes. Press the Anti-aircraft button, then enter the coordinates where you think the plane is flying. Press "Fire/Enter" once to confirm and again to fire. If you hit the plane, you'll hear an explosion followed by "Bird down! Bird down!" If you miss, you'll hear "Target out of range." Once both your opponent's Recon Planes are downed or otherwise destroyed, your gun will go dead.

