 Soil provides the essential nutrients and minerals that your plants need to grow properly. If the soil doesn't contain these nutrients, though, the plant won't be able to grow. Mix in some organic materials like compost or manure to ensure the soil is a suitable environment for the plant.

If a plant species has deep roots, the soil needs to be deep enough to fit these roots, otherwise the plant can't expand its roots to grow. Consider moving the plant if the soil is unsuitable.;
, Every plant needs space, so make sure it is not wedged in with another vegetable or plant. If plants are too close together, it can limit the amount of sunlight and water each plant gets. Read the seed packaging carefully or research on the internet to see how much space should be between your plants.

Certain plants will compete with each other for sunlight, water and minerals. It is important to keep these plants apart as much as possible.
 The plants need new water every day. On especially hot days, they might need more water than usual. On rainy days, you shouldn't need to water them. Having a large watering can that can pour water slowly can quite useful, since you don't want to give them too much water.

Make sure to water the soil, not the plant itself. The plant absorbs water through its roots in the soil, so the water needs to be in the soil. Pouring too much water on the plant can damage it.
 Plants get their energy from sunlight, so they need to be placed in direct sunlight to grow properly. Too little sunlight can cause the plant to stop growing or die. However, too much sun is bad for the plant and it could die.  It's important to find a balance.

Good places to put plants include next to a window or outside. Plants will naturally grow towards a light source, so, at the very least, there should be one nearby.
 Weeds can take all of the plant's nutrients and water and cause the plant to stop growing or die. If there are any weeds near your plant, you should remove them so they don't spread or damage your plant further.

Remember to remove all of the weed, including the roots, not just the part of the weed that's above ground. If you leave the roots under the ground, the weed can grow back.

