 They can be old and covered with holes, but make sure that they fit you in the waist and hips.;
, Set the cut-off pant legs for another project. It would be a very good idea to make the skirt a little longer than you think you want it to be. Remember, it is easier to take away length an to add it again. Set the cut-off pant legs aside for another project.

If you want to hem the skirt, cut it 1½ inches (3.81 centimeters) longer than you want it to be.
Consider trying the jeans on first, then making a mark with a pen where you want to cut them.
 The inseam is the inside seam on the pant legs. Cut as close as possible to the seam as you can. Be sure to cut the crotch apart as well. The pants should open up on the bottom, almost like a skirt., The crotch part on jeans curves so that it can fit your figure better. On a skirt, however, this part needs to lay flat. Cut up along the front and back crotch seams by 1 to 3 inches (2.54 to 7.62 centimeters), or until you reach the end of the curved part. You've cut far enough if you can overlap the cut edges without any buckling., Depending on how short you cut the skirt, you may have a triangular gap in the center, where you cut the pant legs apart. Close this gap as much as possible by moving the two cut edges together and overlapping them. Pin the gap shut, then repeat the process for the back.You can have the bottom inch (2.54 centimeter) or so open.
If the bottom of your skirt become too narrow, you will have to add a panel to it. Follow the midi skirt method instead.
 Load your sewing machine with a thread color that matches the topstitching on your jeans. Begin topstitching the front of your skirt. Start sewing at the top, where the crotch part used to be, and finish sewing at the bottom. Repeat this step for the back of the skirt.Backstitch at the start and end of your sewing to make it nice and strong.
 You will most likely have little triangular flaps on the front and back of your skirt, where you overlapped the crotch parts. Use a sharp pair of scissors to trim these off. You will also want to trim them off on the inside of the skirt as well., Turn the skirt inside out and fold the bottom hem up by ¾ inch (1.91 centimeters) two times. Topstitch it down as close to the inside folded edge as you can. Use a thread color that matches the rest of the topstitching on your skirt.
 It is now ready to wear!

