 This step is exactly like in the section above. Cover the bottom and sides of an 8x8 or 9x9 baking pan with parchment or aluminum foil. Spray lightly with a cooking spray or rub with butter.
 You can do this in the microwave, but if you have the time, using a double boiler usually works best. See our article on double boilers for more information. In either case, low, gentle heat works best to prevent the white chocolate from burning or seizing.
 Pour the milk, dulce de leche, melted white chocolate, vanilla, butter, golden syrup, and sugar into a pot over medium-low heat. Stir to combine. When the ingredients form a smooth, thick mixture, increase the heat to reach a boil.


Don't have a can of dulce de leche? Don't worry — you can make your own with a can of condensed milk. Click here.
 Reduce the heat to maintain a gentle simmer. Let the caramel simmer as you stir for about 10 minutes until you reach a rich golden color.If you smell smoke or notice your caramel becoming a darker, orange-brown color, remove it from the heat immediately.
 Expect to beat the caramel for about three to five minutes. When it reaches a thick but smooth consistently, it's ready.


Just like in the recipe above, you can use an electric mixer or a spoon. In either case, be sure to wear protective mitts or gloves to prevent burns from caramel splatters.
 Transfer to the fridge to cool. It should be firm but chewy after a few hours.
 The caramel should come easily out of the pan with the parchment or foil. Use a kitchen knife to cut the fudge block into small cubes. It should be ready to eat immediately.
 Dulce de leche is a thick, brown, caramel-flavored spread that comes in a can and is found in the "Hispanic Foods" section of most grocery stores. It's perfect for caramel fudge recipes, but if you don't have any, it's easy to make from ordinary condensed milk. Follow the steps in this subsection to make your own., Start by removing the can's label. Set the can on its side in a large soup pot or dutch oven. Add water to the pot until it covers the pan generously (at least two inches above it).


This is crucial — if you don't cover the can with water completely, it can rupture or explode.
 Heat the pot to a boil, then reduce the heat to maintain a gentle simmer. Don't forget to reduce the heat. If you do, the condensed milk can burn.
 The exact amount of time you will need to cook the can for is a matter of taste. Generally, you'll want to simmer for about two to three hours (the longer you cook it, the darker and more bitter it will be).


Check the water level occasionally — the can must always be submerged completely, so add more water as needed.
 Careful — it will be hot. Use a slotted spoon or a pair of tongs to protect yourself. Let the can cool to room temperature before opening.



Don't open it while it's hot. Because of the built-up pressure in the can, this can cause it to sputter hot dulce de leche at you.

