 You should type your letter, and you should choose a font style and size that reads comfortably for most people. Generally, Arial or Times New Roman 12 point will work.


If you are creating a letter for email, you should still use a standard font. Avoid colors or anything that is hard to read.
Also set up one-inch margins on all sides.
 You should include your address, but not your name, in the upper-left hand corner. Use block formatting, so don’t indent.All information should line up with the left-hand margin.


If you use letterhead, then you don’t need to include your address., Skip down a line and then include the date you wrote the letter. If you wrote the letter over multiple days, then include only the date you finished the letter.Type out the date using the format of the country where the recipient lives.


In the U.S., the date is listed as follows: “February 12, 2017.”
In other countries, the date will be listed like this: “12 February 2017.”

, Skip down another line and include the address for the recipient. You should include their name and the address.Remember to keep the information lined up with the left-hand margin.
 This is your greeting. Salutations are usually the same. You write “Dear” and then the name followed by a colon.For example, use the following:


If you know the recipient’s last name, write “Dear Mr. Jones:”
If you know the woman is married, you can use “Mrs.” as in “Dear Mrs. Johnson:”
If the woman is single, or if you don’t know if she’s married, write “Dear Ms. Johnson:”
If you don’t know if the person is a man or woman, you can write “Dear Sir or Madam:”
If the person has a title, you can use the title: “Dear Senator Collins:” or “Dear Dr. Smith:”

, Before ending the letter, you should thank the recipient for their time and identify how they may reach you if they have questions. Provide a phone number and email address, if possible.


For example, you can write, “Thank you for your time. I know you are very busy, but I feel passionately about this issue. I am happy to answer any questions you have. I may be reached at 555-5555 or by email at abczy122@gmail.com.”

, You need to bring the letter to close. Type “Sincerely,” and then skip down several lines before typing out your name. You’ll sign the letter in the space in between.Be sure to sign the letter using a felt-tip pen or other pen that produces a smooth, continuous signature.
 You might include a brochure, article, or other supporting documents with your letter. You should type “Encl.:” or “Enclosures:” and then briefly describe what you have included.For example, you could type “2 Enclosures: article, letter.” This states you are including an article and another letter with your own letter.
Ideally, you should have mentioned the enclosures elsewhere in the body of the letter. You want the recipient to immediately understand why you included them.
 You might send copies of your letter to other people. You should note this below your enclosures. Type “cc:” below the enclosures. This stands for “courtesy copy.”You can include the person’s name and title, such as “cc: James Roberts, Assistant to the University President.”
If you are sending a copy to more than one person, then align the other recipients’ names underneath the first. You don’t need to add another “cc.”

, If you want confirmation that the letter was received, you can mail it certified mail, return receipt requested (in the U.S.) In the U.K., you can send the letter Royal Mail Signed For.Always keep a copy of the letter for your own records.

