 Using chemical agents can be very dangerous to your eyes, mouth, and skin. You will need to buy a pair of goggles that sits flat against the face, with no holes where air can get through. You will also have to purchase a thick pair of rubber gloves that comes down at least 3 inches from the wrist. Also wear a simple fabric face mask, so that you do not breathe in any dangerous vapors., This is incredibly important because you need airflow. Air will carry the harmful vapors of the chemicals towards the outside of your house. If your windows and doors remained closed, you will likely breathe in chemical agents which are hazardous to your health.Make sure to turn your air conditioning or heating unit off so that the fresh air doesn’t pull the vapors in.
 It is also critical that the chemical agent does not damage the surface on which it is stuck to. Chemicals may damage certain surfaces such as cloth, plastic or vinyl. The strong chemicals may actually eat away at surfaces before they soften the epoxy glue.Stay away from Class 3 and 4 oxidizers. These agents can cause spontaneous combustion, or can catch on fire down the road.
Try a paint thinner. The acetone in most paint thinners can soften up hardened epoxy, but be prepared to let the epoxy and object to which it is stuck to soak for at least an hour.
Use a commercial stripping agent. These are usually available at most hardware stores., You can either drip some of the agent directly onto the epoxy, or put some on a washcloth, and dab the epoxy. Either way, make sure that enough agent makes it's way onto the epoxy. After the agent has been applied, wait at least an hour before you come back to it.Work in small steps, 2-3 inches at a time. If the area is too wide, the chemical agent will likely not work as effectively.
Make sure that children and pets are not around when you are applying the chemical agent.
 After the chemical stripping agent sits for an hour, you will need to neutralize it before you scrape it off. In a medium sized bucket, mix together 2-3 tablespoons of trisodium phosphate and a gallon of hot water. You can either pull the mixture onto the stripping agent, or dab it on with a sponge. Let it sit, and neutralize the agent for at least 5 minutes., Scrape the resin off with a sharp, strong, plastic scraper. You will want to immediately place the epoxy in a paper towel, and throw it away in a trash can. The goal is to not let the chemical agents get anywhere near you. If some epoxy is still stuck to the surface, soak the remaining epoxy in the chemical for a while longer before trying to scrape it off.When you have scraped the epoxy off, wash the area down with a rag soaked in warm water and soap. You do not want the chemicals to linger around, especially with children and pets in the house.

