 Since the pet is traveling in the cargo area, the carrier is going to be treated like cargo. Despite airline regulations as to what temperatures the pet can travel in, the airport cargo area is likely to have temperature fluctuations. Carriers are generally not strapped down in case of turbulence. The carrier may be tossed and thrown like a piece of baggage. Delays can cause temperature changes in the hold that can injure or kill the animals. Even the best airlines have a statistically significant death rate for animals. Recognize that many airline employees are pet lovers and will look after your pet very well. Accidents do happen, though.


Some breeds of animals are more prone to problems when flying than others. Short-snouted dog breeds (like pugs and bulldogs) don't travel well in cargo holds according to a Department of Transportation report because their method of respiration prevents them from cooling down adequately. Some airlines even ban their travel during hotter weather.;
, Have you considered...


Driving with your pet?
Paying someone else to drive your pet to your new destination, whether it's a friend, family member, or pet transportation service?

Finding your pet a new home?

, By browsing forums online, you may be able to determine which airlines are the most reputable in terms of transporting pets. Read about other people's experiences. Keep in mind that people most often post their bad experiences, but not necessarily their good ones.
 What are their standards? Ask if the airline will insure your pet. If not, you may want to pass., Go for a nonstop flight if the trip is less than 6 hours. Otherwise, ask if you'll be able to see your pet during any changeovers. It is more likely to be possible at smaller airports than at major hubs due to security restrictions. Many airline employees are pet lovers, too!


Note: A "direct" flight may have stops before it arrives at the final destination. Only a "nonstop" flight is truly nonstop in airline language.
 It must comply with airline and government regulations. It should also be strong and spacious enough to accommodate your pet, especially if it gets bumped around during the flight. The regulations require that your pet must be able to stand up fully and turn around in the kennel without touching the sides or top. This is not negotiable with the airline.


Buy the carrier as early as possible and get your pet used to it. Give the pet treats inside the carrier and make it a comfortable, familiar place.
Most US airlines require that you use a water dish that attaches to the door. It's less likely to spill. Even better, freeze water in the dish so it lasts longer.
Tape your name, seat, and contact information on the carrier. If you have a cell phone, keep it on till the very last minute.
 If you see the carrier being mishandled or left in a hot or noisy area for too long, tell a supervisor or a gate agent immediately.
 Most large jets cool, heat and pressurize the cargo areas with the same system as the main cabin. If there is a delay, make sure to remind the the flight crew that your pet is on board so that the heat/cooling is not shut off to save fuel or power. Ask if they can check with the ground crew to make sure your pet is safely on board before the aircraft departs.
 A few seconds at the counter may save hours of grief for both customer and pet later on.

