 There are different kinds of mops, each of which will need different kinds of cleaning. Cleaning the mop head helps eliminate bacteria that can grow when the damp fabric or sponge sits after cleaning.


If you have a cotton mop with a removable mop head, you can throw it into the wash with towels on a warm wash. Avoid using fabric softener so it doesn’t get on the mop head and make sure you use high heat and the delicate cycle when drying.
If you have a sponge broom with a removable head, you can remove the sponge head and clean it in the same manner sponges, as described below.These should be replaced once a month.
If you have any mop without a removable head, soak the mop head in a bucket with equal parts water and vinegar for 30 minutes to an hour. Rinse it and lay it out to dry.;
, Your broom works hard to remove dust and trash from your house, but these things often get stuck in your broom. Once a week, take your broom outside and beat it against a hard surface. This will dislodge any dirt or dust from the broom. You can also comb through the bristles to remove hair, trash, or anything else stuck into the bristles.


Once a month, soak the broom in a solution of warm water and dish soap for an hour or two. Remove the broom and rinse it, then let it dry completely before using it again. You should also wash the dustpan at the same time.
You can also use the vacuum to clean the bristles if there is deep ground in dirt.If you own a corn or straw broom, avoid soaking it because it will weaken or break the bristles., The canister or bag in your vacuum should be cleaned often. If you have a canister vacuum, empty the trash every time you use it to keep down germs and smells. The canister should also be washed gently with soap and water and dried before adding it back to the vacuum. If you have a vacuum that uses bags, empty the bag as soon as it gets full and wipe out any excess dirt from inside the vacuum.The vacuum filters should be cleaned every three months. Run the filter under hot water to remove the excess dust and dirt that has accumulated. Make sure you let it dry completely before you put it back in the vacuum or it can damage it.
You should also remove vacuum attachments and wash them with hot, soapy water. Rinse them well and let them dry for at least a day before you reattach them. Do this at least twice a year.
The powerhead brush along the bottom of the vacuum should be cleaned periodically. Hair and trash often get wrapped around the tube of the brush and can cause problems if it builds up. Use scissors and your hands to pull out all the debris trapped around the powerhead.