 Pale pinks, baby greens, white, and cream are all basic colors. Then, there's mint greens and pale yellows and sometimes red or black. Basically, you want to look innocent-- like a little girl playing princess games or fairy games. Patterns are usually crowns, cupcakes, flowers, or butterflies. Once you have a couple of skirts/dresses in the color scheme, it's easy to accessorize. The skirt should maintain basic Loli rules-- bell or A-line shaped with a petticoat to hold it up. Frills and bows and mostly just above the knee. Sometimes hime skirts and dresses go below the knee.;
, White is always almost the best color to go with any skirt. And you don't have to buy a white blouse at a real Loli store. You can get them almost anywhere and add your own little collar, etc.
 Hair is one of the hardest parts, in many people's opinion. If you have short hair (Shoulder length or chin length) don't worry! You can still do hime hair, although it won't be as big as other dos, unless you use extensions. For people with shorter hair, try curling it and adding a little bow or tiara. Pigtails always look nice. An example of a cut has a fringe and long side-bangs. If you have long hair, curl part of your hair and tease the rest of it up into a beehive like hair style. This hair is practically the same as Himegyaru hair, and there are lots of tutorials on the net for that. Always add a tiara, bow, headband or cute clip.
 A lot of people get stuck on the winter wear. A coat with a shape that fits nicely over the bell or A-line shaped skirt and a long-sleeved blouse is all you need. You can wear stockings instead of socks if you want, and find some boots and a hat that match your coat. Simple!

, The socks should be knee socks, but they can also be ankle socks. They can be lacy, have frills or bows attached or just a cute pattern such as cakes or striped. Make sure they match the rest of your outfit though. Shoes are like any other Loli style. Mary Janes with a heel, or flats, or even Rocking Horse Shoes. Sometimes you can get good deals at a normal shoe shop. Such as flats with a small bow decoration or heeled pastel colored boots. As long as they go with the outfit and seem girly and 'princess-y' it's good!

, Bows, tiaras, flowers and frills are all you need. Add a tiara, maybe get a necklace with a rose or bow on it. You can get lots of rings with little bows on them. Look on the net for ideas. Makeup is easy. You don't need much, just enough to make you look fresh and innocent. So rosy, rosy cheeks! Eyeliner to open up the eye. White eyeliner in the corner and waterline of your eye really makes them look big. Some people like false eyelashes and some just use a lot of mascara. Pink lip-gloss also works very well. Nail art is very popular in Hime. You can buy fake nails, or get your real nails done professionally.
 Gold or silver Jewelry is perfect for this. Maybe a bracelet, a necklace or some cute gold earrings. Keep it limited, but not so much so it looks like no jewelry at all!

, Just be your self. As in everything you do, try to have good manners in front of rude people, remember you are a better person and don't need to go to their low levels to make them shut up. But most of all be yourself, there's no attitude code for ANY type of Lolita.

