 Mix vinegar with warm water and rub it over the injured area. Vinegar increases the blood flow to the skin's surface, encouraging the bruised area to heal quicker.
 Pineapple and papaya contain a digestive enzyme called bromelain that breaks down the proteins that can trap blood and fluids in your tissues. Eat as much pineapple as you want to absorb the bromelain and help your body flush away the bruise.



First, make sure you are eating enough vitamin C by consuming foods such as oranges, mangoes, broccoli, peppers, and sweet potatoes. You can also take a vitamin C supplement to ensure that you get your daily value.
Crush up vitamin C pills and mix with a little bit of water to create a paste. Rub it directly on the affected area and allow it to dry before removing gently with water.
 Bilberry extract contains anthocyanosides, potent antioxidants that can reduce the appearance of a bruise by stabilizing the collagen and strengthening capillaries. You can find bilberry extract in pill form at most health food stores.
 Parsley may contain anti-inflammatory properties that can help a bruise disappear quicker.
 Just like parsley, ginger has anti-inflammatory properties and acts as a good support for your immune system. Chop up ginger and steep it in hot water for a few minutes before drinking. You can also take ginger capsules or crush up ginger and rub it directly on the bruise.
 Rub the mixture over the bruised area and allow it to sit for several hours. Simply wipe it off with a tissue when necessary. Apply once per day until the bruise disappears.
 Grind comfrey root and add a little bit of water to create a paste or soak a cotton ball in comfrey root tea. Apply the paste or the cotton ball to the affected area once per day until the bruise is gone.
 Witch hazel can speed up the healing process and is thought to reduce inflammation. Apply the oil and allow it to sit on the affected area for several hours. Repeat at least once per day until the bruise is gone.
 Use the inside of the peel to rub over the bruise. Eat the banana (just because it's nice).

