 You will need a Mojang account in order to download and play Minecraft. In the top-right corner, click the Register link. This will take you to the account setup page.


Enter a valid email address and password.;
, This is an added measure against fraud and to help with billing issues.


Enter security questions in case you lose access to your account. Be sure to pick questions that you will remember the answers to.
 You will see a confirmation page telling you to check your inbox. You will have to confirm your email address before you can use your account.


It may take a few moments for the mail to arrive. Be sure to check your spam folder if it does not appear.
 This will log you in to the Minecraft website.
 You can purchase Minecraft from the main page of the website. Be sure that you are logged in. You will see your email in the upper right corner if you are logged in successfully.
 To download and play Minecraft on your computer, click the link that says “Buy Minecraft for this account.”


You will be given the option to purchase it as a gift. If you want to play yourself, keep the correct option selected.
 You will need to enter your billing address and select your payment method.


You can use most major credit cards, as well as PayPal.
 Enter your credit card number and process the payment. You will receive a confirmation email and receipt from Mojang, and your purchase will be tied to your Mojang account.
 Make sure that you are logged in. Under the Buy Now button, there will be a link to Download Minecraft . Click the link to open the Download page.
 Download the correct installer for your operating system. If you don’t see your operating system, click the “Show all platforms” link.


The installer is a very small file, and should download in a couple of seconds.
 After a moment, the Minecraft launcher window will open. This window will show the latest updates to Minecraft. Enter your Username and Password in the bottom-right corner of the window and click the Login button.


Check the Remember password box if you don’t want to enter your information each time you start the game.
 You must be connected to the internet the first time you start the game so that the files can be downloaded. You also must have Java installed on your system, which can be found at Java.com.

