 This exercise not only works your abdominal, but it will help give your body more overall flexibility. Lie on your back on the floor with your arms extended at your sides and an exercise ball between your straight legs. Squeeze the ball slightly and tighten your abs. Then inhale as you slowly use your legs to lift the ball up. Push your hands down into the ground or place them under your glutes for more support. Keep lifting in a slow and controlled motion to pull the ball all the way over your head. Then, slowly lower back down to the ground.
 This is an extremely effective exercise, but it requires the use of a captain's chair. If you don't have one at home, they should be readily available at your local gym. To perform the exercise, position your forearms and back on the provided pads and dangle your legs down below you. Tightly grip the handles of the machine. Slowly lift your legs towards your chest. Keep your knees and feet together. Then lower your legs back down in the same slow, controlled manner.
 Place the rocker on a flat, lever surface and lower yourself to the floor. Place your head on the head rest so that your back is flat on the floor and your shoulders are slightly raised. Keep your feet on the floor and your knees bent at a 45˚ angle. Grip the sidebars of the rocker. As you exhale, contract your abs (not your arms) to push yourself forward. To work your obliques, do the same motion, but drop your knees to one side. Then, repeat with the other side.
 Lie on the exercise ball so that the middle of your back is touching the ball and your feet are planted firmly on the floor. Lace your fingers behind your head. Contract your hips and glutes and inhale. As you exhale, roll your body up slowly so that your head is raised and your shoulder blades are raised slightly up off the ball. Don't drop your hips. Then, slowly lower yourself back to the starting position.
 Tie a piece of exercise tubing about two and a half feet above the floor. Lie on your back and bend your knees so that your feet are flat on the floor. Hold the exercise tubing in your hands behind your head. Then, perform a traditional crunch. Keep in mind that the further you are positioned from the anchor point of the exercise tubing, the more strenuous this exercise will be.
 A torso track is a machine that is designed to work all of your abdominal muscles at once. To use, place the track on the floor. Kneel on the padded cushion. Grip the handles with both hands. Contract your abs. Exhale as you move forward as fast as possible. Then pull yourself back to the start and inhale. Keep your abs contracted the whole time. If you loosen your abs, you'll place dangerous strain on your back.
 An ab roller is a wheel designed to help you work your abdominal. Kneel on a pillow or folder up blanket on the ground and grip the roller with both hands. Contract your abs and roll yourself forward until your knees come up off the floor and your body is hovering just above the ground. Hold the position for 2 to 3 seconds or as long as you can before slowly pulling back to the starting position. Remember to use your abs to pull yourself back, not your hips. Your ankles shouldn't come close to your hips when you're performing this exercise.

