 This model is safe for children and pets, and it is easier to move than a duct tape strip. Find a quart-size mason jar that has a very slight bottleneck, like a mayonnaise or spaghetti sauce jar.
 Wrap masking or duct tape (sticky-side facing the jar) all around the outer surface so the cockroaches have enough traction to climb up the sides. Alternately, place the jar near a small ramp or rim so that cockroaches can easily find their way inside.
 Coat the inside with petroleum jelly (like Vaseline), at least four inches down from the top. This way, the cockroaches won't be able to get any traction when they try to climb back out of the jar. Consider mixing the petroleum jelly with gel bait to kill the cockroaches on contact – but bear in mind that gel bait is prone to drying out. A healthy increment of petroleum jelly with retain its oily moisture for as long as you need to catch your roaches.
 Put something smelly in the bottom of the jar to attract the cockroaches. A piece of banana peel or fragrant, overripe fruit works well, and some people advocate the use of onion slices. Make sure that the bait is not so large that the roaches can use it to climb out of the jar!


Try pouring a bit of beer or red wine into the bottom of the jar – just enough to drown the roaches. Fruit juices, sweet sodas, and sugar water may also work well. These sweetly-scented beverages will attract the roaches, then trap them forever., Place the jar anywhere that you have a roach problem, and make sure that there is room on the sides for the roaches to crawl into the jar. The idea is that the roaches will climb up and fall into the jar, where they can't get out.


Try leaving the jar in an enclosed space, like a closet, a garage, or a stuffy corner. The cloying smell of the bait will fill the air and draw hungry cockroaches into your trap.
 Leave the jar out overnight—or even for several days—until it has collected a good few roaches. Eventually, pour some boiling water into the jar to kill any surviving roaches. Flush them down the toilet or put them into a compost bin.Set the trap again to make sure that you've solved your roach problem. Recharge the jar with more petroleum jelly and a new piece of bait. Repeat as needed.

