 Maybe you need a bit of meditative silence. Maybe you need a prompt. Maybe you need to start writing the second you have an idea (though this might not always the most practical option). It’s likely that more than one thing will help get you started; just use the one that feels best when you sit down to write. Try different things to figure out what works best for you. Some ideas include:


Use writing prompts.
Go to readings to hear other people’s works.
Read poetry or fiction before starting to write, in order to spark your own creativity.
Use a photograph or a special item to prompt your writing.;
, Also experiment with where and how you write down your ideas. The way that you physically write out your thoughts will make you think and write a bit differently, which can improve your work. Some famous writers, such as Neil Gaiman, exclusively write their first drafts by hand.


Try writing on paper rather than on a computer.
Try writing by hand with a fountain pen.
Explore using markers to write.
Use a chalkboard.
 Maybe you write best in the morning when your brain is fresh. Maybe late at night works better because the sleepiness you feel helps turn off the super-critical part of your brain. Try working in the middle of the day at lunch. Keeping going until you find a time that feels right for you.


You may also find that some days you produce more in the morning, while on others you might produce more work at night. Listen to your body and try to be flexible.
 Experiment with the environment you write in. Some people need complete silence. Some people need light background noise. Still others work best with lots of noise. Find what works best for you by trying each type.


Try writing with other people around. Sometimes, something magical can happen just by being forced to write in the same room as other people.
You can also try writing a story together by shouting out ideas and then passing the story from person to person.
 When you are first beginning to write, try channeling some of your favorite authors in an attempt to find your own voice. Of course, once you become a professional writer, you don’t want to exactly copy other people’s styles.


Take a story you love and try writing one in the same style. Set a similar mood, and look at how the author uses syntax and grammar.
Similarly, in poetry, try writing poems that copy the style of another poet. Most artists learn by copying first, and that’s no different for writers.
 Yes, writing takes talent. But more than that, it takes persistence. Write every day if possible, even if it’s only a little bit at a time. If you write just 200 words a day, you could have over 70,000 words in a year, which is easily a novel.


Persistence will also teach you how you write best, as it will give you plenty of practice in trying out different techniques and environments.
Just keep going. Even if it seems like it’s not working, just try to keep writing. Eventually, you’ll find a rhythm, and you’ll figure out what works for you. First drafts are terrible; they’re supposed to be. That’s why you take time to revise your first draft over and over.

