 There’s a good possibility that if you get romantically involved with the wrong person, that this is due to relationship patterns that you developed in childhood. Think of recurring themes in your relationships, what went wrong, the kind of people you typically date, and what actions led up you to becoming romantically involved with the wrong person in the past.Try to be as honest with yourself as you can be when evaluating past relationships. It may be hard to reflect on these past relationships, but it’s a critical step to improving.
If you can determine a similar trait in the people you’ve dated in the past, you can make sure to specifically look out for that in future relationships.
 Sometimes people’s expectations of other people can be unrealistic when it comes to romance. While you do not have to lower your standards, you may want to think critically about your expectations when looking for a person, and consider whether your expectations are realistic or unattainable. Try making a list of your expectations and examine them one by one to see if they are realistic and attainable.


For example, if one of your expectations is "the person must be rich," then this might not be realistic. However, you could revise this to something like, "I want to become involved with someone who has a stable job and some ambition."
Sometimes people’s expectations of a person are high in areas that don’t matter in the long run, like how attractive or trendy the person is, but low in areas that actually matter like personality, humor, or temperament.
Movies and TV shows can also alter your expectations of a romantic relationship. Do not rely on entertainment to form your idea of a healthy romantic relationship., Our prefrontal cortex determines whether we find someone physically attractive within milliseconds, but cannot determine the character of a person within that same period of time.If you regularly get romantically involved with the wrong person, it could be because your brain is tricking you into thinking that the person is an ideal match based upon looks alone.


Take your time with the person and be objective when basing your opinion on them.
Do not let things go that you normally wouldn’t because you find the person attractive. For example, if the person is rude to you, do not let this go simply because you find him or her attractive.
The best balance in a romantic relationship is someone that you find emotionally, mentally, and physically attractive.
 Your friends will have a more objective view of the person you are and what may be good in a partner for you.Use your friends collective advice to avoid getting into the same situation, and introduce your friend to new potential romantic interests so that they can tell you if they think that the person is a good match for you.


If you ask your friends about an aspect of your personality and they say something negative, don’t get mad or else they may stop giving genuine feedback.
If your friends encourage you to try to date a person you may not initially like, take a chance and see if their opinions have any merit.
 Your childhood, and how you were raised can significantly influence how you approach and react to romantic relationships.In addition, past negative experiences in relationships can also alter your views and dating habits. Make sure to keep these negative experiences in mind, and look at them from an analytical view so you can overcome bad habits.


If you’ve been in bad relationships in the past, you don’t have to repeat that in the future. Identify how and why the relationship went bad, the type of person they were, and how to avoid it in the future. For example, a past relationship might not have worked because the person was not ready for a commitment. Perhaps he or she was more interested in a casual relationship. You might be able to avoid a similar situation by mentioning your interest in something long-term earlier in the relationship, such as on your second or third date.
If you continually date the same type of person, take a chance and get romantic with someone who does not share similar traits of the people you’ve dated in the past. For example, if you tend to date outgoing women, but you are more of an introvert, then you might try to find a girl who is more of an introvert as well.

