 Your best options include Lamisil, Lotrimin Ultra, and/or Naftin. These are more expensive, but they will get rid of jock itch faster. Prefer Lotrimin Ultra which contains Butenafine Hydrochloride over regular Lotrimin AF which just contains clotrimazole. Studies have shown Butenafine can be faster and more effective than clotrimazole. Furthermore, generic clotrimazole can be purchased for as low as a dollar a tube whereas regular Lotrimin AF (containing clotrimazole) can retail for up to 10 times that amount.


You can also purchase cheaper creams containing clotrimazole or miconazole. These will take a little longer to work, but they will effectively wipe out jock itch.Even when the symptoms disappear, you need to apply cream to your groin area for the amount of time specified on the package. Just like you take antibiotics until all of the medicine is gone, you need to follow the full treatment regimen using your cream.
Treat athlete's foot at the same time if you have it. Doing this will decrease the risk for recurrence.;
, Make sure to dry yourself thoroughly after a shower because fungus thrives in warm, moist environments. When you can, either go without underwear or go naked to expose the affected area to air. When that's not feasible, at least wear boxers instead of briefs.
 Avoid tight underwear and tight pants of any kind.
 Scratching will irritate the rash and could break your skin, creating the potential for infection.


Trim your nails if you can't stop scratching. Wear gloves when you're trying to go to sleep at night.
Take a cool bath for relief. Sprinkle the water with uncooked oatmeal, baking soda or a substance called colloidal oatmeal (Aveeno is a good brand) that is made specifically for the bath. Just dry your crotch thoroughly when you get out of the tub., Your doctor can offer you a couple of options:



Prescription creams: Doctors can prescribe prescription strength anti-fungals including econazole and oxiconazole.

Antibiotics: If your jock itch has become infected, doctors can prescribe an antibiotic to help clear up the infection.

Oral anti-fungal medications: Sporanox, Diflucan or Lamisil are all medications that your doctor may prescribe for you. You may experience gastrointestinal problems or abnormal liver function. If you're taking antacids or warfarin, you probably shouldn't take these medications. Another option, Grifulvin V, takes longer to work but seems good for people who are allergic to other anti-fungals or who have conditions that makes taking other medications a bad idea., Don't wait long to shower after you've been perspiring heavily or exercising. Use mild soap and water, and avoid anti-bacterial and deodorant soaps.
 If you find you're susceptible to jock itch, then cover your groin or athletic cup with anti-fungal or drying powders after you take a bath or shower.
 Choose loose-fitting clothes with smooth fabrics. Wear boxers instead of briefs.
 Also, never share your towels or your clothing with other people. Jock itch can spread by contact with unwashed clothing or athletic cups.
 Doing this keeps the fungus from spreading to your groin from your feet.
 Change into something dry.
 Also, don't keep damp clothing in your locker. Instead, wash your gym clothes after each use.