 By keeping your spine straight and shoulders back, you'll appear confident and attractive. Additionally, good posture will help your body grow correctly, preventing a hunched back in the future. Practice sitting, standing, and walking until you feel comfortable with your good position.


By starting new, good habits at a young age, you'll be able to imprint them in your mind throughout your years. Therefore, you'll have less to worry about when you're older.
 Choose flattering clothes that flatter your body type. The colors should complement your skin tone, and they should vary with each clothing item that you purchase. During your shopping trips, ask your family members for fashion advice in order to receive the best outfits. However, choose your outfits based on your personal style, not what others want you to wear. What you wear should ultimately represent your personality.


Although you should dress your best, avoid overdressing. Choose clothes that children your age would normally have, but be sure that they flatter you. Also, refrain from wearing inappropriate or poorly fitting clothing.
 Although you should find a good one that flatters your body, do not be ashamed of it. Select clothing that is appropriate for your age group. Purchase what you prefer to wear, and be sure it makes you happy. Avoid following fashion trends, as they change quickly and waste your money. As you grow older, do not hesitate to change your style.
 Being pretty is about being unique and confident in yourself. Wear what you want to wear based on your preferences, not other people's opinions. Your hairstyle, hair color, shoes, purse, and other accessories are other ways that you can personalize your look. Like jewelry, these things are not for everyone. You shouldn't change yourself if you don't feel comfortable.
 As a pre-teen, wearing large amounts of makeup often appears unattractive and fake. Also, realize that not many girls will be applying makeup at your age. Save it for special occasions, and be sure you have your parents' permission.


Remember that less is more. A small amount of lip gloss in a soft color, along with a light swipe of mascara, is generally all you need.
Ask for help from your family or friends when applying makeup for the first time. Practice until you improve.

