 By the age of 3, more than 80% of dogs show signs of gum disease.Oral hygiene is important for your dog, and many teeth and gum problems can be prevented through basic dental care. You should get into a routine of checking your dog’s gums and teeth. Check their gums for any redness, bleeding, inflammation, and any signs they are receding.Check their teeth for any browning, as well as any chips or breakage.


Labradoodles with dental problems may avoid playing with chew toys or eating hard food. They may also drool more, paw at their mouth, or have very bad breath.Take your dog to their veterinarian if you notice any signs of gum or tooth damage.
 Brushing your dog’s teeth regularly is the best way to prevent later dental problems, like tooth decay and periodontal diseases. Use toothpaste that is specially designed for dogs and a soft toothbrush. Put a small amount of toothpaste on a wet toothbrush and use one hand to hold their mouth open while you brush each tooth.Ideally, you’ll brush their teeth every day. Your goal should be to brush them at least two to three times a week to help prevent periodontal diseases., For larger and medium sized Labradoodles, it’s easiest to use a pair of scissor nail clippers. These look more like scissors and can cut through thicker nails. Only trim a very small section of the nail at a time to avoid hitting the quick, which is a vein that runs through your dog’s nail and provides blood flow to the area.Most dogs will need their nails trimmed about every two weeks.It is harder to see the quick if your Labradoodle has black nails. Start by making a very small cut to the nail to make sure that you haven’t hit the quick. Have styptic powder and some cotton balls handy to stop the bleeding in the event that the quick has been nicked.
You won’t need to trim your Labradoodle’s nails as frequently if you exercise them on pavement and concrete. The rough surface will naturally file your dog’s nails and keep them shorter.
 Like most flap eared dogs, Labradoodles are prone to ear infections. You should check their ears weekly for infection, and wipe them down. Use a cotton ball soaked in a gentle, pH-balanced ear cleaner to wipe their inner ears and the opening of the ear canal.Check their ears for any sign of infection, like redness, odor, or discharge.

