 You may remember easy pose from your childhood as "criss cross applesauce" – it's the same position. This position allows you to sit with good posture and breathe deeply, focusing on your breath and meditating briefly to relieve stress.If your office chair is not large enough to accommodate you in this position, you may have to sit on the floor. In some office environments you may not feel comfortable sitting on the floor. If the weather is accommodating enough, you might try going outside.
Make sure your spine is straight and neutral, your shoulders rolled back so that your shoulder blades are tucked into your back along the sides of your spine.
Breathe deeply, focusing on your breath. If your mind starts to wander, allow it to do so and gently guide it back to the breath. You may want to set a timer so you know when to come out of this state and don't stay here too long at work.
 The chest opener is a standing pose that will help you release tension in your chest and ease the symptoms of stress and anxiety by allowing you to breathe more fully.Stand with your weight evenly balanced through all four corners of your feet. Raise your arms overhead, then bend them at the elbow to let them drop behind your back. Clasp your hands together and breathe deeply.
Gently squeeze your shoulder blades together, hold for two or three deep breaths, then release. Repeat two to five times, focusing on opening your chest and breathing more deeply with each repetition.
If you feel weird standing up to do this pose in your office environment, you also can do it while sitting. Make sure you're sitting on the edge of your chair with good posture and both feet flat on the floor.
 Stress can cause lactic acid to build up in your shoulders, leading to pain and the feeling of tightness in your neck and shoulders. Shoulder rolls can help relieve this symptom of stress and tension.You can do shoulder rolls while standing or sitting. If you're sitting, make sure you've moved to the edge of your chair and are sitting with a straight back and both feet flat on the floor.
Rest your hands loosely on your shoulders, and draw circles with your elbows. Start small, and make the circles larger and larger to encourage more movement in your shoulders. Go clockwise and counter-clockwise, forward and backward, taking care to breathe deeply.
 Breathing exercises reduce stress with their rhythmic and meditative qualities. Given the nature of bee's breath, you may want to find some privacy, particularly if you work in an open office environment. Otherwise you risk distracting others (and you may get some stares).Take a comfortable seat and close your eyes. Reach your elbows out from your shoulders and cover your eyes with your bottom three fingers. Gently press the cartilage flap at the front of your ear into your ears with your thumb to cut off sound.
Breathe deeply in through your nose and out through your mouth. As you exhale, create a buzzing sound deep in the back of your throat, keeping your lips closed. It may take some practice to get this sound right, but ultimately you want to sound like a bee.
Take three deep breaths with buzzing exhales, then bring your hands to the front of your chest, keeping your eyes closed, and rub them together until you feel heat. Place your warm fingers back on your eyes and take a few more deep breaths.
 Spinal rocking will only work if you have room to roll around on the floor (and feel comfortable doing so), but it can do wonders for lower back pain brought on by sitting in an office chair.If you work in a cubicle farm or an open office environment, it may not be appropriate for you to roll around on the floor. If you really want to do some spinal rocking, try to find a vacant private office or conference room, and maybe lay down a towel or yoga mat to protect your clothing.
Sit on the floor and hug your knees to your chest, keeping your feet flat on the floor. Breathe deeply to connect with your breath and lower your chin to your chest.
Drop to your back and rock or roll on your rounded spine, breathing deeply. You also can start this pose from your back, by drawing your knees up to your chest.
 If you're comfortable lying on the floor, this pose will improve your circulation and relax your nervous system to help relieve stress.You may want to spread out a towel or blanket on the floor to protect your clothing. If you work in an open office environment, tell your coworkers what you're doing – they may want to join in.
Lie on the floor in front of your chair, and lift your legs so that your calves are resting on the seat of your chair. You can stay in this position as long as you want, breathing deeply.
You also can extend your legs up the wall as an alternative to this pose that achieves a similar effect on your mind and body.

