 You can purchase Japanese language flashcards, or make them yourself at home. You can then practice with them in a variety of ways. Flashcard can be a great way to strengthen your vocabulary in all three language systems (Hiragana, Kanji, or Katakana).Post the flashcards around your house to label items with their Japanese names.
You can have a friend quiz you with flashcards to practice your memorization of Hiragana letters, Kanji words, or words in Katakana.
You can use the flashcards to quiz yourself.
 Small children are fantastic at learning new languages because they are not afraid to mimic sounds. They are not embarrassed. Tap into that childlike shamelessness, and practice repeating Japanese sounds, words, and phrases, even if you you’re not pronouncing them quite right., The very best way to strengthen what you have learned and fine-tune your grammar is to practice your Japanese with another person. If you have a friend that is a native speaker, make a date and chat with them!If you don’t know any native speakers, you can search for international meet-ups or language exchange groups in your area.
 Another great option is to video-chat with a native speaker. There are numerous online resources that pair language partners together. Seek out a new friend who speaks Japanese and speak to them using your computer., Making mistakes and getting corrected by native speakers is probably the most effective way to learn the nuances of Japanese. Don’t avoid words that you are aren’t sure about or skip over phrases that you may mispronounce. Making mistakes means that you are genuinely trying to learn.Move outside your comfort zone.
Get feedback from others.
Some Japanese speakers may not want to correct you out of respect, so make it clear that you’d appreciate some guidance.
 One of the most effective ways to learn a new language is enroll in a class. With the guidance of an instructor, lesson plans, workbooks, and best of all, lots of other people to practice with, enrolling in a Japanese language class can be an excellent use of your time. In addition to helping you learn the language, a class like this can help you meet new people.

