 What makes IB unique from other high school programs is the breadth of knowledge offered. IB forces you to focus on all 6 subjects. Therefore, the first step is to acknowledge your strengths and weaknesses in every subject.;
, This cannot be stressed enough. Without revising, all those lectures that your teacher gave to you today will just be another waste of time. You don't have to take 5 hours to revise. As soon as you get home, get a blank notebook and write about what you've learnt today in school. If you feel like you're forgetting something, open up your notes and read the parts you forgot. Then, go back to your notebook and write what you remembered from skimming those notes. For example, If you were introduced a new mathematics formula, immediately memorize that formula the same day. And follow through with that some more by going into your textbook and practising some questions that go along with the formula you just memorized. This is all part of good work ethic.
 Every time you find yourself starting to procrastinate, just remember that you won't achieve anything at all.
 Learn to manage your time from the littlest things (like how much time you take to shower, etc) to the bigger ones. This will aid you in coping with IB. For example, take shorter showers, study one hour for each subject etc.
 Release yourself from the death-air of IB and inhale the fresh air. You never want to have all the stress from the year's work build up, this can cause it many health issues. When you find that you have a little spare time on your hands, take this opportunity to have fun and do what you love! Even if it's only for a few hours, just let yourself go and release the stress and tension. Go for a walk or a jog, sit on your front porch and watch the rain fall! Read your favourite magazine while sipping an ice vanilla latte. etc.
 Don't turn a blind eye to subjects that you're already good at. Focus on all your subjects in school. When you get home it is important that you take at least 30 minutes-1 hour for each subject, review that days lesson and you'll feel ready for tomorrows lesson!

