 Give your dog a quiet, safe place to retreat to. Place soft blankets and chew toys in a bedroom corner, a closet, or a covered kennel. Encourage your dog to go there when feeling anxious or afraid. Check on the dog periodically, but keep quiet and leave the animal alone as much as possible.


This type of safe space will let the dog retreat and calm down when it is stressed or afraid.
 If your dog won’t settle down, or seems anxious and you can’t figure out why, it could be a sign that the animal isn’t being taken outside frequently enough and is not receiving enough exercise.Dogs, especially young puppies, should be allowed to run regularly, at least 3-4 times a day.


If your dog is panting loudly or won’t stop bothering you, it might be sick or need to go out urgently. Until you figure out your specific dog’s typical behavior, assume that any excited behavior may indicate a need to go outside and go to the bathroom. Unless you want a mess on the floor, take the dog outside promptly.
 It’s normal for dogs to get excitable when meeting new people or new dogs. But if your dog doesn’t calm down or is hyperactive around new people and dogs, it is a sign that you need to start increasing your dog’s socialization as soon as possible. Let the dog meet as many new people and dogs as possible on a regular basis.


Take your dogs for walks and ask permission to greet other dogs that you meet. When the dog behaves, reward it with a treat. Use clear verbal commands and keep the dog under control., Loud noises, shouting, and music can be very stressful for animals, especially dogs. Dogs have very sensitive hearing, so music at a moderate level for you may be stress-inducing for a sensitive dog. Try to keep your space quiet, especially if you have a dog that gets nervous or excited easily.


Sometimes, very quiet music can help to calm some dogs. Play soft classical music or ambient sounds in the background if you have to be away for a while.Some people have success leaving the radio or television on when you have to be away, to help the dogs feel as if someone’s around., Thunder-shirts are like snug blankets that wrap around your dog. These are commonly used during thunderstorms and during travel to calm anxious pets.They’re commonly available at pet stores. If you prefer to make your own, you can fashion one out of a snug t-shirt for medium to large dogs. Cut extra room into the neck hole so the animal’s neck isn’t constricted.


There isn’t much definitive evidence to show that these actually work. Some dog owners swear by it while others have found it useless. The effectiveness of a thunder-shirt may depend on the personality of each specific dog.

