 You will end up with two long rows of egg cups. Pick the one you want and set the other one aside. Be sure to tear off the lid and front flaps so that you have just the strip.You can use any size egg carton you want. The more eggs it holds, the longer your caterpillar will be!
A cardboard egg carton will work better than the foam kind because it is easier to paint.;
, Green is the most popular caterpillar color, but you can make yours any color you want. To make a "very hungry caterpillar," paint the first cup red for the head, then paint the rest green.Let the paint dry before moving on.


You can paint the inside of the carton, but you need to let the outside dry first.
 The holes need to be right next to the narrow edge. Use a pen, pencil, or skewer to poke the holes. It would be a good idea to ask an adult to help you with this step.
 Turn the carton so that you can see the inside. Stick each end of a pipe cleaner through one of the holes. Flip the carton over and tug on both ends of the pipe cleaner so that it's even.

The pipe cleaner can be any color. Yellow will work the best, but you can use black too!

, Twist the antenna together once or twice, then spread them open in a V. Use scissors to cut the antenna shorter, then glue a mini pompom to the top of each one. You can use any color of pompom you want. Red would work well with yellow pipe cleaners!Hot glue will work the best, but you can use tacky glue as well. Hold the pompoms in place for about 30 seconds to help them stick.
If you don't have pompoms, curl the ends of the antenna with a pencil instead.
 Glue some googly eyes to the front of the first cup, just below the antenna. Hold them down for about 30 seconds. This will help them stick better.Next, use a marker to draw on a mouth.

If you can't find googly eyes, you can draw them on instead.
For a girly caterpillar, add rosy cheeks and lashes.
For a silly caterpillar, glue a small, red pompom to the middle of the face for the nose.
 Your caterpillar is done, but you can make it look more colorful and interesting by adding some details. Here are some ideas:


Draw on the caterpillar with glitter glue.
Paint some polka dots or stripes onto the caterpillar.
Stick foam stickers onto the caterpillar.
Add a bow to the top of the head.

