 You can get sticks starting at $20-$30 that will be of good enough quality for young or casual players, or you can choose a specialized and finely crafted stick that will run you around $250 or more. The price of a stick does not automatically determine the quality, and it definitely does not determine if the stick is a good fit for you. Have an idea what you are willing to spend for a stick, but keep in mind that the right stick for you is determined more by feel than price., Hockey sticks are made from a range of materials including wood, fiberglass, Kevlar, aluminum, and even titanium. Ask yourself what level of player you are and what purpose the stick will serve you. For beginners, a wood stick can be a good option because wood sticks are said to give a better feel for the puck. For serious players that know the game better and will be using their stick frequently, a composite stick of graphite or Kevlar may be the best option. These tend to be more specially designed with advanced players in mind.Wood sticks tend to be pretty heavy and less durable, so serious players tend to stick with composite sticks. Fiberglass is lighter than wood but also not super durable. Kevlar tends to have the best lightness to strength ratio.
There are multiple materials used for hockey sticks because different players have different preferences for how they want their stick to feel and to perform. If a player tends to be rough with their sticks, making lots for slapshots for example, then they need something strong and durable.
 Hockey sticks comes in a range of shaft lengths, and the best fit is determined first by your height with a slight variation depending what position you play. To fit yourself for a stick, place the toe end of the stick on the ground and line the grip end up with your face. The right stick length is between your nose and your chin. It is best to measure for a stick while you have skates on, but since this is not always an option, be sure to add at least 2 inches for the height of the skates.The basic length guide is: a stick that doesn’t reach your chin is short, one that touches the bottom of the chin is average, and one that goes to your nose or past is long.
Some positions tend to prefer different lengths. Forwards usually favor a shorter stick, which allows more mobility and makes stickhandling easier. Defensemen generally opt for longer sticks, which are better for poking the puck away from opposing players.
It’s better to choose a stick that is a bit longer rather than a little shorter because you can always trim a long stick to a better fit.
 The flex rating for a hockey stick corresponds to how much flexibility the shaft has. The general principle for flex ratings is how many pounds of pressure are needed to bend the stick 1 inch, so the heavier the player, the higher the flex rating. The rule of thumb is to cut your weight in half and this will give you the flex rating you need.A stick with too high a flex rating will lack the amount of “give” a player is looking for when taking a slap-shot, while a stick with a low flex rating will bend too much and cause a lack of power.
If you do cut a stick down to be a more appropriate length than it was originally, the flex rating will increase because the shortened stick will be stiffer than it was.

