 These foods, herbs, and vitamins can help to prevent the diseases that lead to elevated levels of CPK.;
, Foods that help to lower your cholesterol levels in turn help to prevent heart disease. Heart disease is one of the most common reasons for high CPK levels, so if you are able to keep your heart disease free, you will be more likely to lower your CPK levels.Try Chinese red yeast rice: Consuming moderate amounts of natural red yeast rice as part of an overall diet helps maintain normal cholesterol levels.
Eat walnuts and almonds: Daily consumption of these nuts is thought to help lower your LDL cholesterol levels.
Eat two to three artichokes a week: Artichoke leaf extract helps your body process and release cholesterol, which in turn lowers your overall cholesterol.
Eat foods that are high in soluble fiber: Foods like oats, legumes, prunes, apples, carrots, and broccoli keep your intestines from absorbing too much cholesterol. If you eat 10 grams of high-fiber foods daily, you can lower your LDL cholesterol levels by 5%.
 Garlic has long been known to promote a healthy heart. It is also known to lower cholesterol, which keeps your heart’s arteries from getting blocked. Garlic produces a chemical called allicin, which is thought to help control and treat various ailments.You can eat up to one clove of garlic a day. If munching on garlic isn’t really your cup of tea, you can also take garlic supplements, which can be purchased as your local pharmacy.
 Gingko biloba is a type of plant that is known to have properties that keep the heart functioning properly. In particular, gingko biloba helps to clear your heart’s arteries, which helps to prevent blockages that could cause heart problems.


You can purchase gingko extract or supplements at most health food stores.
 This herb has anti-oxidant properties and reduces blood pressure and cholesterol while also helping thyroid conditions—all of which produce high CPK levels.


You can add one teaspoon of ashwagandha powder to milk and drink it before bed each night.
 It also plays a role in maintaining your heart’s health. A healthy heart means lowered CPK levels. Try to consume at least 45 mg of vitamin C a day.You can get vitamin C by taking a supplement or eating foods like oranges, lemon, and strawberries.
 Like vitamin C, vitamin A also plays a role in keeping the heart healthy. Sweet potatoes are packed full of vitamin A, so you should eat them often. You can also take a vitamin A supplement or take a multivitamin that contains your daily dose of vitamin A.
 Lack of magnesium can cause muscle cramps or spasms causing elevation in CPK levels. Try to get 50 grams of magnesium a day by taking a supplement or eating magnesium-rich foods like pumpkins, bananas, beet, spinach and other green leafy vegetables.
 Green tea has a lot of health benefits, but the one that is most relevant to someone trying to lower their CPK levels is that green tea is quite effective when it comes to lowering your cholesterol. In fact, a study done in Brazil showed that people who took green tea capsules each day had an average 4.5% reduction in their cholesterol levels.You can take green tea extract capsules or you can drink one to two cups a green tea a day.

