 When you are notified you will have to reapply for your job, it is normal to have mixed emotions. This is a very stressful situation and you have every right to feel offended, angry, anxious, nervous and/or upset. No matter how you are feeling from the time you are notified through the decision process, it is important to remain calm at work and not let your emotions make matters worse.


If you are overwhelmed by your emotions you may regret your actions, which may present a negative impression and minimize your chances of keeping your job.
 While it may seem you are sucking up by volunteering for extra projects, it is important to offer your assistance and show initiative. During company changes, coworkers and supervisors may be pulled in multiple directions and may need a helping hand until things calm down.


If you recognize the need for assistance and sincerely offer to help, you will be seen as loyal and dedicated to the company, your department and/or team.
For example, your supervisor is very involved in the new and potential company changes and does not have time to head up weekly team meetings. You are the most senior employee on your team and have the leadership quality to head up the meetings in your supervisor’s absence.
Offering to assist with this task will take something off of your supervisor’s plate and will be noted during your reapplication process.
 You want to make your value to the company known. Even though you are not in an interview, you must use any time spent with decision makers to your advantage by actively participating in meetings and sharing your ideas.


In doing so, you will offer your expertise and express your value to the company and hopefully get some extra points.
For example, you contributed to the discussion about expanding markets during a meeting with your team, supervisor and the director of your department. You shared your idea of reaching out to a particular target market that is untapped and can benefit from the product. Expressing this insight can show your ability to think strategically and offer new ideas to benefit the company.
 It is important to always develop, strengthen and maintain working relationships with coworkers and management both inside and outside of your department. It is more so important to do this during a time of uncertainty with the company.


Having sincere and strong working relationships can help others view you as an integral part of the company with ties to various areas.
When there is turmoil in the company and people are trying to hold their jobs, there is no shame in leveraging these relationships to your benefit by remaining a positive contributor to the company and a true fit for the company culture.
 Staying calm and being patient will be very difficult during this time of uncertainty. If you are good at your job, provide great value to the company, and followed the steps listed above, you have done all you can do to keep your job.


It is now up to your employer and you must wait for that decision to be made. Stay positive and hang in there!

