 Each page should contain a header with your basic information. Include your full name, along with your address, phone number, and email address. You should also include the homeschool’s name, address, email address, and phone number.You may also want to include the name of your parents or guardians.
 Your transcript should include a list of courses or work that you have completed. List each course with a title that reflects the area of study, just like a traditional transcript. For each course, give the credits earned and the year the credits were earned. Most classes are one or half a credit.For example, you may have one credit courses called History: World War II, Business Math, Comparative American Literature, and Earth Science. Half credit courses may include Fine Arts: Acting, Technology: Website Building, and Personal Finance.
 You may want to include a short description of each course that you have listed on your transcript. This is not required, but some institutions will require more information from you about the courses, so this could provide that information. Limit the description to between 10 to 15 words.For example, the description for Early American literature may be "an exploration of literature, film adaptations, and stage productions of American works from 1600-1850."
You can ask the admissions counselors if they require any description or additional information about the courses. If they do not, you may not want to include this information.
Some people wait until they are asked to supply this information. You can draft the description while creating the transcript so you will have it in the future.
 Your transcript should include any activities you have participated in where you have received important positions, roles, or awards. This may be from community activities, clubs or organizations, or other activities.For example, list if you had lead roles in a play, solos in a chorus concert, or played an instrument in a recital. Provide information about any awards you have received, like science fair awards or prizes for winning writing contests.
 At the very end of the transcript, provide a summary of your work. This summary should align with state credit requirements. List the number of credits in each subject area to demonstrate you have fulfilled everything needed to graduate. You should also include a date of graduation., The last thing you should add at the end of the transcript is a signature from the supervisor of your unschool program. Before the signature, there should be a statement that this is the correct official transcript for you. Then, the supervisor should sign and date it., If you have completed a lot of visual arts, media, or practical objects, you should put together a portfolio. This may include recordings of your playing or singing, art, photographs of your creations, or videos of your performances.This can be done if you did extensive work in drawing or painting, photography, music, drama, dance, word work, sewing, automobile maintenance, or construction.
 If you didn’t get grades for your classes, don’t invent them. Schools will not want fake grades if you did not earn them. For some schools, you could be turned down or face expulsion if they find out you lied and made up information on your transcript.Make sure everything on your transcript is correct and factual.

