 Creative minds are open to change. If you only consume a certain kind of media or entertainment, you're limiting yourself. You will not be exposed to new things and ideas, which can result in a lack of original, creative thought.Read books, articles, and blogs outside of your own industry. If you work in film, for example, read some science blogs. If you work as an engineer by day, read some poetry every night before bed.
Most people have a certain type of entertainment they're drawn towards. Make an effort to push yourself to new types of entertainment. If you usually go for light hearted sitcoms, try watching a drama series. If you love documentaries and true crime shows, watch some fiction.;
, Creativity is like any other skill. You get better with practice. If you want to increase your capacity for creative thoughts, work on creating something small every day.You do not necessarily have to create with an end in mind. In fact, this may inhibit creative thought. Instead of focusing on an overarching project, simply schedule some time every day to let your creativity flow freely.
You can doodle, sketch, do some light painting, free write, or write down some spur of the moment poetry.
Make time to be creative. Just as you make time to brush your teeth each night, strive to schedule time for creative pursuits each day. For example, you can plan to do a 20 minute free write every day before bed.
 Studies indicate that walking actually improves creative thought. Many people feel they get their best thinking done when they're going for walks. Try to schedule a 20 to 30 minute walk each day. This can lead to greater creativity.It does not matter where you walk. Studies indicate you can walk inside or outside and still get the same peak in creative thought patterns. If it's a rainy day, you can walk through the hallways at work to encourage creative thoughts.Walking can also help lessen anxiety.If your mind is less muddled by anxious thoughts, you may have more room to be creative.
 Many people feel more energetic or creative at certain hours of the day. For example, you may feel compelled to write poetry when you first get up in the morning. Or, you may suddenly feel the urge to paint at 10 o'clock at night. Pay attention to your thought patterns and energy levels throughout the day to figure out your peak hours.Pay attention to both thoughts and emotions. Many people feel more creative when they feel connected with their emotions. If you tend to get sentimental towards the evening hours, you may have a higher capacity for creativity at this time.It may not be reasonable to work during your peak hours. For example, if you have a 9 to 5 job, you can't stay up until 2 AM writing each night. However, there may be ways to stimulate the environment of your peak hours. If you're a night owl by nature, changing into your pajamas and dimming the lights may help, for example.
 Regular journaling can be a great way to increase creative thoughts. Writing down your thoughts on a daily basis can help you become more introspective and observant, both of which can bolster creative thought.


Many people find dream journals are great creative tools. As the mind is uninhibited in dreams, you can find a lot of great ideas in your sleep. Try keeping a journal by your nightstand and jotting down your dreams as soon as you get up in the morning.You can also carry a journal with you. This can allow you to write down thoughts as they come and may encourage you to be more observant. You'll end up seeking inspiration everywhere if you always have a notebook on-hand to record your most interesting thoughts and insights as they come.
 Surround yourself with inspiring material. If you want to be more creative, you should expose yourself to work that inspires you. Read a book of poetry recommended by a friend. Watch a critically acclaimed series. Go see a show at your local theater. All of these things will encourage you to think more creatively.

