 Take deep breaths while riding and slump a little in your seat. Sit back, feel and look calm; not stiff and nervous. Remember to make nice wide turns in hunter classes. If you look calm in a show, the judge will see that and you receive higher marks.;
, Try not to let it pull to the side. If the horse starts to shy away from the jump and you can feel it, then really sit deep in your seat and use your hips to push and your legs to squeeze the horse on. When your legs squeeze the horse on, don't use one continuous squeeze, you squeeze, then relax, squeeze, relax.
 Start by counting out loud the rhythm. If trotting, then count 1, 2, 1, 2 for each stride the horse takes. If cantering, then count 1, 2, 3, 1, 2, 3 each stride the horse takes. Do this for the whole course. If the rhythm changes, then fix it accordingly. When you find the right tempo the course flows beautifully. There always seems to be one direction that a horse goes faster, so be prepared to work harder one direction to keep a good tempo. Use check and release to slow them down, if needed. Check and release is when you pull the reins back slightly, but then give the reins back. Don't pull for more than a second and then relax the reins. Tempo is important because you don't want your horse to chip or stumble over a jump. Tempo allows the horse to find the right take-off spot for a jump, and then they won't knock down a rail. Soon your eye will be trained to see how many strides need to fit between jumps and tempo will be familiar to you. You won't need to count out loud anymore once this is accomplished.
 On some courses, you are asked to be in a half seat, or leaning forward slightly, but certain horses take this to mean "go faster." Practice full seat and half seat. Keep your hands down near the horse's neck. Don't look at the ground or the jump, look forward. Now for two-point. One of the most important rules about two-point is that you don't go up too early. If you go up too early and the horse refuses then you could fall over their neck. if you go up too late then the horse may jump and you will be left behind therefore pulling on the horse's mouth. Get into your two-point just as the horse's front hooves leave the ground. Put your hands about halfway up the neck. Keep your heels down. Don't let your legs slide backwards.
 If your horse was speedy to the last jump, then don't stay in two-point as long over that jump. Sit down and use a check and release right as their front hooves touch the ground. Sit down in your seat. Keep the tempo.

