 Technology is a great way to manage your time and keep track of deadlines, appointments, and more. Make use of calendars in your phone and computer. Write down daily tasks, like appointments and your work or school schedule. Set reminders for yourself. For example, have your phone send you a reminder a week before a paper is due. Schedule in time for things like studying and working on projects.In addition to a digital calendar, it can help to have a physical calendar as a backup. You can keep this at your desk or carry it with you in a planner. Sometimes, physically jotting things down can help you remember them.
 Different people are productive at different points during the day. It can help to know when you're most able to use your time wisely and plan to work during those times. For example, if you find yourself energetic during the mornings, try to get the bulk of your work done then. During the night, you can wind down and do relaxing things you enjoy.It can take awhile to identify your energy peaks. Try tracking your energy level and overall focus throughout the day for a week or so. This should help you figure out when you would be the most productive.
 It can help to make a game plan for the day in the morning. As soon as you get up, think about what you need to do and sketch a rough outline of when to do it. Keep work obligations as well as social obligations and errands in mind.For example, say you work from eight to four and need to call your grandmother for her birthday and pick up your dry cleaning after work. In the morning, figure out what order you should do those activities.
If your grandmother is in a later timezone, plan to call her after work so it's not too late where she is. Then, plan on picking up your dry cleaning.
 No one can work continuously without a break or an interruption. It's okay to invite interruptions and distractions into your day on occasion. It can help to schedule these kinds of deviations from necessary tasks. This way, interruptions are less likely to take over and derail your day.Schedule large breaks or interruptions in addition to tiny deviations from your work throughout the day.
For example, plan to have an hour long lunch at one in the afternoon each day and to watch half an hour of television to unwind after returning from work.
You can also plan tiny interruptions during daily tasks. For example, say you're writing a paper. Allow yourself five minutes to check Facebook per 500 words you write.
 Weekends are important for unwinding and relaxing, so don't go overboard. However, it can help to do a little work on the weekend. Think about the kind of the small tasks that pile up over the weekend, making Mondays difficult. For example, maybe you could send out a few e-mails Saturday morning so you'll have less e-mails piled up by Monday.Remember, breaks are important. Do some work on the weekend, but also give yourself a chance to unwind and enjoy yourself.
 If you want to manage your time, a solid sleep schedule is vital. A good sleep schedule ensures you'll wake up early in the morning and be ready for the day. To maintain a sleep schedule, go to bed and wake up at roughly the same time each day, even on the weekends. Your body will adapt to your sleep/wake cycle, and you'll begin to feel tired at your bedtime and energetic in the mornings.