 Hair should be trimmed every once in a while and kept looking shiny, frizz-free, and healthy. Not greasy--that's gross. Do cute styles like braiding your bangs, doing a messy bun with your bangs out, doing a poof with your bangs, scrunching your hair, French braiding. The possibilities are endless! It needs to look cute and clean. Straight long highlighted hair with side bangs is ideal, however, there are lots of popular girls who prefer their hair curly. Buy hair accessories like bobby pins, hair clips, hair bands, and Beret's. Bottom line, see what styles in hair are trending in your school and try them out.;
, Soft foundation, some concealer, a bit of face powder, light eye shadow, mascaras, eyeliners, lip glosses. Start your own trends in make-up. People will like that you look nice as well as be you being a nice person. So not too heavy on the make-up.
 This is probably the most important factor. If you're trying to be popular, gradually wear what is "popular" (and what makes you look confident) as you climb your way up. If you want, start a trend at your school. When you choose your clothes, make sure they're durable and able to last a long time. It is not worth spending your money on a flimsy shirt.


At some schools, American Eagle, Aeropostale, PINK (in Victoria's Secret), or Abercrombie & Fitch are all what the popular kids wear. At other schools, popular kids go to Forever 21, Urban Outfitters, Target, Charlotte Russe, Delia's, or Kohl's. At some schools, it's about the "preppiness" with sporty brands like Nike and Under Armor,while at other schools, clothes are about being casual, unique and trendy. If you're creative enough, go to thrift shops or Goodwill and see what you can find. Make sure your outfit goes along with what you think is "popular"!
Fashions include funky colors, cool patterns, and denim.
If your school's popular kids are more trendy: Look for fashion scarves, V-neck solid tops, skinnies, short shorts, miniskirts, graphic tops and pretty tanks, cardigans, bandeau bathing suit, V-neck sweaters, hoodies, jeggings, tights, sweats, Uggs, moccasins, flip flops, slippers, knitted beanies and knitted gloves and canvas shoes. If you don't like any of these (meaning that you don't feel sociable and yourself in), or if the popular girls don't wear them, it's okay to not wear them. As long as your outfit doesn't portray Dora The Explorer or any "little-kid" icon, it's totally cool.
If your school is such that the popular kids are like the stereotypical cheerleader, buy some things from the above and also include cute undies to make you feel fabulous. It's a confidence booster for many. You should also invest in a cute purse, bikini, about five pairs of pajamas and winter coat.
 Popular kids will often wear whatever they think is cute or cool while following trends and putting their own spin on it (so they still feel comfortable and sociable in what they wear). That's the key! Also, cellphones with keyboards, laptops, an Instagram, a Facebook and iPods are good to have. That way, you can socialize with others and keep up friendships! Also, try some flashy accessories. You know, the kind that everyone loves but is too shy to wear? It will make you seem confident and trendy.
 Long-ish, non-bitten nails are pretty. Solid nail polish color is preferred over different patterns on each hand. You can also do French nails.

