 This will serve a place holder for your numbers to be multiplied, along with their corresponding numbers.;
, In each cell of the first column of the first table, write the number 1. With multiplication it's important to start small, so use the number 1 as a starter.
 Repeat the second step, but this time, for each cell of the first column of the second table, write the number 2.


Do this for all the remaining tables: number 3 for the third table, number 4 for the fourth table and so on.
 Go back to the first table and write the number 1 in the first cell of the second column.


In the second cell of the second column, write the number 2. Continue all the way down the column until you reach number 10. This is necessary because you need two numbers in order to do multiplication.






Fill in the numbers 1 through 10 for all the second columns of the remaining tables.
 The most traditional sign for multiplication is the symbol x.


But if you want, you can also use other signs like the black point "●" which also signifies multiplication.
An equal sign is used to indicate the answer of any operation.
 If you want to be done in a jiffy, you can use a calculator for the answers. But if you want to sharpen your mathematical skills, you can do simple arithmetic:


For the first table – the multiplication table for the number 1 is easy. Any number multiplied to 1 is itself, so you can promptly do multiplication by just copying the numbers 1 through 10 to the third column.
For the number 2 – just double everything! You can use addition here if you find it hard. For example, 2 x 3 is the same as “two threes” so that would be: 3+3 =6.
You can repeat the same technique for all the remaining numbers. For example, 5 x 5, that would be “five fives” so: 5+5+5+5+5= 25.
 If you wish to expand and do tables for higher numbers, you can just repeat the same steps. However, for higher numbers, it is more efficient to find the answers using a calculator rather than writing the numbers out and adding them up.

