 Outline your puppet’s design in pencil on the bag. Color in the areas either by painting them or by gluing cutouts of colored construction paper to the bag.For animal puppets of reptiles and fish, use cutouts from various colors of construction paper to create multicolored scales.
For birds, make cutouts of feathers from construction paper. Glue them to the bag in layers, starting at the bottom of the bag, with each added row slightly overlapping the one underneath it for a more textured effect.
 Glue a pair of googly eyes to the bag instead.With a steady hand, outline the bag’s lips with glue and then paint or ink them for added dimension once the glue has dried. For the nose, create a glue outline and color it in as you did with the lips, or glue either an appropriately sized pompomor a small piece of putty sculpted into a nose to the bag.
 Use a sheet of white construction paper to make a cutout of teeth.


For the upper row, add a half-inch of extra space along the top. Once you cut it out, apply glue along the top with your cutout facing up. Then stick it underneath the bottom of the flap.
For the bottom row, apply glue to the back of the cutout. Fix it to the body of the bag. As desired, either fit it in place so the upper row and bottom row meet when the mouth is closed, or hide it underneath the upper row and the bottom of the flap to create an overbite.
 Cut yarn into strips of any desired length. Glue the ends to the top of the bag’s flap. Use strips of ribbon to tie the yarn into pigtails or braids.Use yarn to make mustaches and beards as well.
For spiky or crazier hair, use colored pipe cleaners instead.
For animal puppets of mammals, use layers of yarn to create fur. Cut strips of desired length and glue them to the body of the bag. Start your first row along the bottom of the bag rather than the top in order to avoid having to lift layers of yarn to glue underneath them, which might make a mess. Use colored pipe cleaners for whiskers.
 Glue fabric swatches onto the bag. If desired, crease or pleat them beforehand for extra dimension. Then glue strips of ribbon along the collar for an eye-catching trim.