 Take one piece of your cardstock and cut it so that it is the same size as one side of your paper box. Hold the cardstock against the edge to check the size. Then, cut the other pieces so that they are all the same size as this piece.





;
, Next, cut four slits along the longest edge of each piece of cardstock. Make sure that the cuts are evenly spaced and that you cut them in the same spots on each piece of cardstock.








The slits should cover about 2/3 of the width of each card.
 Take two cards and connect them by interlocking the two outer slits. This will create an “L” shape. Then, connect the outer slit of one of these cards with another card to create a “U” shape. Then, add a fourth card and connect its two outer slits with the two outer slits at the top of the “U.” You should now have a box shape.








Keep adding cards to the grid until you have connected all of them. You may need to wiggle the cards into place to get them all in place. Be careful not to tear any of the cards as you connect them.
 When your grid is complete, put it into your paper box. The top of the grid should line up with the top of the box. The grid may look a little uneven and sloppy when you first put it in the box, but that is easy to fix. Just use your fingers to adjust the edges of the grid.
 When you have finished adjusting the grid, your lipstick holder is complete! Now you can begin filling the box with your lipsticks. This box will hold 25 lipsticks.
 Making a lipstick holder out of paper is easy, but you will need to gather some special materials before you begin. You will need:one square piece of scrapbook paper (any color or design)
eight pieces of cardstock (any color or design)
a pair of scissors
some tape or a glue stick

, To begin making the paper box, fold the scrapbook paper in half diagonally so that two of the corners meet. Then, press the fold to create a crease line and unfold the paper.Repeat the same folding process, but bring the other two corners together. Then, unfold these two corners.
When you are finished, the creases should look like a big “X.” These lines will help to guide you through the rest of the process.
 Take a corner of the scrapbook paper and fold it in towards the center. Line up the tip of the corner with the “X” in the center. Then, take each of the other corners one at a time and fold them in towards the center of the scrapbook paper.Crease the edges well to keep them in place. When you are finished, the scrapbook paper should look like a smaller square.
 Next, fold over one of the long edges so that it lines up with the center of your square and forms a rectangle. Then, fold the opposite edge over to create a narrower rectangle. Press the edges on both sides to create creases and then unfold these edges to return to the square shape.Repeat the folds on the opposite edges. After you have made these folds, crease them and unfold them again. You should have a square shape again.
 Take one of the corners and unfold it so that one edge looks like a triangle. Then, check for the grid lines that you just created. These lines should run along the sides of the triangle. Take your scissors and cut along each of these score lines, just to where the next score line begins.


Repeat the same cutting and unfolding process on the opposite side, but do not cut anywhere else. You should only make cuts on two sides of your scrapbook paper.
To hold the central corners in place, you can use a small piece of tape or a glue stick. However, using glue or tape is optional.
 Take the two small pieces next to the areas you cut and fold these pieces in towards each other. As you do so, the flat sides will come up and the paper will start to look like a box. Then, take your larger pieces on each side and fold them up and over the stems. Line up the points with the others in the center of the box.You can add a little tape to secure these points in place, but it is not necessary. They will stay in place after you add the lipstick holder grid.
