 Most side cramps are related to strenuous exercise, like running. Reduce your pace once you feel the cramps. This will give the cramps time to subside on their own. If they don’t subside, slowing down allows you to try different methods to relieve the pain., One of the quickest ways to get rid of side cramps is to massage the area with light pressure.Place your hand on the area that hurts, usually just under your rib cage on one side.
Inhale and then as you exhale, use your fingers and thumb to lightly pinch or squeeze this area. Apply pressure upward and inward, toward the center of your body.
Relax your hand as you inhale and then apply light pressure with your fingers again as you exhale. Continue this light massage for five to six breaths.
 Inhaling and exhaling with bigger breaths will allow your diaphragm to relax and relieve pressure on your liver and intestines.Focus on bringing your breathing into your belly, as opposed to in your lungs. This will help to oxygenate your blood and relieve pressure on your organs.
You should also avoid shallow breathing when you working out. Shallow breathing keeps your diaphragm raised and can create more pressure on your ligaments., One theory on the cause of side cramps is the rhythm of your breathing as you run affects the level of pressure on the ligaments that connect your diaphragm to your liver. Synchronizing your breath with your movements should help to relieve any pressure on your diaphragm.Determine which side of your body aches. For example, maybe you are experiencing cramps on your left side.
Exhale when the foot on the side that doesn’t ache hits the ground. In this example, you would exhale when your right foot hits the ground.
Inhale when the foot on the side that does ache hits the ground. In this example, you would inhale when your right foot hits the ground.
Maintain this breathing pattern (exhale for the side that doesn’t ache, inhale for the side that does ache) until the side stitch subsides.
 Stretching is important in relieving cramps. To do this, stop running or exercising. Then, raise your arm on the side that is cramping straight up in the air. Lean to the opposite side to stretch the cramped side. Hold the stretch for 2-5 seconds. Relax and repeat the stretch 3-5 times., Stop running or exercising and try to touch your toes. This will help to alleviate pressure on your abdominal area, especially if there is trapped gas in your intestine that may be causing the cramps., This will help to lessen the pressure on your liver and reduce the cramps. Run at distance of about 15 meters with your body bent at the waist and then slowly straighten up to keep running.