 Most wireless networks are slower than wired networks. There are a couple of more expensive and newer wireless networks today that are faster, but the methods employed to obtain the speed increases have not been formally adopted (unlike the 802.11b/g/n). The wired networks are probably still the best choice for the fastest residential setup, particularly when hardware costs are concerned. This of course changes with time as prices fall and new standards are adopted. Investigate the different technologies available before purchasing.;
, Most 802.11b and 802.11g networks have a maximum limit of 200 to 300 feet (61.0 to 91.4 m) under optimum conditions (properly installed wired networks work flawlessly through 325 feet). Speed and connection reliability fall quickly as distance between the network hardware and the computers (transmitter and receiver) increase. Like an FM radio in a car, the signal quality suffers as the distance between the radio station and the car increases. The best speed and reliability come when there is a "line of sight" between the computer and network hardware with minimal distance.
 Speed and connection reliability also falls quickly when there are obstructions between transmitter and receiver. Relocate hardware to avoid having to penetrate aluminum siding, metal studs, brick and concrete walls, etc., all of which are significantly more difficult for radio signals to penetrate than free air or wood and gypsum board.
 Speed and connection reliability also falls quickly when other devices operate in the same frequency range as the network. Like the FM radio in a car, as you travel away from a broadcaster on 100.1 in one city and get closer to a different broadcaster also on 100.1 in another city, interference results, leaving little of it intelligible. WiFi is networking via radio, but instead of talk or music being transmitted like the FM radio, it is data. The radio frequency for most WiFi is 2.4 GHz. Many cordless phones, wireless home audio speakers, baby monitors (and neighboring wireless networks) operate on this popular frequency, and all have been known to cause problems in the past.
 Security is a must. Failure to implement it properly leaves too many wireless systems wide open to anyone close enough to access it. Improperly secured networks bring unauthorized access, which can lead to exploitation of the network and/or the devices (computers and their data) that are connected to it. WPA is a far better protection than WEP and easier to disseminate since it uses a password rather than a long string of numbers and letters. Even if you publish your WPA password, using WPA will protect users on the network from each other!

, Security, while getting better all the time, is still probably easier to be compromised in a wireless network setting compared with trying to gain access to the physical cable of a wired network. Anyone within range can attempt to hack your wireless network from their parked car or the comfort of their own home, most likely undetected.
 Costs can increase significantly if external antennas, amplifiers and cables are needed to extend the reach and reliability of wireless networks.
 A VPN encrypts all data sent between the host (source of the information) and client (your computer, smartphone, etc.). This encryption makes it impossible (thus far anyway) for anyone to "monitor" the data as it is exchanged between host and client. VPNs add more "overhead" to data packets, so a slight slow down in speed often results. It is a small price to pay for peace of mind about the security of your connections and the data passed between them.