 This is usually a pretty simple step. You may have an idea, based on your town’s appraisal for real estate tax purposes. However, the best way to estimate value is to contact a real estate broker and ask for an opinion of the value. The broker will study your home and compare it with recent sales of other properties in your area. The broker will then give you a written estimate of the expected value of your home.


Most brokers will provide a written estimate of value at no charge. This is not as involved as a full “appraisal” of your property, which usually has a fee attached.
You can also get a quick estimate of your property’s value online. If you search for “real estate value estimate,” you will find several sources that provide an estimate of value. You will be asked to enter your address, and within seconds you will get an estimate.;
, Check your most recent statement from the bank to see the amount outstanding on your mortgage. If you have multiple mortgages on the property, make sure to include them all and add them together.


Ask your lender for a payout quote to find out what you owe. This will make it easier to determine what you owe.
 If the amount of your mortgage is greater than the estimated value of your home, then you have a “deficiency.” Some people refer to this situation as “being underwater” on your mortgage. Subtract the estimated value of your home from the amount due on your mortgage(s) to find the amount.


For example, suppose the broker estimates a value of $200,000 for your home, and you have a first mortgage of $175,000 and a second mortgage of $50,000. The total debt is $225,000, and the deficiency, therefore, is $25,000.
Remember that this is only a theoretical amount. Until you actually have an offer from a buyer, and conduct a sale (which will have some costs associated with it), you will not know what the actual deficiency amount is.
 If your home’s value is less than the amount you owe, and especially if you have difficulty paying the mortgage bills each month, you may wish to consider a short sale. A short sale can get you out of your obligations, and you can find a new home that you can more easily afford. A short sale will be a negative mark against your credit rating, but it can help you avoid foreclosure, which would probably be worse. It would be a good idea to discuss this possibility with an attorney, accountant or licensed real estate broker.Keep in mind that a short sale may have some serious tax consequences and it may not get you out of your obligations, so it is important to consider your situation carefully before proceeding.
 Before you short sale your home, consider using one of two government programs designed to help you refinance your home. The first, the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP), allows homeowners who are behind on their loans to modify their existing loans to a more manageable monthly payment. The second, the Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP) allows homeowners who are able to pay their mortgage payments, but are unable to refinance, a chance to refinance despite being underwater on their loan (owing more than the home is worth) or having a reduced income.


If either of these situations sounds like yours, contact your lender for more information about these programs.
HARP is also useful for borrowers who have experienced a decline in the value of their home since purchasing it.
Refinancing may lead to a lower interest rate and, accordingly, a lower monthly payment., Some lenders that do not want to participate in a short sale may be willing to accept a deed in lieu of foreclosure. This is an arrangement whereby you will just sign over the deed to your home to the bank, and the bank will agree to accept it in full satisfaction of your debt.Keep in mind that this may not be a good alternative if your home is in sale condition. This transaction will appear on rental reports as a negative mortgage history. Talk with a Realtor before you sign over your deed because it might not be necessary.
 Check your latest mortgage bill or monthly statement. You will find a phone number for customer service or the lending office. Contact them and say that you are interested in talking with someone about a possible short sale of your property. The lender will review your account and let you know if they will consider a short sale.You will need to contact multiple lenders if more than one entity has a lien on the home. Both lenders must be satisfied before the short sale can go forward.
Before contacting your lender directly, you may wish to consult with a lawyer and have the lawyer contact the lender.
 When you use the phrase “short sale,” the lender will refer to this as “loss mitigation.” This means that you are trying to reduce your losses on your property. As part of the application, the lender is likely to require you to provide the following documentation:financial statement
proof of current income
recent tax returns
copies of recent bank statements
hardship letter (This is a statement, in the form of a letter, in which you explain to the bank why you are asking for the short sale. There is no specific form, but you need to give an understandable reason for your financial hardship. Some examples might be recent unemployment, medical emergency, divorce, death in the family.)

, Even in a short sale, you are encouraged to use a real estate broker to maximize the publicity of the property and get the best offer.This stage is really no different than any other sale of a property. You are hoping to get the best offer possible, to help you pay off your mortgage(s).


Keep in mind that the property will usually need to be in the MLS system for a minimum amount of time to ensure that it is being sold at market value and that as many buyers as possible have the opportunity to buy it.
 When you receive an offer that you believe is reasonable, based on the advice of your broker, you will notify the lender. You, your broker and your lender are essentially partners at this point, trying to get the best price for your home. Keep your lender informed of the offers that you receive. You will eventually get an offer that the three of you believe is the best possible. The lender should give you a statement in writing that the offer will be acceptable for the purpose of the short sale.Before approving a short sale, lenders will typically want to see the comps. They will also request a broker price opinion (BPO) from another Realtor who is not the listing agent.
 Once the offer has been made and you and your bank have accepted it, then there are some procedures for completing the sale. The real estate broker will most likely take care of everything to get you to the closing. The buyer will need to obtain financing, a title report must be completed, and the sale documents must be prepared. When this is all done, you will attend the closing and sell your home. A representative of the lender will probably attend as well.


Be aware that you may end up waiting for a while to get the lender’s decision, but having a Realtor on your side who is persistent and keeps in contact with the lender may help to move things along.
Make sure to turn in everything on time because turning in something late may make it necessary to start the process all over again.
 In order to avoid any further liability toward your lender, you need to finish this deal with a written settlement agreement. Get a statement in writing from the lender that verifies that they accept the sale proceeds in full satisfaction of your mortgage.The agreement needs to identify the mortgage clearly and with specificity. Make sure it refers to the date and amount of the original mortgage, along with any other identifying information that the bank may have, such as a loan number or file number.
Be sure that the statement uses the phrase “in full satisfaction” and that it clearly waives the lender’s right to collect any deficiency amount.
 This is the most important part of the short sale. Under normal circumstances, anytime you sell your home with a mortgage on it, you must pay the mortgage in full. If you do not, then be aware that in some states the lender has the right to sue you for any remaining amount that is due. Always consult with an attorney to find out what kind of mortgage you have and how many mortgages are on the property.


For example, if you owe $250,000 on your mortgage, but at a short sale your best offer is only $200,000, the bank will have a deficiency of $50,000. In most states, the bank will be able to sue you for this remaining amount, unless they have agreed not to.
You have to consider the costs related to the sale when you calculate a deficiency. In the example above, if the buyer’s offer is $200,000, there will be costs associated with the sale. The broker’s commission will be approximately 5%, or $10,000, and there will be other legal fees and costs of conducting the sale. In the end, you may actually only receive $180-185,000. In this case, your deficiency will be more like $65,000.
 If your home only has one mortgage, then negotiating a short sale may be a good possibility. But if you have a second or third mortgage as well, it becomes more difficult. Using the short sale to fully payoff your debts only works if the lender agrees. In a short sale, usually only the first mortgage will get paid off. The second or third mortgages get nothing. They are not likely to agree, and will likely sue you for a deficiency., If you have conducted a short sale, but one or more lenders have not agreed to accept the sale in full satisfaction of their loan, then you will be facing a deficiency judgment. If you file bankruptcy, you will most likely be able to discharge that debt, which means you will not be responsible for paying it. Bankruptcy does not look good on a credit rating, but it does prevent creditors from pursuing you further and it lets you get on with your life. You should talk with an attorney about this option.Alternatives to bankruptcy include renegotiation of debt or allowing a judgement (if you have no assets, a judgement is essentially uncollectible).
Keep in mind that if your home is heading towards foreclosure, then bankruptcy can put a hold on the foreclosure process and give you more time to get an offer. Before the property is sold, you can cancel the bankruptcy or you can continue with it in conjunction with the sale. Discuss your options with your attorney to be sure.
 When you get approval from your lender to forgive any deficiency, that forgiven amount is actually considered “income” for tax purposes. You will be responsible for reporting the amount of the deficiency and pay income tax on it.For example, suppose you owed the bank $250,000, but the short sale (after expenses) only produced $200,000. If the bank accepted that as full satisfaction of your debt, then you “earned” $50,000 and must report it on your tax return as income.
Make sure to check with an accountant regarding the current laws around forgiveness.

