 Sites are added to the Google Search index automatically as Google's bots scour the web for new content. You don't need to actively do anything to submit your site to Google, but there are several things you can do to increase your chances of being indexed.
 The organization and hierarchy of your website has a big impact on whether or not your content will be indexed by Google. This means that your pages should have a manageable number of links, that all of your content is easily reachable with single links,

, If you have well-written, helpful content on your site, you have a higher chance of being indexed by Google. Avoid copying and pasting content from other sites, and make sure all of your content is clear, concise, and relates to your site's purpose. Include words and phrases that readers would use to find your site.


Make sure that important words and names are written out in text, and not just shown in pictures. Google cannot index words that are embedded in pictures.
 A sitemap is a file that contains the layout of your site. This allows the Google bots to quickly see all of your site's pages, allowing it to index much more effectively. Click here for instructions on creating a sitemap from scratch or by using a tool.
 This file controls what can and cannot be seen by the Google bots. The robots.txt file is used to tell these bots which parts of your webpage should not be indexed, and which parts are open for indexing. If your robots.txt file isn't properly formatted, Google bots may be skipping your webpage entirely. Click here for instructions on properly creating a robots.txt file.
 You can manually submit your site to be indexed by Google. This does not guarantee that you will be indexed, and there is no timeline given for how soon it may happen. To add your site to the index queue, visit google.com/addurl and paste your site's URL into the field.This is not required to get your site indexed. As long as you meet the guidelines outlined above, your site should be indexed automatically at some point.
 This is a utility for webmasters that allows you to better control how your site appears in Google Search results. You can log into the console at google.com/webmasters.
 Click the "Add A Property" button and paste your website's URL into the field. You will be prompted to verify that you own the website.
 Follow the prompts to verify that you own the domain that you've added. You can do this through your domain name provider, or you can upload a special file to your site's server to prove that you have access.
 After adding your site, Search Console will provide you with several suggestions for increasing your site's visibility. Scroll through the list and complete each suggested step.You'll be asked to include all versions of your site, including "www." versions and non-"www." versions.
You can choose your preferred target country.
You'll be asked to submit the sitemap that you created earlier.
 As your site starts getting search traffic, you can use Search Console to see detailed reports and problem areas. You can see where the crawlers have had issues, test your robots.txt file, update your sitemaps, and more.

