 You only have 40 moves to work with, and in that time you have to get to the key at the top of the stack of caged blocks. Focus your attention on the bottom center of the board, around the caged blocks,which can only be removed after you break the cages that are trapping the blocks inside. You have to deal with the caged blocks one at a time, and there are three ways to break the cages without boosters:Make matches around the caged blocks.
Match blocks beneath them so the cages fall.
Use a bomb.;
, If you’re having trouble breaking the caged blocks, you can try a booster. Either select the boosters you want to use before starting the round, or wait and see if a useful one pops up for you to use throughout the game.


The column blaster booster (the rocket) will clear a column of blocks and cages.A line blaster booster (the red spring) will clear a full row of blocks, cages, and pet carriers.A mesh mash booster (the wire cutters) gets rid of the cages around the blocks and turns them into normal blocks., As you break the cages around the blocks and remove those blocks, the key will work its way down. When you get the key to the bottom and free it, this will break the chains on the stone boxes the animals are on, which will allow you to proceed with rescuing the pets., Once you have retrieved the key and freed the animals from the locked stone boxes, the objective is to get them to the bottom of the screen by removing blocks around and below them. Once they get to the bottom, they are safe., Each safe pet is worth 1,000 points, which will get you part of the way to your 23,000-point goal.
 When you match and remove larger groupings of blocks at a time, you get more points. Anytime you spot a big group of blocks that are all the same color, go ahead and take those down!This will also charge up your column blaster booster, and when that’s ready to use you can gain even more points.
 The balloons are like color bombs, and activating a balloon of one color will destroy all the blocks on the board in that color. Time your balloon use to destroy large chunks of blocks at a time and score big points with a single move.Don’t waste a balloon if there aren’t many blocks of the corresponding color on the board.

