 If you are able to communicate effectively with your child, you will be better able to convince them to develop good eating habits. One of the most effective ways to relate to your child is to treat them with respect. That includes respecting their appetite — or lack thereof.Don't try to force a meal on your child if they are not hungry. Instead, allow them to gradually adjust to the routine you have set.
Do not bribe your kids to eat. That could result in a power struggle, and it's not a good idea for either your or your children to try to use food as a weapon.
Instead, offer small portions until your child gets used to eating when and what they should. Smaller portions keep kids from feeling overwhelmed.
 Remember that they are kids. It might take your children a while to adjust to new things, and that includes food. If your child rejects a new food, don't give up. It may take a child over 10 times before they begin to eat a new food. Don't force them to eat the food, but continue to put it on their plate in small amounts.Manage your expectations. Remember that kids haven't fully developed all of their tastes yet. It's unfair to immediately expect your child to like all of the foods you like.
When you introduce new foods, focus on traits other than taste. For example, you can say, "Look at this soup. Doesn't that look delicious? It also smells really good."

, It is important to be patient and respectful. But it is also necessary to remember that as the parent, you are in charge. Set clear boundaries regarding your expectations.For example, don't allow your children to treat you like a short-order cook. You are not running a restaurant. Do not take "orders" for dinner.
Instead, get your kids involved with decision-making. And ask them to show you the same respect you are showing them.
 If you are concerned that your child is not getting the proper nutrients, you should talk to her pediatrician. Explain the situation and ask for advice. Make notes of what your child regularly eats and take them with you to the appointment. That is useful information for your doctor to have.Have your doctor come up with a meal plan that is nutritious and is acceptable to both you and your child.

