 Look for brands that list meat (not meat by-products) as the top ingredients on the labels or ask your veterinarian for advice. While it is not necessary to put your dog on a special diet to prevent kidney stones, you should still feed your dog a food that meets all of his nutritional needs. These needs will depend on your dog’s breed, age, and other factors.Talk to your veterinarian if you are not sure how to choose a food for your dog.
 If your dog is prone to urinary tract infections or has been diagnosed with kidney stones in the past, then you will need to follow your veterinarian’s food recommendations for your dog. Your veterinarian will recommend a special diet (including special treats) to help prevent a reoccurrence of kidney stones.Foods that are high in calcium, magnesium, phosphorus and protein can cause kidney stones due to high mineral and protein content in the urine. In dogs susceptible to kidney stone formation, foods that are lower in these nutrients (while still providing adequate amounts) can help to prevent the formation of kidney stones and may even help to dissolve very small stones.
There are many types of kidney stones. The most common ones are struvites (made up of magnesium-ammonium-phosphorus); calcium oxalate (made up of calcium) and uric acid stones (the type Dalmatians are prone to get.) There can also be mixed types. By analyzing your dog’s urine, your veterinarian can determine which type of kidney stone your dog has and which food would be most appropriate for your dog to eat.
 If you feed a home-made diet to your dog, speak with a pet nutrition expert to make sure the vitamin and mineral levels in the diet are balanced. A mineral imbalance (especially calcium and phosphorus) can cause kidney problems for your dog.Your veterinarian may also be able to advise you on how to meet all of your dog’s nutritional needs with a home-made diet.
 There are supplements that you can give your dog to help with urinary tract health. These include cranberry extracts, which are known to be beneficial for urinary tract health. Cranberries help prevent bacteria in the urine from latching onto the urinary tract lining.These supplements are available in pill, capsule, or a chewable form to supplement your dog’s regular diet. If your dog has a medical condition, ask your veterinarian before giving any supplement to your dog.

