 Make sure there are a lot of hiding spots and that it is a safe place to run around. If a friend has a large backyard, you could play flashlight tag in an area away from street lights or porch lights. If you know a playground will be open after dark, consider playing there.


You can also play indoors with the lights off. This works best in a big, open room, like a furnished basement without too much furniture. Be careful playing around heavy furniture or household items that could break.
 Team flashlight tag is best played with a lot of people. If you have ten or more people who want to play, team flashlight might be more fun than playing with only one ‘it’ person. With team flashlight, half of the people playing are ‘it’ at the same time, so be sure to have enough flashlights for half of your friends.


Be sure to have extra batteries handy so that if someone’s flashlight stops working mid-game, they can replace their batteries quickly.
You may also want to set a rule to employ if batteries do run out. For instance, if someone’s batteries do run out, they would have 30 seconds or one minute to “pause” and replace their batteries before rejoining the game. During this “pause,” they could not be tagged ‘out.’

, Be sure to split the group into two even halves, with approximately the same number of people on each team.
 Your “jail” should be large enough for everyone from one team to fit comfortably.You can outline the “jail” with sidewalk chalk if you don’t have a clearly defined area to use as the “jail.”Be as specific about the parameters of the “jail” as possible, since people can be tagged out of “jail” by another member of their team.



Once a person goes to “jail,” they can be tagged back into the game by one of their team members. Thus, the ‘it’ team will need to guard the “jail.” Choose one or two people to act as guards during the game., Allow one minute for the team who is not ‘it’ to run and hide. During this time, the ‘it’ team must remain in “jail” with their eyes closed. After the minute is up, the ‘it’ team can leave jail and begin tagging members of the other team., To tag someone, a person should sneak up on a member of the other team and shine the flashlight on them. This person is then out and must go to “jail.”Make sure to quickly shine the light on the person you want to tag and then turn it off immediately. Otherwise, another person hiding in the area might see you and run away.
During this time, members of the not-‘it’ team should try to rescue the team members in “jail.” You can do so by tagging their hand, at which point they are back in the game., However, if a game is taking too long, you can always agree that, after a certain point, the 'it'-team loses. For example, give the 'it'-team an hour to locate all the players before they lose.


After a complete team has been tagged ‘out,’ you can restart a new round. The not-‘it’ team from the last round will now be the ‘it’ team.