 You can purchase 1% hydrocortisone cream or ointment over the counter. Apply the cream directly to the inflamed skin after the child gets out of the bath and before applying a moisturizing cream.Always have a doctor diagnose your child with eczema and suggest proper treatments before providing medications yourself.
Note that hydrocortisone creams should always be the option of choice for eczema on the face. Prescription creams are often too potent to use on sensitive skin, so you should not use them around the face area until directly told otherwise by the doctor. Be careful when using topical steroids as they can thin the skin when used too frequently, especially on thinner areas of the skin like the face or groin, While antihistamines are generally used to treat allergies, they can also help with the itchiness associated with eczema.Perhaps even more important than possible anti-itch properties, antihistamines tend to cause drowsiness, which can be a godsend at night for an itchy, sleepless child (and his/her parents).
Again, talk to your child's physician first.
 When over-the-counter hydrocortisone cream is ineffective, the next step is to apply a stronger steroid cream or ointment. These products do require a prescription, though.A steroid cream or ointment should be applied directly to the inflamed skin for as long as the doctor instructs. Usually, this application occurs right after a bath but before the application of a moisturizer.
You may need to apply it twice a day. Your doctor will usually recommend using the topical steroid for no more than two weeks at a time. Always follow your doctor's recommendations on how to use prescription medications.
In severe cases, the doctor may also prescribe an oral steroid. Most children will not need oral steroids, and the treatment is not usually used in young kids. Some older children may need an oral steroid if their skin no longer improves with the use of topical treatment.
 The doctor may prescribe a topical immunomodulator such as a calcineurin inhibitor. These are immunosuppressive drugs that lower the immune system's ability to respond, thus dulling the reaction your child's skin has to certain eczema triggers.These treatments are rarely prescribed to children under the age of two, though, and are only used in cases when other treatments are not effective.
Again, apply these as instructed after a bath and before applying moisturizer, unless otherwise directed.
 Cyclosporine is a strong oral immunosuppressant sometimes used for eczema patients who do not respond to topical treatment.Cyclosporine is often used in organ transplant patients. Its possible side effects include a significantly increased risk of infections.
This treatment is usually used as a last resort, even in adults, and is rarely used for children. Nonetheless, if you have an older child whose symptoms are bad enough, the doctor may be willing to consider it.
 You may not be able to prevent your child from scratching, and excessive scratching may cause the area to get cut. Cuts often lead to infections. If this happens, it is important that you talk with your child's doctor about getting an appropriate antibiotic.Signs of infection can include persistent fever, warmth in the eczema-affected area, and atypical sores in the affected area.
An area that is just not improving with usual treatment may have an underlying infection.
 In phototherapy, ultraviolet light is applied directly to the child's skin, in the hope of reducing the risk of infection and improving the eczema symptoms.These treatments can bring relief to sufferers with severe eczema, but they should only be applied under dermatological supervision.

