 Eclectus parrots require many items for their husbandry.


These include a large cage preferable larger than 1.5m x 1.5m x 1.5m. The cage should have strong metal bars not able to be bent by hand. It is recommended the cage has a seed catch tray as parrots are very very messy. The cage should be large enough that the bird wing tip to wing tip can stretch out. It should have corners, not be round.
Inside the cage, use perches more than 4cm in diameter. The perches should be made of safe native plants not straight plywood.The base should allow feces to fall through and be regularly cleaned.;
, The cage should be filled with activities for the parrot to do while you are not with them or they are locked in the cage. Toys specifically made for parrots are best but you can also make some easy DIY ones, as long as they do not have anything that can be swallowed or the parrot could become caught in.


Rope toys are dangerous, as the fibres may be ingested, resulting in crop impaction which can kill parrots. Sticking to native string ropes like hemp is a safer option.
Metal toys need to be inspected for any peeling or rusting to prevent heavy metal poisoning (the cage should be checked, too). Plastic toys are better for ease of cleaning but make sure they are not brittle or have broken edges.
 For feeding Eclectus parrots, something which is durable and easily cleaned is best. A perspex box is a new option on the market allowing the bird to sit inside and eat its food without making a mess. These less mess options are best for reducing the prevalence of rodents and other pests.


Alternatively, stainless bowls are a great option for ease of cleaning. The screw on sides are the best for Eclectus as they are highly intelligent and will tip over bowls that hang on the side of the cage. The bowls must always remain in the holders, apart from during cleaning, as they can be dangerous to Eclectus.
Another food delivery option is to hide food in cardboard boxes, toilet paper (check for any harmful chemicals first), or paper. It is great enrichment as well as encouraging foraging behaviour, which the parrots would do naturally in the wild for many hours.
 Eclectus parrots require about 10 hours sleep a night. Keeping sleep patterns regular and not keeping them awake can prevent them from becoming hormonal.


Birds breed when the daylight hours are longer, so if you keep your parrot awake for longer, he/she will believe it is breeding season resulting in issues such as aggression, regurgitation and mating like rituals which should be avoided.
A cover over the cage, such as a blanket, can be used, but a room with curtains drawn preventing light is better to prevent harmful pathogen growth.
A night cage especially for sleeping is used by some owners; these simulate the bird going to its resting place, as it would in the wild, which is different from its day cage.
The sleep cage is normally smaller than the day cage, with only enough room to move around stretch wings prune etc. Some toys and water should still be available. Noise also in that area should be kept to a minimum.
 Remove the floor covering and clean the bowls to prevent growth of harmful pathogens.


Parrots love to throw food to the floor of the cage, which if soiled with feces buildup, will increase the risk of pathogens such as intestinal worms.
The floor of the cage can be lined with paper, such as newspaper or plain paper, for ease of cleaning. Things such as artificial turf or other artificial substances should be avoided.
Paper-based kitty litter may also be used, but avoid not paper alternatives as these can cause impaction.
Harmful chemicals such as cleaning chemicals can kill parrots, so bird safe alternatives should be used. These are normally purchased from pet stores.
Bowls with fresh fruit and vegetables should be removed and cleaned optimally twice daily, as fresh produce attracts flies and will possibly grow harmful microbes if left too long.
 Eclectus diet is one of the most challenging part of owning this parrot, they require large amounts of fresh produce which can be very costly. It is important to consider not only the cost but your own willingness to buy fresh produce and prepare the meals daily if not twice daily for your bird before owning an eclectus parrot.


Eclectus are rare in that they have a really long digestive tract so they are better at absorbing nutrients than most other parrots. This means artificial vitamins and minerals can easily overdose a parrot such as those in some pellet brands and supplements.
80% of an Eclectus diet should be fresh food; this includes fruit, vegetables, sprouts, beans for example. The other 20% should be made up of a pellet or seed mix, as well as nuts occasionally.
The fruit and vegetables given to an eclectus should have the following base ingredients (always used): Peas, carrot, corn, apple, aloe vera, broccoli, chilli, papaya, paw paw, pumpkin and seeds, passionfruit, kiwi, pear and banana. From this list, normally five or six base ingredients are chosen. Seasonal variability means that certain fruits or veggies will not be available but it is easy to choose one in season.
Berries are a huge hit with Eclectus and have important vitamins and minerals. Strawberry and raspberries are some of the favourites but there are other good choices, too.It is important that if not intending on breeding your parrot fruits are kept at a reasonable level as high sugar fruits spark hormonal changes. In breeding season, more sugary fruits should be made available, too.
Dark green leafy vegetables are also a great addition; for example, kale, spinach, zucchini, bok choy etc. are excellent
Pomegranate is another favourite, full of nutrients.
Protein should be given in moderation; beans and legumes are a great source of protein. Cooked eggs with shell occasionally are also a good source of protein.
Vitamin A and D supplements are advisable if your parrot is housed indoors and not on a pelleted diet.
Sprout seeds are a great addition to the diet with seeds; these include chia seeds, mung bean, oats, spelt, millet, pumpkin seed, sesame, quinoa, peas, sunflower, for example.
Flaxseed meal or hemp seed meal are great for essential fatty acids not found in pellets or cooked food. Sprinkle lightly on fruit and veggie mix.
Beans and grains should be soaked and cooked
Sweet potato and yams should also be cooked to unlock nutrients.
 Plain organic yogurt can be given, wild salmon can be given occasionally.
Seed mixes without sunflower seeds are a good treat snack (1 teaspoon max). Nuts such as almonds are a good addition to diet.
Pellets such as Roudybush and Vetafarm are good diets for eclectus, give sparingly and avoid coloured pellets and those with artificial flavours.
Safe microgreens, edible flowers, herbs and weeds are also a great addition to the diet.Adding apple cider vinegar (organic) to the food has unproven scientific "benefits" but it is useful in deterring fresh produce consuming bugs by lowering the pH.
Researching native foods of eclectus is also a great way to find good additions to the diet.
 Eclectus parrots need a large portion of your time devoted to them. They need to exercise not only their body but their minds. They should be playing out of the cage at least 4hours a day.


Interaction with your parrot is a must; it can be watching TV or even playing games with your parrot.
Training such as clicker training is excellent for settling in a new parrot and helping them learn acceptable behaviour.
Play stands are excellent allow the bird to have a perch with treats and activities while being able to stretch fly around and not be confined to his/her cage.
Good careful handling with respect and being gentle is the best way to build a trusting relationship.
Time and patience may be needed to deal with biting or aggression, but almost all issues should be resolvable with the right care and attention.
It is important to note here that a parrot, especially an eclectus, is not like a puppy. They do not come prepackaged to love and trust you, some do but most do not. They need to build trust with you, and new people.
Eclectus will be noisy and they will bite. Sometimes they may cause you to bleed but returning the bird to its cage, or ignoring is the best reaction as negative reactions or even reactions will result in the bird repeating or exaggerating the behaviour.



Have regular visits to an avian vet minimum yearly visits. Know where your closest one is before purchasing your bird.
Eclectus parrot should not need their wings clipped there are other alternatives such as harnesses, not allowing them to free flight in the house unattended or teaching basic recall before allowing them to fly around.
Eclectus parrots get very sharp claws these should be clipped by someone who is trained as within the nail their is blood vessels which if cut will bleed (birds have delayed blood clotting so it can even be fatal).
Eclectus should be allowed to bathe (most prefer a spray shower) daily or at least every second day.

