 Looking for signs of stress when you buy a tree can help you determine whether the tree is a good candidate for transplanting.


Check the base of the trunk for pests or wounds. If you need to, pull back any plastic to look at the trunk for any bugs or cuts.
Look for branch spacing. The branches should be well spaced with foliage, but not too much foliage. If the branches are crowded with leaves, do not purchase the tree. A young tree needs energy to grow once it has been placed in the ground, and too many branches or foliage is an indication that it will spend extra energy obtaining nutrients for the already existing foliage, rather than on new growth.
Check the trunk of the tree. It should be straight and tapered at its base. There should not be too much soil over the trunk. If you need to dig down more than an inch to find the top of the root, you are not getting a healthy root ball.
Move the trunk back and forth slowly to feel that it has a good connection to the root ball.
Check that the roots are not constricting and overly entwined around the tree. This is called girdled, and it is an unhealthy sign that the tree is not getting enough "breathing room."
Check the leaves for a healthy color. Yellowed, dry or absent leaves show signs of stress or disease.
Inspect containerized plants to see that there is a dense enough root system. If you see only 1 or 2 main, strong roots, the root system will not be enough to sustain the tree during transplanting.;
, For instance, young nursery trees will sustain faster growth than older trees, deciduous trees are hardier than evergreens, and trees with shallow roots will adapt better than those with deep roots. Ask the nursery for information before you decide what type of tree to purchase.
 Woody shrubs and trees do best when transplanted in the spring or after the last frost has occurred. They also should be transplanted before any budding occurs. If the tree is transplanted when it is trying to bud, it will lose an excessive amount of needed energy.
 The transplant should take place in an area that can accommodate the type of tree you are moving. Consider soil, sunlight and wind exposure.
 Most stress occurs when the actual moving of the tree occurs.


Check the root ball continually during the process and keep it damp. Dried out root balls will be difficult to re-saturate once in the ground.
Tie all low branches up and out of the way when preparing to lower the root ball into the ground.
Use a sharp spade to remove a tree from the ground before transplanting. This will ensure that the roots are cleanly cut from the soil and most of them remain on the tree.
Check the recommended hole or trench depth for your type and size of tree. This is important so that you can accommodate all root systems.



Water the area around the tree thoroughly after planting, and check daily to make sure it is still moist.
Mulch and fertilize around the tree according to the instructions for the type of tree.

