 There are a websites that are designed to help you compile the specific items you want to include in your registry, as well as the retailers or other organizations you can register with. Some websites, like Newly Wish, are designed specifically for engaged couples and can help you select items to include in your registry.Other examples of registry-hosting websites include Blueprint, Simple Registry, CheckedTwice, My Registry, Zola, All My Gifts, and Knack.
While most of these websites are free, some charge a small fee.
Keep in mind that the website you use to host your registry is separate from your wedding website.;
, Different registry websites will have different criteria regarding what can be added to your registry and how to do so. For instance, some websites will allow you to add gifts from all over the web, while some may limit you to the retailers that are affiliated with the registry website.One specific feature that's offered by many of these websites is the ability to scan an item’s barcode at a store and have it added to your registry. If this is something that you want, make sure the register websites you are considering offer this feature.
 The most time-consuming (but also potentially the most fun) part of creating a registry is deciding what specific items to put in your registry. If you and your partner are unsure of what to ask for, make a list of items you don’t have or would like to upgrade for ideas. These discussions can also help determine the types of retailers you should register with.Most people use wedding registries to outfit their new homes and/or lives together. If neither of you have a full set of dishware, this could be a great thing to request.
Other categories to talk about include outdoor gear, board games, sheet sets, furniture, storage equipment, tools, and barware.
 People prefer to have lots of variety to choose from, even within a certain category of gifts. As such, shoot for more requests than the number of gifts you anticipate receiving. For instance, if you invite 100 guests, shoot for 125 potential gifts in your registry.Keep in mind that families and couples will likely bring one gift, as opposed to a gift per person.
 Depending on the registry website you choose, you may still want to register with retailers directly. Whereas some registry websites are affiliated with retailers, others are simply lists of gift requests. In the case of the latter, registering with retailers directly can help prevent guests from unknowingly purchasing the same gift. Whatever organizing method you use, try to incorporate gift requests from two to four different retailers.Include at least one national retailer that carries a wide variety of items, such as Target, REI, or Bed Bath & Beyond.
Try to include a local or specialty store that you enjoy to shop at.
Be sure that the majority of the items in your registry can be ordered online, as this will be easier for both you and your guests. That said, some guests will still prefer to purchase gifts from a store and bring them to the wedding.

