 Once you bring your dog into your vet, your vet will ask you a series of questions about your dog’s medical history. Try to answer these questions to the best of your ability and provide detailed information on your dog’s symptoms. Your answers will help your vet get a better sense of your dog’s condition.For example, your vet may ask: “How long as the growth been on your dog? Has it gotten smaller or larger over time? How fast is it growing? How many skin masses are on your dog? Has your dog experienced any injuries or recent traumas? Have there been any changes in your pet’s behavior or demeanor?”

, Your vet will do a complete physical exam of your pup, paying special attention to examining the skin mass. They will feel the skin mass and look closely at how the skin mass appears on your dog’s skin., A biopsy is when the veterinarian surgically removes a small sample of tissue from the mass. This sample will be sent to the lab to determine what types of cells are present. A biopsy is an important part of the diagnostic process, so this may be your veterinarian's first suggestion for diagnosing a mass. This test may be necessary if the diagnosis of the mass is inconclusive or if the lump is suspected to be cancerous. In this case, removing the lump and having it analyzed is the best option.


In some cases, a fine needle aspirate may be performed. This is when the vet collects a few cells from the lump by putting a needle into it.
If an infection is suspected as the cause of the problem, then the vet will swab any discharge from the mass or send a small piece of tissue away for culture to identify the bugs present.
 The treatment for the skin mass will depend on your dog’s diagnosis. If the skin mass is benign and just a lipoma, or buildup of fatty tissue, you may not need to do anything. Often, lipomas go away on their own. If the lipoma is large and restricting your dog’s movements, your vet may recommend surgery to remove it.If the skin mass is diagnosed as a tumor, your vet may recommend surgery to have it removed as soon as possible. Smaller tumors that are removed right away will increase your dog’s chances of recovery and reduce her risk of developing cancer.