 Coffee, chocolate, caffeinated tea, energy drinks, cola drinks, teas and anything else with caffeine should be limited Although for a long time, researchers believed that coffee was a trigger for AFib and recommended avoiding all caffeinated beverages and foods, more recent research has challenged the link between caffeine and AFib.Researchers who tracked 30,000 women found no difference in AFib risk between women who drank lots of caffeine and women who drank the least amounts of caffeine.Caffeine can, however, increase your blood pressure and heart rate, which could trigger AFib. Try to be more conscious of how much caffeine you drink. Stick to one to two cups (as in small mugs, or four ounce cups of coffee) per day and be aware that most commercial retailers, such as Starbucks, sell their coffee in large portion sizes; even a "short" Starbucks coffee is already eight ounces.What you should also do is cut back on any sugar that accompanies caffeinated foods and beverages.
 Alcohol, in any form, should be reduced, but does not have to be completely avoided. Just be cautious about how much you are drinking and only drink in moderation. Women should limit themselves to one drink per day and men to a maximum of two drinks per day. Note that one drink is considered one beer (12 oz), one glass of wine (5 oz) or one mixed drink containing 1.5 oz of liquor.Don't drink every day. Try to have two to three days a week where you don't consume any alcohol.Heavy drinking increases your risk of AFib. Some research suggests that for every drink you have on top of the recommendation, your risk increases by 8%. In addition, heavy drinking can cause problems if you already have AFib and increases your risk of having an AFib episode. Large amounts of alcohol can also increase the likelihood of bleeding among those taking blood-thinning medications., If you smoke and have been diagnosed with AFib, then you should quit immediately. Smoking causes the heart to beat faster and lowers the amount of oxygen in the blood, which in turn causes additional damage to the heart and increases the likelihood of an AFib episode.Quitting smoking, although it isn't easy, is worthwhile because it will benefit your overall health.
 There is some evidence suggesting that both immediate and more long-term stress can bring on episodes of AFib.It is thus important that you take steps to counter and avoid stress.



Meditation, breathing exercises, yoga, are all stress management techniques that can help you combat the stress effectively. Whatever works for you, do it.
Make time to relax for at least an hour each day, especially in the morning and in the evening before bed. Everyone needs time to recharge their batteries. This may mean reading a book, playing a game, or just spending time with family., Moderate exercise is usually fine for most people because it helps reduce your risk of heart disease as well as regulate your biological rhythms and help you sleep better and maintain a healthy weight. However, you need to discuss your specific situation with your cardiologist before engaging in any exercise if you have AFib. Your doctor will likely recommend that you avoid strenuous exercise to avoid a high heart rate (which can cause an AFib episode) and give you a goal heart rate during exercise and and a time limit on how long to maintain it.If you experience an episode of AFib during exercise, stop and notify your physician for advice.
Strenuous or vigorous exercise that raises your heart rate significantly should be avoided.
If you're concerned about exercising, Stretch regularly instead. Do stretching exercises and warm up exercises that one would normally do before a rigorous workout – minus the actual workout. This can be done for 5 to 7 minutes once a day. It'll warm up your muscles and get your blood flowing without the stress on your heart.
 This is one of the most powerful tools that will work at the level of both the mind and body. Avoid strenuous yoga such as power yoga or aerobic yoga. Basic yogic breathing techniques and simple asanas, or postures, can be performed with ease.Yoga will also help you meditate and de-stress yourself.


Avoid postures like shirshasana (standing on your head) that brings the blood flow of the body to the brain rather than the heart. Asanas such as ‘downward dog’ are known to be useful for Atrial Fibrillation.
 Every day, twice a day, sit or lie down comfortably with your legs propped up (to bring blood flow to your heart). Inhale deeply for a count of four and watch or feel your belly inflate and rise. Then, exhale through your nose or mouth for the same count of four. Make the inhalations match the exhalations in length and imagine a consistent wave of breath and oxygen moving through your body. Try doing this even for 5 minutes a day. This can help calm and slow the heart beat if you're experiencing palpitations or a rapid heart beat.If your mind wanders while you breathe, try focusing on counting your inhalations and exhalations.

