 Exercise can simultaneously tire you out while also reducing stress. Studies have shown that physical exercise can drastically improve both the quality and length of your sleep. Exercising outdoors is ideal, as it allows you to get more fresh air and sunlight (if exercising during the day), but if you can't get outdoors then working out inside is an acceptable alternative.Some people get more wakeful if they exercise at night, while others can work out at night and sleep fine. Everyone's body is different in this regard, so it's best to figure out what time of day works for you., Tensing your muscles may not sound like a good way to relax. But studies show that tensing your muscles and then immediately relaxing them can help relieve stress and calm the body from head to toe. Performing these tensing/relaxing exercises as you lie in bed may help alleviate anxiety and prepare your body for sleep.Start with your toes. Tense all the muscles in your feet, hold it for 10 seconds, then release all the tension at once. Continue this process and work your way up through every major muscle group in the body., If you're a smoker or a coffee drinker, either or both of these habits could be contributing towards a poor night's sleep. Nicotine and caffeine are both stimulants, which make it difficult to both fall asleep and stay asleep.Stimulants also exacerbate anxiety in some individuals.Because of this, stimulants could potentially affect your sleep and cause increased anxiety, further compounding your sleep loss problems.


Stimulants like caffeine can have lingering physical effects for five to six hours after consumption. If you must drink coffee in the morning or at work, make sure you stop drinking it early enough in the afternoon that you'll be able to sleep at night., Alcohol can make it difficult to remain asleep through the night by affecting the physical and psychological processes that typically take place while you sleep.But some health experts believe that alcohol use may also promote anxiety and increase the risk of panic attacks.If your sleeplessness is caused by anxiety, drinking any alcohol before bed could contribute to both anxiety and difficulty sleeping.
 Eating a large meal or a spicy meal before bed can cause indigestion, which in turn can make it difficult to sleep. Try to avoid eating large or spicy meals for two to three hours before going to sleep, if possible.If you really want something to eat, opt for a light snack no closer than 45 minutes before you intend to go to sleep. This will help fill you up without causing indigestion.Some good light snack options include:


deli slices of turkeywarm milktoast with peanut buttercrackers and cheesecereal or oatmealyogurt and fruit