 Topical creams and lotions that contain camphor, menthol, phenol, pramoxine, and benzocaine—all of which numb nerve endings to reduce the sensation of itchiness and the likelihood of scratching at irritated skin—can be applied directly to itchy skin.
 Covering itchy skin in cool, wet bandages, dressings, and towels can help protect your skin from further irritation and provide temporary relief from the discomfort of itching.
 Baking soda is a natural acid neutralizer that reduces itchiness by restoring your skin’s natural pH balance. Add 1 part water to 3 parts baking soda to make a soothing paste that you can apply directly to itchy skin.
 While hot water can actually dry out your skin, potentially making it even itchier, lukewarm or cool water can help relieve itching. When taking cool baths here are some things to keep in mind:


Avoid perfumed bath oils, powders, or bubbles since they can alter the pH levels of your skin and possibly become irritating.
As with a baking soda paste, adding 1 cup of baking soda to a bathtub full of water can provide relief to itchy skin by balancing the skin’s pH levels.
You can add 1 to 2 cups of finely ground oatmeal, also called colloidal oatmeal, to your bath to treat irritated and itchy skin. Oatmeal reduces itchiness by balancing out your skin’s pH levels, drawing heat away from the top layer of skin, and sealing in the skin’s natural oils. Be sure the oatmeal is finely ground and that the water isn’t too hot, otherwise the oatmeal will thicken and be difficult to clean from the tub.
 Lemons contain natural substances that can numb sensations and reduce inflammation. Simply cut a lemon in half and squeeze the juice directly onto your itchy skin.
 Due to its natural antiseptic and antifungal properties, apple cider vinegar can be a good remedy for itchiness. Dip a cotton ball or piece of cloth into the vinegar and gently dab it onto the itchy skin.
 Aloe vera has natural anti-itch and cooling properties. Rubbing the gel produced by this plant directly onto itchy skin and letting it dry is a good way to reduce itchiness. You can get aloe vera one of two ways:


Snip a leaf from a live aloe vera plant, cut it lengthwise, and scoop out the gel that’s inside.
Buy bottled aloe vera at a store.
 These herbs all contain eugenol, which is a naturally occurring anesthetic with soothing and numbing effects. Leaves from these plants can be used in two main ways:


Crush the leaves and rub them directly onto the itchy skin.
Add ½ ounce of dried leaves to 1 pint of boiling water to make a tea. When the tea has cooled down a bit, you can pour it directly over the itchy skin or use it to soak bandages or towels for use as a compress.
 Juniper berries and cloves both have natural anti-inflammatory properties that can help relieve severe itching. To make a juniper berry paste:


Melt together 3 ounces of butter and 2 ounces of beeswax.
Grind 4 tablespoons of juniper berries and 3 teaspoons of whole cloves in a coffee grinder, and stir them into the melted mixture.
When the paste is cool, apply it directly to itchy skin.

