 You can’t plant dahlias until the soil in your garden is over 60 degrees Fahrenheit (16 Celsius), so planting can occur between April and June, depending upon your location. You can usually plant these tubers around the same time as you plant your tomatoes.


These tubers prefer morning sunlight, and they can benefit from shade in the hottest hours of the afternoon.
Check your hardiness zone at http://planthardiness.ars.usda.gov

Dahlias do best in zones 8, 9 and 10, where they do not need to be dug up every winter. They do best in the Pacific Northwest of the United States. Dahlias can also be planted in colder zones with long, sunny summers.;
, You must cut off any rot you see before planting.


If you want to combine them with other flowers in your flower beds, it is recommended that you choose small to medium varieties so they don’t compete too much with other plants.
, They also like slightly acidic soil with a pH of 6.5 to 7. Ensure you are amending the soil in a well-drained portion of your garden.Avoid using packaged topsoil that has been pre-treated for weeds., Dahlias with large blooms should be spaced 18 to 24 inches (46 to 61 cm) apart in rows. Place a sprinkling of bone meal in the hole for a preliminary fertilizer.


Smaller, bedding dahlias can be planted closer, approximately 9 to 12 inches (23 to 30 cm) apart.
 Cover them with soil. Mound them with 6 inches (15 cm) of soil. , They will rot easily in overwatered soil.


If you live in a very dry climate, you can moisten the soil slightly before planting.
 They should be watered for 30 minutes at a time 2 to 3 times per week. Make sure the water is gentle and drains completely.


The water must reach a depth of at least 4 inches (10 cm).
Some warmer, drier climates may require watering every other day.
 Slugs particularly love small, immature dahlias.
 They will need the support later in the growing season. As they grow, you can tie the stems to the stakes with nylon hose or garden tape.
 Avoid over-fertilizing, since dahlias can be sensitive to this.


Avoid fertilizing late in the season.
 This is the point below the second set of leaves. It will cause the plant to divide and create more blooms.
 Wait until the stem is at least the length of your wrist to your elbow. Blooms come in groups of 3, and you can pinch off the left and right blooms to produce a larger central bloom.


Place the cut flowers in hot water. Then, let them cool over the next hour. They should last 4 to 6 days.
Cut your flowers in the morning for best results.
, You can spray the plants with insecticidal soap to discourage pests.
 The foliage will begin to blacken when it gets cold. Wait several days after that, so that the tubers can freeze.
 Make sure you have a thick layer of mulch to insulate them over the winter.


Dig up tubers in colder climates.
 This is necessary to avoid killing them in all cold winter climates.
 Rinse them to remove soil and allow them to air dry.
 Set the dahlia tubers in the box so that they are not touching. Pour sand, peat moss or packing peanuts around the tubers.
