 Think about what kinds of things your activity partner likes to do and then plan accordingly. You want to do something that both you and the other person will enjoy, but especially the other person if you’re the one making the plans. But be careful not to make assumptions. Ask them if they like the thing you are thinking about before you make solid plans.For instance, let’s say they like coffee. Perhaps they would enjoy meeting at a nice coffee place. Consider suggesting the two of you meet for a nice coffee date.
 Think about what you know they like and search around on the internet to find some examples of places to do these activities. If they like swimming, search for a beach and find out where it's located.Always know how to get to the destination, so that you can avoid being embarrassed because you got lost.
 You don’t want to bore your activity partner by doing the same things over and over. Try to think of something new and exciting to do so that they will be interested in going to the new place.For example, if the two of you always go to the movies, you might want to consider suggesting something more active and engaging — like bowling.
Remember that you don't always have to be the one picking the activity. Take turns so that no one person is always trying to think of a new activity.
 You want to be a good planner and let your friend/significant other know if they need to be prepared in some way for the activity you have planned. You don’t want them to be unable to participate because you didn’t let them know what they needed to do to be prepared.For example, if you want to go swimming, you should let them know to bring a bathing suit.
 If you’re inviting someone to hang out with you, then you should try to take care of all the arrangements in advance. For example, if you need to make reservations for a restaurant, do that. If you need to worry about transportation, try to work that out too.Taking care of these things will show the person that you put some thought into hanging out with them and that will reflect well on you.
 You want to give your friend a little advanced notice about your plans so that they can make sure they have time and fit it into their schedule. If you spring plans on them on the spur of the moment, they might think you’re flakey or don’t know how to make time for them.Try to give them at least a few days’ notice so they can plan accordingly.
 Avoid canceling plans at the last minute at all costs. This is a very inconsiderate thing that should only be done in the case of real emergencies. Canceling at the last minute will lead the person to believe that you don’t value their time and it might make them more hesitant to make plans with you again in the future.If you have to cancel, be sure to call the person as soon as you possibly can so that you can give them the courtesy of canceling with as much advanced warning as possible.

