 Let the oven heat while you prepare the baking sheets. Place a single layer of baking paper on each tray.


You will probably need four baking sheets.
Set the four trays aside for now.
Once you’re done with the trays, rub olive oil on the first 2 inches (5 cm) of the wooden-spoon handle. You can rub the olive oil using a paper towel, washcloth, or even your fingers.
You’ll use the oiled handle later to roll the brandy crisps; for now, you can set the spoon aside.;
, Add the corn syrup, brown sugar, and butter to the saucepan.


When you measure the brown sugar, compress it into the measuring cup. If you measure brown sugar without compressing it, you’ll end up with snaps that are not sweet enough.
 You should keep the burner on low heat while you’re waiting for the butter to melt and the ingredients to blend.


Watch the cooking mixture slowly; don’t allow it to burn or crystalize.
To see if all of the brown sugar has fully melted, take the spoon you’re using to stir the mixture, and drag it slowly along the bottom of the saucepan. If you can still see grains of sugar along the bottom of the pan, the sugar hasn’t yet melted sufficiently.
 Once the butter, brown sugar, and corn syrup have blended together, allow the mixture to cool slightly; you can place the saucepan on a cool burner.


It should only cool for about 3 minutes.
 Pour the flour and ground ginger into the saucepan at the same time, and stir to combine with the wet ingredients.


If you have a flour sifter, sift the flour into the saucepan.
Once you have stirred and blended the flour and ginger with the wet ingredients, you can add the lemon juice.
Continue to stir until all of the ingredients are blended and smooth.
 You should have your lined baking sheets ready to put the batter on.


Place four or five spoonfuls per tray—if you place more than four, the mixture will spread and the individual snaps will blend together.
Leave about 4 inches (10 cm) between each of the brandy snaps.
 Leave to bake for 7 minutes, or until they turn golden.


When fully baked, the snaps should appear thin and lacey.
If you do not have room in your oven to fit all four sheets at once, you can cook each baking sheet individually.
 Allow the brandy snaps to cool slightly, but only until they are able to be moved without breaking. The snaps need to remain hot, in order to be malleable.


It should only take about 2 minutes for the snaps to cool. As soon as the brandy snaps are comfortable to touch (don’t burn yourself!), they have cooled enough.
 Lift up each brandy snap by sliding a spatula underneath. Once you have lifted up an edge of a brandy snap, use the oiled handle of the wooden spoon to wrap each snap around to create a roll.


You may want to make a few extra brandy snaps if this is your first time making them, as they can be easy to accidentally rip or tear.
Be gentle when rolling the brandy snaps.
Each brandy snap should make one full rotation around the handle of the wooden spoon; the edges should overlap by about ¼ inch (0.635 cm).
 Once rolled, the brandy snaps should retain their “cigar” shape as long as you do not force them off of the spoon handle.


Repeat this process with each brandy snap.
If any of the snaps have cooled before you have rolled them, place the cool snaps back on the baking sheet and back in the oven for about 30 seconds.
 Each snap will firm up as it cools; they should become hard to the touch.


Since the snaps are thin, they will take only about 5 minutes to cool and harden.
 Add enough whipped cream so that the brandy snaps are completely filled.


If you have a piping bag, use a narrow tip to fill the brandy snaps.
If you do not have a piping bag, you can use the tip of an aerosol whipped-cream can to fill the snaps. Start at the center, then slowly pull the tip of the aerosol can out, until one side of each snap is filled. Repeat this process on both sides.
You can also make your own at-home piping bag by cutting a small bit off one corner of a zip-close storage bag, then partially filling it with whipped cream.
 Once the whipped cream is added, the brandy snaps do not keep well; they can become soggy quickly. If you are planning to make your brandy snaps ahead of time, do not add the whipped cream until right before you plan to serve them.


Make enough to add whipped cream to only as many snaps as you will need; otherwise you may end up throwing several away.

