 FRAPS only works with games that use DirectX or OpenGL. Because of this, you cannot capture footage of Flash games or games that run with other rendering technologies. This applies to both older and newer games. Most PC games should work with FRAPS.


The free version limits you to 30 seconds of footage at a time, and there will be a FRAPS watermark over the footage.;
, You can download it from fraps.com.
 A small window will appear which will stay on top of any open windows. This window allows you to adjust the FRAPS settings.


Note: FRAPS requires administrator access to run.
 This will allow you to adjust your recording settings.
 By default, the movies will be saved to the same folder that you installed FRAPS in. This generally isn't the easiest folder to get to when you want to view or work with the files. Click the "Change" button and set a new folder, such as a "Games" folder in your Videos folder.
 By default, F9 is the recording hotkey. You can click the field and press your new key or combination of keys. Just make sure it isn't a key that you use in the game you're recording.
 You can only record as many FPS as your game performs at. The overlay that is enabled by default will help you determine what speed your game runs at. Your FPS is heavily determined by your hardware and graphics settings.


60 FPS will result in the smoothest video, but will also be the largest. YouTube now allows you to upload 60 FPS footage. Recording at 60 FPS will put a big strain on your system.
 You can choose between "Full-size" and "Half-size". Full-size will record at the game's original resolution, while half-size will record at half the resolution.
 You can enable your microphone so that you can record your voice while playing. You'll be able to set a key so that the microphone only records when you hold it.
 Once you've configured FRAPS, you can start playing the game that you want to record. You can record most games, but if the FPS overlay doesn't appear, then the game may not support FRAPS.
 Press your recording hotkey (F9 by default) to begin recording. The FPS counter in the corner will turn red when FRAPS is recording. You may notice a decrease in performance when you are recording. Press F9 again to end the recording.


FRAPS video files are quite large, and you may fill up your hard drive before you realize it.

