 Nasal decongestants help shrink swollen blood vessels in the nasal membranes and allow the nasal passages to open up. The two oral decongestants available over-the-counter in tablet form include phenylephrine, such as Sudafed PE, and pseudoephedrine, such as Sudafed.


Side effects of oral decongestants include insomnia, dizziness, increased heart rate, and increased blood pressure.
Do not use oral decongestants if you have heart issues or high blood pressure. Use under a doctor's care if you have diabetes, thyroid problems, glaucoma, or prostate issues., You can also take over-the-counter decongestants in nasal spray form. Nasal sprays can provide immediate and effective relief from congestion, which can be administered in one or two quick squirts.


Nasal sprays can contain oxymetazoline, phenylephrine, xylometazoline, or naphazoline as a decongestant.
Be sure to use the nasal spray only as often as directed. Using it for more than three to five days can cause you to feel stuffier after discontinuing use. This is called the "rebound effect.", If you have a fever and aches and pains, you can take over-the-counter medicine for relief. The main pain relievers and fever reducers are acetaminophen, such as Tylenol, or NSAIDs, which are non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as ibuprofen or naproxen.


Avoid taking NSAIDs if you have acid reflux or peptic ulcer disease. These medications can upset your stomach. If you are already taking an NSAID for other issues such as blood clots or arthritis, talk to your doctor before taking the medicine.
Many multi-symptoms medicines contain acetaminophen. Make sure you take the appropriate amount because an overdose can lead to liver toxicity.Do not give aspirin to children or teenagers, especially if they are exhibiting flu-like symptoms. This is linked to a serious liver failure disorder called Reye's Syndrome.
 If you have a severe cough, try a cough suppressant. Cough suppressants include dextromethorphan and codeine, though codeine will likely need a prescription. Dextromethorphan is available as a tablet or syrup and can come in combination with an expectorant.


Side effects of these types of medications can include drowsiness and constipation.
The dosages of these medications vary depending on what you buy and how strong it is, so always follow doctor’s and manufacturer’s directions., Chest congestion is a common flu symptom. To help cure it, you can try an expectorant. Expectorants are medicines that loosen and reduce mucus in your chest. Less mucus will help you breathe better and make your coughs more productive. Many over-the-counter medications for cold and flu have expectorants in them, which can be liquid, liquid gels, or tablet form.


If you are unsure about what kinds to take, ask your doctor or pharmacist. Also ask about common side effects of expectorants, which can include drowsiness, vomiting, and nausea., There are countless combination over-the-counter medicines that contain a lot of these different medications. These are helpful if you experience multiple symptoms at the same time. Most contain a fever reducer and pain reliever such as acetaminophen, a decongestant, a cough suppressant, and sometimes an antihistamine to help you sleep.


If you are taking a combination medicine, make sure not to take other medications that may duplicate what is in the multi-symptom. This can lead to overdoses.Examples include Tylenol Cold Multi-Symptom, Robitussin Severe Multi-Symptom Cough Cold & Flu Nighttime, DayQuil Cold & Flu, etc.
 "The flu" is sort of a general layman's term that is often referring to the common cold in severe form. Influenza is one specific virus (the Influenza Type A or B virus) that causes severe symptoms and can be life-threatening for infants and the elderly. If your doctor determines that you have Influenza, he may also prescribe antiviral medications to household members for prevention, especially if they are at high risk, such as someone with a chronic disease or who is older than 65. Antiviral influenza drugs work to reduce the severity and duration of the illness by a couple days, control outbreaks in close quarters or to other members of your family, and possibly reduce complications from the flu.These medications include:Oseltamivir (Tamiflu)
Zanamivir
Amantadine
Rimantadine

, To be effective, antiviral drugs must be started within 48 hours of becoming sick and should be taken for five days; however, a number of flu viruses have developed resistance to some antiviral medications. Taking these may also help contribute to other strains of the flu becoming resistant. Though uncommon, side effects of antivirals medications can include:Nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea
Dizziness
Stuffy or runny nose
Headache
Cough

