 Glass (or plastic) straight head pins are the most common kind. These pins are great for everyday sewing projects, so it is useful to have a variety of them on hand.These pins come in many different widths and lengths. Choose thin, short pins for more delicate fabrics and thick, long pins for heavier fabrics and multiple layers.One downside of these pins is that they can damage delicate fabrics. If you decide to use these pins for something delicate, then be sure to use the thinnest size available.;
, If you are working with knit fabrics or jersey, then using ballpoint pins is a great way to protect the fabric. These pins have rounded tips, so they do not pierce the fibers like sharp pins do. Instead, they push the fibers aside, and then the fibers can spring back into place after your remove the pins., Silk pins are fine tipped pins that are meant for delicate fabrics. If you are working with a delicate fabric like silk or satin, then silk pins might be the best choice.Silk pins typically do not have a head on them, but you can find ones that do have a head if you prefer them this way.
 T-pins are completely made of metal. The top of the pin has a bend in it, which gives the T-pin its T-shape. These pins are useful if you need to press your fabric before you sew. There are no rounded balls on the end and nothing that will melt, so you can iron right over them if you need to., If you are working on a quilting project or just something with a lot of layers, then a quilting pin might be the best option. These types of pins are thicker and longer than most other pins, so they can easily hold multiple layers., Safety pins are those that have a closure that will cover up the point of the pin and keep the pin in place. If you need to place a garment on a live model to check the fit, then safety pins can be a good option.You can use safety pins to hold the seams in place and then put the garment onto your model without worrying as much about them getting poked.
 If you are working with an extra slippery fabric, then you might want to invest in some fork pins. These pins have two prongs that will help to keep your fabric from sliding all over the place.Try using fork pins with a satin or silk. Just make sure to choose thin sized fork pins to reduce the chances of damaging the fabric.

