 When it comes to finding a true friend, you can't afford to be lazy. A real friend won't just magically materialize on your doorstep, so you need to be willing to put some work in. Take matters into your own hands and start socializing.


Stop waiting for other people to do the work for you. Call people up and ask if you can hang out with them, or organize an event yourself.
Don't worry about seeming desperate or needy. Focus on you and your goal. If it all works out in the end, then who cares?
Try to hang out in such a way that no one feels you are clinging to them in desperation or friend-poverty. If there is a group, make eye contact with everyone, and not directing your speech singularly.;
, You won't make friends by sitting at home alone every night. You need to be proactive, so force yourself out of the house and meet as many people as possible. It might be intimidating at first, but it'll be worth it in the end.


One of the easiest ways to meet people is through friends you already have. Tag along to a party or social event and get your friend to make the introductions.
Meet people through hobbies or classes. Friends are generally people that you share a common interest with, so the people you meet through hobbies or classes are excellent potential friend material.
Meet people through work. You might have a work colleague who you feel a connection with, but you've never hung out socially. Now is the time.
Meet people online. Sometimes there's a stigma attached to meeting people online, but it can be a genuinely great way to meet people. Blogging, social networking and posting on online forums are all perfectly viable ways of socializing.
Avoid going to places that have one focus. This means that you shouldn't try to get a chance at cinemas and theaters, since there the main focus is on the screen and you won't meet too many people there except by chance. Public places like tea and coffee shops, parks and bars help a lot in socializing. However, there are other places with a friendly environment that you shouldn't hesitate to try out.
 Meeting people for the first time can be tough. They may seem disinterested or unwilling to make an effort. Or else you might hit it off instantly, but you never hear from them again. Don't be disheartened. Finding a true friend takes time. You should realize that a friend you have earned with a lot of hard effort is commonly a true friend.
 Keep an open mind about who you hang out with. When you're trying to make friends, being picky is not a good strategy. Your initial goal is to meet as many people as possible, so talk to everybody and keep an open mind. This will help you determine about people's personalities and know who to stay away from and what good characteristics should be present in a good friend.


Even if you meet someone who looks or seems like someone you'd have nothing in common with, talk to them and give them a chance. They might turn out to be your truest friend!
You're not going to know a true friend at first sight - you'll have to get to know them first - so consider every possibility!

, Even if your first attempt at putting yourself out there isn't as successful as you had hoped, don't despair! People can take a little while to warm up, so the second or third time meeting someone might go a lot better than the first.


If you invite someone to hang out, don't be upset if they can't make it. Chances are they have a genuine excuse, it's not because they don't like you. Give it a week or two, then ask again.
Sometimes it just won't work out with someone and that's okay. Consider it a practice run for when you meet the real deal.
 It takes time to really get to know someone, especially when you're looking for true friendship. If you continue to put yourself out there and make an effort to hang out with as many people as possible, eventually you'll find someone you genuinely connect with.


Be realistic about how much time it'll take to really get to know someone. Sure, you might hit it off and feel like you've known someone for ten years rather than ten minutes, but usually it'll take much longer, depending on how often you hang out.
In the right situations, you can make new friends very quickly - like when you start college, move to a new city, or join a sports teams.

