 Running coaches advise being able to run 10–15 miles (16–24 km) a week before you consider training for a half marathon. If you're just starting out and haven't built up to this mileage, wait until you've built up enough endurance before you actually sign up for a race.;
, Training for a half marathon takes several months, so pick a race far enough into the future that you'll have time to get fully prepared.


If you're a beginner, plan to train for 20 weeks before racing.
If you're an intermediate runner, give yourself 16 weeks.
If you're an advanced runner, train for 12 weeks.
 The moment you actually pay the fee and officially register for a race is the moment your training deadline has been set. Mark the date on your calendar and prepare yourself for months of exciting buildup to race day.


Consider signing up with a team. Training with teams, or just with a friend, can provide a motivational boost during training.
You could also sign up for a cause. Have friends sponsor you to run for a charity. The thought of letting people down will certainly spur you forward during your training.
 Having a plan in place before you start getting in shape for a marathon helps you stay on track physically and provides motivation to keep going. A plan helps you track your progress and keeps your eyes on the end goal.


Online resources like Runnersworld.com provide different types of training plans to fit different people's needs. Choose a plan that works with your schedule and abilities.
If this is your first race, don't push yourself to select a training plan geared toward getting a fast time. Choose a plan designed to help you finish the race, and next time you can work on beating your personal best time.
As you launch into training, keep a log of your workouts. Take notes on how each one went, and what needs to improve next time.
 Most training plans include a weekly schedule that lays out exactly what to do each day.


Easy runs are recovery runs that you do in between longer runs. They're usually between 3 and 5 miles (4.8 and 8.0 km) long.
Long runs typically take place about once a week, increasing in distance over the course of the training plan. Ultimately, the longest long run will be the race itself.
Cross training is exercise like biking or swimming that you do to strengthen your entire body in preparation for the race.
 Try to fit your runs into your existing routine, so you don't have to shift everything around to make time for training. It's easier to give up when your scheduled runs conflict with other important things in your life.


If you happen to miss a long run one day, switch the training schedule around so you can make up for it the next day.
If you miss an easy run or two, it's not the end of the world. Just pick up where you left off the next day.
 Overexerting yourself during training will put you at risk for getting an injury that could force you to sit out of the race. Don't jeopardize your plans by picking a training schedule that's more advanced than what you can handle.Don't try to make up for missed runs by adding too many miles to your next run. Your body needs to build up to long distances gradually.
If you strain a muscle or feel a pain in your body, take a rest day. Don't risk injury by pushing through.
 Nutrition plays a huge part in your training, and as the race gets closer, make sure your body is in the best shape possible by watching what you eat.


As you run longer distances, 65% of your total calories should come from complex carbs, approximately 20% from unsaturated fats, and 10% from protein.
Load your diet with carbs the week before the marathon so that your body is prepared for the physical challenge.
Don't eat too much the day of the race, since the food might feel heavy in your stomach and slow you down.
 You'll naturally be drinking a lot of water during training, but in the days leading up to the race, make especially sure that you're well hydrated.


As you go on longer runs, practice carrying a water bottle with you, either in your hand or around your waist, so you can stay hydrated as you run.
Avoid drinking excessive alcohol and caffeine in the days before the race, since these dehydrate your body.
 The last long run of your training should be several days before the race, so your body has plenty of time to recover. The day before the race, rest or do an easy run, but don't work out too strenuously.
 Put your training into practice, making sure you pace yourself so you'll be able to cross the finish line.If you have to stop and walk during the race, that's fine. Just pick up running again when you feel ready.
Ask friends and family to come and cheer you on to provide a little extra motivation as you reach your goal.

