 You will need to uninstall the Zedo software first, which can be done through the Control Panel.


Windows 7/Vista/XP - Click the Start button and select "Control Panel".
Windows 8.1 - Right-click the Start button and select "Control Panel".
Windows 8 - Open the Charms bar, select "Settings", and then "Control Panel".;
, This will allow you to remove the adware programs.


Windows 8/7/Vista - Select "Uninstall a program" or "Programs or Features" in the Control Panel
Windows XP - Select "Add or Remove Programs" in the Control Panel.
 These are all Zedo-related programs:Axp.zedo.com
Desktop Temperature Monitor
Couponarific, HostSecurePlugin
CheckMeUp
CinemaP-1.8c
New Player
MediaVideosPlayers
Browsers_Apps_Pro
SavePass
HQualityPro
Sm23mS
Salus
Network System Driver
SS8
SaveDaily Deals
WordProser

, This is a system file that controls your internet connections. Zedo may make changes to it that will automatically redirect you when you try to open your web browser.


Press ⊞ Win+R, type %WinDir%\System32\Drivers\Etc, and press ↵ Enter.
Right-click on the hosts file and select "Open with". Choose Notepad from the list of programs.
 Unless you've manually changed the hosts file yourself, the last line of the file should look like the following. Save and close the file after making any changes:


Windows 7, 8, 8.1 - #  ::1 localhost

Windows Vista - ::1 localhost

Windows XP - 127.0.0.1 localhost


, Even if you don't regularly use Internet Explorer, you'll still need to reset it as it is used by several Windows services.Open Internet Explorer and click the Tools menu. If you don't see the Tools menu, press Alt.
Select "Internet options" and click the Advanced tab.
Click Reset..., check the "Delete personal settings" box, and then click Reset.
 If you have Google Chrome installed, you'll want to reset it to delete the Zedo software. If you don't use Chrome, skip down to the next step.


Open Google Chrome and click the Menu button (☰).
Select "Settings" and then click the "Show advanced settings..." link at the bottom of the page.
Scroll to the bottom and click Reset settings. Confirm that you want to reset Chrome.
 If you have Firefox installed, you'll need to reset it so that Zedo software is deleted. If you don't use Firefox, move on to the next step.


Open Firefox and click the Menu button (☰).
Click the (?) button and select "Troubleshooting Information".
Click Refresh Firefox... and then confirm that you want to reset it.
 If you use an alternative web browser such as Opera or Chromium, you'll want to reset it as well. Refer to the browser's support page for detailed instructions, but generally they will follow one of the methods above.
 This is a free antimalware program that can remove Zedo files from your system.


You can download Adwcleaner for free from general-changelog-team.fr/en/tools/15-adwcleaner


, When you start Adwcleaner for the first time, you'll see a "Scan" button. Click it to begin scanning your system. The scan will likely take about 20 minutes. Click the "Clean" button once the scan has finished.
 This is another free antimalware program which may be able to find items that Adwcleaner missed.


You can download and install Malwarebytes Antimalware from malwarebytes.org. You can download the free version.
 You may be prompted to update the program when you start it for the first time. Start the scan after it has finished updating. The scan will likely take a little longer than the Adwcleaner scan.


Once the scan is complete, click the "Quarantine All" button and then "Apply Actions" to remove any infections it finds.
 This is another antimalware program that is designed to run alongside existing protection. It has a 30-day trial that you can use to run the scan.


You can download HitmanPro from surfright.nl/en/hitmanpro.
HitmanPro doesn't need to be installed to run the scan.
Click the "Activate free license" button after the scan is complete. This will delete the infected files.
 If you haven't rebooted your computer since performing the scans, you should reboot it now so that all of your changes can be processed.
 If you have performed all of the above steps but Zedo still pops up, it may have infected your router. The easiest way to get rid of it will be resetting your router, but you'll need to reconfigure your network afterwards, as all settings will be deleted.


You can reset your router by pressing and holding the Reset button on the back for about 30 seconds. You may need a pen or other pointy object to reach the button.
After resetting the router, you will need to reconfigure your wireless network, as it will be reset to the factory settings.

