 The antecedent is the noun that a pronoun is replacing. Every pronoun must have a clear antecedent. The antecedent usually appears before the pronoun in a sentence or in the previous sentence.


“Gabby always wanted to go to the zoo, and now she had her chance.”

In this example, Gabby is the antecedent of she.


"The gulls were chattering as they flew.”

Gulls is the antecedent of they.

;
, Personal pronouns are pronouns that refer to people or things. They are the most basic form of pronouns. Personal pronouns should always be the same number (singular or plural) and gender (masculine, feminine, or neuter) as their antecedent. There are three types of personal pronouns: subject, object, and possessive.First person singular: I, me, mine

First person plural: we, us, ours

Second person, singular and plural: you, yours

Third person masculine singular: he, him, his

Third person feminine singular: she, her, hers

Third person neuter singular: it, its

Third person plural (all genders): they, them, theirs

, The subject pronouns are I, we, you, he, she, it, and they. Subject pronouns are usually used at the beginning of sentences or clauses. They will usually come before a verb. If your pronoun is doing the action, you should use a subject pronoun.“She drives to work every day.”


She is doing the action of driving. Therefore, she is the subject.


“They practice basketball in the morning.”


They are doing the action of practicing. Therefore, you use a subject pronoun.
 The object pronouns are me, us, you, him, her, it, and them. If the pronoun is receiving the action, it is called a direct object. Object pronouns are always used when the antecedent is a direct object. “Bob threw it across the room.”


It is receiving the action of throwing. Therefore, you use an object verb.


“Dad patted him on the back.”


Him is receiving the action of patting. Therefore, you use an object verb.
 Object pronouns also come after prepositions. In this case, the pronouns are replacing the indirect object. Prepositions are words like “before,” “to,” “after,” “through,” and “above.” They indicate position. After prepositions, always use the object pronouns.“Mark passed the ball to him.”
“Alice walked in between them.”
“The teacher walked in front of her.”

, Possessive pronouns are pronouns that indicate that something belongs to someone or something else. The possessive pronouns are mine, ours, yours, its, his, hers, and theirs.“The car is hers.”
“The blue house is theirs.”
”That book is a favorite of mine.”

