 Asking questions is very important when it comes to developing a thorough program. “How can I turn this idea into a program?” “How will this program help better my community?” “Is this the most effective way to execute my program?” These are some ideal examples of questions you should be asking yourself when coming up with an idea that you want to turn into a project.


These questions are also helpful when it comes to executing the task. Asking questions will always challenge you to think more and this will help you improve your creative thinking skills because you will come up with more solutions to your questions and problems.;
, One of the most advantageous things about computer programming is that there are many ways to code a single task. Knowing that you can approach each task with multiple perspectives will be useful when developing creative thinking skills while programming. If you are stuck on a problem while executing a program, having the ability to figure another way out will be very useful. This will help you develop critical skills used to creatively solve problems.
 Remembering the skills that you have learned throughout your previous coding experience will be very useful when trying to solve a new problem. The knowledge you attain as a coder will be recurring and will come to use in many different settings. Drilling this information into your brain will help you approach tasks in different ways enabling your creativity.
 A big step in becoming a creative thinker is to not pressure yourself to develop an idea. Doing so might hinder you from coming to a near-optimal solution. Whatever your creative idea will be, it will emerge naturally in its own time.
 Critical thinking helps with problem solving and creativity. The fundamentals of critical thinking are very useful in software engineering. These skills help you assess and further understand code than what is merely printing on your computer screen. Critical thinking skills will help you distinguish pieces information and also help you develop ideas. Being able to analyze information is also very important and this will help further develop your creative thinking skills.
 When you are just stuck on a problem while facing your code and think of a solution, the best go-to method is to research your problem. Being an effective researcher will help you attain new knowledge that can improve your creative thinking skills. Researching can help expand your knowledge on important concepts used in computer programming and the research you gain can help you develop better ideas.
 A very critical step in being able to develop creative thinking skills is to be able to think outside of the box. In today’s technological world, the most successful inventions have been induced because somebody decided to think outside of the box and come up with something that has never been thought of before. Expanding your knowledge and focusing on what has not been developed yet and creating those ideas is rooted from thinking outside of the box.
 Stepping outside of your comfort zone is important when developing creative thinking skills while coding because you will get more comfortable with tackling problems you haven’t encountered before. This will help you come to terms with ideas you have never seen before and it will help you be comfortable in altering your mindset to think in a different way.
 Being positive and staying motivated are very important when pursuing a field like computer science. This is because you will encounter many instances where you feel like there is no solution to a problem because you think you have done everything you possibly could, but never give up. If you stay positive and motivated then you will always achieve whatever you want to achieve, and you will eventually come to a solution using creative thinking skills. This is not only a step you can apply to programming, but a step you can apply to every aspect of your life.

