 In addition to reducing your caloric intake, an essential part of losing that beer gut is increasing your output with exercise. Simply put, you need to burn more calories than you take in if you want to shed pounds. The best way to do this is by starting slow and building up as you become more capable.


Break up your routine throughout the week. Come up with a 15 or 20 minute stretching routine that you can do every day, working in some core-strengthening planks and squats, then alternate strength training and cardio workouts each day to shake things up a bit.
 You don't have to jump straight into an expensive gym membership to start trimming the inches off your belt-line. With the right commitment and motivation, you can find activities you enjoy that will get you exercising the right way, before moving on to the possibility of more comprehensive fitness regimens. Consider starting to exercise by:



Walking. Consider getting a pedometer to track your steps throughout the day, and Try to get as close as possible to 10,000 — which is easier than you think. Instead of driving a mile or two to the store, walk instead, or go on a few walks a day to break up the routine and get out of the house. Walk at a good clip, slightly faster than you would normally walk. Try to break a sweat.

Stretching and calisthenics. Weight loss doesn't' have to mean complicated equipment at the gym. Start around the house with simple exercises that will get you moving, jumping rope, doing pull-ups, sit-ups, and push-ups, using your own body as resistance.
Playing a sport you enjoy. It's easier to get moving with friends. Get up with some of your beer-drinking buddies to lose a few pounds together, shooting hoops at the park, or playing pick-up soccer a few times a week for an hour. If it's fun, you'll be more likely to stick with it.
 If you want to lose your gut, target your abdominal muscles and your core muscle group in your exercise routine. Building these muscles up while simultaneously losing weight is the best way to get rid of the beery belly.


Work out your core at home with sit-ups and planks. Start slow, aiming for a three or four sets of 30 – 50 sit-ups, and five 30-second planks over the course of a half hour. Then, increase the speed of the activity to add a little cardio into the mix. You'll be building your core and losing weight.
Consider taking a yoga, pilates, or other core-building exercise program at a local gym or studio. These can be excellent ways to strengthen your core muscles and lose weight under the guidance of pros.
Some people have the misconception that drinking lots of beer and eating lots of calories won't matter as long as you work out your abs. Not true. Building core muscle will strengthen your abdominals, but it won't eliminate your belly fat, and might even make your belly look bigger as you're building the muscles. Eating fewer calories and losing a few pounds is the only way to get rid of that gut.
 Aside from strength training, cardio exercise will help you lose weight and is essential to overall health. This tends to be unpopular, especially for those of us who prefer the quiet contemplation of a good bar over the gym, but finding something you enjoy doing to get your cardio out of the way will help it stick.



Try biking around. Bicycle lanes and bike shops are increasingly common all around the world, making cycling culture popular, healthy, and cool. Get yourself a good quality road bike and meet up with friends to cruise around after dinner. You'll get your blood pumping and your waistline slimming.

Get out in the woods and hike. Going on long, contemplative hikes is an excellent idea for the exercise-averse. Hoofing around on the power of your legs and getting up close and personal with nature is the best way for many to exercise.

Try swimming. Getting in the water and paddling around is a great and fun way to exercise. It's a calorie-burning workout that many people don't even think of as a chore. You don't even have to swim laps: treading water at a leisurely pace can burn as many as 200 calories in an hour., It's not just alcohol that's responsible for your belt line. Cortisol, a hormone your body produces in response to stress, can also cause weight gain, specifically around the belly area. If you're feeling stressed, it's important to take time out to relax as a way of shrinking your belt line.


Make sure you get enough healthy, restful sleep each night, between seven to eight hours. Being rested throughout the day is an important part of staying stress-free.
Many people use drinking as a relaxation routine, but try switching to herbal tea or even just sitting in meditative reflection instead of drinking to relax. You might be surprised at how much more relaxing the alternatives can be.
 Can beer an exercise really go together? Sure! As long as you keep under your calorie cap, treat yourself to a brew as a reward for a good exercise routine. It'll taste that much better, knowing that it's not contributing to your beer gut. Try riding your bike to the brewery a few miles away, then biking home. Have a beer after a mile swim, or go out for a round after your basketball game with your buddies. Stay aware of the calories, and you'll be in good shape.
 It can take several months of consistent work, dieting, and exercise to eliminate a sizable beer gut. You should aim to lose no more than about a half a pound to a pound per week, meaning that it can take a while before you'll notice results. It's about consistency, not speed. Start cutting calories, exercising, and watching your drinking, and it'll happen.