 A study aid specific to the exam is one of the best ways you can study. It will have content covering all of the topics you are likely to see on the exam and questions in the proper format. These books also have practice exams that you should take to check your progress. In addition to study guides, the following chemistry books are good resources for studying:Physical Chemistry, O.P. Tondon
Numerical Chemistry, P Bahadur
Organic Chemistry, Morrision and Boyd
Because these books can be expensive, try to buy them second-hand or ask a friend if you can borrow theirs.;
, There are many phone applications for both the iPhone and android phones that are specific to the chemistry portion of the IIT JEE exam. In addition, you can download basic chemistry learning apps for general chemistry knowledge. Flashcards of some concepts like functional groups would be particularly helpful. The following are some highly ranked apps:


JEE Prep PlancessToppr- JEE, Another great way to study for the IIT JEE is to take a class that specifically teaches the material on the test. This will help you not only with the chemistry portion, but also the mathematics and physics sections. Classes are nice because you can actually ask questions about the material and discuss it with an expert.Classes will also teach you special strategies for approaching different questions and sections.
These can also be expensive, but beneficial if you want to do well on the test.
 Make a study schedule to maximize your time spent studying. To do well on any exam, you need to make sure that you study the material every single day. Go through all of the topics that you need to know and assign them to specific days. Check your progress with practice questions and exams.


Use a time-management system that works for you (pen and paper, online calendar, phone app, etc.).
 The absolute best way to prepare for the IIT JEE is to take practice exams. Exams from previous years are your greatest resource. These are questions that actually appeared on the exam and are indicative of what you are likely to see on your own exam. Make sure you adhere to the time limits of the test.You have three hours for the whole exam so budget just one hour for the chemistry portion.
If you can do well on a previous exam, you are more likely to do well on your actual exam.
Aim to take 10-15 practice exams before your own test day.

