 One of the biggest reasons that teenagers don’t read is that they do not have books that are the appropriate level for them. Books and stories that are too easy (below a teen’s reading level) are boring. Books that are too hard (above a teen’s reading level) are frustrating.The trick is finding a “just right” book. If you are a parent, the first person to ask for your child’s reading level is their Reading, Language Arts, or English teacher. Many teachers test their students’ reading levels early in the semester and help them find appropriate reading materials throughout the year based on their level.
If you are a homeschooling parent or if your child’s teacher doesn’t know their reading level, you can find out for yourself.;
, There are dozens of online tests to determine what reading level your teen is on. They take anywhere from a few minutes to a couple of hours and vary in how much detail they offer.


One of the easiest tests to determine your teen’s approximate reading level fairly quickly is the San Diego Quick Assessment. It only takes a few minutes.For a more detailed interpretation of your teen’s reading level, you can explore more complicated tests on sites like ReadingA-Z.com.
Tests like these are just an approximation of your child’s reading level. Pay close attention as your teenager reads, and if they seem to be struggling with books on the level they test at (or find them too easy), shift levels. , Many teens will be tempted to read books that are below their reading level, because they are comfortable with them. This is fine every once in awhile, but it won’t do much to help them grow as readers, and they may become bored with reading quickly. Other teens will be tempted to read books that are too hard for them because they want to impress you or their peers, but they will quickly grow frustrated and not learn anything from the book. Each time they pick up a book, ask them to determine which of these categories it fits into: Too easy

You’ve read it many times before. You might be able to repeat a lot of the story or even the phrasing without looking.
You don’t struggle with pronouncing or understanding the meaning of any of the words or phrases.
You can read this book very quickly and smoothly.


Just right

You haven’t read this book before.
You understand most of what the book is saying.
There may be a few words (less than five) on each page that are difficult for you.
You read most of this book fairly smoothly, but you do hesitate on a few sentences.


Too hard

There are more than five words on almost every page that you struggle with.
You don't understand the plot and can't summarize what has happened in the book so far.
If you read aloud, you read very slowly and without much expression. You hesitate a lot.
 You should do this after you know your teen's reading level. It’s best to do it in conjunction with a conversation with your teen about whether he or she thinks the book is “just right” or not.


Websites such as Readability-Score.com will tell you the reading level of a text if you are unsure. You can even use Microsoft Word to test the readability of some texts.If you’re not sure whether your teen is struggling with a book or not, ask questions like “What’s that book about?” or “How do you think it’s going to end?” to get a feel for his or her comprehension. (Google a summary of the book to find out if your teen is giving accurate answers or not.)
You can also ask teens to read a passage out loud to you to determine whether they are stumbling over words or not.
 Many people default to fiction (especially novels) when they are providing reading material. It’s important to offer teens a wide selection of literary styles. Encourage a wide variety, even once your teen expresses a preference for one genre. Your child might be interested in a unexpected book or story, which will open up new avenues. Try to provide some reading material in each of these categories: Fantasy and science fiction
Historical fiction
Biography
Informational books about science
News articles
Reference books
Poetry
Short stories

, Sometimes the classics won’t cut it! Particularly if your teen doesn’t enjoy reading or reads below grade level, it’s important to find material that keeps them engaged. It’s particularly important to find high-interest reading for low-level readers. If your teen is not reading at grade level, many of the books on their level will be about kids who are younger than them or subjects geared toward younger children. Look for lists of “hi-lo” books (high interest, low reading level) online to find things that your teen will enjoy. Teens may also enjoy reading comic books and graphic novels.
High interest series in particular are a great way to get teens invested in reading for the long term. Some high interest series appropriate for teens include the Harry Potter series, the Hunger Games series, the Divergent series, the Twilight series, the Bluford High series, the Mortal Instruments series, and The Wolves of Mercy Falls series.
For nonfiction, look for material on exciting topics such as scary weather phenomena, sports figures and celebrities, outer space, or news events involving teenagers. , One way to get teens excited about reading is to find books that also exist in other formats. Try reading a book together about a month before the movie version comes out, and then watch the movie together to see how it compares.


Ideas for books that have corresponding films include: the Harry Potter series, the Hunger Games series, the Twilight series, the Chronicles of Narnia, The Outsiders, The Martian, The Fault in Our Stars, The Perks of Being a Wallflower, The Princess Diaries, The Giver, The Book Thief, Matilda, Little Women, Harriet the Spy, Holes, and If I Stay.
 Almost every teenager craves social interaction. Turn reading into a social activity by finding a local teen book club that your child can join or founding one yourself.


Be sure to find or organize a group of teens on approximately the same reading level.
Pick high-interest books for the whole group, or discussion will lag.
If you’re organizing the club, consider picking books with corresponding movies. Then the group can watch the movie together and compare and contrast it with the book.
 If possible, start reading to your child as soon as they are born. This is the most important factor in language development in young children. Even when children turn into teenagers, reading aloud can still be beneficial.


Reading aloud is a great way to expose teens to books that are above their reading level.You can help them with difficult words if they are reading aloud. You can also model reading with expression and fluency.Be sure that teens follow along as you read. They shouldn’t listen passively; actively paying attention to the words on the page will help them with comprehension.
 Ask them about the plot and the characters if they are reading fiction. Ask them to tell you about current events if they are reading news articles. Encourage them to predict what might happen next or even to read their favorite passages to you.Before your teen reads a book, you can ask

"What do you already know about this topic?”
"What do you think the title means?”
"Why do you think this picture is on the cover?”


While your teen is reading a book, you can ask

”Who is your favorite character?”
"How do you think this book is going to end?”


After your teen finishes reading a book, you can ask

"Was there a part you liked best/worst?”
"Where did the book take place?”
"What was the most important thing that happened in your book?”


Also talk to your teen about what you are reading. That doesn’t necessarily mean you need to give them the sordid details of your romance novel. You can tell them about the current events you read about in the news or tell them about the new scientific breakthrough you read about in a magazine at the doctor’s office.
 Teens’ reading levels and interests will change rapidly. It’s important to provide them with a wide variety of genres and reading material at many different levels.Used bookstores, thrift stores, estate sales, and yard sales are all great places to find books.
You don’t have to buy books to make them available to the teen in your life. The public library is a good alternative. Help your teen get their own library card so that they can take bit of extra responsibility for their reading.
 If you have a teenager, chances are good that they spend a lot of time in front of screens. Encourage them to spend some of that time reading.


Many public libraries now have an e-reader option.
Project Gutenberg, Google, Open Library, and Internet Archive all offer free ebooks.
Magazines and newspapers targeted at teenagers are also a good option. You can get a subscription that comes in both paper and digital versions for many such periodicals.
 Audiobooks are great for modelling fluent reading. They can be more entertaining than even reading aloud, because the readers are often adept at voices and accents. Play audiobooks on long car trips.
Turn on an audiobook that the whole family will enjoy in the evenings. It’s okay if everyone sits around and plays Candy Crush while they listen together. Don’t forget to talk about the plot and the characters later though! Don’t let audiobooks replace regular reading altogether. Teenagers still need to read normal books to improve their fluency and comprehension.
Audiobooks are an expensive option, but you can find lots at public libraries. You can also subscribe to services such as Audible.com in order to get audiobooks frequently. Librivox offers free audiobooks on thousands of titles as well.
 Let your child see you reading whenever possible. If you’re not a fan of books, let them see you reading the newspaper or your favorite magazine. Remember that you don’t necessarily have to read classics to show your kids that reading is fun. Pick up a romance novel or a sci-fi thriller if that’s your thing. , Encourage your teen to read more by giving them positive reinforcement when they do. Both teachers and parents can do this. Create sticker charts or keep lists of all the books that your teen reads. Be sure to set attainable goals. You can base the goals on the number of books or the number of pages your teen reads. For younger teens, start out with small goals like 300 pages or 5 chapter-books. For older teens and stronger readers, raise the bar a bit. You might even base the goal for older teens on number of chapters.
If your child reads very slowly or feels frustrated with these goals, you could create a goal based on the amount of time they read instead.
Incentivize carefully. You don’t want to create a system in which your teen ONLY reads for rewards. Consider using a trip to the bookstore (to buy more books your teen loves) as a reward for reading.

