 Each second of additional sun exposure will worsen your burn. Going indoors is best. But if this is impossible move into the shadiest nearby spot.


Beach umbrellas provide little protection from UV rays unless they are very large and made of dense fabric.
Sun exposure to can occur even in the shade, as UV rays reflect off surfaces and penetrate through everything from clouds to leaves.;
, The water will cool your skin and may help reduce the severity of your burn. Avoid using soap because it will irritate and dry out your skin. Afterwards, let yourself air-dry. Using a towel may cause discomfort and chafing.


If you must use a towel, pat your skin lightly rather than rubbing it , Spread it across your sunburn to moisturize and cool your skin. Repeat this step frequently, or at least twice daily, to reduce dryness and peeling.


Consider using a lotion or gel that contains Vitamin C and E, as this may reduce skin damage.Avoid products that are oily or contain alcohol.
If you have access to an aloe vera plant, you can obtain gel straight from the leaves. Simply cut off a leaf, slice it length-wise with a knife, squeeze out the gel inside, and apply it to your burn.
Gel obtained directly from an aloe vera plant is extremely concentrated, natural, and effective.
 Prolonged sun exposure and heat causes dehydration. A sunburn also draws water to your skin’s surface and away from the rest of your body. Remember to drink extra water for the next few days.


Go beyond the daily recommendation of eight glasses of water until your sunburn has healed, especially if you continue to be in hot weather or participate in sports or other activities that cause you to sweat.
 Wrap several ice cubes or a freezer pack in a wet cloth. Then lightly press the cloth against the sunburned area for 15 to 20 minutes multiple times a day.Remember that ice or other frozen substances should not be pressed directly against your skin. Doing so may cause an ice-burn and only make matters worse.
 Ibuprofen will reduce pain, swelling, and redness, and may even prevent some long-term skin damage. Once started, continue taking this medication for 48 hours Acetaminophen (Tylenol) may relieve the pain of a sunburn, but does not have the same anti-inflammatory effects as ibuprofen.
 Avoid fabrics that are rough or itchy. For most people, light cotton is best.


Protect your sunburn by keeping it covered when you go outside. Wear a hat, carry a parasol, and wear fabrics that are tightly woven.
In addition, make sure you wear broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30 and reapply ever two hours.
 If you have air-conditioning, turn it on. Even without air-conditioning, fans can significantly reduce your body temperature, especially when they are blowing directly towards your sunburn.


Basements are the best places in a home to recover from sunburns, as they are generally cool and protected from sunlight.
 Allow the water to cool (add ice to speed up the process). Remove the tea bags from the water and place them directly on your sunburn. The tannins in the tea will help reduce inflammation. You can also apply the cool tea to the entire area of the burn.


Tannins are a natural astringent, and studies show that they help to heal burns and prevent infection., Mix with 4 cups of water. Dip a wet cloth in the yogurt mixture, and apply it to your sunburn for 15 to 20 minutes. Repeat every 2 to 4 hours.Plain yogurt contains many probiotics and enzymes that will help to heal sunburned skin.Make sure the yogurt is truly plain rather than vanilla, which contains unwanted sugar and fewer probiotics.
 Soak in the bath, and after exiting let the baking soda solution dry on your skin. It will soothe the pain and help heal your skin Baking soda has both antiseptic and anti-inflammatory properties. This means that it will help reduce inflammation and prevent infection.
 Discard the oatmeal and soak up the solution with a cloth. Use the cloth to apply the solution to your sunburn every two to four hours. Oatmeal contains chemicals known as saponins which will clean your skin while moisturizing it at the same time.