 Add 2 ¼ cups (280 g) of all-purpose flour, 1 teaspoon (6 g) of baking soda, 1 ½ teaspoon (4 g) of cornstarch, and ½ teaspoon (2 g) of salt to a large bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until they are fully mixed.You can substitute arrowroot for the cornstarch if you prefer.
 Add ¾ cup (170 g) of unsalted butter that’s been melted, ¾ cup (150 g) of light brown sugar, and ½ cup (100 g) of granulated sugar to a separate medium bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until the mixture is fully blended and contains no lumps.If you prefer, you can use a handheld electric mixer to blend the butter and sugars together.
 Once the butter and sugars are mixed, add an egg and whisk it into the mixture. Next, mix in the egg yolk and vanilla until they are fully incorporated.You can use egg substitute for the egg if you prefer.
 When the wet ingredients are fully combined, pour them into the flour mixture. Mix well until the wet ingredients are incorporated and a soft dough forms.Be careful not to overmix the cookie dough or you may wind up with tough cookies.
 After the dough has come together, add 1 cup (170 g) of plain coated chocolate candies in Easter or pastel colors to the bowl. Use a rubber spatula to mix them into the dough so they’re evenly distributed., Once you’ve mixed the candy into the cookie dough, cover the bowl with plastic wrap. Place the bowl in the refrigerator and allow the dough to chill for at least 2 hours.You can chill the dough for up to 3 days, so you can prepare it ahead of time and bake the cookies when you’re ready.
After chilling the dough, it’s a good idea to let the dough sit for 10 minutes at room temperature before you form the cookies so it’s easier to work with.
 When you’re ready to bake the cookies, set the oven temperature to 325 degrees Fahrenheit (165 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully preheat. Next, line a baking sheet with parchment paper to keep the cookies from sticking.You can substitute a silicone baking mat for the parchment paper if you prefer.
You can also use nonstick cooking spray to grease the cookie sheet instead of lining it.
 To form the cookies, take approximately 3 tablespoons (62 g) of the dough in a clean hand. Gently roll the dough into a ball and place it on the lined baking sheet.Make sure the cookies are at least 1-inch (2.5-cm) apart on the cookie sheet because they may spread as they bake.
If you like, you can add more of the coated chocolate candies to the tops and sides of the balls before you bake the cookies.
 When the cookie sheet is full, place it in the preheated oven. Let the cookies bake for 11 to 12 minutes, or until they are just set.The cookies will look soft and underbaked in the center when you take them out of the oven. They will set up further as they cool.
 After you take the cookies out of the oven, allow them to cool on the cookie sheet for 10 minutes. Next, transfer them to a wire cooling rack to cool completely for another 15 to 20 minutes before serving.Store any uneaten cookies in an airtight container at room temperature. They should stay fresh for up to a week.

