 This works with whatever gaming system you have for Fifa 08. This is more presumably about Fifa 08 for the PS2 but they should all work the same way.;
, If this is your first time playing (probably why you are reading this article), you will need to sign with a team. The best teams from England are the ones in the Barclays Premier League. Using this League will give you a great team to jump start you as a manager. You can also find great teams in Series A and La Liga.
 The USA doesn't have any teams higher then 3.5 stars or 3 and a half and those teams don't have good chemistry. If you want a team with 4.5 starts (which is the highest) then choose Manchester United, Liverpool, or Barcelona. There are more teams throughout various leagues, but these teams offer the best players, such as Ronaldo, Rooney and Messi

, You should try to play against worse teams with 2.5 stars. Anybody lower then that won't play you if your team has 4.5 stars.
 Here you can plan practices, look at the transfer window(if it is the time) and control where your players play.


The transfer window only opens 2 months out of the whole season.
The transfer window is when players are for sale, for loan, or free agents.

When players are for sale you will have to have enough money obviously to buy them but they have a transfer price, and you will have to give them a salary. This is going to add up to a lot of money in the end. If you don't bid high enough then the player will reject your offer.
For loan is when a player is signed with another club but they can play for you but they are not fully your player. This doesn't happen really often but it might happen. Don't ever sign a player if they are with another team because if you build them up after a season then they will either go back to their club, go for sale, or become a free agent. These are a waste of money but are good if you have some injuries.
A free agent is when a player isn't sign to a club. You will have to pay for their transfer fee and their salary but it might be a good buy. Try to buy players that are 17-25 in the 70 overall range. This will be good so that you can build up your players.



The boards expectations are what you need to attempt to achieve so that you continue being the manager. If you run out of money or don't meet all of the boards expectations don't be surprised if you are fired.
 There click squad to change up player.
, Play the match is simply playing as that team. Visual Sim is when it has a banner across the bottom telling every step by step play that is happening. Quick Sim is when the computer just plays the match real fast and you see who wins.
 Cup. Sometimes the board's expectations are for you to win the ECC and qualify for the English League Cup. It can be different so the tournament games you want to play the match so that you don't lose.


The Board is technically your boss so you have to please them. Also never go down to $0 or $-100 or something because that can get you fired.
 If you make the right decision then your team morale, job security, or Fan support will go up. You make the bad decision then one of those will go down. Sometimes if you pick on the job security might go up and the morale go down. It all depends on the decision that you make.
 You can either say yes or no. It is all your decision.


This game is hard but you are the one to figure out how to do it. It might take a while to get use to or understand.

