 It's easiest to make this recipe when the butter is still cold and fairly solid, but soft enough that the back of a spoon leaves an impression. The butter should reach this point after 30–60 minutes out of the fridge, depending on how hot your kitchen is.If you are using an electric mixer, you can throw in the butter straight from the fridge. Beat the butter on low speed for about a minute to soften it, then continue to the next step.;
, Pour in 60g (½ cup) icing sugar slowly as you beat it into the butter. Continue beating until the ingredients are thoroughly combined. Scrape down the sides of the bowl periodically with a rubber spatula.


If using an electric mixer, keep it set to medium or medium-low to avoid overheating the butter.
If beating by hand, use the back of a fork to slice the butter into thin ribbons. This saves you some effort by working more air into the mixture., If you prefer a light, spreadable brandy butter, continue beating to incorporate more air bubbles. This creaming process makes the butter expand to almost twice its size and turn much lighter in color.This happens fast in an electric mixer — within a couple minutes. Take care not to beat too much, as you still have another ingredient to add. Over-creaming can cause the ingredients to separate into a greasy, gritty texture.
 Adding too much brandy at once will curdle the butter. Pour in about 5 mL (1 tsp) and beat to combine before adding the next spoonful.Taste the brandy butter after each addition and keep adding until you achieve the desired flavor. Add about 10 mL (2 tsp) for moderate brandy flavor, or 25 mL (5 tsp) for a strong sauce.
 Keep the butter in an airtight container or under plastic wrap so it doesn't absorb other flavors. Serve on Christmas pudding or other desserts within two weeks.You can freeze leftover brandy butter in an airtight container or cling wrap. Use within three months for best quality, letting it thaw in the fridge overnight.
 These sugars have a deep molasses flavor that works well with alcohol and Christmas pudding. Raw, unrefined sugar such as muscovado works particularly well.However, this will add a slight graininess to your brandy butter compared, unlike the icing sugar version.
 After beating in the brandy, stir in 1 mL (¼ tsp) vanilla extract, and/or 8 milliliters (0.5 U.S. tbsp) orange or lemon zest., A small pinch each of cinnamon and nutmeg contributes to the holiday feel.
 Some households like to add a nutty flavor with roughly 25g (¼ cup) ground almonds. As always, stir in this extra ingredient at the end of the process, when the butter and sugar are already combined.
 Press the brandy butter into candy molds and freeze into a decorative shape. When ready to serve, run lukewarm water over the back of the mold to help you lever the butter out. Even frozen butter will melt quickly on a hot Christmas pudding, so serve in a separate container or wait until the family has gathered before you put it on.