 Is the person having difficulty breathing? Is the person unable to talk, grabbing and flailing their arms in the air? Is the person turning pale or bluish around the lips? For any of these symptoms, call emergency services, such as by dialing 911 in the United States, because this is an emergency.
 Running a fever with a cough is also an indication that something may be wrong and the person may require medical attention. If the person has a fever above 100 degrees Fahrenheit (37.8 degrees Celsius), then call a doctor.


A fever indicates that you have a serious underlying infection or virus that needs to be treated.If you have a low grade fever, one below 100 degrees Fahrenheit (37.8 degrees Celsius), then call your doctor if it lasts for more than 72 hours.
If you have a fever of 103 degrees Fahrenheit (39.4 degrees Celsius) or above, then this is a medical emergency and you should call emergency services immediately.
 If the sputum (phlegm) is green, yellow, red, brown indicates an infection or inflammation and you will need to contact a physician. When you suffer from a wet, productive cough, you produce phlegm. Phlegm is produced when your lungs are inflamed or if you have an infection. When you have a productive cough, you need to keep a close eye on what your phlegm looks like. This can give you a clue that your cough is more serious. Look for any red streaks in your phlegm. This indicates that there is blood in your phlegm. If you notice blood, go see your doctor right away or get to an emergency room.


When you are sick, cough out your phlegm into a tissue or napkin so you can examine it.If your phlegm is clear, it is considered normal.
This change of color means you may have an underlying infection that may cause problems., Breathing problems go hand in hand with serious coughs, since both deal with the lungs. If you have any difficulty breathing because you can't stop coughing or can't take a deep breath after you cough, you should call for emergency services. Also look for bluish or grey colored lips and fingertips, which show a lack of oxygen.


Wheezing may also occur when you find it hard to breathe.
If you are suddenly unable to breath in, call emergency services immediately.Listen for a high pitched noise or bark when the person is coughing. Listen for wheezing, crackles, and stridor (a harsh vibrating noise when breathing) as well.
You can also check for retractions (then he air makes the skin suck in between the ribs) by pulling up the person’s shirt and observing their breathing.
 There are some physical symptoms that may indicate that your cough is serious. If you notice these symptoms along with a persistent cough, you need to see your doctor to look for a more serious condition. These symptoms include:


Noticeable weight loss
Waking up with night sweats
Dizziness
Intense chest, abdomen, or rib painPersistent coughing
Shortness of breath
Difficulty breathing
Facial and throat swelling
Possible airway obstruction, such as from food or a toy in child’s throat, or food in an elderly or debilitated person’s throat
Sputum or fluid (especially blood) being coughed up
Wheezing, stridor, or barking
Retractions
Very pale and sweating
Bluish pallor especially around the mouth.
 Sometimes a cough can start be so persistent that is can start affecting your everyday life. This is when your cough causes you to lose sleep or causes interruption in your work, school, or home life. A cough is also considered persistent if it lasts up to a week with no change, despite home treatments.If this happens, contact your doctor so you can diagnose your symptoms. Your doctor may be able to give you a stronger cough suppressant or help treat any underlying cause of your cough. Remember cough suppressants are not always a good thing. If there is an infection in your lungs, then that needs to be coughed up and out of your body, not suppressed. Suppressing the cough would make the infection worse, so always consult your physician if your cough is serious.
 Upper respiratory infections are caused by bacteria, fungi, or viruses. These cause irritations to your throat and lungs, which cause you to cough. These will also produce colored phlegm, which illustrates the underlying cause.


If you notice increased irritation in your throat and lungs in addition to your cough, see your doctor.