 You may be subject to roaming charges if you try to access the Internet outside of your country. Many Western countries have widespread Wi-Fi, and you can sometimes pay extra for a local micro-SIM card.


Download a Wi-Fi Finder application before you leave home. This will allow you to find locations that have free Wi-Fi for easy access while you travel. Check near your hotel, airport and more.;
, You will want a good amount of applications, documents and content to be stored on it. The 32 and 64 gigabyte options are the best choices.
 It is a good idea to keep them open long enough after landing so that the iPad can latch on to your location. Controlling the amount of power you use is essential if you are often away from a charging station.
 In 2011, the TSA does not require you to remove it.
 This is best done to avoid any syncing problems 10 minutes before you leave. It's best to do any cleaning up or changing 1 to 2 days before to avoid any technical difficulties that may arise.
 If you choose to do this away from home, you may be at the mercy of slow Internet connection, and you may use up precious battery life. Set them up to download overnight so you can be ready when you don't have an Internet connection in flight.
 Many airline websites run their check-in pages with Flash, which is not compatible with the iPad. If this is the case, you will need to find another way to check in early.
 Download the Dropbox application before your trip, so that you can keep all of your work documents in "the cloud" and download them when you have an Internet connection. Download those documents that you will need directly onto the iPad in anticipation for a lack of Internet mid-flight.


If you work in Microsoft Office, you can download the Documents to Go app to make sure you are compatible on your Apple product.
Many people suggest "batch scheduling" of work on the iPad. When you don't have an Internet connection, you may be more inclined to use the iPad to work rather than surf online.
 Just like choosing the perfect carry-on suitcase, passport book or walking shoes, iPad accessories can increase the effectiveness of the iPad. With the right tools, you may be able to replace your laptop completely.


Buy an iPad keyboard, if you plan to work or email extensively on your trip. While the iPad's touch screen keyboard may be ideal for social media, like Facebook and Twitter, it is difficult to write a document or a travel log abroad. Look for a keyboard that is built in to a case and stand or a silicon keyboard that is less fragile and rolls away easily into your carry-on.
Bring a wall plug to charge your iPad. This is especially important if you do not plan to bring a computer. Research whether or not you need an adapter before leaving home and purchase one, if you do not think you can find an Apple store where you are going.
Buy an iPad case that is also a stand and doesn't draw too much attention. iPads already attract attention, so just like a diamond ring or a wad of cash, a bright red case flashes an announcement at potential thieves that you have something worth stealing.
Bring a set of headphones that contain a microphone. This can help you to talk on video chat applications while abroad.
Buy a headphone splitter, if you have a traveling companion. You can both watch content or listen to music while you are on a flight.
Buy a camera connection kit and SD card. Load the SD card with movies that can be transferred directly to your iPad with the kit whilst on the road.



Download a weather application if you plan on spending a lot of your time outside. You can check from the hotel and plan your activities accordingly.
Download a flight application that will tell you about delays. FlightTrack is a great option if you travel often for business. Also DEFINITELY download a translation app.
Use the OffMaps application. This app gives you access to thousands of maps while you are offline. Many other map apps require a very good Internet connection to produce a street map, so it is very difficult to check on the map as you move through the city.
 Download the application through the app store and ask your friends and family to do the same. Although you will need a good Internet connection in order to make your calls, you can save a lot of money by calling online rather than with a cell phone or calling card.
 You can save time and power by planning ahead.

