 Steam is one of the best ways to get your sinuses to drain. To produce enough steam to help, go into the bathroom and turn on the hot water in the shower, closing the door to keep the steam inside. Remain in the bathroom with the hot water running for three to five minutes. The nasal secretions should be loose and ready to be blown out of your nose after this time. You can also place your head over a large bowl of just boiled water and cover your head with a towel to hold in the steam. Breathe this for about 10 minutes, or until you feel your nasal congestion get better.


If you feel dizziness during either method, step into fresh air, have a seat, and breath normally. This will pass. It is not anything to be alarmed about and will resolve in a few minutes.You can use essential oils such as lavender, eucalyptus, and peppermint in the bathroom as well. They have shown promise in their natural decongestant properties and may prove beneficial. Eucalyptus oil has been shown to have decongestant, antimicrobial, and anti-inflammatory properties, which should help to clear your sinuses and aid in prevention of a sinus infection.To use, drop five to 10 drops of the oil in the tub or bowl of water.
Keep essential oils away from children. They can cause serious problems and possibly death if ingested or used in the wrong way.;
, Sometimes, your sinuses may be really dry, which can add to sinus congestion. Humidifiers can help much in the same way as steam. Keep it on while you are around the house or while you sleep in order for it to increase the moisture level in your nose and help loosen nasal secretions.


You can apply around five drops of essential oils such as eucalyptus or peppermint into your humidifier water to help with your congestion. Eucalyptus oil has antimicrobial, decongestant, and anti-inflammatory properties that can help your condition., Heat can also help your nasal congestion and drain your sinuses. Take a moist washcloth and place it in the microwave for two to three minutes. The temperature should be hot but tolerable. Place the cloth across your nose and allow it to sit until the heat is gone. Repeat this as needed. It should loosen secretions and permit clearance from your nose with blowing.


Use care not to burn yourself as you remove the washcloth from the microwave. All microwaves are different and yours may have heated the cloth too hot., Saline spray is beneficial in loosening nasal congestion. To make your own, mix 8oz of warm water with one half teaspoon of salt in a bowl. To administer it, buy a bulb suction device at the store. Place the long end of the bulb suction device in the bowl of solution, push on it to release water, then let the bulb go so the bulb will fill. Next, place the small end in your nose and administer two sprays into each nostril to add the liquid to your nasal secretions, which will facilitate blowing.


You may also buy saline (non-medicated) nasal sprays and drops at the pharmacy.You can use nasal saline sprays every few hours as there is no medicine in them to worry about. Nasal saline drops are very safe and effective even for babies.
 A neti pot is a miniature tea pot shaped device can cleanse your sinus passages by flooding warm water through one nostril and out the other. To use, fill the pot with warm water around 120 degrees. Tilt your head to the left and a little bit back and place the spout of the pot at your right nostril. Raise the pot up and pour water into your right nostril. It will drain out the left nostril.


Make sure the water is clean and sterile. Boil the water beforehand to warm it and remove all the impurities if you are unsure about the safety of your water supply., There are drinks and food that can help with your sinus issues. Try hot tea, which will have a similar effect to steam. The heat from the tea will heat up your sinus passages and help them drain. Any type of tea you prefer is fine, though peppermint and lavender may have additional benefits with sinus congestion.


Also change up the way you eat. Try hot salsa, hot peppers, hot wings, or any food you prefer that has a spicy kick to it. The added heat to your system will help heat up your sinuses and get your secretions running.
Hot soup or broth can also help loosen the sinuses., Although you may not feel like exercising when you have sinus congestion, the physical activity can help increase the flow of the mucus in your sinuses, which will help with the clearance of nasal secretions. Try some aerobic exercise for 15 to 20 minutes to help you.


If you are allergic to pollen or other outside substances, try exercising inside at a gym or at home to avoid increases exposure to irritating allergens., Sometimes, you can use your hand to help drain your sinuses. Apply gentle pressure using your index and middle fingers, rotating in a circular motion over the forehead, the bridge of your nose, beside your eyes, and under your eyes. Use an oil such as rosemary oil along your forehead to help open up your sinus passages.


This manual manipulation can manually or structurally break up secretions as well as warm the area with the action of your hands.