 If you are sending your breast milk to a company, such as a breast milk bank, ask in advance about the terms of transport. Questions to ask include:


When does the milk need to arrive?
How long can it take to get there?
Does the company accept milk packed with dry ice? If so, in what quantity?;
, If you are going to ship breast milk, make sure it is fresh. Either pump it immediately before mailing, or remove the correct amount from the freezer.
 You can either use bags made specifically for storing breast milk, or you can use glass or BPA-free plastic containers. If you use glass or plastic containers, wash them with warm, soapy water, then rinse well. Dry them, and then fill them with milk.


Label each container clearly with the date that you pumped the milk.
 Make sure the cooler is not damaged or broken, and check to see that the lid closes well. If the ice melts, the breast milk won’t be safe to drink.
 If you are using regular ice, simply cover the cooler’s bottom evenly. For dry ice, wear gloves and use a hammer to break it up before you spread it into the cooler.


For short trips, you can also use frozen gel packs. If you choose to use these, follow the manufacturer’s instructions, and make sure they are completely frozen.
 Whether you use bags or containers, arrange them neatly over the ice. If you are packing milk that has been pumped at different times, put the oldest milk on the bottom and the freshest milk on top.
 Whether you are using ice, dry ice, or gel packs, cover the milk by filling the cooler the rest of the way.
 Make sure the cover is completely closed, and apply adhesive tape to make sure it will not open.
 Place the cooler in a box, and, if necessary, fill excess space with packaging paper or crumpled newspaper. This will prevent the cooler from moving around too much inside the box.
 Close the cardboard box with adhesive tape to make sure it will not come open during transport. Label with stickers reading “Perishable – breast milk” on the top side of the box. Ship according to the terms of transport.

