 A kitten should be kept with its littermates and mother for at least 12 weeks. A kitten can learn how to play nice most effectively from its mother and its siblings, so you need to give it time to get this education. When playing with its siblings or nursing from its mother, the kitten learns how hard it can bite before the others respond negatively and stop the behavior.A kitten that it taken away from its mother and siblings too soon will not have the advantage of this important teaching and learning period.;
, A kitten needs to play and explore the boundaries of acceptable behavior. In particular, stalking and attacking are behaviors every kitten will likely want to explore because they are part of the cat's innate prey drive. However, you need to teach your kitten that these are things it can do with toys and not with people. In order to do this, you will need to provide toys that satisfy this drive.


A great toy that allows you to interact with your kitten and allows it to pounce, chew, and attack is a fishing pole type toy. These are typically sticks with a string attached to the end. At the end of the string is a toy that will grab the kittens attention. If you move the stick around, the toy will move and the kitten can try to attack it., If the kitten wants to wrestle around, you should not use your hands and arm to do that. Instead, get a small toy, such as a stuffed animal that is a similar size to the kitten, and rub that on the kitten's belly to promote wrestling with that toy.Allowing the kitten to wrestle with a toy instead of your hands will decrease the likelihood that the cat will clamp onto your hands and arms in the future when it is feeling feisty and wanting to wrestle.
 While it may be cute in the short term to allow your kitten to pounce on your feet or hands when you move them, this sets the stage for this behavior to continue long term. Remember, behavior that you are reinforcing in your kitten is likely to continue for the cat's whole life.Instead, give your cat lots of toys and allow it to pounce and chew on those instead of your body parts.
A small kitten's bite on your hands or feet won't hurt much, but at the kitten gets bigger its jaw will get stronger and those bites will get more painful.
 If the kitten begins to bite you or wrestle with you aggressively, you need to stop that behavior every time it happens. Having clear boundaries for nice play versus aggressive play is important when teaching the kitten the rules of behavior.Disengage whenever the kitten bites or plays too roughly. This sets limits and will eventually help stop the behavior.
Without these consistent boundaries, the kitten will have no way of knowing what it acceptable and not acceptable from day to day.
 Some kittens will get too riled up and move from innocent playing to aggression. If your kitten is doing this, then that behavior needs to be curbed before it becomes habit. In order to curb it, you need to be able to identify the signs of this type of aggression and disengage from play when they begins.Look for the kittens tail to be moving back and forth in a controlled manner, the ears to flatten down, and the pupils to begin dilating. If these things are happening, you need to disengage from play right away.
If your kitten continues to stalk and attack even after you disengage from play, leave the room until the kitten calms down.
In many cases you can also shock the kitten out of this state by making a loud noise, such as clapping your hands or dropping something on the ground.
 If you want to teach your kitten how to play nice you need to set boundaries with it. If the kitten is getting too excited during playtime and it goes to bite or scratch you, you need to let it know that this behavior is not okay. You can do this by ending playtime at that point and walking away.With repetition, the kitten will learn that the fun times end when it is too aggressive, and so they will avoid that behavior.
 A consistent verbal command is another way to let your kitten know that it has crossed a line behavior wise. This should not be an aggressive or mad sounding command but it should be done in an assertive in tone.However, you should never use physical punishment or lash out in anger at a kitten that is not playing nice. This is likely to make the kitten fearful, which can lead to larger behavior problems down the line.
 There are ways you can discourage bad behavior in addition to disengaging and saying "no." Try keeping a laser pointer or other toy in your pocket, for instance. You can use these to redirect any rough play away from you and to the toy. If your kitten is stalking and pouncing on you from under furniture, put a safety collar with a bell on it on the kitten. This will let you know what the kitten is doing and will allow you to stop the behavior before it escalates.
 Talk to a specialist if you’re tried all of the above and continue to have trouble with your kitten. Start with your vet. Even if they're not an expert in animal behavior, your vet can still point you to someone who is.

Ask your vet for about feline behaviorists in your area, for example. You might also try looking for resources at the local humane society.
Try to address behavior issues quickly, while the kitten is still young. This gives you the best shot at preventing a long-term problem.

