 You should always consult with your doctor before trying medical treatments for hyperpigmentation. Mention if you are pregnant, or are trying to become pregnant. Many of these treatments are not for use during pregnancy.
 Hydroquinone is the only lightening treatment approved by the FDA and it works by blocking the conversion of dihydroxyphenylalanine to melanin.Hydroquinone is available over the counter at 2% in the United States and is commonly used between 2 and 4% concentration. However, your doctor can prescribe strengths up to 10%.
Although hydroquinone can be used alone, it has been recently formulated with other agents, such as antioxidants, corticosteroids, glycolic acid, retinoids, and sunscreens to increase efficacy.Long-term use of hydroquinone at concentration of 4% or higher can be irritating, particularly when used in combination with other agents such as retinoids, and adverse events can occur, such as contact dermatitis and hypopigmentation of the surrounding normal skin.
You may want to consult your dermatologist if you decide to use over-the-counter hydroquinone, especially if you use it in combination with other agents.
 Tretinoin creams are used to treat hyperpigmentation spots, acne, and fine wrinkles. It lightens the skin, helps replace older skin, and slows down the way your body removes skin cells harmed by the sun.Tretinoin is only available as a prescription medication.
You should not use tretinoin if you are allergic to it or pregnant or trying to get pregnant.
 Mequinol is available at 2% concentration by prescription. Although its exact mechanism of action is unknown, it has been shown to be effective in treating post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation.Although mequinol is a derivative to hydroquinone, it is believed to be less irritating to the skin than the latter.
Mequinol is typically formulated in a combination with tretinoin, retinoic acid and penetration enhancer.
 Retinoids are derivatives of vitamin A and research has demonstrated they are effective alone or when used in combination with other agents for the treatment of hyperpigmentation spots.Retinoids are available both over-the-counter and as a prescription medication.
However, there may be side effects with retinoid therapy including, retinoid dermatitis.
Consult your doctor before starting treatment and consider starting therapy at lower concentrations and titrating up the concentration based on treatment response.
 This is a naturally occurring acid that has been demonstrated to be effective in the treatment of post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation spots in clinical trials. It can be used during pregnancy in most cases.Azelaic acid is available only by prescription as a 15% gel, often used to treat rosacea, and a 20% cream, more commonly used for hyperpigmentation spots.
Some side effects can be associated with its use, including itching, burning, stinging and tingling.