 When a puppy does not immediately begin to cry after birth, there is a high risk that it may not be breathing. Puppies that are struggling to breathe and those that do not start breathing within a few seconds will need emergency CPR.


Breech birth puppies—those that are born feet-first, rather than head-first—are more likely to face danger than those birthed normally. As soon as you see that a puppy is experiencing a breech birth, you should be prepared to check its breathing and perform CPR as needed.
Even a puppy born normally may not immediately begin breathing, though. Any puppy that does not begin breathing within a few seconds of birth should be given emergency CPR.
A puppy that opens its mouth in a gasping motion without making a sound puppy has likely inhaled amniotic fluid and could be suffocating. On the other hand, a puppy that is completely lifeless has probably stopped breathing and may or may not have a heartbeat. It will be harder to save a newborn puppy that enters into complete cardiac arrest, but you should continue to work with this puppy since saving it may still be possible.
That being said, at this point, you only need to determine whether or not the puppy has stopped breathing. Don't worry about how lifeless the puppy appears overall, and focus on clearing the airways before checking for a heartbeat.;
, Another person should call your veterinarian or an emergency animal clinic while you begin CPR procedures.


A veterinarian should be able to guide you through the process more thoroughly. He or she should also be able to consult you on how long to continue working on the puppy based on your specific circumstances.
If you are the only person around, perform emergency CPR before contacting the veterinarian. Once the puppy starts breathing, call the veterinarian for advice on continued care.
 In many cases, you will need to provide both pulmonary and cardiac treatment to the lifeless puppy.


Initial respiratory treatment should be provided first, followed by cardiac stimulation. You will then need to rotate back and forth between respiratory and cardiac care until the puppy is stable.
If the puppy's heart is not beating at all, you will need to try restarting it. If the puppy's heartbeat is present but slow or weak, you will only need to stimulate the puppy in an effort to keep its heart working.
 Gently hold the puppy's head downward for 5 to 10 seconds so that gravity can help drain any amniotic fluid and/or mucus from the mouth, throat, and lungs.


Centrifugal force can also be used to drain the fluid of the puppy's lungs, but you should ask a veterinarian to demonstrate the process before attempting to do it. You'll need to hold the puppy's head and neck very secure while smoothly swinging the puppy down and in between your legs. The movement should not be jerky and you must ease the puppy into a gradual stop., While keeping the puppy's head tilted downward, use a medical suction bulb syringe to remove fluid from the puppy's mouth.


Squeeze the bulb to remove the air from inside. Do this before inserting the bulb into the puppy's mouth since doing so afterward would drive fluid further down into the lungs.Insert the tip of the suction bulb into the puppy's mouth. The tip should reach the entrance of the puppy's throat, but try not to force it too far into the throat since doing so could cause injury to the puppy's airways.
Once the syringe is positioned, gradually release the squeezed bulb. The suction should draw fluid from the mouth and throat into the bulb.
Remove the bulb from the puppy's mouth and squeeze it again to evacuate fluid and air. Repeat two or three more times, or until you stop drawing fluid out.
 Gently breathe into the puppy's nose and mouth two or three times to fill the lungs with air.


Position your mouth so that it is sealed around both the mouth and nose of the newborn puppy. Alternatively, you can hold the puppy's mouth closed with your hand while positioning your own mouth over the puppy's nose.
Breathe small, gently puffs of air into the puppy. Do not breathe too deeply since doing so can damage the puppy's lungs.
 After administering initial respiratory treatment, check the puppy's chest for a heartbeat.


Place your fingers against the chest wall. A strong heartbeat should be easy to identify with no additional tools.
You may need to use a stethoscope to identify the difference between a weak heartbeat and no heartbeat, however. If you have a stethoscope, place it over the chest wall and listen for a few seconds.
Note that a normal, healthy newborn puppy should have a heartbeat between 120 and 180 beats per minute.
 If the heart is not beating at all, you will need to perform a few gently chest compressions.Place your thumb and index finger around the puppy's chest, directly at the back of the puppy's bent elbow. This is roughly where the heart should be.
Squeeze or compress the chest quickly to stimulate the heart. Do so once or twice.
 You will need to switch between mouth-to-mouth resuscitation and chest compression until the puppy shows signs of life.


Give the puppy two to four puffs of air every 15 to 20 seconds.
Continue to gently compress the puppy's chest in between puffs of air.
Check the puppy every minute to determine if it has begun to breathe on its own. You should also check for a heartbeat every minute.
 As soon as the puppy's heart begins to beat, stop performing chest compressions and focus on stimulating the puppy.Using light, careful pressure, vigorously rub the puppy with a towel.
Gently turn the puppy over in your hands several times.
Grab the puppy by the scruff of its neck several times, as well.
While stimulating the puppy, you may still need to provide a few puffs of air every 20 to 30 seconds to keep its lungs pumping.
 Once the puppy's heart starts beating, you should continue stimulating the puppy for at least 20 minutes.


Most puppies that revive after receiving emergency CPR will stabilize after 20 minutes.
If the puppy's heart does not start beating within 5 minutes of treatment, however, it is unlikely that the puppy will revive.
 All newborn puppies should be closely monitored for several days, but it is especially important to keep a close eye on puppies who needed to be revived upon birth.


One of the most important things you can do is to keep the puppy warm. Puppies that get chilled during the first week of life can easily weaken and pass away. Provide hot water bottles, heating pads, heating lamps, and plenty of warm blankets in an effort to keep the box at a minimum constant temperature of 85 degrees Fahrenheit (30 degrees Celsius).
Professional veterinary care is also strongly recommended. If you have not already called the veterinarian, do so after the mother has given birth to the remainder of her puppies. Let the veterinarian know about any puppies you needed to revive and follow his or her instructions on additional aftercare.

