 Feed Ogleroots to rabbits in the Vinesweeper minigame. You can get to this minigame by using the "teleport" option on any Tool leprechaun across Runescape. From here, talk to Farmer Blinking for 10gp each. You can then use these on rabbits for great exp. This is about 10k experience per hour, however level 20 takes only 5k experience, so it should only take about 30 minutes at max.;
, Catch Tropical Wagtails These are located in the Feldip Hunter Area, just north and east of Oo'glog and north east of the Hunter expert. You can place 2 bird snares to catch these at level 20. A successful catch rewards you with feathers, bones, and raw bird meat.
 Cobalt skillchompas. These can be found north of the Grand Tree, and accessed via a shortcut behind it needing 19 agility. Trapped with a box trap, these are stackable, and are worth several hundred each, so keeping them and selling them is very worth it.
 Swamp Lizards. Located East of Canfis, you are going to need at least 3 ropes and 3 small fishing nets to set traps for these. These are located in the Mort Myre Swamp, so ghasts can be an issue. The lizards are used in Summoning training, and are worth well over 1k, and banking them is worth it.
 Viridian Skillchompas. These are located south of Port Phasmatys. Caught with a box trap, stackable, and worth it to keep as with all the skillchompas.
 Red Salamanders. The are located at the ZMI altar south of West Ardougne, next to the altar. These are caught with rope and small fishing nets, however they are not worth much. Your best bet is just to release them as soon as you get them to save efficiency, as there not any viably banks nearby anyway.
 Azure skillchompas. These are located East of Relleka, in the snowy hunter area. Buying a snowy top and legs is helpful, as it allows a higher catch rate. You need box traps again, and they are again stackable and valuable, so keeping them is recommended.
 Greenwalls. These require Regicide to be completed, and having a bonecrusher and herbicide would be an advantage. These give you 18-21 greenwall spikes, worth 200 each approx. They also give you bones and grimy herbs. These are located north of the Elf Camp.
 Crimson Chinchompas. These are located near the Desert Quarry, and are caught with box traps again. They are worth very high amounts, nearly 2k. You can put 5 traps down at a time here, so you can make massive amounts of profit and experience if you want to.
 You can do this minigame once a day every day. Simply go to Tree Gnome Stronghold and find Nyriki's Portal near the Agility course and climb in the portal. Catch butterflies and give them to the Big Chinchompa. You receive large amounts of experience, along with different tickets that allow you to hunt in personal hunting area, free from other people.

