 Making dog ears, slipping the cover sleeve into place, or keeping the book upside down open to that page, are all certain ways of losing your place and therefore making the whole delving back into the book seem too hard. By using a bookmark, you won't only be certain of your place in the book, but it will also serve as a psyching mechanism, showing you that you've already reached that far in reading it, so why not keep going.;
, There is nothing wrong in doing this; it shows dedication, not dullness. Indeed, Benjamin Franklin taught himself good comprehension and writing structure by reorganizing the writings he read in the Spectator when he didn't understand them, scrambling the notes and making himself look at the scrambles of original writing weeks later to recreate the essay.



Distractions such as too many thoughts whirling about, noise around you, people making demands of you, and feeling unwell can all make for hard comprehension when reading. Find quiet times without such distractions and you'll take in the information much better.
 However awake you may think you feel, your brain is more active first thing in the morning or later morning. Early evening and night would be a more suitable time for general reading. If you must read more technical information for studies or work, try to leave the harder elements for morning reading when you're most refreshed, and the lighter aspects or revising for evenings. It may well be worth getting up earlier for!


Try to schedule a set time each day to return to the book. If this isn't possible, schedule set times per week. Read at least a chapter at a time, breaking it down into digestible chunks and finishing at logical end points.
 Make sure you don't have too many distractions like the sound of the television, radio, or other family members going about their daily business. If you have a particular favorite corner or chair, make this your "reading corner."

, If you have a bad memory or want to stay on track with the material you're covering, take simple notes in a notebook after each chapter or after each topic is covered. Refer back to this often.


If it's your own book and you don't mind writing in it, annotate in graphite pencil in the margins, using key words or symbols that help you to rediscover the information fast when needed. A well annotated book is a treasure for its owner.
 Imagine yourself in the situations described, put yourself in the characters' shoes. If it's a scientific or technical book, what can you do to prove to yourself the information is correct? What experiments could you do? Use your creativity to keep your interest in your reading. For other non-fiction, think about how the things you're learning inform your daily life. Even imagine yourself trying to help the character if you want!

, Tossing aside an unfinished book as "too much trouble" or "not worth the effort" because you feel a sense of guilt at not reading it, or a loathing to begin again, is a common problem. However, by forgiving yourself for not attending to reading it and letting yourself reread already read parts of the book without worrying too much that they're retracing old ground, you can get over any feelings that it's too much trouble and you may discover new insights by plowing back into the book. There is nothing quite so delightful as realizing you're glad you persevered with the unfinished book and discovered some new insights into your world and life!