 Ask yourself if you possess the required technical, social, personal and manual skills to do the job. For example, suppose you have an idea to be a wedding planner, but you’re not really up to date on wedding fads, dress styles and color trends. Then, this idea doesn’t match up with your skills. But, suppose you do have a passion for photography, and you have lots of equipment and expertise to take beautiful pictures. Being a wedding photographer might be a better match to your skills., Resources include financial resources, human resources and raw materials. Some businesses require start-up funds and working capital. Determine if you have the resources to make your ideas work.Financial resources include purchasing equipment and start-up expenses. For example, if you are going to sell a product, you may need to purchase inventory to get started. Figure out if you can pay for start-up expenses from your savings or if you would need a small-business loan.
Human resources means people. Assess whether you will need help to get the job done. See if you have family members who can do the work or if you will have to hire someone. Find out how difficult it would be to find the right person to do the job. If you need someone with specific skills, you might have a hard time finding someone. Also, determine if you will have the financial resources to pay that person.
Raw materials are the things you would need to produce a product. For example, if you are going to start a jewelry-making business, you need to have all of the materials on hand to make your earrings, necklaces and bracelets. Figure out if you have the financial resources to stock all of the raw materials you need. Also, find out how readily available these materials are. If you want to make a product from materials that are difficult to find, you might have a hard time keeping enough product in stock.
 The demand for a product or service means how much customers want it. Determine if your idea offers something in a new or unique way that stands out from the competition. You can do basic market research without spending a lot of money.Learn as much as you can about what your competitors are selling, who their target customers are and how well their businesses are doing. You can do this by browsing their company websites, visiting brick-and-mortar stores that sell similar products, communicating with industry trade associations and reading trade journals.
Figure out if people will buy the product or service you are selling. Don’t bother asking friends and family for advice, because they will likely tell you what they think you want to hear. Instead, get objective data from talking to customers at shows and expos, participating in focus groups and talking with other business owners.

