 If you live with roommates, try to split up the cleaning chores with them. Talk about which tasks each of you are the most comfortable with. If you live with a partner or children, ask each person to take on certain chores, perhaps rotating them as needed.Older children and adults, in particular, can help out by cleaning up after themselves on a regular basis.
 There are a variety of printed and online manuals available for blind persons to look through for guidance. The Perkins School for the Blind, for example, publishes an easy-to-use manual discussing basic cleaning habits and practices. Use a search engine to locate these manuals or contact local agencies for the blind or visually impaired., Various agencies offer short and long-term programs specifically focused on teaching blind or visually impaired persons how to manage a variety of household tasks, including cleaning. The Colorado Center for the Blind, for example, runs a program aimed at students about to head off to college.Check with the American Foundation for the Blind for additional information and options regarding training programs., These are trained professionals who can come into your home, do a walk through, and help you to develop a personalized cleaning plan. They may also suggest various exercises that can help you become a more effective or efficient cleaner., There are a number of apps that help blind or visually impaired persons to reach out to sighted persons to receive assistance. TapTapSee, for example, lets a sighted person identify objects for a blind person via the phone. These apps can be helpful when cleaning if you encounter a particularly cluttered area or an unexpected object., You will make mistakes and messes will happen. Take all of this in stride and try to keep a sense of humor as you go about cleaning. Just concentrate on what needs to be done immediately and what, if anything, can wait. Also, if you need help cleaning up after a spill or mess, don’t hesitate to call a family member or friend for help.