 Glycolic acid is primarily used to treat signs of aging and acne, but there are many uses for glycolic acid. Before you use it, make sure that it is the right treatment for your particular skincare concerns. Glycolic acid is commonly used to treat:

Wrinkles and fine lines
Sun damage, including dark spots and freckles
Acne and blackheads
Scars, including icepick and rolling acne scars
Bumpy or rough skin textureLentigines (also known as liver spots)
Melasma
Large pores;
, Glycolic acid can be effective for many skin conditions, but it can be a skin irritant as well. Redness, irritation, increased sensitivity to the sun, burning or stinging sensations, and itchy skin may be side effects. It is important to determine if using glycolic acid will be beneficial for your skin or not.


If you have a darker complexion, a chemical peel may affect the coloration of your skin. Consult your dermatologist to see if you are at risk.If you have sensitive skin or rosacea, glycolic acid may worsen your condition rather than improve it.If you have had cancer on your face, such as melanoma, you should consult your dermatologist before starting any glycolic acid treatment.
Do not use glycolic acid if you have a current or active fungal, viral, bacterial, or herpes infection.Like all alpha hydroxy acids, using glycolic acid will make your skin more susceptible to sun damage. You may also burn more easily while using this product. Make sure that you wear sunscreen while using this product.
 Before you select a glycolic acid product, you will need to determine which type of treatment will work best for you, your routine, and your skin.

If you are looking for immediate results, a glycolic face peel may be what you want. A high-percentage solution of glycolic acid is applied to the skin of the face, which subsequently blisters and peels off. The newly revealed underlying layer of skin is smoother and contains fewer blemishes and wrinkles.While glycolic acid peels will exfoliate your skin, continued application over time in daily products will combat the signs of aging by regenerating the collagen beneath your skin and improving the thickness and tone of your epidermis.Try a cream, cleanser, toner, or exfoliating face wash. These will have lower concentrations of glycolic acid, but they are safer for long-term use.

