 This is especially relevant to students at school. If your locker looks good you will want to open it and show it off to your friends and peers!;
, This will come in very useful, especially after gym and/or swimming. You can also purchase dry erase markers and write notes on your mirror to remember exam dates, or meetings with friends and such.
 This will personalize you locker and remind you of fun times and happy memories. It comes in handy after a long boring exam!

, Write or print them out on paper and put them up with blue tac. Motivational quotes are perfect when you are nearing the end of the school year and you are just getting too tired and fed up!

,, You can get the personalized ones of you on rollercoasters which are funny!

, One benefit of a locker is having room to store all the items you might need during your day. If you're using your locker for school purposes, storing a range of basic school items in your locker will help you be prepared for anything:


Buy a very cheap, clear pencil case. Clear is better for this particular use.
Buy a few cheap pens and pencils. These don't need to be top quality. You don't need to splurge out on them, you can probably get a small packet for cheap. Just in case! You should stick with just HB pencils because they are the cheapest.
Buy a small packet of colouring pencils. These don't need to be an expensive brand either. You can even get the small mini packs of 12 colouring pencils for about 50p! You can also get a small packet of crayons or felt-tips if you feel comfortable buying these for purpose you may not use very often.
Buy a geometry set. This comes in especially handy, these can often break or get lost easily! Make sure this comes with a ruler too.
Grab a calculator. This doesn't need to be especially expensive, or as 'fancy' and 'complicated' as your main one, just a regular calculator in case you lose your main one!
You might want to keep a spare notebook in there too!
Get a good book and shove it in there too, just in case you have a reading class and forget your book.
A spare folder is always good to have, just to keep old assignments or old sheets and old letters in, so it doesn't clutter your room but you still have it, just in case!

, It is a good idea to keep a mini toiletry set in your locker so you are prepared for make-up catastrophes. This helps for after gym and swimming.


Buy a toiletry bag. This doesn't have to be huge, but it should be big enough to fit everything you need.
Add wet ones, baby wipes or face wipes! These will come in especially handy on hot days or if you have done long jump or cross country, or you just happen to be grimy or feel a little sticky!
Pack hand sanitizer. Just a mini compact one and that you can use when you think you've been exposed to germs.
Breath spray, breath strips, mints, or gum. This comes in handy when you need a bit of refreshment, and before you say hi to the boy/girlfriend!
Deodorant. A travel sized one will be perfect.
Body mist/spray. A mini one is much better and cheaper.
Pack extras of your make-up kit if desired: face powder, concealer, blush, oil blotting sheets, dry shampoo, hand cream, mascara, eyeliner, etc, as well as a hairbrush/comb and mini mirror.
 If you ever need any of the following, make sure you've got a spare in your locker: pain-killers, water, plasters/band-aids, mini sewing kit, snacks, earphones, air fresheners, etc.

