 The range of probability will vary depending on the number of dice you have and how many sides each dice has. The number of combinations is determined by how many different number combinations dice can make. For each dice, there is a one in six, or 1/6, chance that you will get any given number, with six possible numbers in total. The number of chances increases with each die you have. For each additional dice, the total number of possibilities increases times 6. There are a total of 36 (6 x 6) combinations for two dice, 216 (36 x 6) combinations for three dice, and so on., To determine how frequently a number will be rolled, you must figure out how many times that number can be made by the number of dice you have. For example, if you have three dice, the probability of getting an 8 is 21/216. The combinations that are possible are 1-2-5, 1-3-4, 1-1-6, 2-3-3, and 2-2-4. For each combination that uses three unique dice, there are 6 total combinations of dice. For each combination that uses two unique dice, there are 3 total combinations of dice. For the number 8, there are two number combinations that have three unique dice (6 + 6) and three number combinations that have two unique dice (3 + 3 + 3), for a total of 21 possibilities., Most dice games, as well as many board games in general, use two dice. Learning to compute the probability of two dice games can come in handy when you're deciding your strategy. The probability in two dice games is easy to compute. Simply multiple the number of combinations by 2 to figure out the maximum number of ways you can reach that number.


For example, a total of 7 may be obtained by rolling a 1 and 6, a 2 and 5, or a 3 and 4. Since there are two dice, double number of combinations (3 x 2), which is a total of 6/36 combinations.You can also use the odds in any board game. For example, you are playing Monopoly and are about to roll for the first time while you are in jail. The likelihood that you will roll a 12 is 1/36, or 2.7%. These aren't high odds, so you might want to pay the $50 to get out of jail so you don't spend three turns not playing the game, especially since you will have to pay the money in the end anyway if you don't roll a 12.
These statistics are based on six-sided dice. If your game uses dice with more sides, the probability of each number combination would change.

