 Generally, you want to figure out a way to sample a significant portion of whatever it is you're testing. Statistical hypothesis testing is usually used to analyze large amounts of data, such as characteristics across populations. Therefore, you need a significant portion to test.For instance, you may want to observe the sleeping patterns of 100 dogs in your area. Alternatively, maybe you just need to gather data from reliable sources, such as the U.S. Census Bureau.
 The test statistic is a formula. It tells you how likely it is that you'll observe certain outcomes based on the assumption that the null hypothesis is true. To find the test statistic, you plug information into this formula:Test statistic = (Statistic - Parameter) / (Standard deviation of statistic)
Test statistic = (Statistic - Parameter) / (Standard error of statistic)
Standard error is most often used, but standard deviation is just the standard error divided by the sample size.
In this case, the parameter is what you stated in the null hypothesis, while the statistic is based on the data you collected.For instance, in the null hypothesis, you determined that most dogs sleep 18 hours a day. Therefore, your parameter is 18. Maybe you observed that dogs generally sleep 16 hours a day. That's your statistic.
The standard deviation is often the standard error or average deviation divided by the sample size. For instance, the standard deviation in hours dogs sleep may be plus or minus one hour, which you'd divide by your sample size of 100., To find the p-value, which is an expression of probability, use a probability calculator. Plug your information in, and it should return a probability between 0 and 1. The closer it is to 0, the less likely it is that you would find this outcome if the null hypothesis were true. In other words, the closer you get to 0, the more likely it is that the null hypothesis is false, based on your data.You'll need the test statistic (which may be referred to as t-score or z-score), the significance level, and whether you have a one-tailed or two-tailed hypothesis to plug into the calculator. One-tailed just means you decided the alternative hypothesis was either above or below the null hypothesis, while two-tailed means you are testing both above and below the null hypothesis., Now, compare the p-value to your original significance level. If it's less than the significance level, then you can state that the null hypothesis is likely not true.