 Surrealist poetry originated out of a manifesto written by poet and painter Andre Breton in 1924. Surrealist poetry uses surreal techniques, like automatic writing and word games, to try to tap into the subconscious. Surrealist poets are interested in creating surreal states, such as a dream state, for the reader and play with language to understand their psyche a bit better.Because surrealist poetry is more about observing the psyche and the mind than it is about creating realistic or grounded images, surrealist poetry can often be unsettling and strange to read. The goal of this type of poetry is to create a surreal experience for the reader and allow the reader to interpret the content of the text on their own, or based on their own experience of the text.
 To get a better sense of surrealist poetry, it may help to read examples. There is a wide range of surrealist poetry, with some texts appearing more non-traditional and strange while other texts appear more traditional and easier to read. Some texts may use images, drawings, and photographs, as well as text. Several examples include:


“Jabberwocky” by Lewis Carroll.“Drift” by Caroline Bergvall.“Eunoia” by Christian Bok.“Me and My Pharaoh…” by Charles Bernstein., In surrealist poetry, a surrealist approach to a poem is also known as an experiment. To get started on your surrealist poem, you should first select the experiment you are going to use on an original text. Once you have the experiment, you can then apply it to the original text and see what ends up on the page.You could do a simple experiment, such as alliteration, where every line starts with the same letter, or an alphabet poem, where the poem is 26 lines long and each line begins with the next letter of the alphabet.
Another well known surrealist experiment is called “n+7”, where you take a text and substitute another word for every noun, adjective, adverb and verb using the dictionary. You will move 7 words up or down in the dictionary to find the replacement words.
You could do more complicated experiments, such as only using words that contain one of the vowels in the English language (a,e,i,o,u). Another option is to collaborate with other writers to create a poem, adding on one line to the poem and passing it or emailing it to the next person until you have a complete poem.
A list of surrealist experiments can be found online., Once you have selected your experiment, you will need to perform it to make the surrealist poem. This may mean using an original text and manipulating it in some way or creating original content based on the rules of an experiment. Depending on the experiment you select, you may end up “making” the poem by compiling existing text in a certain way or you may end up actually writing the poem using certain rules and guidelines.Try to stick to the rules and guidelines of your chosen experiment, as this could lead to some interesting results. You may be surprised by what happens to the original text when you apply the experiment to it. You may also be surprised by your own writing when you follow the rules of an experiment and avoid directing the results.
For example, maybe you decided to do the alliteration experiment, where each line or word starts with the same letter. You may write down a list of words that start with a certain letter, such as the letter "a" and then organize them according to your preference. A line in your poem may look like: "An aardvark at an abandoned atrium ate all apples".
Alternatively, you could choose a more challenging experiment like "n+7" and choose a word in the dictionary to act as your anchor word. You could then count seven up from the word to determine the next word in a line of the poem.
 Surrealist poetry is often not as interested in the final poem as it is in the process of making the poem. Though your poem may appear strange or confusing, it may actually succeed by surrealist standards. Read over the poem and note any unique descriptions, images, or lines. Look at how the experiment you chose affected the original text. Consider if it changed the text to reveal new or hidden meanings in the text. You should also look at how your writing changed as a result of the experiment.You may decide to edit the poem for spelling, grammar, and syntax. You can do this if you choose but try not to change major elements of the poem. Doing this may take away from your surrealist experiment and shift the poetry away from surrealism.

