


Keep the Sumatriptan Autoinjector System out of the reach of children.
 Important things that you need to know:


Autoinjector pen has a shorter name "pen" that is used by doctors.
Follow these step-by-step instructions every time you use the pen
Only use each pen once – do not try to use more than once. If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
,, Getting the pen ready

,,  


Before injection check that the liquid is clear.

If it is difficult to see what is in the window, hold the pen up to the light and check.
After injection, the plunger rod completely fills the medicine window.   If the plunger rod can be seen through the medicine window, the device is spent and cannot be used again.


Pull the cap off the pen.

Do not twist the cap.
Pull it straight off.
Keep the cap for step 7 7. Look inside the cap, check that the gray needle cover is inside.
Do not use the pen if the gray needle cover is not inside the cap


Do not try to put the cap back.

If you try to put it back, this will damage the needle.  
You are now ready to inject the medicine go to next step.  



,


Sumatriptan can cause serious side effects such as death, heart attack, stroke, increased high blood pressure, fast heartbeat, changes in mental status like hallucination, agitation and coma, tight muscles or trouble walking, changes in the color or feelings of fingers or toes, decreased blood flow to arms, legs or intestines.
Do not take sumatriptan if you have heart disease or a history of heart disease, narrowing of blood vessels in the arms, legs, stomach or kidney, uncontrolled high blood pressure, migraines that cause temporary paralysis on one side of the body or Basilar migraine, had a stroke or transient ischemic attack or other issues with blood circulation.
Do not take sumatriptan if you have taken another triptan or ergotamine medication in the last 24 hours or are allergic to sumatriptan or its ingredients.   Please see additional Important Safety Information on the back.
Please see accompanying full Prescribing Information and Patient Information.



You will now see a small blue projection in the medicine window.
As long as the blue circle is visible in the medicine window, the safety lock is de-activated; the pen could fire unintentionally Keep the pen pressed against your skin for the next steps.  

,,


You will hear a loud click (this indicates that the injection has started).
Keep pushing the pen against your skin.  

,  


Wait for about 5 seconds until you hear the second click. The second click indicates you that the injection has finished.  
If you take the pen off before the second click, not all the medicine will be injected.
, Do not rub the injection site. If needed, you may cover the injection site with a bandage.
 Do not try to reuse the autoinjector pen.
