 In order to ensure that you're at your very best, create sketches of basic items. People, animals, backgrounds, and props are excellent subjects to begin with. By familiarizing yourself with the shape and structure of general items, you'll find it easier to draw your comic strips, especially since you'll be making less mistakes.
 Choose catchy names for them. Experiment with all types of characters, not just ordinary people. Try super-humans, aliens, or inanimate objects coming to life. Additionally, animals make excellent companions because they can mimic or enlarge certain characteristics that you want the main character to portray. For example, you could have an owl with a large head for a brainy girl, a dog with a frown for a grouchy man, or a hyena with a cheesy smile for someone who always sees the funny side of life.


Practice drawing your characters. Play around with different body positions and facial features. By establishing their basic structures and main faces, you'll be able to draw them with more confidence.
Dip deep into your character. After selecting their name and personality, fill up their skeleton with extra details. While you may not reveal all of their quirks to your audience, their personal details will help them feel more real to you. This will help you connect to them, and you'll be able to bring them to life in your comics

, Once you establish a basic plot, write down the main story with additional details. Scribbling down your characters' dialogue will also be useful. Also, adapt your jokes for the age group that you intend this comic for. For example, complicated jokes will be more appropriate for teenagers or adults rather than young children.
 Determine its structure, as well as the size of the boxes that will be containing the characters and their story. Use stick figures or quick drawings to figure out the basic skeleton of your comic. Do not worry about doing your best, as this is a rough draft.
 Be sure it blends with the subject of your comic. Avoid choosing popular or dull names; otherwise, people will be reluctant to read your work. If you have trouble thinking of one, surf the Internet for suggestions or read other people's titles for inspiration.
 A "good copy" is the real version of your comic where the details and colors are completed. This step should be finished once you have established a basic structure of your comic. Sketch out the characters and their surroundings, being sure to add detail to your drawings. Once you are satisfied with the drawings, go over them with black ink for a professional look. To color the comic, you can either scan it into the computer and digitally color it. Otherwise, you can use special color pencils or markers.
 Ask them to read it and give you a critique. This will help you to gauge how funny and successful your comic is, which will guide your future comic-making.
 Continue practicing and creating new comics. You may consider publishing your works in the future.

