 Most universities have some form of career planning center. These centers offer resources like career planning advice, resume workshops, mock interviews, and referrals. The staff will be able to tell you about your university's unique programs and opportunities. Don't wait until after you've graduated to try to take advantage of these tools.;
, Your university Career Services office is a good place to start. If you do not have access to an advisor, start with a career interests test like the Princeton Review Career Aptitude Test or the Strong Interest Inventory. A counselor or an inventory test can help you identify your abilities and interests, as well as match them to careers that you may not have considered.
 These goals should be specific and measurable. For example, an early job search goal might be: "I am going to break down how each possible career choice relates to the interests I enumerated above," or “I am going to rank my immediate possibilities based on likely salary.”


Consider both short term goals, such as getting an entry-level position within an industry or profession, and long term goals, such as the rank and recognition that you would like to achieve. Your transition to the working world will be overwhelming if you try to accomplish everything at once. Your decisions will be much easier if you have a clear sense of how each choice fits into your immediate and long-term goals.
Brainstorming involves aspirational thinking, but should be kept grounded as well. Keep your goals specific and measurable. Focus on expressing your goals in ways that you can directly enact and assess.
 Once you have analyzed your interests, abilities, and goals, you should tailor the last years of your study towards those areas. For example, if writing is a chief talent of yours and you are considering a job in journalism, you should take more elective classes in communication, literature, or a related field.
 This is a great way to show employers that your skills extend beyond the disciplinary knowledge of philosophy. A minor in a foreign language will complement the value of your analytical thinking or businesses, or a minor in history could prepare you for public policy work.


Consider a double major, if your university allows. Your philosophy degree will be more compelling to many employers if you pair it with a marketing, communications, or social science degree. Plan ahead carefully to make sure that you can complete the requirements of both degrees.
 Employers look favorably upon graduates who have already gained experience outside of the classroom. Use your school's resources to seek out internship and co-op opportunities. Don’t expect your dream position right away: your first job will be an opportunity to learn and to demonstrate that deserve a better position.


If your university does not offer assistance in finding internships, use career networking sites like LinkedIn and Glassdoor or a specialized site like internships.com.If you want to gain experience directly related to arts and humanities, look for an internship at a museum or an editorial internship at a magazine with a relevant focus.
 Your degree has likely helped you hone some of the skills most desired by employers: communication, the ability to analyze and solve problems, research, critical thinking, persuasive rhetoric, and more. When applying to jobs, emphasize how these skills will help you succeed in the workplace. For example, an interest in rhetoric and discussion could be applied to a career in sales, public speaking, or politics. Many companies will value your skills if you know how to present them.