 The cable knit nail design works best on longer nails, where you have space to create more of the design. This isn’t a necessity, but can make the task a bit easier. Without taking much length off your nails, file the ends so that they are all uniform. You can file them straight across so that they have a square tip, or round the corners for an oval tip. This is a matter of personal preference – both tips work for this design.


If you have super short nails, you can purchase plain, glue-on nails at your local pharmacy or beauty supply store. You can shape these just as you would natural nails.;
, Your cuticles are those bits of skin at the base of your nail bed. It’s important to push these back before starting your manicure so you can expose the full nail to the nail polish. You can purchase a cuticle pusher at a pharmacy for cheap, and the process is not a difficult one.Apply a dab of hair conditioner to the cuticles. Just like conditioner makes your hair smooth and soft, it will make your cuticles easy to work with.
Soak your hand in warm water. This will make your cuticles even softer, making them super easy to push back.
Dry your hand with a towel and carefully push back the cuticles.
 This is an important step of prepping your nails. A clear basecoat will help your manicure last longer, which is great when you are taking the time to create a beautiful design. It gives the polish something to really stick to, preventing chipping and peeling. These basecoats can also moisturize the nails, cover up uneven areas, and prevent the polish from leaving a stain., The unique thing about cable knit nails is that the design will be the same color as the background color, so you will be using this color polish for every step. Apply it to the entire nail in smooth, even strokes. Start with one stroke down the center of the nail, and then one stroke on either side of that.If you get a bit of polish on the skin, you can clean it up later with nail polish remover, or simply allow it to come off naturally with some hand washing.


To choose a color, think about colors of warm, winter sweaters. Grays, soft pinks, mellow blues, and cream all work well for this. Of course, you can choose any color you like!

, It’s important that your polish is completely opaque so that the design can show up well. If you are using a lighter color polish, you may need to apply a second coat. Let the first coat dry completely, and then repeat the process once more. Make sure there are no uneven areas or patches, and that all of your nails are opaque.
 You can find mattifying topcoats at your local pharmacy or beauty supply store. These topcoats will give any polish a matte, muted finish. This step is very important. Because you will be creating the cable knit design in the same color, you want to create a contrast in another way. By covering the foundation color with a matte topcoat, the shiny finish of the cable knit design will be more vibrant and visible.


Apply your topcoat to every nail, and allow it to dry completely. Make sure that your nails are completely matte, without any missed spots.
 Before you start applying polish right to your nail, you should plan your design. A quick Google image search of “cable knit nails” will give you plenty of inspiration. Choose a design that you like, and one that seems doable depending on your level of expertise. Some cable knit designs have intricate loops and weaving, while others are more basic.
 Dip your dotting tool into the same polish that you’ve been using. Then, carefully start creating loops down the center of your nail, from cuticle to tip. To create this design, create an oval at the bottom of your nail, in the center. After you've created that first oval, create another one in the direction of the tip of your nail, edge to edge with the first oval.Continue making ovals until you have a chain of ovals down the length of your nail.
These ovals will look like interlocked cables of the cable knit pattern.
 After you've created your row of ovals, you will need to add details on either side of them. First, add a vertical row of dots down one side of these loops. Use the dotting tool and the same nail polish you've been using. Finish the pattern by adding long vertical stripes on the other side of the ovals. The stripes should run from your nail bed to the tip of your nail. Add as many stripes and as many dots as can fit on your nail – don't worry if it's only a few! This mimics the pattern of a cable knit sweater.A dotting tool is imperative for this technique, and if you’re into nail art, you will certainly get your money’s worth.
You can purchase these at many pharmacies and most beauty supply stores.
 If you apply your design thickly with the dotting tool, you may only need one coat. However, you may need to go over the design once more to give it the 3D effect that will make it stand out from the background. Follow the first design you’ve created, being careful to apply the second coat directly on top of the first.
 While you typically would finish your manicure with a topcoat, you will skip that this time. A topcoat would give your background color and the cable knit design the exact same finish. You want your background color to have the matte finish you created with the matte topcoat, and allow your design to dry with it’s natural, glossy finish.