 You can have profound control over your dreams by mentally preparing before bed. If you want to dream about a certain person or topic, thinking about this before bed can influence your dreams.


A lot of people strive to problem solve in a dream. If you're unsure where to go with a project, you may want to use your dreams to seek out a solution. To do so, think of the problem before bed. Visualizing can be particularly helpful here, especially if the problem is not abstract. If it's a personal problem, imagine the person you're having issues with. If you're struggling with an artistic project, picture a blank canvas or blank page.If you want to dream about a certain subject or person, visualize. If you're striving to dream of a deceased relative, try looking at pictures of that person before bed. If you want to dream about a place, look up pictures of that place before bed. Daydream about the person, place, or subject you wish to dream about as you fall asleep. This can help steer your dream in the right direction.;
, Verbally or mentally reminding yourself you want to control your dreams is a huge help when it comes to influencing dreams. Before getting to bed, think or say to yourself, "Tonight, I want to realize I'm dreaming. Tonight, I want to control my dreams.", Getting an adequate amount of sleep each night is vital to controlling the direction of your dreams. The stage of sleep known as REM sleep is where you tend to have the most dreams. Sleep deprivation results in a lower portion of REM sleep. Strive for 8 to 9 hours of sleep each night. This increases your ability to influence your dreams., Apps available for smartphones can be used to help you influence your dreams. If you're struggling to control your dreams on your own, consider investing in a smartphone app.


The apps work by giving you a choice of a variety of soundscapes. Options include things like "Peaceful Garden," "Space Shuttle," and "A Trip to Tokyo." Sounds usually start playing early in the morning, when you're most likely to be experiencing REM sleep. Some apps even detect your movement at sleep and begin to play your chosen sounds when you stop moving around as your body becomes still during REM sleep.Some apps have voiceovers that remind you that you are sleeping. They encourage you to take control of your dream, which can lead to lucid dreaming.Remember, not all apps affect everyone the same. Even if you use the app correctly, you may not be able to influence your dreams effectively.