 Art therapy is the practice of doing art to relieve tension or stress, or solve another medical issue – in your case, to relieve cancer fatigue. You don’t need to be an artist to enjoy art therapy. Instead, just open up your creative energies by painting, drawing, or sculpting during your art therapy session. Ask your doctor if your hospital has an expressive arts therapist or if they could recommend one for you., Research shows that music therapy can relieve not only cancer fatigue, but also the nausea and pain that often accompany chemotherapy treatments.You don’t need to be a musician to enjoy and benefit from music therapy.
To get started, ask your doctor if your hospital has music therapists on staff, or if they could recommend a music therapist to you.
 Massage therapy involves having your body gently rubbed and moved by a trained massage therapist in order to inspire good feelings and peace of mind. Research shows that while cancer patients are undergoing treatment, massage therapy can reduce levels of anxiety and fatigue.To get started, ask your doctor if your hospital offers massage therapy, or if they could recommend one. Alternately, visit your local massage parlor for a massage.
Back massages are especially useful in reducing anxiety levels in cancer patients.
Many hospitals now offer massage therapy as part of their outpatient clinic services.
 Aromatherapy involves using essential oils to achieve a therapeutic effect, either through inhaling the scent of the oil or by applying the oil directly to the skin. It’s not clear how aromatherapy works, but it has been shown to reduce emotional symptoms like stress and anxiety. When incorporated into a massage, it can also relieve pain.Talk to your doctor before starting aromatherapy to make sure that the essential oils will not interact with your medications or aggravate your cancer symptoms.
Visit a professional aromatherapist to find out which essential oils will be most effective for your symptoms, and how to use them properly.
Never take essential oils by mouth unless directed to do so by your doctor or professional aromatherapist.

