 You should not stay up all night just because you need to study; your sleep is the time when memories are properly processed. Denying yourself sleep can make your brain less effective at retaining information. In most cases, it is better to get at least a little bit of rest during the night rather than none at all.To remain healthy, never stay awake for two whole nights in a row. Pull an all nighter as infrequently as possible.;
, Thoughts such as: "I am almost done," "This is actually not too hard," "I will get to see the sunrise," "I will get a good grade," or other affirmations can help. Negativity will only slow your productivity, so assure yourself that you will be rewarded for your time and effort., You can decide to reward yourself if you make it to certain checkpoints throughout the night. For instance, if you stay awake to finish an assignment, you can reward yourself with chocolate or a brief Netflix break. These small motivators can guide you toward completing your overall goals for the night.
 This will allow you to have more energy during the night. If at all possible, make this a two to three hour nap and limit any potential distractions during this time. Be sure to take out your contacts if you wear them, since leaving them in could harm your eyes and prevent proper sleep.Set a timer if you're going to nap. Don't nap for more than 20 minutes during the all-nighter itself, and stay half-awake. Be aware that napping during the night could lead to you to staying asleep, so it is best avoided. The afternoon nap should suffice to see you through.
 Do a simple movement, like tapping your feet. If it becomes a habit, it might just save you from falling asleep during those final dire moments and it can keep you awake without being distracting., Avoid a decreasing sense of energy and motivation by setting a constant pace for yourself: For example, try 40 to 55 minutes of work, and taking a 5 to 20 minute break, or perhaps a quick walk around outside in a safe and well lit area., Take a short break to watch a part of a scary movie if you think it will help your productivity. Scary movies can keep one alert, but don't watch if it becomes a distraction; it's enough to watch a little during a 5-20 minute break., Coffee or tea may seem like an ideal solution at the time, but you may get a temporary buzz then crash badly the following day (perhaps halfway through your test or meeting). Try staying hydrated with water instead.Drink two glasses of ice-cold water every 30 minutes. Not only will the cold water help to keep you awake, but you'll need to urinate often, which will keep you alert.
Non-caffeinated herbal tea will also naturally keep you awake due to tea's extensive amount of herbs.
 Foods like sandwiches, cheese, and other dairy products can allow you to feel more alert. Sugary foods may make you feel awake for a little while, but will eventually make you crash and feel drowsy. Apples keep your blood sugar stable so you're able to stay awake longer. Any fruit or healthy food is better than eating sugary foods.Avoid eating a heavy meal the evening of the all-nighter. This will leave you feeling lethargic and sleepy. Eat a light, healthy meal, such as a stir-fry.
Avoid alcohol, as this depressant will make you sleepy.
 You may not enjoy it, but harsh and a arrhythmic music will keep your mind alert. Try to stick to instrumental music, which is less distracting. This will keep you from being lulled to sleep.


If others are sleeping around you, clearly you'll need to keep the level of the music low. Use earphones if necessary.
 There are acupressure points on your ears, and when stimulated, send electrical signals into your brain. Placing pressure on the tip of your ear can relieve pressure in your back and shoulders. Pinching the upper-middle part of the ear can help to relieve pain in your joints. After doing this, you'll feel buzzed and more awake., Distance yourself from your cell phone, the TV, and other electronics. Do not surf the Internet.Download an application that blocks distracting websites, such as SelfControl. You can also turn off your Wifi connection if the Internet is an overall distraction to you. Do not be tempted to turn it back on until you have completed your work.Set your cell phone to Airplane mode so that any incoming messages will be received when you are ready for them.
 Cold air will help to keep you awake, while warm air knocks you out. Think of the nights you can't sleep because of being cold compared to the nights when the cozy warmth of a room causes you to nod off. If you find the cold air is effective in keeping you awake, you can even go to the bathroom and splash your face with cold water.


Not everyone improves their alertness in cold air and feels sleepy in warm air. For some people, it works the other way around. Obviously, choose whatever works for you best.
 Do not set up a workspace on your bed, on a couch, or on the floor. If you work in any other place than a cold, hard table and chair, you will feel very tempted to sleep and the more comfortable the location, the worse you'll feel. If possible, work somewhere far away from your sleeping area or bed, so that it's an effort to go back and sleep. Try to be around some other people, too, so that you do not feel comfortable sleeping in your chair.
 Careful of slumping! When you're tired, slumping your body becomes a natural habit. However, make yourself sit up straight. It increases your state of alertness and helps you to feel better.


Try sitting in different places around the room.
Don't lay in bed with your eyes closed. You will fall asleep, falling into a crazed dream state in which you convince yourself that the work has been done already.
 If you can't even remember what you just read or you're nodding off involuntarily, you need sleep. Sometimes it is better to get three or four hours of sleep and cram what you can in the morning, rather than be in a complete daze the next day.