 This article tries questions about the value of proteins in the general and of enzymes in particular for the body in humans as a source of macromolecules that serve several functions within the body. Some of these proteins serve as catalysts for the metabolic reactions in the body but others are used for other important purposes such as building blocks for the cellular cytoskeleton. Also proteins can function for example as antibodies that serve the function of the immune cells. In addition certain proteins can serve as clotting factors for the blood. There are probably many other unknown functions of these important biological groups of compounds to the human body that need yet to be discovered and isolated.;
, We see from the previous discussion the immense importance of these molecules in the human body in particular and for all other living organisms as well. These proteins are built chemically from amino acids that are connected to each other using covalent bonds that are called peptide bonds. These peptide bonds are formed from the combination of a carbon atom of a carboxyl group of one amino acid with the amino group of a neighboring amino acid. This type of chemical bond between two amino acids is difficult to make in the usual organic chemical lab due to the nature of the organic groups that are involved. Especially notable here is the effect of pH on the performance of this type of bonds.
 In the body these chemical bonds are performed more conveniently using enzymatic catalysis. The whole process of making one protein molecule in the cell requires many amino acid molecules as building blocks for that particular protein. Most known proteins possess as little as 100 amino acids each. This is a very large number of chemical compounds that the body needs to recruit in order to build this protein and other proteins as well with similar and more numbers of amino acids. This means that the body needs a huge number of these amino acids on a daily bases in order to supply the row materials in order to synthesize these molecules in the body. This whole process requires therefore an exceptionally high amount of energy for the production of these protein compounds.
 The question then arises whether the economic value of making these compounds in the body is worthy the expenditure of this large number of calories in the body. Obviously this use by the body of macromolecules is universal for all its tissues and cells. This choice of these large compounds is of no clear energetic value for the body.
 The biological design of the body tissues that is so made to use primarily these large compounds is clearly a defective design for building a useful biological living system. These systems exploit energy so recklessly.
 Energy conservation is key factors in the design of all working systems in the world including living systems as well. This fact is obviously not being considered carefully in the design of our living systems. This question of energetic worth for sustaining a living system as it is in its current form at the molecular level should be seriously questioned. This design of using macromolecules so large as building materials for living systems is ubiquitous in this world. This is true for living organism as small as bacteria to systems as large as humans. The research in biology and biochemistry should not be aimed at the understanding of the function of these living systems. It should be directed at the way they were generated and what purpose they serve that this expenditure of the large amount of energy in the form of organic compounds worth their existence.
 Also the search for more useful forms of lives that are energetically less costly is a profitable process here.
 Also research should be directed to the design of living systems that do not have chemical components. Living systems are composed of chemical compounds that can be easily transformed by the effect of a foreign chemical material. For example dopamine analogues can induce psychotic symptoms in the body. This dependence of the body normal conditions on a foreign chemical substance is clearly a serious defect in this living system. This dependence on chemical compounds is observed not only with this compound. Other chemical compounds can trigger amnesia in affected people making them lose their memory. In addition other chemical compounds can trigger in the human body cancerous transformations that are incurable and intractable.
 Obviously all these above mentioned examples should give an idea about how much the human body is vulnerable in its existence to the effect of a foreign offensive material. The current structure of the living system that is chemically based is obviously not a good choice for building a human that is disease resistant and can live longer than it is possible today. The other choice is to design robots that use electrical circuits that could be reproduced and exist by its self. This can be achieved for example through the use of biologically based neurons that do not rely on metabolic chemical reactions for their survival. These are only ideas that one can think about.

