 Living in the information age means we have access to a nearly unlimited source of information. While in some ways this is exciting, people often end up inadvertently consuming unnecessary facts and tidbits. Try to absorb media in a more conscientious way. Stick to reading and learning about things that truly matter to you.


Choose to read about what's important. For example, spend a few hours each night catching up on the news. Try to install ad-blocking software so you don't get distracted by target ads and click bait type sponsored content.Read and learn about what's really important to you. The internet can be an overwhelming resource but also a valuable one. For example, if you're interested in French history, there's an unending supply of articles about the subject online. However, don't feel the need to click on a link your friend posts on Facebook about a movie you've never seen or a news story that feels unimportant to you.Work on filtering your social media. How many friends do you really care to keep track of? Try to cater your Facebook newsfeed to focus on posts from people you're close to and talk to on a regular basis., Oftentimes, we end up eating in excess due to fast eating. Slow down when chewing your food and allow yourself to savor the flavor. This will lead to you eating less and learning to appreciate your food more. Slow, conscientious eating is a great way to simplify.


You should also seek to change overall eating habits. Choose one place to eat in your home and avoid eating in front of the television set or on the couch. Even if you're eating by yourself, set the table. This will help you value the experience of eating and food.Put your fork down between every bite. Pay attention to the texture and flavor. Drink water in between bites. Try to appreciate the moment and the meal.Don't do anything else when you eat. Avoid your phone. Do not read a book. Simply enjoy one-on-one time with your meal. Enjoy the experience of eating in and of itself., Many people feel frustrated with rampant consumerism. You can work on being more environmentally conscious to live a simpler life.


Try growing some of your own fruits and vegetables if you have a backyard and live in an area where it's feasible to grow. If you're short on space, you could try growing herbs and small fruits and veggies out of pots on your porch or in windowsills.
Watch your trash output. Try to use goods that can be reused and rewashed, such as cloth handkerchiefs over tissues. Make an effort to recycle biodegradable items.
 Many people feel the need to fill their time with needless activities. This can lead to stress as you'll have an excess of commitments and obligations that do not necessarily leave yourself feeling fulfilled. Try to schedule a little alone time each week to teach yourself to appreciate your own company. Go for a walk alone. Read a book by yourself. Take a warm bath. Allow yourself tome time to be alone with your own thoughts.

