 These will be your peekaboo faces. Make your pictures with happy faces, sad faces,grumpy faces and and any other expression you can think of.At this point in your baby’s development, it’s starting to differentiate between identities. The baby is gaining a sense of identity and learning to compare its own identity to others.
Seeing faces with different emotions will introduce your baby to social cues so he’ll be able to better understand how people feel.
 Make sure the pieces of cloth are long enough to completely cover the faces that you have drawn. Glue the pieces of cloth above the faces on the cardboard. There should be a flap of cloth that can be lifted to reveal the face.


Give the glue a little bit of time to dry before showing it to your baby.
 Choose one of your cards and show it to your baby. Have your baby lift the flap to reveal the face. When it does, say, “peekaboo!” Your baby will be excited to see what new faces are on different cards.


Your baby is beginning to understand the concept of object permanence. Creating an interactive game of peekaboo encourages the baby to explore its surroundings for hidden surprises.The baby is learning to do research to find answers. It deduces that to see the funny picture, it will have to do the work of lifting the flap.
You may have to show the baby how to lift the flap a few times before it understands what to do.
 Your baby will likely want to play the game over and over again. Your baby will be excited to lift the flap and discover the face underneath every time. Searching for the picture and finding it will give your baby a sense of accomplishment. They’ll feel like they solved the riddle and were rewarded with the picture.Pop-up books are popular with children for the same reason peekaboo is.
You can make new cards periodically to keep the game fresh.
 As your baby gets older, it will become more interactive with peekaboo. Try covering your baby's face with a light cloth or towel and say, "Where's baby?" Pull the blanket away and say, "Boo!" Keep doing this until your baby begins to tug away the blanket in anticipation.At first, your baby may just wiggle or squirm under the cloth. Eventually, it will begin pulling away the blanket and may even say, "Boo!"

