 A little perspective can help you get to the bottom of your relationship quandary. Reach out to a close friend or family member who knows you well. Ask this person what they think.


You might say, “Hey, Don, I’m concerned that my relationship with Toni is holding me back. I don’t feel like she supports me or encourages me to push towards my goals. What’s your opinion?”
Your friend may shed some insight that you didn’t notice. For instance, they may respond, “Well, I obviously don’t know what’s going on behind closed doors, but I am concerned that she doesn’t want you to hang out with friends. She seems very controlling.”, After you have considered the aspects of your relationship that make you unhappy and sought advice from a friend, you have to make a decision. Will you express your feelings to your partner? Will you come up with ways of growing while maintaining your current relationship? Or do you want to end the relationship?, Whichever route you choose, you will need to have a forthright conversation with your partner about your feelings. Pull your partner aside and let them know that you want to talk. Schedule a time when you both can dedicate your full attention to the discussion. Turn off your phones and remove any distractions.


If this is your first time bringing this up, you might say, “I feel like I am not being supported by this relationship. I feel held back. I wanted to share my feelings so we can brainstorm options to improve the relationship.”If you are choosing to end the relationship, you might say, “I have put a lot of thought into this, and I think we should break it off. We have completely different goals for our futures. By staying together, we are sacrificing our goals for the relationship. I want us both to achieve our dreams, so I think it’s best if we break up.”

, If you both want to work on the relationship and find ways to make it mutually satisfying, you should consult with a couples therapist. A therapist can help you identify roadblocks that are hindering your growth (individually or together) and help you overcome these barriers.


Find a couples therapist by searching for one in your local area through resources like Psychology Today.