 We all lead very busy lives, and it can be hard to find a time to dedicate to taking care of ourselves. However, setting a routine will make it easier to commit to this practice.


The best times to meditate are generally right after waking up or just before going to bed. This is when you're less easily distracted by other activities. You can also meditate at other times of the day if these work better for you, as long as you commit to a schedule. In any case, make sure you set aside a time in which you feel calm and your attention is not driven to other things.;
, For example, you can reserve a special corner in your home for it. Even better, you can meditate in your garden if you have one. Whichever place you choose, make it become your regular space for meditation.Get a cushion, a mat or a chair that you really like and that you can use specifically for your practice.
Burn some incense, if you find it helpful. Aromas help many people concentrate and relax.
 Posture is extremely important in determining the outcome of your sit. This can vary based on the specific form of meditation you practice. Whether you are sitting on a chair or a cushion, push your shoulder back, keep your back straight and bring your chin to your chest a little so that you can extend the rear of your neck.


If you are sitting cross-legged, find a comfortable position that you can maintain throughout the practice. Put your hands on your lap, either with your palms up or in a position that feels comfortable for you.
Keep your body warm and relaxed; do not clench or tighten your muscles.
 When choosing a space, it is important that you don't usually perform other activities in it that might divert your attention. For example, a lounge with a TV can be a highly distracting space. Instead, a bedroom is a space where you are more naturally led to relax and focus on yourself.


People are by far the most likely form of distraction. If you meditate at home, choose a time when no one else is around. if you meditate in a park, opt for a secluded spot. It's okay to meditate in the presence of other people if they're also practicing some form of meditation.
Switch off your phone and other devices. You don't want to have to answer calls when you're in the middle of a sit. Put away anything else that might act as a distraction, such as books or food.
If you can't avoid some background noise, try to get used to it so that it no longer affects you after a while. It is impossible to find perfect silence; your mind needs to make the best of what you can get.
 According to a popular saying: ‘You are what you eat’. Eat light meals in order to prepare your body for a practice, and try to meditate away from larger meals if you can. The digestion process can take up most of your energies, which you would need for the practice.Avoid foods you might be particularly sensitive to: again, digestion issues can work as a distraction.
If you eat a lot of fried food, use too much oil or spices, you might feel restless while meditating. On the other hand, eating too much meat, canned food and food that has gone off can make you sleepy during your practice.
 At the start of your practice, have a gentle dialogue with your mind. Ask yourself what your purpose in life is. Talk to your mind sincerely as if it were a friend: you might not like everything about it, but by listening to your thoughts you will learn how it works and find a deeper connection with it.Ask yourself what you want to achieve through your practice, for example: "Do I want to get to know myself better?", or "Do I want to develop new habits?" Try to understand which thoughts can be helpful for your meditation and which are not., Take a deep breath, inhaling and exhaling with your nose and/or mouth. Regularity is very important to ease into relaxation and empty your mind of any unwanted interference.


Listen to the sound of your breath and focus on its flow: as you inhale, this goes from your nose and mouth to your chest and all the way to your lower stomach. Once this cycle is over, push the air out with a long exhale.
Breathe at your own pace. Just like meditation, breathing is about ‘letting go’. Hence, don't let the breathing become irregular or fainter as you go deeper into your meditation: keep up with your chosen rhythm.
When you get caught up in your thoughts, focusing on your breathing rather than on keeping them on a leash will help you concentrate.
 This could be just your breath, music, a given mantra or one you come up with. Listening to a monotonous sound while meditating will help you focus on your body rhythms and relax you more quickly.A mantra can be a single sound (o), a syllable (aum), a word (peace), a sentence (I am at peace). These are all useful to disconnect from all those undesired thoughts getting in the way of full relaxation.
You can choose to repeat a given mantra, for example the most popular ‘aum’, but you can also create your own. Coming up with your personal one will make you slide into a meditative state because you won't have to worry about whether you're pronouncing it right.Repeat the mantra throughout the entire time of your meditation. This will keep you going and make you feel refreshed.
 It is common for those who meditate to get lost in all sorts of thinking. For example, it is normal to go from having a clear mind one minute to thinking about the laundry you have to do after the practice. In this case, try not to control your mind too much. Allowing your thoughts to arise freely will help you understand how your mind functions.Remember that the need to control oneself can be just as powerful a distraction as anything else.
 If you wish to improve your practice, there must be something that prevents you from enjoying your sits to the fullest. Find out what the problem is in order to address it. By doing so, you'll be able to come up with a plan to get the most out of your your sits.


For example, your problem might be lack of motivation. In that case, you'll have to find motivation in your life to make the practice worthwhile. If your problem is distraction, you'll have to eliminate the source of distraction. If time never seems to be enough to save some time to meditate, you'll have to make some room in your daily schedule for your practice.
In many cases, the problem might simply be that, as a beginner, you're unsure of how to get the most out of your sits. If that is your case, working out a routine that works best for you will require some experimentation. You can try different mantras or positions and see which is the one that relaxes you the most.
 Everyone comes to meditation from a different background. You first need to ask yourself why you approached meditation in the first place and how you think this could improve your life. Having clear goals will help you define how to best use meditation to your advantage and perfect your skills.


Make a list of the aspects of your life on which meditation can have a positive impact. For example, if you stress out easily, mark "stress" as one of the things you want to fix through meditation.
Once you have this list, use it as a starting point around which you can design your practice. For example, if you want to use meditation as a way to free yourself from other people's judgment, start each session by clearing your mind from such worries and focusing on your own well-being.
If your issue with meditation is due to lack of motivation, having this list will give you enough reasons why meditation can help you. Use it each day to motivate yourself by taking a look at it before a session. After a while, you'll have internalized the motivation and you'll no longer need to remind yourself why you wanted to meditate in the first place.
 It's always good to get advice from someone who can expertly guide you through the process and give you personalized tips on what can work best for you. If you meditate as part of a group, try to replicate the same techniques when you're practicing on your own.It's always better to start meditating as part of a group. Guidance is necessary as a beginner. You can switch to meditating on your own when you feel confident you're familiar with the practice.
 Disbelief is by far the most powerful of all distractions. It's very hard to focus at all if you think the whole practice is useless. Have faith in your meditation techniques and in the fact that they will work. Take meditation as an ordinary procedure that helps you connect your body and mind and find a quicker way into relaxation.


As much as you trust in it, you shouldn't expect miracles from meditation. You might not be able to notice any change for a while during your practice.
 The teachings of meditation should be put in practice in your daily life. Meditation is about ‘discipline’, which has more to do with regularity than self-control. In order to achieve a better way of living, you have to train yourself and commit to it.Sticking to a routine in your day-to-day life is a way to extend your practice and turn your whole lifestyle into a longer form of meditation.
For example, get out of bed every morning right after you wake up. Do not allow yourself to get lazy. Give each day a purpose.

