 Three to 5 days before using a relaxer, clarify your hair. Shampoo your hair to get rid of products built up on your scalp. You may use a shampoo with sulfates, which will leave the hair extremely dry, or a shampoo without sulfates. Follow the shampoo with a rinse-out-conditioner and a protein based deep conditioning treatment.


For hair that has minimal breakage, use a light protein based treatment. A reconstructive hair mask is a great option. For hair with moderate breakage, apply a product that contains a lot of protein--look for keratin and amino acids on the ingredients list.
 Divide your hair into four equal sections, parting your hair in the center and then from ear to ear. Keep each section separate with four hair clips. Put on rubber gloves. Part one of the sections into thin sub-sections. Place the nozzle of the scalp basing gel bottle directly on your scalp. Apply thin strips of the product to each little part. Continue until you have completed all of the sections. Trace the tip of the base gel nozzle around your hairline, applying thin strips of gel. Don’t forget to cover the nape of your neck and behind your ears! Squeeze some of the gel into your gloved hand. Massage the product into each section.
 Place a towel around your shoulders. Beginning with one of the back sections, divide the hair into 1 inch horizontal sub-sections. Put on rubber gloves. Dip the applicator brush into the relaxer. Start at the scalp and coat each side of the 1 inch sub-sections with the product. Do not apply the product past the line of demarcation--the point at which new growth meets previously relaxed hair. Repeat until each section is complete.









Apply the product quickly--do not spend more than 5 minutes per section.
 With your gloved hands. comb through the hair coated in the product with your fingers--do not pass the line of demarcation. Comb and smooth the product into your hair until the line of demarcation vanishes. This may take up to 10 minutes.
 This should remove the majority of the chemical product. Apply the neutralizing shampoo and conditioner supplied in your kit. Rinse out the neutralizer and repeat. Remove the excess water from your hair with a fresh towel. Deep condition your hair, letting the product soak in for 20 to 30 minutes. Rinse your hair and apply a leave-in-conditioner.