 Book a hotel stay directly with a chain that offers gas cards as a reward for frequent bookings, such as Choice Hotels.Some hotel booking services, like Hotels.com and Expedia.com, have also offered gas cards as a reward for booking through them.


A few smaller chains or individual hotels also offer gas cards to visitors. Some Kensington Hotels or Personality Hotels offer a complimentary $10 gas card per night's stay.
If the hotel you're planning to stay at doesn't have an advertised gas card or free gas offer, inquire. Sometimes the gas-card package costs a little more than the standard room package, but you might still save money once you factor in the money you save on gasoline.
 "Drivertising" companies pay you a monthly fee in return for the right to place advertisements, ranging from rear-window decals to full-car covers, on your vehicle.


"Drivertising" companies to investigate include gasforfree.com and freegashelp.com. Often, these offers are only extended to frequent drivers that average more than 1,000 miles (1,600 km) per month. However, some agencies will make exceptions, especially if you live near a university or areas with high pedestrian activity.Other requirements include having a late-model vehicle in good repair, a clean driving record and valid insurance. You may get a bonus, or qualify for special advertising, if you drive a specialty vehicle or have an occupation, such as pizza delivery, that requires you to drive long distances every day., Ever notice that you've never seen a patrol car filling up at a gas station? That's because police officers in metropolitan areas usually get to fill up for free at specific guarded locations. This only applies to the unit cars, not their daily drivers, but it's an effective way at getting gas for free and getting around town on the city's dime.


Other jobs that let you use vehicles with gas in them include parks departments and other city jobs. You usually don't have to pay for gas, or you'll be reimbursed after the fact.
 Carpooling can be a great way of getting someone else to spring for the gas. If you give someone a ride somewhere, ask if they wouldn't mind springing for a little extra in the tank, or giving you some cash to help cover it. Totally fair request.


Some state and local governments also offer gas cards as an incentive for carpooling.Sometimes, the offers will be for other kinds of bonuses, like gift cards to restaurants or coffee shops. Still, free stuff!

, If you're traveling and need a car, you can sometimes get a little in the tank for free. Some rental companies offer a free tank of gas with select rentals, or as a part of other offers. If you don't have a strong opinion about what car you drive, or are willing to negotiate, you might luck out.
 You can usually redeem reward points for gift cards at the merchant of your choice, which sometimes includes gas stations, or fillable gas cards that will come with some money already loaded on. These can be a great and hassle free way of getting some extra gas at the pump.
 Some banks offer free gas as an incentive to draw new members. Keep an eye out for these kinds of offers and try signing up for a new savings account to keep all the money you're saving at the pump.


Research the terms and conditions of opening an account with that bank before you march in and ask for your gas card. In some cases, you may be required to maintain a minimum balance, or you may be charged a maintenance fee for keeping the account open.

