 You don't have to break the bank to eat organic. There are some foods that should always be preferred in their organic form owing to the heavy use of pesticides to grow these foods. See Choose the Most Important Organic Foods for more details. Be sure to wash conventionally grown foods well, using a vinegar and water rinse (10% vinegar to 90% water) on fruit and vegetables prior to consumption. Preferring organic and home-grown foods will help reduce your child's exposure to pesticides.;
, Always prefer wild fish over farmed fish to avoid antibiotic overloads.
 This will remove many of the potential chemical contaminants that might impact your child's health. Cut back on or eliminate the use of bottled water; not only is this a very unsustainable and expensive way to consume water but the use of bisphenol A used to manufacture some bottles is considered to be of some concern.Although the jury is still out on these claims,it makes sense to use the municipal supply and reduce your ecological footprint anyway.
 Use eco-friendly and human-friendly cleaning products promoted by green cleaning. Avoid purchasing toxic cleaners and laundry products.Many of these products contain allergens, asthma triggers, endocrine-disrupting chemicals and carcinogens., As with household products, do not use chemical sprays, dusts and other products on your lawn and garden. Choose organic and eco-friendly solutions to garden maintenance. Be guided by the motto that if you could eat off it safely, your child can play on it safely.
 Plastic wraps, plastic food containers and drink containers contain plasticizers and other chemicals that are known carcinogens and endocrine disruptors.Choose glass for storage of food and for reheating and cooking of food. Keep away from plastic food wraps.
 Not all toys are benign. Plastic toys, especially, can be harmful to your child's health, containing such chemicals as phthalates.Toys from wood, cloth, natural fibers and paper are better choices for children than plastic toys. Be careful of painted wooden toys, however; check that the paint is non-toxic. Hand-me-down wooden toys may use lead-based paint - have them tested before passing them on.
 Avoid grilling food, as this form of cooking can create potentially carcinogenic compounds.Avoid charring meats or other foods on a barbecue and always cook foods on a barbecue outdoors and on gas or electricity, not with charcoal products.
 Some cookware is unhealthy when heated, such as Teflon™ products, which contain PFOA (perfluuoro-octanoic acid), considered to be a potential carcinogen.Better choices are stainless steel, cast iron (great source of iron!) or ceramic-coated steel. You can also try parchment/baking paper in the base of a skillet or pan for non-stick "frying".
 Remove mold whenever it grows; it is a known asthma trigger. Be careful of having carpet laid - choose low-allergen carpets with safe glues. Many floor coverings use formaldehyde based chemicals and the gases that are emitted impact children who tend to sit on the floor frequently.Prefer linoleum, natural carpets, bamboo flooring etc. Paints should also be chosen carefully as their contents can outgas harmful chemicals; select eco-friendly and natural paint options. Many companies are very conscious of this need now, so look them up and support them., There is no excuse for this one and remember not to smoke in the car; not even with the window down.
 Get a good doctor who has no fear in saying no to antibiotics for the sake of mollifying parental concern. Follow instructions and complete courses of antibiotics when they are needed.And keep the use of cough syrups, cough lozenges and other readily available self-chosen remedies to a minimum. Many of these products contain artificial colorings, flavorings and strong chemicals that children should not be exposed to.If a product says that it should not be administered to babies, infants, and children, follow that advice and don't use it.

