 Run your vegetables under cold running water to prevent you from getting sick from pesticides or bacteria.Although boiling water will remove most of the bacteria that can be found on vegetables, you can still be exposed to it by handling them.


If you don’t plan on peeling a vegetable, make sure you scrub it with a produce brush to remove dirt.Dry off any vegetables you’ve peeled or washed with a paper towel or clean cloth.;
, Cutting your vegetables into comparable sizes will ensure that they all cook at the same speed. While you don’t need to get the size of your vegetable pieces exact, try to get as close as you can.


If you cut different sizes, smaller pieces will overcook, while larger pieces will remain raw.Root vegetables typically take longer to cook. If you want to cut down on cooking time, cut smaller pieces., Take your pieces of vegetable and place them into a deep pot that has an accompanying lid.


If you don’t have a big enough pot to boil all your vegetables, you can cook 2 batches of vegetables individually, in a smaller pot.
 Root vegetables such as beets, turnips, carrots, radishes, and potatoes cook better when they start in cold water. The gradual heat-up makes the vegetables resistant to overcooking, and ensures the outside and inside of your vegetable cooks uniformly.Fill your pot so the water rises a half-inch above your vegetables.
Seasoning with salt at this stage will add more flavor to your vegetables.
 Bring the water to a rolling boil. You’ll know you’ve achieved this when numerous bubbles begin to break on the water’s surface.


You can cover your vegetables while the water comes to a boil to quicken the rate of boiling.A full rolling boil can not be dissipated by stirring., Different vegetables require different cooking times. Root vegetables take longer than all other types of vegetable because of the starch that can be found in them. Often root vegetables are also larger than regular vegetables, which can also increase boiling times.Check on your vegetables often to ensure that you don’t overcook them.
Beets need to be boiled for 45 minutes to an hour.Turnips will take around 25 minutes if cut into smaller pieces.Typically potatoes will take 10-15 minutes to boil.Carrots will usually take 8-10 minutes, with smaller pieces taking anywhere from 5 to 10 minutes.Look online for specific boiling times for the root veggie that you want to cook.
If you continue to boil at the highest temperature, you’ll have water loss and run the risk of your water overboiling, or spilling out of the sides of your pot. This is why reducing the heat is so important after the water begins to boil., You can check on your vegetables every 5 minutes if you’re unsure how long you should cook them. If you’re having a hard time getting through the vegetable with your fork, or the fork gets stuck in the vegetable, you need to cook it longer. If your fork goes in and out, then your vegetables are adequately cooked.Frequently check back so you don’t overcook your vegetables. Over boiled vegetables get mushy.
 You can either use a strainer or a colander to drain your pot of water. Make sure that you begin draining as soon as you turn off your stove, because the vegetables will still be cooking while sitting in the water, and you don’t want to overcook them.

