 Your profile picture must be professional in order to give a good first impression. If you have use a profile picture that is inappropriate or silly, recruiters will probably remove you from their candidate list immediately. When choosing a profile picture, remember to choose one that:


Does not include anyone else but you. This reduces confusion regarding who the profile is about and draws all the focus to you.
Is just of your head and shoulders. Your profile picture is a small picture and will show your face better if you limit it's scope to just your head and shoulders.
Shows you wearing professional business attire. LinkedIn is a professional site. Wearing business attire in your picture is highly recommended. This includes a nice collared shirt and a suit jacket if you wish (for both men and women) or an unrevealing blouse for women.
Is in front of a solid background. Solid backgrounds allow the focus to be on you and not what is going on behind you.
Has a smile. A smile can make you seem more approachable to those who don’t know you.
Is preferably taken by someone else. It is OK if it is not done by a professional, but definitely no selfies.;
, Headlines are automatically filled with your most recent job title after you add your experience. These can be boring, and you should consider changing your headline to something more unique.


To make yourself stand out, edit your headline to tell the reader who you are and what you are an expert in.
For example, “Operations Executive", "Performance Driven, Airline Industry Expert”.
 Customizing your URL allows you to reference your LinkedIn page easily in your resume or on business cards and other documents. It should remain simple, with the best kind of URL including just your first and last name with no spaces or special characters.


For example, www.linkedin.com/in/firstlastname.
 Writing a LinkedIn summary is much like writing a professional biography. It should be brief, yet comprehensive enough to give the reader an overview of your career thus far. Also, it should be well-written and engaging to entice them to read through your profile further and accept or request to connect with you. While writing a summary, remember to include the following:


Tell your story in the first person. This means using the words I, my and mine to make your summary more conversational and easy to read.
Explain your expertise and interests. Use examples to show your value to potential clients and future employers.
Highlight your key accomplishments. If you have made some great achievements in your career, take the time to list these in your summary. For example, Top Sales Award Winner.
State a call to action. Explain what you are looking for while making connections on LinkedIn. For example, “open to new opportunities”, “looking to make mutually beneficial connections” or “contact me if I can be assistance to you”.
 As with your resume, list all the jobs you have held. The difference between a LinkedIn profile and a resume is that it is acceptable to add any and all jobs to your experience section, rather than limiting yourself to what is most relevant to the particular job you are applying for, as with a resume.


Also, you are also not limited to the 10 year rule as you would be on a resume.
Therefore, feel free to list any job you have ever held in your career.
Add a brief summary of the purpose of your job and the major tasks you have completed.
Bullet key accomplishments. As with a resume, you want to highlight your strengths and accomplishments to show you were successful at your job. For example, “Negotiated a $1.5M sale to increase profit margins by 25%”.
 The skills section of a LinkedIn profile can hold up to 50 skills. It is recommended for you to use all 50 of these slots to provide a full look at what you are capable of. This section is very easy to use because it populates suggestions as you are typing and allows you to click on these for a quick listing.


For example, while typing “Coaching” it may also populate “Business Coaching, Job Coaching and Staff Coaching”.

