 Remove any loose materials, cars, dirt, or stone from your driveway. If your driveway touches any doors or walls, cover them with a tarp or some painter's tape. This will protect them from any debris that may fly around while you are pressure washing.Check to see which end of your driveway is the highest and what direction the water will flow while you are washing.
It is best if your water is absorbed by your lawn. If the water drains into a storm drain, you will be introducing chemicals into your local water supply.;
, Oil and antifreeze stains are the stains you will most likely have on your driveway. Before you use a pressure washer, apply a degreaser to the stain.Allow the degreaser to sit on the stain for five to 10 minutes to soak up the stain.


Use the degreaser at full strength for older stains that have penetrated your driveway. Dilute the degreaser with water for newer stains.Follow the dilution instructions on the degreaser bottle. The dilution ratio will vary depending on the product that you use.
Once you have allowed the degreaser to sit, scrub it into the stain using a stiff brush.
 Typically you will use a pressure hose to connect the spray wand to the washer and connect the washer to a garden hose. The setup may vary depending on the pressure washer that you are using. Always read the instructions before you set up the pressure washer.The pressure washer comes with both low pressure and high pressure nozzles.
If your cleaning a brick driveway, do not use the high pressure nozzle at all.
 The instructions that come with your pressure washer will tell you what type of detergent you should use. Only use detergents that have been formulated to use with a pressure washer.Use the low pressure nozzle to apply the detergent to your driveway. Point the nozzle downward and move back and forth over your driveway. Allow the detergent to sit on your driveway for 15 minutes.Do not allow the detergent to dry on your driveway. If you notice that is getting dried out, apply some water to your driveway.
Do not add bleach to your pressure washer because the bleach may cause damage to the washer.Start at the higher end of the driveway and move in the direction that water flows.
 After fifteen minutes, use the high pressure nozzle to wash away the detergent. Make sure you set the pressure washer to rinse mode. Use the same pattern you used when you were applying the detergent.Be sure to wash away all of the detergent.
Pay extra attention to the heavily stained, dirtier areas of your driveway.
You can use a surface cleaner attachment for more effective cleaning. If you use this attachment, do a final rinse without the attachment one all of the detergent and dirt are gone.