 If possible, try to be with your dog when there are loud noises around. Having you nearby will help your dog feel more reassured than if it were alone. You're part of its pack, and you help make it feel safer when things are scary.For instance, if you know there's going to be fireworks, like on the Fourth of July, try to be home, and make sure not to leave your dog outside.
 While you do want to be there for your dog, make sure you're not over-comforting it. That is, if you are acting anxious and nervous because your dog is scared, that will only make it more nervous. Dogs are sensitive to emotions, so if you're anxious, you'll make it more anxious.For example, if your dog is whimpering in the corner, you can pet it as you go by, but don't try to get down in the corner with it. Stay in the same room with it, and let it come to you if it wants to.
 To help your dog deal with the noise, try to create a safe space it can retreat to. The best option is a dog bed or kennel in a windowless room with some sound protection. If your dog doesn't already use a space like this one, get it accustomed to it by feeding it in that area or bringing treats over there. You can also add the dog's favorite toy and blanket., If your dog is chewing on the wall because its afraid, you may be tempted to punish it. Doing things like yelling or putting the dog outside will only make the dog more anxious. Plus, your dog will have another bad thing to associate with loud noises--being punished.Try distracting your dog with treats if possible. Otherwise, try to use the other tactics listed to distract your dog from the noise.
 Thunder shirts are a kind of tight vest that you put on your dog when there might be loud noises. It seems to help some dogs deal with the anxiety of loud noises. It may be that they perceive at as someone protecting them.Also, some dogs try to crawl into tight spaces with this phobia, so it could be it helps with that need., Chewing is a great stress reliever for your dog, which is why some dogs chew on walls and furniture when they're upset. While you don't want your dog chewing on your furniture, you can give it something to chew on. That way, you don't have ruined furniture, and your dog gets stress relief.Bones (from a pet store) and pig ears are great for this purpose, as they taste good as well as keep your dog occupied. You can also try a puzzle food toy to keep your dog occupied.

