 Trace a 1½-inch (3.91-centimeter) wide semicircle on a sheet of red or green felt. Cut the semicircle out with a pair of scissors. This will make the elf's hat.Red and green are the most popular elf colors. You can use other colors too, however.;
, Fold the semicircle in half widthwise with the straight edges touching. Sew or glue the straight edges together, but leave the tip of the cone open. This will allow you to assemble the elf at the end.


Hot glue will work the best for this.
For a more rustic touch, use embroidery thread in a contrasting color.
 Push the beads onto skewers or toothpicks, then stick the skewers/toothpicks into wads of clay. Paint the beads as desired, then let them dry. You will need 16 small beads for the arms and legs. You will also need a large bead for the body, and a 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) wooden bead for the head.


Paint the 16 small beads red or green.
Paint the body bead the same color as the small beads.
Paint the head bead a flesh tone that suits you. Don't worry about the face yet.
 This will make the skeleton for your elf. The ends will be visible as feet, so choose the color wisely. A red, green, or black pipe cleaner would work best for this.
 Slip the body bead over the bent part of the pipe cleaner first. Push it down about halfway, then add the head bead. Finally, add the hat. Position the hat over the elf's head.For a final touch, consider threading a mini jingle bell onto the pipe cleaner. Position it right above the hat., Adjust the body, head, and hat on the pipe cleaner so that the bent part is about ¾-inch (1.91-centimeter) long. Use a pencil to pry open the bent part so that you get a small loop.You will be threading a ribbon through this later so that you can hang your elf up.
 You can draw the face using a marker, or you can paint it on using a thin paintbrush and acrylic paint. Keep the face simple. A pair of black dots, a smile, and some rosy cheeks will be plenty.
 Spread apart the loose ends of the pipe cleaner skeleton, just below the body bead, to make a V shape. Slide 4 small beads onto each end, pushing them up against the body bead. These will make the legs., You should have a little bit of pipe cleaner sticking out from each leg. Fold the ends over once or twice to make the feet. Bend the feet so that they are at 90-degree angles to the beads. This will keep the leg beads from falling off.
 Take a new pipe cleaner, and cut it in half. This will make the arms and hands. You can use another red or green pipe cleaner for this. You can also use a flesh-toned pipe cleaner instead if your elf doesn't wear mittens.


Save the other half of the pipe cleaner for a different project.
 Place the mini pipe cleaner behind the elf, between the head and body beads. Make sure that it is centered, then twist both ends around the elf's neck to secure it. Spread the ends out like a T.
 Push the beads onto the pipe cleaner until they bump up against the body of the elf., You can fold the ends over several times to make hands. You can also roll the ends into tight spirals to make "fists."

, Cut a ½ by 4-inch (1.27 by 10.16-centimeter) strip out of red or green felt. Cut a small fringe into each end. Cut a small slit into the scarf, 1¾ inches (4.5 centimeters) from one of the ends. Wrap the scarf around the elf's neck. Pass the opposite end through the slit, and tighten it., Cut some thin ribbon, and thread it through the loop at the top of your elf. Tie both ends into a tight knot. You can use any color you want, but red, green, or white would look best.


The thinner the ribbon, the better. About 1/16 and 1/8-inch (0.8 and 3.2-millimeters) wide would be ideal.

