 Most tasks have several parts to them. Before you can accurately estimate the time needed for tasks, you must identify each component or step of the task, then calculate how long it will take to accomplish it.For instance, in a business setting, you’ll need to agree on what the deliverables will be. You’ll then need to know long it will take to complete each step on the way to finalizing each deliverable. For instance, if you know you need to create a presentation, a report, and a prototype product, you can draw up three independent estimates then add them to arrive at your most accurate estimate.
 In business or other organizational settings, you often have tasks and substeps assigned by superiors. In these cases, you should already have a clear sense of what you need to accomplish, and consult your client or superior for more information regarding what each step requires., On large projects, you often have many steps. You might be able to complete these steps in any order, or you might need to order your activities in a logical way. For instance, if you’re building a house, you’ll need to order your activities based on the order in which they are possible. You will have to add the time it takes to lay the foundation, the time it takes to assemble the frame, and so on.In other cases – for instance, developing a new product – you and/or your team can work on multiple aspects of the product concurrently. For example, you might be able to develop ads and marketing for the product while another team develops a plan to showcase the product at relevant industry events. The estimated time to completion in this case is simply the longer of the two time estimates.
 Some tasks require the input and assistance of others for completion. For instance, when writing a comic book, someone needs to write the script, then someone needs to draw the book, and someone else needs to ink the book. In these cases, get input from the other individuals involved in order to get the most accurate estimate needed to complete the task. Otherwise, you might end up estimating how long each step of the process will take with a low degree of accuracy.Remember, if some people are working part-time on the task, they might not provide an accurate estimate if they switch roles.
When you draft final time estimates, ask others on your team for input about whether or not the timeline in which you will complete the task seems valid.
Assume that your team will only be productive 80% of the time. Be sure to factor in time for sick days, accidents, meetings, and other unforeseen problems.
 Assuming the task you’re trying to develop a more accurate estimate for began with a plan, follow the plan step-by-step until completion. Deviating from your plan will cause your estimate to become less accurate.Sometimes it becomes inevitable that you have to abandon the initial plan in favor of a new one. If this occurs, revisit your initial estimate to determine how to compensate for the newly-revised plan.
 Phased implementation involves completing a task over a long period of time in which the discrete substeps or different parts of a task are completed in a linear way. Each stage of the task, once completed, enables forward motion toward the next stage of the task. This is especially useful in situations in which you’ll be producing or installing an identical system or product over and over again.For instance, suppose your task is to install a new operating system on all ten computers in your office. After each installation, you’ll have another data point you can use to develop a more accurate estimate of how long it will take until the entire office has the new operating system.
 To more accurately estimate the time needed for a given task, you must practice it repeatedly and track exactly how much time you’re actually doing it. The best way to track the time needed for tasks is to split them up into substeps, then accurately track each substep. With an ongoing data collection system, you’ll be able to develop ever-more accurate estimates for time needed to complete tasks.Keep the data for tasks you expect to need an accurate estimate for again in the future., Depending on the task you’re trying to develop a time estimate for, you could use apps to track the time needed to complete it. There are apps available to track time, though you might be content to simply use a spreadsheet or pen and paper to track your time on a given task.For instance, if you’re trying to track how long it takes you to run two miles and bike two miles, you could use a FitBit or similar fitness tracker, or an app like MobileTrack. Work-related time-tracking apps include Eon, Slips, Clockwork, and Punch.
If you’re doing a more manual task, you could bust out a pen and pad of paper. Write each task you’re trying to get a more accurate estimate for in one column and the time it took to complete the task next to it.
For instance, if you’re trying to get a more accurate estimate for how long it takes you to get out of the house each day, you might write a list that reads, “Get dressed – 4 minutes; Brush teeth – 3 minutes; Eat breakfast – 10 minutes,” and so on. Repeat daily, and average the task totals at the end of each day.

