 Frying all of those pancakes can take some time, and by the time you finish making the last one, the first few might turn cold. You can keep your pancakes warm by turning the oven on and setting the temperature to 200째F (94째C). You can keep an oven-safe dish in the oven, and place the pancakes into the dish once you take them off the frying pan. This will help keep your pancakes warm while you finish making the rest of the batch., You can make pancakes over a griddle or in a frying pan. While griddles take up more space than frying pans, you can also make multiple pancakes at one time over a griddle. The surface will need to be very hot before you can start frying the pancakes. Here is how you prepare both surfaces:


If you are using a griddle, lightly grease the surface of your griddle with some butter. Turn on your griddle and set the heat to medium-high. You can tell if the surface is hot enough by sprinkling some water onto it. If the water droplets bounce and sizzle, it's ready.
If you are using a frying pan, turn on the stove first and set the temperature to medium-high. Set the pan on the burner and drop in a small cube of butter (or any kind of grease). Tilt the pan around to spread the butter evenly.
 Once the griddle or frying pan are hot enough, spoon some of the batter onto the surface. Each pancake with require thee to four tablespoons. Consider using a soup ladle.


If you have added other ingredients to your batter, such as chocolate chips or fruit pieces, then lightly stir batter before scooping it onto the griddle or frying pan. This prevents the bulky ingredients from settling to the bottom.
 This will take about four minutes. When the batter starts to bubble and form tiny holes on the top, the pancake is probably ready to be flipped over. Slip a spatula under the pancake and peek at the color underneath. If it's golden, flip the pancake over and let it cook for two more minutes. The pancake is ready when it is golden-brown on both sides.


If you are using a frying pan, you may tilt the pan from side to side to make the pancake bigger and thinner.
 Once the pancake is finished, use a spatula to take it off a griddle. Slide it onto a plate, and spoon more batter onto the griddle or frying pan. If the pancake starts to burn, you may have to add more batter.
 You can also store them in an oven set to 200째F (94째C).
 Once you have made all of the pancakes, you may serve it. The traditional topping is maple syrup, but you can also top it with various other ingredients. Refer to the section on pancake variations for some ideas.

