 In many cases, you will be able to make a dinner reservation early in the same day. However, if you are planning the dinner ahead of time, call earlier. This is especially important if you have a large group or have special requirements such as dietary needs. Most restaurants will accept reservations a few days in advance, and exclusive fine dining venues will often accept (or even require) reservations weeks or months in advance.


If you make your reservations more than a few days in advance, it is best to call the day of the dinner to quickly confirm your reservation.
 A helpful way to get a reservation at a heavily booked restaurant is to avoid the dinner "prime time" - usually around 7:30 pm. Remain open to booking a reservation at 5:00 pm or even 10:00 pm (depending on the restaurant's hours). This will increase your chances of getting a table the same day or earlier in the week than you expected.
 If you are attempting to book a tough reservation, remember that your attitude on the phone will go a long way. Be confident but polite; avoid giving the impression that you feel entitled to a reservation. Remember, however, that even Michelin-stared restaurants are not in the business of turning away customers. If the host replies that the restaurant has no availability, explain your situation and ask politely if there is any way you can be accommodated in the future.
 A further strategy for booking a tough reservation is asking for availability in person rather than over the phone. This shows that you are willing to put a bit of effort into securing a table. A host is also much less likely to be dismissive or unhelpful when dealing with you face-to-face.
 Once you've secured your reservation, call ahead and apologize if it looks like you'll be up to 20 minutes late. If you are running much later than that, consider canceling and rescheduling your dinner. Remember that reservations are made for a reason - to make sure as many guests as possible are served on each night. If you are late it affects other guests' reservations.
 Some restaurants allow you to book online using websites like OpenTable, Reservation Genie, or through their own proprietary system. Not only do these websites offer the convenience of seeing which time slots are still available for dining, but many of them offer coupons or membership rewards programs through which you can accumulate perks by using the service.


A similar way to accumulate perks like discounts or reservations at exclusive restaurants is through your credit card company. Credit card companies often include restaurant discounts in their rewards programs as a means to attract customers, and some high-profile cards even offer exclusive access to heavily booked restaurants.
If you book your reservation online, you may still want to call ahead and confirm before arriving.

