 The most important part of a how-to guide is the main sequence of events.The order of the steps is very important since the nature of the guide is a step-by-step approach. If there is more than one possible order for some of the steps, you should choose one. You could note that some of the steps are interchangeable, but it’s best to commit to a particular order.


Your sequence for making a mango mojito could be gathering the ingredients, muddling the mint and mango, pouring the liquor and club soda into a mixer, mixing the ingredients, placing ice in a glass, placing the muddled mint and mango on top of the ice, pouring the liquids over the ice and fruit, then garnishing the drink, and serving the drink.

The sequence is important; obviously, you can’t serve the drink before you make it. An example of an optional item placement in the sequence is when to place the ice in the glass: it could be done before you start mixing the drink.
 Even if a single step contains detailed information, it should begin with a clear, concise heading. The heading should be directing someone towards an action.Some people may skim your guide, or rely primarily on the headings to guide them, reading the subtext only if they are confused about how to implement a step.


For example, a heading for a step in your mojito making may be “Muddle the mint and mango.” Someone who knows how to muddle may read the step heading and do the step without reading the instructions that accompany the step. The heading is clear and precise.
 Beneath your clear headings, you should provide adequate (but not overwhelming) additional information.If you find that your information for completing a step exceeds 4 or 5 bullet points or sentences, you might want to break the step into two steps. You can always use “part one” and “part two” if a single heading is necessary for both steps.


Consider using bullet points to break up information. This is often more accessible than a paragraph of block text.The text beneath the heading “Muddle the mint and mango” may be:

Use a mortar and pestle to crush the mint leaves and mango chunks.
If you do not have a mortar and pestle, you can use a small bowl and the back of a rigid spoon.
 Particularly if you are writing for laypeople (not experts in the field in which you are writing), you should write clearly and use short, active sentences. Aim for a 7th or 8th grade reading level., A how-to guide almost always benefits from graphics.The level of graphics that you can use may be limited by the publication medium (if you are creating a print publication, for example, you may be limited to black and white line graphics). Graphics should be high-quality and should show exactly what is happening in each step.


Be sure that you have permission to use and/or publish any graphics that you did not create yourself.
If you are writing a how-to guide for a technical process on a computer, you may want to take screenshots to demonstrate what you are saying.
For making a mojito, photographs of the drink evolving with each step would be helpful to most readers.
 Use a graphic editing program to draw arrows to or circles around portions of your graphic in order to direct the audience’s attention to what you want to show them.


For example, if you have a provided a photograph of all of the ingredients of your mojito with the step “Select a quality rum,” you may want to add an arrow on top of the graphic that indicates the bottle of rum in your photo.

