 It will be easier to remove the stain with chemicals and water if you first scrape off whatever toothpaste will loosen up.


Try using a small knife or sharp object to scrape off as much of the toothpaste as you can. If you are a child, only do this with parental supervision, however. Scrape only very gently so that you don’t end up damaging the clothing by poking holes in it. You are just trying to get the surface-level toothpaste off.Be careful not to rub the toothpaste too hard or you could embed it even more in the fabric. You could also try to use your fingers to pick some of it off if you are nervous about using a knife. The sooner you try to remove the toothpaste, the easier it will come off.
If the toothpaste sits on the clothing for very long, it could erode the color in the clothing. Whitening toothpaste that contains bleach can damage the clothing especially if it remains on it for very long.;
, Many stain removal methods involve water. You need to make sure the fabric won't be damaged if water is applied to it.


If the clothing is dry clean only, do not use water at all or it will leave a spot.
If you don't have time to take the clothing to the dry cleaner, there are dry cleaning stain removal products that can be used on these pieces, though.
 This will help loosen the stain some more. Mix a few drops of laundry detergent with a cup of water. You can use stain remover in place of the laundry detergent.


Try spot cleaning the clothing first. Dip the cloth in the sudsy water, and gently blot/scrub the toothpaste area. Once the detergent penetrates the toothpaste stain, the stain should release itself somewhat.
Wet the area and put pressure on your shirt with the water so it comes out. If it still looks tinted white, then it is not completely out. The titanium dioxide powder causes the white staining on clothing. That’s why you will likely need detergent to get it out.
Blot the area with water to rinse. Allow the spot to air dry. Don’t apply heat to it yet because heat can set the stain into the clothing.It’s possible that this is all you need to do. It depends on the nature of the stain. If the stain remains at all, you’ll have to wash the clothing more thoroughly.

