 Common holiday and special event traditions often require you to "lie" to your children about certain characters. For instance, parents tell kids that Santa drops off present on Christmas Eve, that the Easter Bunny brings special gifts, and that the Tooth Fairy leaves a dollar for a lost tooth. Help your kids understand these traditions, and discourage them from prematurely telling their peers.You might say, "I know it's not nice to lie, but these traditions help children believe in the impossible. Plus, they make childhood so much fun. Now that you know I need you to promise that you won't tell your younger siblings or any friends. Can you keep it between us?"

, A common dilemma parents of young children face is them not having discretion after receiving a disappointing gift. A young child is quick to shout “This is a dumb gift” or “I don’t like it!” Responses like this effectively humiliate the parent and the giver. It also decreases the chances of the giver giving in the future.


Rather than excusing a little white lie, help your child devise a response that is truthful while still positive. For example, if your child receives a book she already has, she can say, “Thanks, Aunt Rita, I really like this author.”
Similar responses show gratitude for the gift and protect the other person’s feelings., Compliments are also an awkward area for young children. A family friend is getting married. Instead of praising the bride in all her beauty, a child yells “CiCi, your dress makes your butt look big!” This will make everyone laugh, of course, but it may not be what the bride needs to hear right before she walks down the aisle. Help your child learn genuine and appropriate ways to compliment others.Remind your child that even if the comment is true to them it may not be necessary or kind. Encourage them to focus on more socially appropriate compliments like “Wow, your hair is beautiful” or “Your dress is really fancy.” Such remarks will be met with approval from the bride and won’t make her feel self-conscious.
 When you say “honesty is the best policy,” kids take that to heart. Unfortunately, this could translate to them being unnecessarily mean to their peers for the sake of telling the truth. Practice ways to turn down invitations and similar situations without hurting others’ feelings.You might ask your child, “What can you say to Jessica if she wants to play outside and you don’t?” The child might respond with “I don’t want to come outside with you” in a rude tone.
As a parent, you can act out this scenario with your child and ask them how they would feel if a friend said this. Then, think of an honest but friendly alternative like “No, thank you, Jessica. I’d rather play with my dolls inside today.”

