 Your rabbit can show fright in a number of different ways. Screaming is a very common way for rabbits to show fright. In addition, your rabbit may run back and forth in his hutch or other enclosure. He might also widen his eyes, bare his teeth, and flatten his ears against his head.Frightened rabbits may also stay motionless.
You may notice your rabbit’s fur looking spiked up or puffed out if he is frightened.Other signs of fright include repeated circling in the cage or hutch, sitting in a hunched position, and chewing on cage bars.If you notice any signs of fright in your rabbit during a thunderstorm, act quickly to calm him down.;
, If you have an outdoor rabbit, he should be inside during a thunderstorm. Bring his entire hutch inside if you can. If the hutch is too large or cumbersome to bring inside your home, leave it outside and bring only your rabbit inside.


If you cannot bring the hutch inside, prepare a comfortable caged area in your home for your rabbit, which should include comfortable bedding and some of his favorite toys. If you know the storm is coming, prepare the caged area well ahead of time.
Leaving your rabbit outside in his hutch is not a good idea, even if you cover the hutch with a sheet or large blanket to block out some of the thunderstorm’s noise. Your rabbit would still become frightened, and you would not be able to detect his signs of fright.
 To calm your rabbit during a thunderstorm, you will need to set up an area where he can hide and feel safe until the storm is over. If you were able to bring his hutch inside, set up a cozy hiding area within the hutch that has lots of comfortable bedding. Within a caged area (or other type of enclosure), set up a separate hiding spot with bedding.


Use a cardboard box to create a cozy hiding place. Cut an opening out of the box so your rabbit can go inside of it.Place comfortable bedding in the box.
Consider putting some hay in the box to give your rabbit something to chew on.
Put some of your rabbit’s favorite toys in the box as well., Your rabbit may still be worked up if he can hear the thunder. Closing the widows and drawing the curtains can help drown out the noise. You can also turn on some white noise, such as an air conditioner or fan, or turn on some soothing music., In addition to providing a comfortable physical space for your rabbit, you can also interact with him to calm him down. For example, your rabbit may want to be close to you to ease his fears. Let him come to you first, though. Rabbits can be very affectionate, but want to show their affection according to their own schedule and comfort level.Keep in mind that, in general, rabbits do not enjoy being handled or cuddled. If your rabbit is not comfortable with you holding him, simply sit quietly with him and let him be affectionate with you in his own way.
If you have brought your rabbit’s hutch inside, consider leaving him in there until the storm calms down. He may be perfectly content to rest in the hutch’s hiding place, and may not want you to take him out and interact with him.
 If your rabbit doesn’t mind being close to you, try gently covering his eyes for a few moments. Reach from behind, with your fingers resting comfortably near his nose. Covering your rabbit’s eyes can help calm him down, at least momentarily.If your rabbit is already in his hiding place, leave him be. You don’t want to cause him any more distress by forcing him out of his hiding place.
 If your rabbit is up to it, play some interactive games with him to distract him from the thunderstorm’s noise. Go bowling with your rabbit—set up some plastic bowling pins and let your rabbit knock them over with his nose. You can also play ‘reverse’ fetch with your rabbit—let him toss something towards you with his teeth.Allow your rabbit to snatch something (e.g., piece of newspaper, junk mail) out of your hand and run away with it.If your rabbit is taking a while to calm down, do not force him to play games with you. If he would rather lay quietly in his hiding place, let him do so.
 If your rabbit is screaming or showing signs of fright that will not cause injury, you can continue helping him calm down at home. However, if he has gotten so worked up that he has injured himself (e.g., spinal injury, fracturing limbs), then he will need veterinary care.In addition, your rabbit’s fright could cause him to have a heart attack, which would definitely require veterinary care.If your rabbit has broken his back, his back legs will be completely or partially paralyzed, depending on the severity of the break. He may or may not be able to urinate and defecate. If you put your hand on his back, you may be able to feel the location of the break.With a fractured limb, your rabbit will be limping and likely dragging the affected limb across the ground. He may appear guarded and even depressed.If your rabbit is lying still, put your fingers on his chest (near his elbows) to see if you can feel a heartbeat. If you do not feel a pulse, you can do chest compressions by squeezing his chest with the fingertips of one hand 1 to 2 times per second. Do not attempt CPR.
Stay calm while you assess your rabbit’s injuries. You need you to be able to think clearly, so you can get your rabbit the care he needs as soon as possible.
 Not all veterinarians have experience working with rabbits. If your regular veterinarian is not comfortable caring for rabbits, ask him or her for recommendations on where you can take your rabbit for veterinary care. You can also contact local rabbit rescue organizations or your local pet store for put recommendations.In an emergency situation, you probably will not have time to search for a veterinarian with rabbit expertise. In that case, contact your local veterinary emergency clinic and take your rabbit there.
You could drive straight to the emergency veterinary hospital, but calling first will give the staff time to become aware of your rabbit’s health condition and prepare appropriately for your arrival.
To safely transport your rabbit, pick him up gently, wrap him snugly in a towel, and place him in a carrier.Be especially careful handling your rabbit if you think he has broken his back.
 The veterinary staff will treat your rabbit according to his injuries. Be aware, though, that veterinary care is usually not successful for broken backs. Potential surgical procedures for broken backs in rabbits are risky and have not been very successful.If your rabbit has a fractured limb, the veterinary staff may be able to place a splint on it.


To control your rabbit’s pain, the veterinarian will likely give your rabbit some pain medication, such as an opioid.The pain medication could also reduce your rabbit’s anxiety from the injury.
If your rabbit’s injuries are severe and his quality of life is suffering, you may need to discuss euthanizing your rabbit. Although this is a very difficult topic to think and talk about, you will need think seriously about your rabbit’s quality of life in regards to his injuries.
 If the veterinarian determines that your rabbit will be okay after his injuries, start preparing for caring for him at home. If your rabbit is now disabled, you will need to do such things as provide him with comfortable housing, make his food and water bowls easily accessible, and assist him with grooming.