 It could be a game, snack, candy, money, anything you want.
;
, If it's small enough, you can hide it under your armpit, and sneak it into your room. If it's bigger, than get a purse or bag (for girls) to hide it in. Or you can hide it in the pockets of a hoodie. If it's loud or crinkly, like a bag of potato chips, be careful with it so you don't make a lot of noise. That'll give you away.
 In my opinion, the best time to sneak is at night. (Although you have to be very quiet.) Here are instructions on how to sneak at what time.


Sneaking at night. (This one's going to be kind of long.)If you're going to sneak at night, go to your room at your regular time, but don't go to sleep yet. You might want to put a dark, skin tight outfit on, so you blend in with the shadows, and so you don't make much noise when your legs or any other things scrape together. Avoid wearing black though, midnight blue is the best color for this. Also put on some good footwear. If you have wood or tiled flooring, the best thing to wear is socks. For carpets, just your bare feet. Be quiet, and stay awake until you stop hearing noises like walking, talking, doors opening / closing, etc. If someone in your house snores, wait until they do, because it means they're in a very deep sleep. Wait 'till about 10 minutes after you think everyone's asleep, now it's go time. QUIETLY and slowly open your door, and make sure it doesn't squeak. If it does, close the door immediately, but don't slam it. Wait for a minute or two, and try again. To make sure it doesn't squeak, pull up while holding on to the knob, that takes some pressure off of the hinges. Once you're out, stay close to the edge of the wall. The floor is more stable there, and creaks a lot less. Do the same while going down the stairs. When going to the thing that you want to get into your room, be very stealthy. You need to bend your knees, and arch your back for the best position. Take big steps so you don't drag your feet. When you step, go from your heel to the balls of your feet. (It's right below your toes.) If you see or hear someone get up or come near you, quickly but quietly, HIDE. NOW. When you get in your hiding spot, hold perfectly still, and breath through nose, slowly. Wait 'till the person goes away, then wait a minute to get back out. If they see you, say you wanted a cup of water, or you needed to use the bathroom or something of that nature. As quickly as you can, get your item, and quickly get back to your room using the same tactics you used to get down there. Then you're done!
Sneaking in the day. Just walk to the thing you want, and put it in your bag / purse / hoodie, and make sure nobody sees you. If there's a door in the room that you're in, then close it before getting the item. Then walk out and go to your room, but act like you normally do. If you're usually loud and funny, you probably shouldn't walk into room being completely silent, or people will start getting suspicious. If you hide the thing in your armpit, make sure you don't walk weird, or people will notice. Get the item to your room and you're done!

