 Understanding the problem is the first step in moving forward. Don’t feel bad about having a crush; crushes are something that everyone experiences at some point of view and the human brain is actually biologically programmed to fall in love.;
, Getting over a relationship is hard even if that relationship never fully materialized. Give yourself some time to mope around and feel badly, then pick yourself up and move forward. Make sure you're not upset for too long.


While feeling sad, also take steps to comfort yourself. Try taking a hot shower, listening to one of your favorite playlists and speaking nicely to yourself., Knowing that this relationship will never progress is an important step in moving past it. Remind yourself again and again that what you’re doing is necessary for your own personal happiness and growth.


Remember that you will have other crushes. In many people's minds, having a crush on your teacher veers towards the inappropriate sector, no matter how you feel. There will be others who you will prefer in the future, and others who you have a real chance with. Focus ahead, without dwelling too much on this dynamic with your teacher.
 The reason you are in school is to learn and get a proper education, so take the energy you would normally spend thinking about your teacher and re-focus on it and also on your work. You’ll see improvements in your academic performance and it will take your mind off your teacher.
 Thoughts frequently lead to action and visualizing something makes it more likely to occur and people will see you.Thinking about your teacher increases your chances of doing something you might later regret.


Try focusing on things about your teacher that you don't like. The idea here is not to dwell on the negatives, but to remind yourself that the relationship was not as perfect as you remember it being, e.g. Age difference, appearances. , Interact with your teacher in class, but do not seek them out or try to spend time with them outside of your designated class time. It just isn't right for you, especially as they will probably quite a bit older than you. It is generally ok to date a person older than you in later life, but a young person dating an older teacher is often considered inappropriate., Making decisions in advance about how you will handle your impulses can help you to be more successful in conquering them.Think about how you’d like to act when talking to your teacher and then follow through on your plan.
 If you are concerned that your crush on your teacher is impacting your day-to-day life and also preventing you from concentrating on your studies, talk to a therapist or school guidance counselor.


If you are concerned about privacy, talk to a therapist rather than a guidance counselor. Your therapist is required by a code of ethics to keep what you say confidential. Guidance counselors are not bound by the same code, and can easily report information that's revealed to them., Your friends may have similar experiences coping with crushes and might be able to offer some interesting advice or perspective. If nothing else, talking about your feelings might make you feel less alone.
 If you find yourself unable to stop thinking about or interacting inappropriately with your teacher, it might be time to make a more drastic change. Talk to your guidance counselor or academic advisor about transferring out of the class.


Be honest with your counselor about the feelings you're having for your teacher. If they don't fully understand how much these feelings are distracting you from your schoolwork, they might not be willing to let you change classes. Trust that they are professionals who are trained to deal with situations like this.
 Pursue new hobbies and renew old passions. Join new clubs and sports or recommit to old ones. Take the time and energy you previously spent lusting after your teacher and put it towards something productive. Also try to get out and find some new people to spend time with to get your mind off them.
 Develop relationships with other people, especially people your own age. Work on strengthening current friendships and cultivating new ones. Open your mind to meeting and spending time with new people and you may find yourself falling out of love faster than you think!

, Taking a trip or changing up your surroundings is incredibly healthy. Traveling can help you expand your mind and see the world in an entirely new light. Traveling also teaches patience, flexibility and perspective; which are all important qualities that will help you get over your teacher.
 The best way to get over an old relationship is to get involved in a new one. Don't rush into anything you're not comfortable with, but allow yourself to be open to the idea of dating and pursuing relationships with new people, because you have to move on.


There's no agreed upon length of time to wait after suffering a broken heart. But it is important to take some time to yourself after a breakup to rediscover who you are, what you like and what you value in yourself and in a future partner.