 Bromine can be used instead of chlorine to sanitize hot tub water. Use bromine test strips from your local hot tub and pool store to test the bromine level in your water. You want your bromine levels to stay between 4 and 6ppm. If they are dropping below that, you will need to refill your floating bromine dispenser or create a bromine reserve.


Bromine is similar to chlorine but is not UV resistant.It breaks down faster than chlorine in the sunlight. You should keep your hot tub covered when not shocking or in use if you use a bromine sanitation system.
If you have not used bromine before, you will need to establish a bromine reserve.Establishing the reserve will differ depending on the type of bromine you are using. Follow the directions on the container for initially adding bromine to your hot tub. This will include a round of shock treatments and may take a while. Do not enter the tub until the bromine levels are below 10ppm., The floating bromine dispenser will be on the surface of the water and easy to find. Pull it from the water and let it drain. Turn the container upside down. Shake the container gently to let the bromine tablets settle. Unscrew the lid.


Be careful not to spill the tablets or get any of the water in your eyes or on your skin. Flush your skin with fresh water to avoid any potential chemical burns from high concentration bromine contact. This is particularly true if you have recently shocked the tub as the oxidizer activates bromine ions and increases their concentration.
 You may keep the used bromine tablets in the dispenser and refill with new tablets.Once you have filled the floating dispenser with tablets, close the dispenser. You do not need to worry about filling the container too full so long as the lid goes back on properly. The water flow adjustment takes care of how much dispensing will occur.
 You may need to adjust the water flow on the dispenser. Test your bromine levels regularly until you are familiar with how much water flow is needed to maintain your bromine level of 4-6ppm.When you know you have the right flow level, tighten the lock ring accordingly to keep the flow level from accidentally self-adjusting.


This is especially true if you increased the water flow to accommodate low bromine levels rather than refill the bromine dispenser at any time.
 Push the dispenser, upside down, arm's length into the water just to provide more pressure on the air bubbles to escape. Air bubbles between the tablets will cause the dispenser to work less effectively. Once all the air bubble are gone, turn the dispenser upright and allow it to float on top of the water.
 When you shock your water, bromine levels will spike as the shock treatment acts on the bromine tablets to release more bromine ions. Wait until bromine levels are below 10ppmbefore entering the hot tub.

