 When Driving Mode is enabled, the Driving Mode icon should appear at the left side of your status bar.


The Driving Mode icon resembles a steering wheel.
Note that Driving Mode will usually remain disabled by default until you intentionally enable it.
 Swipe left or right on the phone's home screen until you find the Settings app. Tap once to open your Settings menu.


On some devices, you can open Settings by pressing the phone's menu button. Find and tap on Settings to open the menu.
Either way, Settings will usually be identified by a gear icon. When you open the Settings menu, it should pop out on the left side of your screen.
 Scroll through the settings until you find Driving Mode under the "Device" heading. Tap once to open the settings for this feature.


On some devices, you may need to take a few extra steps to open Driving Mode.Scroll through your settings until you find Language and Input. Tap once on this option.
Tap once on the Text-to-Speech Output option that appears after that.
Look for the General option, then tap once on that. The Driving Mode setting should appear on the following screen.
 Completely turn off Driving Mode by sliding the "Status" switch from right to left.


The switch should change in color from green to gray, and the status should switch from "On" to "Off."
Note that opening the Driving Mode setting will also reveal two separate options: Alarm and Status. You can uncheck either or both boxes to specifically disable one or both of these Driving Mode features. Turning off both features will also turn off Driving Mode altogether.


Alarm reads out unscheduled alarm information when an alarm sounds.

Schedule reads out scheduled alarm information when a scheduled alarm sounds.
 Press on the Status Bar with your finger, then swipe downward. This should open the Quick Settings and Notifications screen.


This option will allow you to turn off Driving Mode quicker. It offers limited options but is a good method to use when you do not need to manipulate any additional settings.
 Locate the Notification Panel at the top of the screen. Use your finger to swipe from right to left, looking at the options. Continue until you see the Driving Mode button.


This button should be labeled with the words "Driving Mode," but it can also be identified by the Driving Mode steering wheel icon.
If Driving Mode is currently enabled, the button should be highlighted green.
 Doing so should change the icon from green to gray and turn the feature off.


When you turn off Driving Mode, the screen should also display a message stating that the feature has been disabled.

