 Wide belts tend to work best with a variety of body shapes. Wide belts can add curves to people with thin waists. In thicker waists, a wide belt can define a waistline. Wide belts can also help support and hold in extra weight around the waist., The beauty of a wide belt, is that you can find or make them out of almost any material. You could choose leather for a bold, classic look. You can also find wide belts in almost any kind of fabric. Wide belts with elastic are good choices, since the elastic will move with you and be more comfortable.


For a quick wide belt, wrap your favorite silk scarf around your waist. Adjust the width and tails of the scarf.
 Instead of choosing one wide belt, look for two or three thin belts that you can wear together.This will create the effect of a wide belt.


Ribbons also make great belts. Wrap several ribbons in various shades of the same color to create a wide-belt look., Simple straight belts in monochrome colors work with several looks. They can also help to define a thicker waist.You may want to try belts with embellishments, such as studs, beads, stones, or large buckles. Bold belts with decorative prints can also make a simple outfit really stand out.


You may need to try on a variety of belts to see what works with your outfit. The belt should enhance your look, not compete with it.
 If you place a wide belt directly under your bustline, you'll emphasize your chest. You'll also make your curves stand out more and highlight your waist.Most wide belts are worn higher above the hip bones on your waist.This can help define large midsections by breaking up your torso.If you have a shorter torso, you may find that a wide belt takes up too much of your torso. You may need to wear a slightly thinner belt., If you have a shirt or dress that's a little too large and hides your figure, wear a wide belt. The belt will define your waist and give some structure to a loose outfit.Likewise, if you're going for a thrown-together casual look, a wide belt can make the look a bit more polished.


Keep your belt at the natural waistline. If you wear the belt below your hip bones, it will help to give your torso a longer silhouette, especially with a loose dress or top.
 If your outfit has several pieces, such as pants, shirt, and jacket or cardigan, a wide belt can help pull the look together. Wear the belt over the cardigan or underneath the cardigan.


If your outfit is a bit drab or monochrome, the belt can also be a way to liven it up. Choose a bright belt or one with an unusual pattern. This can keep your look from becoming boring.
 Don't think that your belt always has to be the center of attention. Pick a wide belt in the same color as your shirt or dress. It will break up the texture and design of your outfit without clashing with it.If you're wearing a leather belt and don't want to match the color with your outfit, try matching accessories, such as your handbag or shoes. This will make your look more polished without being too similar in color.

