 Someone will oversee the release of money to your cat’s guardian. With a pet protection agreement, this is the “distribution representative.” You want to choose someone who is good with money and who you trust.


You aren’t required to name a distribution representative. Instead, you could have the guardian manage any funds left for your cat’s care.Remember that if you want someone to check up on your cat, then you should create a pet trust.
 You can use the form at LegalZoom for $39. It generally only takes fifteen minutes to fill in all of the information. You can begin by starting here: https://www.legalzoom.com/personal/estate-planning/pet-protection-agreement-overview.html.
 If you don’t want to pay the fee, then you can draft your own pet protection agreement. Make sure that it includes the following information:Your identifying information (name and address).
The guardian and any alternate guardian who will take care of your cat. Also name an organization that will take your cat if none of your guardians can care for your pet.
Name and details about your cat (gender, eye color, coat color, etc.)
Instructions for taking care of your cat.
The funds you are leaving to take care of your cat. Identify the source, such as life insurance policy number.
Name of your distribution representative and any alternates.
Amount of compensation paid to the cat’s guardian and your distribution representative.
Names of successor beneficiaries to receive left-over funds.
 You don’t have to set aside funds when you create the pet protection agreement. However, it is probably ideal to make a one-time payment so that you don’t have to revise your will. Alternately, you can fund it from a life insurance policy, retirement account, or the proceeds from the sale of your home as specified in your will., Both you and the guardian should sign the pet protection agreement in front of a notary public and two witnesses. Keep a copy of the signed agreement for your records. Store it with your other estate planning documents (wills, trust, etc.) in a safe place. Make sure the following people receive a copy of the pet protection agreement:


your vet
the distribution representative
the guardian and successor guardians
close family friends

