 Make sure that adults who interact with your child on a regular basis understand that they have anxious tendencies. Let them know which situations your child is afraid of, and tell them which coping strategies your child uses to calm down.Authority figures like teachers can also update you on how your child manages their anxiety when you’re not around, so check in with them regularly.
Anxiety can manifest in a number of ways with children. Some children might panic, cry, or or throw a tantrum. Others might become extremely clingy or stop talking.It is important to understand how your child's anxiety typically expresses itself, so that you can warn teachers, caregivers, and other authority figures.
If your child has physical expressions of anxiety--such as headaches, dizziness, or stomach aches--be sure to tell their teachers and school nurses how best to handle these episodes.;
, Siblings, friends, and classmates might be your child's toughest critics. Unfortunately, many children don't have a clear understanding of mental health conditions like anxiety. The best person to discuss this with them is your child themselves. This can help smooth out any confusion, and also create natural advocates when you're not around.


You might create a script for your child. For example, you can teach them to say, "I have anxiety. This is a very common condition that makes me worry a lot. I often feel stressed and may need time to warm up in new situations."
You should also teach your child how to express their needs in these situations. For example, you might help them learn to say, "I am feeling very anxious right now. Can I have some peace and quiet so that I can relax?"
Children of friends or family members may benefit from watching interactive videos or reading books about children with anxiety to better understand the condition., Attending parent-teacher meetings and bringing up your child's anxiety can offer another way to promote awareness and get advocates. Many parents may be ignorant about anxiety, and if they are educated, they can help explain the condition to their children in a relatable way.


Speaking about anxiety at PTA meetings may also help you and other parents devise useful strategies for helping children manage anxiety at school.For example, teachers may start implementing a deep breathing exercise several times a day to help all the children relieve stress.