 You can tell the group all at once or on an individualized basis that you’ll be ending your friendship with them. This method of leaving a group of friends can be awkward because the group might have lots of questions.


If you are very close with all members of the group of friends, you should probably tell all of them at once.
If you’re closer with certain friends in the group than others, you might choose to tell the friends you are closest with first, then inform the rest of your decision afterwards.
Prepare carefully if you intend to address the whole group of friends about your leaving. Use note cards or a written page to help you express everything you need to.;
, Unless your friends are engaged in something dangerous or illegal, there’s usually no need to leave a group of friends all at once. If you don’t want to hurt your friends’ feelings, you could just choose to spend less time with them until eventually you’re spending no time at all with them.


Stop sharing intimate details and events in your life.
Invest the time you used to spend with the group of friends with other friends, or take up a new hobby.
Don’t answer calls and texts immediately.
Over time, your friends will become casual acquaintances, then (if you wish) disconnect from you altogether.
Be aware that your friends may have questions. They may ask why you are so distant, what is wrong, if you are okay, etc. Prepare yourself to answer these questions honestly.
 This is not a good way to leave a group of friends just because you don't want to deal with the awkwardness of being honest with them or answering questions. Parting with empathy, integrity, and honesty will be better in the long run than burning bridges in this way. Plus, you have a lingering feeling of having to "dodge'" people or avoid them later in life if you find them in your circle again.


Do not offer an explanation or respond to their calls, texts, or emails.
Block the group of friends from your social media accounts.
 If you’re moving away for a job or to attend university, you might be leaving a group of friends you love and who care about you. In this case, you should throw a party with your group of friends.Do something you all love — go to your favorite water park or dine at your favorite restaurant, for instance. Use the party to celebrate your shared friendship and reminisce about all the good times you’ve had together.


Use social media, texts, and emails to stay in touch with friends you really care about.
Visit them when you get the chance.
Write each friend in the group a letter telling them how much you care about them. Thank them for their friendship, and cite specific instances in which they demonstrated what a good friend they were.

