 Perhaps the easiest and most simple way to remain calm during this tantrum is to ignore it altogether. Avoid getting all worked up and simply disengage from your toddler. Do not try to reason with or bargain with them during this time.Let your toddler know why you are doing this. You can say, "I am not going to have this talk again until you have calmed down."
Don’t do this when in public, however. Do so only when you are in private or when you are in the comfort of your own home. If your child is acting out in public, you will want to address the behavior with more immediacy.
 Sometimes, a toddler’s tantrums might be a bit aggressive or even violent. Some toddlers bite, scratch or hit when they are upset. In order to keep yourself calm and injury free, maintain some distance from your child during this period. If you were holding them, put them down and step away until some of their anger has dissipated. You can also go into another room.If you feel that your child could injure themselves, however, you will need to monitor them until that is no longer a risk. Find a safe room where your child can be upset without hurting themselves, and remove any potentially dangerous objects.
 If you feel your child’s tantrum is starting to get the best of you, walk away from the situation. Allowing your anger to increase will only likely result in doing something that you will regret, like giving into your child or yelling at them. Take a few moments to yourself to recenter and calm down.Go outside for a few minutes and sit on your porch until you feel calm.
Call and talk to a friend or family member. You can vent or ask them for advice to help you cool down.
Try splashing some cool water on your face or going to have a glass of water.
Make sure your home is childproof so that you can feel comfortable leaving them to themselves for a few minutes.
 One of the best ways to protect your sanity during this stressful time is simply to zone out. Think of something that you are looking forward to that’s coming up soon. It can be something simple like having an ice cream with a friend later or a vacation to the beach. Whatever it is, take a moment to step away in your mind.If you have the time, writing in a journal or doodling can help provide an escape.
 One other option to alleviate your stress levels during tantrums is to change your physical location. If your toddler is throwing a tantrum in the middle of a store, you might feel stressed because you are embarrassed. Alleviate these negative feelings by removing yourself and your toddler from the public place until both of you have calmed down.Go sit in your car until the tantrum has ended. You can also step into a bathroom for a moment with your child.
 If you are feel extremely overwhelmed and feel that you have done all that you can to calm down, consider asking for some outside help occasionally. It’s okay to admit that you don’t have all the answers or fixes all of the time. Allow your partner to step in and soothe or address the child while you take a break from the situation.


You might say something like “Hey honey, can you come in here for a bit. John is having another tantrum and I need a moment.”
Give your partner a break when they need it, as well.

