 Losing a family member or friend is one of the most difficult things you will ever go through. The mourning process can be long and intense. It is important to allow yourself the time and space necessary to grieve. You need to recognize that you have suffered a powerful loss.Don't try to immediately move on. In order to heal, you should allow yourself to experience the range of emotions that go along with a loss.
Acknowledge that you have lost someone important. It's fine to say to yourself that you've lost your sister and your life is going to take another course.
Give yourself time to figure out how your life will change. It will take a while to adjust to your new normal.;
, Everyone grieves differently. But there are some stages of grief that most people go through. Learning about the process can help you realize that what you are experiencing is normal.Denial is the first stage. You might experience this situation cannot be real.
Many people move from denial to anger. You may ask yourself whom you could blame. Bargaining is the next stage, in which you might often think that you can stop this event to happen when you make a change.
It is common to move from bargaining to depression. Typically, this stage can last for a while.
Finally, acceptance is the last stage of the process. That doesn't mean that you won't be sad anymore, but that you have reached some level of peace.
Remember that everyone experiences these stages differently. You might not go through each step, or you may experience them in a different order. The key is just to acknowledge where you are in the process.
 Grieving can be an intensely personal process. After all, you are the only one who truly knows what you have lost. However, it is important not to completely isolate yourself during the grieving process.Reach out to others who knew your loved one. It can be a great comfort to be around others who loved the departed.
If you lost a close friend, connect with others who considered that person a friend. If you find yourself feeling sad, pick up the phone and ask this friend if he wouldn't mind talking about your loss.
Consider joining a support group. Most hospitals and community centers offer a wide variety of these types of organization.
Ask your doctor for a recommendation. For example, if you have lost a child, ask if there are local groups for grieving parents.
 When you are grieving, it can be difficult to focus on day to day tasks. However, it is really important that you remember to keep yourself physically healthy. You won't be able to heal emotionally if you aren't taking care of your whole self.Take a shower and get dressed. On the days when you feel like you can't cope, sometimes going through the motions of regular life can help you feel like you can manage.
Get some exercise. Physical activity produces endorphin, which can elevate your mood. Go for a walk or take a yoga class.
Eat well. It can be easy to forget to care for yourself when you're sad. But you will feel mentally and physically better if you eat properly. Try a hearty bowl of your favorite soup.
 One of the most important pieces of moving forward is to remember to keep living your life. This means continuing day to day activities, like going to work. It also means continuing to celebrate milestones, such as holidays and birthdays.It can be easy to resist moving on when you are grieving. And that's fine, you don't have to move on immediately.
You should, however, try to find activities that you still enjoy. If you've always loved reading, try picking up a book.
Maybe you recently lost your brother. If the two of you enjoyed watching baseball together, it might be difficult for you to still enjoy that activity. But when you feel ready, try cheering for your brother's favorite team in his honor.
 Thinking happy thoughts of your lost loved one can help you heal. Don't be afraid to remember that person. You also don't need to avoid talking about them.Acknowledge special occasions. For example, if you lost a spouse, cook his favorite meal to mark your anniversary.
Do something to honor your friend. If she was an animal lover, consider making a donation in her name to the local humane society.
Celebrating your lost family member or friend can help you feel connected to that person. It's also a great reminder of the good times that you had together.

