 This is something that you can play a big role in, just by being a helpful, considerate and well-mannered member of the household. Things that can contribute towards good feelings include:


Being polite and respectful when talking to your parents.
Using good manners in the house and when out and about with your parents.
Being friendly rather than spiky or challenging. Friendliness opens pathways to communications rather than shuts them down.
Caring about your parent's feelings and their well-being.;
, If you feel as if you aren't seeing much of your parents, or if you've been distancing yourself from them, make a change by suggesting that you all spend more time together. Enjoy quality time when you really do engage with each other, talking and sharing ideas, thoughts and notions.


Ask your parents to set aside some time, once or twice a week where you can spend some quality time with each parent individually.
Make use of car time to talk openly with your driver parent about your life and interests, and their life and interests.
Look forward to spending time together; see this as an opportunity to learn more about one another and to build closeness.
Choose activities that both of you enjoy doing. Find a common hobby, a common interest or a common activity.
 Human beings are not all cut from the same cloth, even those who are genetically related. Simply because your parents view things one way, does not make it that you'll agree with that view. And that's fine, because it's how human civilization progresses, through diversity of opinions and outlooks. However, there is also a need to get along and to respect each other's differences. To this end, learn the art of compromise and finding a middle ground that is acceptable to both you and your parents on those issues about which you do not see eye to eye.


You might use making a compromise as an opportunity to say that you will do more for them if they step back on you a little bit.
 Conflict is part and parcel of human relationships, and it's impossible for life to be completely conflict-free. The trick is to learn how to manage conflict better and use it as an opportunity to constructively air grievances and dislikes, without riling people or attacking them personally. Since your parents are the closest persons to you when you live at home, they present the perfect opportunity to learn how to deal with conflict constructively. Keep calm, reiterate your points without anger or resentment and be prepared to make the aforementioned compromises.


There is a difference between conflict and abuse. If you are constantly living in a negative household where fear and abuse rule the roost, seek help from other family members or a trusted outside.
 This is a part of being responsible and owning up to the things you haven't quite done the way you should have or the things which have harmed the dignity and well-being of those you live with. Not only is this part of maturing and becoming a fully fledged person ready for adulthood but it is also about nurturing good relationships with the people you care about. A simple sorry may feel hard to say sometimes but it's often the simplest way to resolve rising tension.


Realize that saying sorry is not the same as giving in, giving up power, losing face or feeling ashamed. Sorry is simply about being a responsible person; it does not belittle or undermine you, in fact, it proves how strong a person you really are.
In turn, be accepting of your parent's limitations. You will already be well enough aware of these, since you live with them and see their actions daily. This proves that your parents make mistakes, just like everyone else. Help them to know that you are aware of this and that you are both understanding and forgiving. Be willing to move forward together, encouraging them to say sorry too, when it's truly needed.
 Tell your parents what is happening in your life, in your head and in your relationships. Part of building trust is feeling able to freely share the things you're experiencing and thinking about. You'll know when it's TMI, but up to that point, be as open as it's sensible to be. In turn, your parents will find it easier to talk to you and will likely open up about their experiences more, and will offer you the wonderful advice from experience that can only come from being older.


Good communications include using good manners. Saying thank you and recognizing the kind and caring things your parents have done for you never goes astray!
Listen more. It's commonplace to want to share your side of the story, but interrupting and talking over others is a form of thoughtlessness. Moreover, closing down when asked to do chores that don't interest you is frustrating for a parent. Listen well, respond to show that you've heard and things will run far more smoothly than ever, freeing up whining time to do more interesting things!

, Communicate good feelings as much as you share the lows and annoyances of your day. Seek to compliment others in the household, including your siblings, to see the best in them all. Your parents will appreciate the goodwill and kindness you are bringing into the household and will feel compelled to live up the example too.
 Show your parents affection on a regular basis. They love to know that you care about them and that they've done a good job raising you. A hug now and then will help them to feel connected to you in a way that words can never really express.

