 If you’re the parent of a tattletale child, you should talk to the child’s teachers, babysitters, and other caretakers about the tattletale behavior. If you’re the teacher of a tattletale child, talk to other teachers and the child’s parents. Together, you and the other adults involved can share ways to reeducate the child about how to differentiate between proper reporting of dangerous or untenable situations and improper tattletale behavior., Tattletales rely on their parents or other adults in charge to rescue them and make things right. Independent children, however, are better equipped to solve problems on their own and less likely to engage in tattling.Assign chores. Give the child tasks to do that correspond to their age and ability level. In elementary school, teachers can ask kids to clean up toys when playtime has concluded. Parents can ask their young children to organize the shoes in the closet. Teens might need to take out the trash, wash the dishes, or babysit their younger siblings.
Do things with the child rather than for them. Parents and other caretakers can help kids to adopt an independent spirit by doing things together with their child. For instance, instead of making dinner for your child every night, you could invite them to help out doing simple tasks in the kitchen like measuring water or other ingredients. This will instill a “can-do” attitude within the child over time.
Provide challenges for the tattletale. If you’re the parent of a tattletale child, you could insist that your child participates in extracurricular activities like soccer, hockey, and chess club that build mental toughness and independence. Help the tattletale explore a variety of activities and sign them up for one they enjoy.
 Acting on the tattletale’s reports will only encourage them to continue tattling. When you’re sure the information that the tattletale child is reporting is trivial or otherwise only designed to inspire a negative reaction from you, you should simply ignore the information. This approach will, over time, decrease the number of reports you receive from the tattletale.For instance, if a tattletale child reports to you that their neighbor is not listening to your directions, say, “Thank you” and continue your lesson.
Be sure that the tattletale is not reporting a situation that actually demands attention.
 Instead of ignoring or reprimanding tattletales for tattling, provide an incentive for them to communicate with you positively about their peers or siblings. For instance, you could set up a sticker chart that you fill up when you hear a tattletale say something kind about another student, or when a day goes by and they don’t tattle. After the child gets 25 or so tattle-free days, or reports 25 positive social interactions, they might receive a small toy or sweet candy., If a child is repeatedly tattling about a classmate or sibling, pay more attention to their interactions. That way, you prevent the tattletale from coming to you in the first place, and can act immediately to correct the situation as needed.For instance, if a child keeps tattling on the same person, keep an eye on their interactions. Tattling can be a way to seek help with bullying and abuse, if the child does not know a better way to do it. If it is a recurring report, look deeper into the dynamic and the relationship between the two children.
 If your child overhears you gossiping with friends about a third party, they might interpret it as tattling. Avoid doing this so that the tattletale does not come to believe that discussing the trivial behaviors of others – especially in a negative way – is appropriate.For instance, do not allow your child to overhear you saying things like, “Robert is very fat. He is a bad father, too.” These comments are unkind and your tattletale child might interpret them as a form of tattling, thus lending a sense of legitimacy to their own behavior.
 It is unwise to automatically dismiss a child’s concerns out of hand. If they came to you to report some misbehavior on the part of their peers, it indicates they trust you and you should think about what they’re reporting. If their report warrants a serious response, react in an appropriate manner., Behavior must be practiced before it is really learned. Ask the tattletale to reflect on their motivations, use their social skills, and be independent. Remind them to think twice before tattling again, and ask themselves if they are trying to help someone or merely get someone in trouble.Try roleplaying with the tattletale child to help them practice alternatives to tattling in different situations. For instance, you could play a noisy peer and another adult could play the teacher. After your child confronts you about your noisy behavior, you could apologize and quiet down.
Talk about examples in TV shows and movies, or even in your own personal relationships.
Encourage the tattletale to reflect on their motivations in the real world by saying, “Please remember what you’ve learned the next time you wish to tattle. Show me that you don’t need an adult to resolve every minor dispute you encounter.”

