 One of the biggest mistakes that you can make with regards to your personal statement is not allowing yourself enough time to brainstorm, write, rewrite and edit. It is recommended that you allow yourself at least four to eight weeks to complete your personal statement.If you know that writing is particularly difficult for you, consider giving yourself 10 to 12 weeks to work on your statement.
Start the process as soon as possible so as to give yourself enough time to take a break from writing and editing. This break can give you a fresh perspective when you return to writing.;
, Ask yourself, “what are the three things that I would want the admissions committee to remember about me?” The personal statement may be your only opportunity for the admissions committee to know something about you as a person. It may help to write a list of characteristics that you like about yourself. Admissions committees want to see that you have the maturity and ability to assess yourself—your strengths and your weaknesses.When creating your list, consider the following:


Are you able to learn from your mistakes?
Are you willing to change your opinion based on evidence?
Are you willing to consider multiple points of view when making a decision?
Are you able to set goals based on your strengths and weaknesses?, Once you have chosen three things that you want the committee to remember about you, it is time to think about what part of your background, beliefs, or experiences best exemplify these three characteristics.


A common saying in writing application materials is “show, don’t tell.” This means that it is better to share a story that illustrates the characteristics that you want to convey rather than make a plain statement. For example, rather than stating “I believe I will be successful in law school and as an attorney because of my ability to persevere in the face of great odds,” consider sharing a story about how you did persevere in a specific instance., After brainstorming about how to illustrate the characteristics that you want to share with the committee, determine whether there is an overarching theme or topic that connects all of your stories. For example, do your stories show how you have had to overcome something difficult or a commitment to service. You want to find a way to unify your examples in a cohesive story or topic.
 Once you have an idea about what you want to write about yourself, you should take some time and read how other people conveyed their personal stories. You don’t want to mimic their story but rather consider how they crafted their personal story into a cohesive and interesting narrative. You can find statements from the University of Chicago here: http://www.law.uchicago.edu/alumni/magazine/spring11/intheirownwords

, Admissions committees are reading closely to get a sense of you as a person and judging your ability to write a well-organized and articulate essay. An outline provides a road map to guide you through your statement. It ensures that you include important information and that you are not duplicative. While there is no formula for writing a personal statement, consider including the following sections in your outline:


Write down a few ideas for your introduction. Your introductory paragraph is very important because it sets the tone for the rest of the draft. You may choose to write your introduction last once you see how all of the elements of your statement come together.
Sketch out how you plan to illustrate your chosen characteristics. You may use one story to highlight your characteristics or multiple stories connected by an overarching theme. Whatever you choose, spend some time organizing your thoughts and identifying all of the points that you want to make in your essay.
Include thoughts on your conclusion. A strong conclusion will tie your statement together but also leave your reader with something to think about. Your conclusion should only be a few sentences and should not rehash everything you have already written., Your introduction is incredibly important. It offers the opportunity to capture a reader’s attention and encourage them to read your statement closely. Consider the following when drafting your introduction:


Start with a personal story that illustrates your overall theme.
Do not start with a quotation, poetry, or a bland statement such as “ I believe I will be successful in law school because . . .”, Once you are writing the body of the statement, the beginning of each paragraph should also capture the reader’s attention. Any statements that you make should be supported by examples from your own life. For example, if you choose effective communication as your theme, show the ways that you have effectively communicated or how ineffective communication made you focus on this skill.
 When writing your statement, you should always write in your own voice. Don’t try to show an expansive vocabulary but rather write clearly, concisely and in a way that feels most natural to you., While it is a good idea to create a basic personal statement to work from, you should carefully read the instructions from each school to which you are applying and add or change your personal statement to meet their requirements. These requirements may include page limits or font size or different substantive questions to which you need to respond.


For examples of law school question prompts go to: http://hpplc.indiana.edu/documents/PersonalstatementsforlawschoolJune32013.pdf.
If a school does not include page limits, your statement should be between 2 to 4 pages., You should expect to have three to four drafts of your personal statement. Once you have a draft that you think is finished, you should do a close read of the statement for grammar and spelling mistakes. Do not rely solely on spell check.


There are numerous online grammar tools that you can reference if you have any questions. You can locate these tools be conducting an internet search for “grammar tools.”
You should read the statement out loud to yourself. Often, hearing the statement out loud will alert you to awkward phrasing or other issues.
Try to write in active voice. For a description of active versus passive voice visit: https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/539/02/.
 After correcting spelling and grammar mistakes, your second round of edits should focus on how your statement is written. You want your statement to be written clearly and concisely, which means if there is a way to say something in one words versus three words, you should choose one word., After you have edited your statement for mistakes and clarity, you should not review the statement for at least a few days. When you return to your statement, read through it again and make any necessary changes.
 You should never be the only person to review your personal statement before including it in your law school application. You should have at least two people review your statement and give you feedback on the content, as well as an grammar or spelling issues.


If your undergraduate school has a pre-law advisor, consider asking this person to review your statement.
You should also consider asking faculty mentors to review your statement.

