


Be a valuable senior employee by retaining lucrative relationships with clients you've worked with for a long time. Clients that have worked with you for a while will continue to provide business for your company if you continue your relationship with them, which will make you valuable in the eyes of your superiors. These long-term clients will give you an edge over your younger colleagues.;
,


Make sure that you continue to perform regular tasks as needed, arrive at work on time and meet regular deadlines. This will help you be an indispensable senior employee by showing your employers that you still perform your job duties efficiently and punctually.



Retain your position as a senior employee by helping employees that are newer than you instead of alienating yourself from them. Offer advice if a new employee is struggling with a project or help out with handling a difficult client. This will show your employers that you care about the overall well being of the company.



Participate in educational and skill-building programs that pertain to your job. Focus on programs that offer education on technological advances, as many of your younger colleagues will have degrees focusing on this. This will help you prevent stagnation in your job position and allow you to remain competitive with newer, younger employees.



Show your employers that you're indispensable as a senior employee by displaying extra effort at your job. Turn projects in early if possible, stay late or come in early if extra help is needed, and accept requests to work overtime or take on an extra project or task to help out. These are all opportunities to show employers that you have the experience to get the job done.



Find areas in the workplace where your experience as a senior employee is valuable and capitalize on them. Create a new database for organizing projects that resolves deadline issues, develop new ideas for customer care or implement a new organizational system for employee requests or input. Making efforts like this will improve productivity in the workplace and show employers you're willing to put in the extra effort to do so.



One advantage of being a senior employee is having an established network of contacts and colleagues. Keep these business relationships up to date and don't be afraid to use them to give yourself an edge over younger, less connected employees.

