 The more Japanese you know the better. Unless you are just making a quick trip as a tourist you should study the language. There are many set phrases in Japanese and by learning the language you will learn when and how to use them. This is key for people staying for a long period of time. Most Japanese people would be willing to teach them to you.;
, Japanese mealtime etiquette is pretty easy to learn, if you remember a few simple rules.


Never stick your chopsticks in your rice and leave them there, or pass food from person to person by chopsticks. These two behaviors occur at funerals and so they shouldn't be done at the dinner table.
Making some noises while you eat is okay; in fact, slurping your noodles is expected.
It is okay to lift something big with chopsticks, bite off a piece, and set the rest back down.
Use your chopsticks to eat solid parts of soup, then lift the bowl and drink the broth.
Always eat what you are given.
 Sometimes there are slippers at the door to a restroom. If you see them, use them. Carry a small towel with you in Japan to dry your hands because public restrooms do not have towels.
 Never use a handkerchief to blow a runny nose.
 Japanese people tend to dress more formally than Westerners. It is important you do not wear garments such as revealing tops that show cleavage, too-short shorts or miniskirts that expose underwear when you bend over. It is disconcerting and inconsiderate to others around you, and you'll attract unwanted attention and staring. Some men may get the wrong idea.
 Always line up to enter the vehicle. If you have a backpack, take it off before you board and carry it by your feet. If you do not, you may hit someone with it accidentally. Try not to bump into anyone. When boarding a bus or train and there are no seats available, stand up. No matter how tired you are, never sit on the floor - as the floor is considered dirty. On crowded trains, physical contact is unavoidable so watch your hands to prevent misunderstandings. Eating and drinking are usually okay, but do not make a mess. Offer your seat to the elderly, pregnant women, people with infants or young children, and the physically handicapped. You must do this if you are seated in a "Priority Seat", unless, of course, you fit into one of these categories. These seats are clearly labeled in English.
 Bring your own towel, soap, and shampoo, just in case. Shower and rinse yourself thoroughly before you get in the bath. You can take a smaller "privacy towel" with you to the bath but leave your big towel behind. Do not let your towel touch the water. Rinse again after you get out.
 Unlike Westerners, Japanese people do not greet people by kissing them on the cheek - but they will make exceptions to shake hands with you if you are a foreigner. When you see a person for the first time that day, greet and bow to them. You are always expected to bow, especially to seniors who are more superior to you. The older they are, the deeper you will be expected to bow. This does not apply to strangers of course, but rather to anyone you will have a conversation with. Learn to bow properly.
 No matter where or how tired you are, the floor is considered extremely filthy and is seen as the the dirtiest place in public. Same rule applies for squatting - this is associated with criminals and gangster people. The only exception for sitting on the floor is home, or wherever you may happen to be staying in Japan (e.g. home-stay, hotel, guest house, Japanese inns), or in the house of a friend or family member. Otherwise, especially on public transport, stand up - unless there's a spare seat nearby.
 They rarely say that they are good at something. For example, at the dinner table someone comments on how well you use chopsticks, it is better to decline the compliment. Say something like "Iie, iie, mada mada desu," which directly translates to "no, no not yet," and shake your head for effect.
 You can learn a lot by watching other people and doing what they do. It will not always work, but at least this way you have a reason why you were rude.

