 The ability to resize emoji became available in version 9.28.0.0 of Snapchat, released April 2016. You can check for updates using your device's app store., You can add, resize, and rotate emojis on any photo or video Snap that you make. Tap the shutter button to take a photo Snap, or press and hold it to record a video Snap.
 You can swipe left and right to see the different categories.
 It will appear in the center of the Snap.
 Keep your fingers pressed close together and place both directly on the emoji.
 There is no limit to the size you make it. You can lift your fingers, press them together, and then touch and spread them again to easily make the emoji huge.


Make sure you don't release while your finger is over the trash can icon, or the emoji will be erased. Make small enlargements at a time so that you don't accidentally delete it.
 You can shrink an emoji by punching two fingers on it. You can even make it smaller than its original size.
 You can rotate the emoji at the same time that you're changing its size.
 Just touch and drag an emoji around the screen to move it. You can drag emojis to any location on the Snap, or drag it to the trash can to delete it.If you're adding emoji to a video Snap, pressing and holding too long on the emoji will pin it to an object in the video. See the next step for details.
 If you're adding emoji to a video Snap, you can "pin" the emoji to an object in the frame. The emoji will be attached to this object and follow it throughout the recording. When you press and hold the emoji to drag it, the video will pause and you can release it on an object in the frame to pin it.


The pinned emoji will track the object in the video, and will resize and rotate itself automatically to match the object it's pinned to.
Try pinning emoji on all kinds of different things. They work great on pets, people, and other moving objects.
 If there's something in your Snap that you don't the recipient to see, such as an address or your face, you can cover it with an emoji. Resize it as necessary and place it over what you want to cover. If it's a video Snap, you can pin it to the object you want to cover and it will stay over it for the whole video.
 By making an emoji huge, you can have it take up most or all of the frame. Just resize it so that it's large and center it in the frame however you'd like. You can use this as the background for a drawing or for some text.

