 Using heavy green construction paper, cut out a large oval for the body, two smaller rectangles for the legs, a tail, and a head attached to a long neck. Cut out five small triangles using orange construction paper.


If you feel confident enough with your artistic abilities, you can draw the parts freehand using a pencil before cutting them out. Keep in mind that four of the orange triangles will need to be used for ridges on the back when determining the size.;
, Apply glue to the back of each piece using a glue stick. Stick the other side of the glue onto a piece of thin cardboard or sturdy cardstock.


For thin cardboard, consider recycling materials like cereal boxes, snack boxes, or notebook covers.
You need to mount the paper onto cardboard or cardstock in order to make the dinosaur sturdier. If you skip this step, the finished product might be too thin and flimsy and may fall apart quickly.
 Once the glue has dried, use your scissors to carefully re-cut each piece from the cardboard.


Note that no cardboard should be visible from beneath your original construction paper body parts.
 You to mark four holes on the dinosaur body using a pencil, pen, or marker. One hole will need to be for the head, another one for the tail, and the last two for the legs.


If using the pre-made pattern mentioned previously, mark the holes according to the marks on the pattern.
If you are using freehand pieces, mark two holes about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) from the edge along the bottom of the oval. One should be near the front and one should be near the back. Mark another hole 1 inch (2.5 cm) in from the upper left side for the head and another hole 1 inch (2.5 cm) in from the upper right side for the tail.
 Lay the dinosaur body flat on your working surface. Slide the head, tail, and leg pieces slightly under the body piece just below the corresponding holes. Use a pen or sharp pencil to poke a hole straight through the paper and cardboard of the body piece at each marked hole.


Note that you should not permanently attach the limbs to the body at this time.
Each limb piece (head, tail, legs) should only slide under the dinosaur body by about 1/2 to 1 inch (1.25 to 2.5 cm).
When you poke holes through the body, you should use enough force to make indentations on the limbs lying beneath the body.
 Pull the head, tail, and leg pieces out from beneath the dinosaur body. Use a pen or pencil to poke holes through the indentations made previously.
 Slide a metal paper fastener through the dinosaur body in the hole corresponding to the head. Fit the hole of the head piece through the back of the fastener from the behind the body. Flatten the fastener edges to secure the two pieces of paper together.


Repeat this procedure with the tail and two legs.
The limbs should always go behind the body, not on top of it.
When you flatten the fasteners, leave enough of a gap so that the limbs can still move around when minimal force is applied.
 Position four of your five orange spikes along the back of the dinosaur. Glue in place using white craft glue or a glue stick.


As with the limbs, these spikes should be attached from the back of the body, not the front.
 Cut the remaining orange triangle into six small rectangles. Glue three of these rectangles on one leg and the other three on the other leg.
 Use white craft glue to glue the back of a medium craft eye to the dinosaur head. Let dry.


At the conclusion of this step, your Movable dinosaur is now complete.

