 Many people sound out the words as they read -- either by moving their lips or hearing the words in their head. This is known as sub-vocalization and is one of the major problems that affects your reading speed.


Although sounding out words is an effective way of teaching kids how to read, it is not conducive to reading faster. This is because sub-vocalization only allows you to read the words as fast as you can say them -- which isn't very fast at all.
By eliminating subvocalization, you can potentially double or triple your reading speed. You can avoid mouthing the words by keeping your mouth busy -- chewing gum, humming, or whatever. Preventing yourself from hearing the words in your head as you read is a little harder, but it can be achieved with concentration, practice and the art of mindfulness., Another common practice which slows down reading speed hugely is the practice of reading each individual word separately. Instead, you should try to read in chunks.


For example, most inexperienced readers will read the phrase "the horse is in the barn" as "the" + "horse" + "is" + "in" + "the" + "barn", thus processing each word individually. However, your brain has an amazing ability to fill in gaps of information, so if you can train your brain to process the sentence "the horse is in the barn" as a single piece of information containing the key words "horse" and "barn", your brain will fill in the rest. That way, you can get the same meaning from a piece of text while only reading about 50% of the words. This speeds up reading time considerably.
 When children learn how to read, they are taught to look at each word individually before moving onto the next. However, your eyes are capable of taking in much more than a single word at a time -- up to four or five, in fact -- so this practice makes reading a lot less efficient.


Try to relax your face and soften your gaze as you read -- this will allow you to take in more of the page at once. Try to absorb at least four words at a time, before moving your eyes onto the next chunk of words.
In addition, you should try to utilize your peripheral vision as you read. This allows you to read to the end of the sentence without the need to refocus your gaze, thereby saving you time.
 Regression is the practice of reading the same sentence or section two or three times over, whether intentionally or unintentionally. Obviously, this adds a lot of unnecessary time onto your reading, without necessarily improving your understanding of the material.


Some people regress because they lose their place in the text and go back to the beginning of the page or paragraph in order to find it again. You can avoid this by using a pointer to mark your place as you read -- whether it's your finger, a pen or an index card.
Others regress because they feel that they haven't really grasped the meaning of the text the first time around. To overcome this, you need to ensure that you are really concentrating the first time round -- reading should be an active activity, not a passive one -- so engaging with the material from the get-go will prevent you from having to reread anything.
In addition, you need to decide if the information is important enough to reread -- if you have grasped the basic concept of a sentence or paragraph (even if you haven't absorbed each individual word) then reading it again is a waste of time., Many people are slow readers simply because they are attempting to read in an inappropriate environment. If you want to read quickly and absorb the material in front of you, you need to eliminate both external and internal distractions.


Don't try to read in a loud environment, with people talking or the television or radio on in the background. You'll find yourself getting distracted, which will force you to go back and reread paragraphs or use subvocalization in order to process what you're reading. Read in a quiet, peaceful environment where reading is your only focus -- don't try to multitask.
You will also need to try to eliminate any internal distractions, such as thinking about an issue at work or deciding what you're going to have for dinner. Your internal monologue can be difficult to shut down -- it requires focus and concentration -- but if you can manage it, you'll find yourself reading much faster.