 In some cases, you might not be able to avoid a very close encounter with a snake. Unfortunately, snake bites do occur. If you or a friend experience a snake bite, there are several steps you can take to effectively deal with the situation.Make sure that the person who was bitten does not panic. Remaining calm can be difficult, but it will definitely help the situation.
If you are bitten, avoid moving around. Restricting your movement will help to reduce the flow of venom.
Sometimes you may not be certain if you or your friend were actually bitten. Be familiar with common symptoms of snake bites.
You may see fang marks or swelling at the wound. Fever, dizziness, and weakness are also common symptoms.
 You need to seek professional help for any snake bite. Even if you think it is minor, call a doctor. Depending on where you are, you may need to call an ambulance.Call 911. The dispatcher might direct you to either take the patient to the nearest clinic or hospital, or they might send an ambulance.
Antivenom needs to be administered to snake bite victims. There are different types of antivenom.
Try to tell the doctor or operator what type of snake it was. If you don't know, try to describe its appearance.
You can also call the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222. They can offer advice on treatment and are available 24/7., You should seek medical assistance for any snake bite, no matter the severity. If you can't immediately get the victim to a treatment facility, you can use basic first aid.Remove any rings, jewelry, or clothing around the area. This will help prevent swelling.
Gently clean the wound with water and a clean cloth. Do not flush the wound with water.
Wrap the wounded limb with compression bandages. Apply these bandages as you would to a sprained ankle, wrapping firmly but not too tight. Keep wrapping the bandages about 4 inches above the wound.
Do not apply a tourniquet. Do not try to suck the venom out by mouth.
 Know that anytime you are spending time in the outdoors you could encounter a snake. This is especially true during the warm summer months. If you are going camping or hiking, be prepared for snakes.Bring a first aid kit with you. If you are hiking or camping, you should have basic supplies.
Your kit should include compression bandages, antibiotic ointment, and gauze. You should also pack a pamphlet with first aid guidelines.Take plenty of bottle water with you. You can use it to hydrate a snake bite victim, and clean wounds.
Carry a cell phone. You will need it to call for help if you or a companion is bitten by any snake.

