 Wet diapers leave your baby's fragile skin much more susceptible to developing a rash. To prevent it, change your baby's diaper as soon as you notice that it is wet or soiled, even if your baby doesn't seem uncomfortable., Whenever you change your baby's diaper, you should use warm water to gently rinse his bottom. This helps ensure that your baby's skin is truly clean.Use a soft cloth or cotton balls when rinsing, but be very gentle.
 It's important not to put on a clean diaper until your baby's bottom is completely dry. Otherwise you may trap moisture in the diaper, which can lead to rashes.Try leaving your baby diaper-free for a few minutes to dry. Put a towel under your baby to prevent messes.
If you're in a hurry, pat your baby's bottom dry with a towel or use your hand to fan it dry.
 Whether you're washing, drying, or wiping, be very careful about applying too much pressure to your baby's bottom. This may cause irritation to your baby's sensitive skin, which will leave her more susceptible to developing a diaper rash.Try gently patting instead of rubbing. It's just as effective, but less likely to cause skin irritation.
 Protect your baby's bottom by applying diaper cream every time you change his diaper. This will create a barrier for his sensitive skin, so it will be less vulnerable to rashes.Some diaper creams contain petroleum jelly, and others contain zinc-oxide. Both are effective, so you may want to try both and see which kind works best for your baby.
You can also use powders, but choose ones that contain cornstarch instead of talc, as talc can cause lung damage. Always shake the powder into your hand away from your baby's face in order to apply it. This will prevent your baby from inhaling the powder., Diapers that are too absorbent may not be a good choice for babies who are prone to diaper rashes. These diapers trap too much moisture, which creates the perfect conditions for a rash to develop. Try switching to a less absorbent kind of diaper if your little one gets lots of diaper rashes.Cloth diapers are a good choice, but there are also some disposable diapers available that are less absorbent.
 If your baby's diaper is too tight, it may not allow for any air circulation. This can increase your baby's risk of developing a diaper rash, so make sure it's not time to move up to the next size.Clothing should be loose-fitting as well.
Even if your baby's diapers are the right size, be careful of over-tightening them. Try loosening up the diaper as much as you reasonably can without risking leaks., Plastic is great for trapping moisture and heat, and this is exactly what you want to avoid in your baby's diaper. To avoid giving bacteria the perfect environment to thrive in, ditch any diapers or covers that contain plastic., If you use cloth diapers, it's important to wash them so they are clean, disinfected, and free from soap residue. There are many effective washing techniques, so use whichever one works best for you.Wash in hot water with mild detergent for the best results.
Pre-soaking and double-rinsing diapers helps ensure that they are completely clean.
Consider adding bleach or vinegar to the laundry cycle.
Avoid fabric softener and dryer sheets, which can contain irritating chemicals.
 Some babies have sensitive skin that can be bothered by chemicals and fragrances. To avoid irritation from these kinds of products, clean your baby's bottom with water only whenever possible.If water won't cut it, try using fragrance-free soap or alcohol-free wipes. Never use wipes that contain alcohol, which can be very drying.
Put a drop or two of lavender into your child's bath soap before putting it into the tub. The lavender helps to prevent diaper rash. You can also use wipes with lavender in them for diaper changing.
Babies can also be allergic to disposable diapers or even the soap that you use to wash cloth diapers, so you may need to change brands.
 Some rashes can be caused by reactions to new foods that your child has started eating. It's a good idea to introduce solid foods one at a time. This will allow you to keep an eye out for any skin reactions and discontinue feeding the new food if one occurs.You don't need to avoid that food forever. Your child may become less sensitive to it as she gets older.
 Breastfeeding helps increase your child's immunity against infections, which means he will be less likely to need antibiotics. This is helpful in the fight against diaper rash, as antibiotics can trigger rashes for some babies., Probiotics encourage the growth of helpful bacteria in the digestive tract. If your baby suffers from frequent diaper rashes, probiotics may help prevent them from reoccurring.Probiotics are especially helpful if your baby needs to take antibiotics. Broad spectrum antibiotics can predispose your child to diaper rash. Antibiotics tend to kill off good bacteria in addition to the bad bacteria that is making your baby sick, so replenishing the good bacteria can help.

