 The warp and weft threads must be approximately the same (this means fabric with and even, symmetrical weave). Heavy linen with coarse regular weave is ideal because it ensures that you can count the threads easily., While traditional Hardanger embroidery is white worked on white, today's range of fabric colors and threads open up a wider possibility of color choices.
 Hardanger is not hard but it must be accurate. Counting the threads is the most important part of Hardanger embroidery. One mistake will ruin the pattern and make it necessary to start the work all over again.
 The stitches used in Hardanger are the Kloster blocks stitch (satin stitch) for solid sections of the designs and under-and-over woven bars (or wrapped bars) for the cut and drawn pieces.


The Kloster block stitches are arranged to outline the cut spaces - it is these stitches that construct the major parts of the design.Additional stitches that may be used include: eyelet, back stitch, lace stitch, and fagoting.
 Prior to mounting the fabric for a Hardanger project, given that the fabric may have a tendency to fray as you stitch it, overcast it first on all of its cut edges.
 Make your design on paper first. By necessity, Hardanger stitches will be geometric in shape, taking on the forms of squares, triangles, oblongs, diamonds, rectangles, etc.While the outer edges of the larger designs will appear very straightforward, it will be the smaller shapes developed around the larger ones that create the textual contrasts and provide the interest to your Hardanger piece.
 That way, the Hardanger decoration will be exactly in place.
 A pointed needle will split the threads and make accuracy impossible.
 Start a thread by placing a few stitches into the fabric and covering these with the embroidery stitches. Fasten off threads by running back on the underside of the fabric.
 Try making little Hardanger embroidery squares or diamonds on a sampler. This way, you will become familiar with the work of counting threads and mistakes will be easy to remedy.

