 A good way to hide condoms is to place them in uninteresting containers. This is a relatively safe way to store condoms as well, as they're less susceptible to damage.


An Altoids tin, toiletries bag, an unused jewelry box, or a coin purse are all good places to hide condoms.One downside to this method is that if someone wants a mint or some change, they may find the condoms. It might be a good idea to keep the container in a discreet place as well.;
, Condoms can also be hidden in clothing. Hide a condom in a sock, the sleeve or pocket of a coat you do not usually use, or a winter hat. Just make sure the item of clothing is stored in a safe place where it will not get moved around without your knowledge. Make sure clothing is not stored at extremely hot or extremely cold temperatures., You can purchase discreet cases in which to covertly store condoms. These cases are often disguised as mint tins or jewelry cases. They also may look like simple, non decorative containers. You can buy condom cases online or at sex shops., If you have an old book you do not need, consider cutting a square shaped hole in the center of the pages. You can place a condom in here or several condoms. Just be careful where you leave the book. If you leave it out on a coffee table, for example, someone may open it. It's best to choose an uninteresting looking book and tuck it away in the back of the bookshelf., The effectiveness of condoms changes if they're stored in very high or very low temperatures. Do not store condoms in places where they could become expose to extreme heat or cold.


Do not hide condoms in fridges or freezers or near microwaves or ovens. Exposure to heat or cold could make the condom less effective.Do not store condoms in your car. If the car overheats or gets very cold, the condom could become less effective.Condoms are best stored at room temperature, between 65 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit., It can be a bad idea to store a condom in your wallet especially if you carry your wallet in your pocket. The friction from your body can cause excessive heat, making the condom less effective, and can also lead the condom to crack or tear., It's a bad idea to hide condoms outside. Not only can changes in temperature damage condoms, weather conditions could damage. Animals could also get into the condoms. You don't want the condoms to be missing or damaged when you need them.