 Since this is such a personal process, it's important that this person has your complete trust and fully knows what to expect. If they have any questions or are uncomfortable, they should be encouraged to speak up.


If this is your first time helping them, introduce yourself. Ask them if they have their own way of applying the pad and if so, if they could show you how they're most comfortable doing it.
If this is their first time too, show them the product, explain how it will be applied, and, if applicable, give them the option of standing up or lying down. Standing up is the easiest option if they are mobile and able to support themselves.
A liner is used to manage light incontinence. If the user has bigger, more constant issues, a brief should be considered.;
, Skin moisture from incontinence pads does not necessarily contribute to skin damage, but it can. Wet skin’s temperature is lower than dry skin; wet skin has less blood flow, too. Dry, warm skin is ideal.If you detect any wounds, clean the area first with a cotton ball soaked in hydrogen peroxide or betadine. Start at the inner part of the wound and move outward. Let the area dry before putting any clothing back on.
 If a pad is currently being used, gently pull the underwear away from the user's body, peel off the pad, and discard it. It's a good idea to wash your hands afterward, too, to prevent the spread of bacteria.
 Remove the adhesive backing from the new pad and fold the liner in half down the center length-wise to form a hotdog bun shape. This is to facilitate ease of insertion.
 Have the user spread his/her legs slightly. Insert the liner between the legs and cover the groin area from front to back. The front to back method will decrease the chances of cross contamination of the urethra by the anus.
 Spread the back of the liner at the buttocks and position the front panel evenly along the crotch area to cover the area. This helps to ensure proper positioning and prevents leaks.
 Position the pants or shorts as they were on the individual. Make sure the pad and the underwear feel comfortable. Suss out and wrinkles and make adjustments as necessary.
 This is mainly in order to get his or her trust and cooperation. This is a very personal procedure, and they will likely feel insecure or judged. Assure them that this is no big deal and the procedure will take only seconds.


If this is the first time you're assisting them, be friendly! Talk about how they normally apply the pad, if this is their favorite product to use, and what you can do to keep their routine unchanged. If they say they are changing liners often, suggest a brief – liners are for light incontinence only; briefs are for heavier episodes.
If possible, give them the option of standing up or lying down. If they are bedridden or otherwise immobile, lying down will, quite clearly, be your only option. However, if they are capable of standing, it may be easier for the both of you.
 With the individual lying down, slowly flex both of their knees and remove their underwear. As you're doing this, assess the area for signs of pressure ulcers or dermatitis (inflammation of the skin) such as redness, swelling and wounds.


To assess the area, with your pointer and middle finger of your dominant hand, touch the area to be affected and feel if it is cold or warm. Cold skin indicates a lack of blood supply in the area while warm skin has good blood circulation.
If a wound is present, grab a cotton ball and soak it in hydrogen peroxide or a betadine solution. Start from the center of the wound and work your way outward. Allow the area to dry before you continue the procedure., If a pad was previously being used, gently pull the back of the underpants away from the patient’s body, slip the used pad out of the underwear and discard it. Wash your hands afterward to prevent the spread of bacteria.
 Standing behind the user, begin applying the pad by spreading the back of the liner at the buttocks to evenly cover the area. Make sure it's centered and flat to avoid potential leaks.
 To place the front of the pad, have the user spread his/her legs slightly to make it easier for you to position. Place the pad, rolling the front panel evenly over the crotch. This is to create a way of putting the liner at the groin in the proper place.
 Make sure the pad adheres to the proper area of the undergarments by pressing it into the underwear. Make adjustments as necessary so the pad is adhered well, won't move, and all the necessary places are covered.


Position the clothes as they were on the patient. Rearrange the pants or dress as necessary.

