 You can more actively be involved with your child's education by making sure that you communicate with her. One of the best ways to do this is by asking questions. This shows that you care and are interested in her school life and what she is learning.Ask open-ended questions. Try to avoid questions that can be answered with a simple yes or no.
Instead of saying, "Did you have a good day?", try "What was the best part of your day?". This will give you a better opportunity to develop the conversation.
 Kids want to feel like you respect and value their feelings and opinions. When you ask a question, make sure that you actively listen to the answer. There are many ways to demonstrate that you are listening.Ask follow-up questions. If your child says, "Gym class was cool today," ask a question like, "What made it great? What did you do?"
Use positive body language. Maintaining eye contact and nodding your head are excellent ways to show that you are paying attention.
 Set aside time each day to spend with your child. This will allow you to get a more accurate sense of what is going on in her life, including school activities. If possible, try to eat dinner together each night. Meals are a great time to talk about the day.Schedule time to attend your child's activities. If she sings in a choir, make sure to attend concerts. It will show her that you are interested in her life.
Offer to help with homework. Set aside time each evening to help your child with any problems that are giving her trouble.
 Providing supportive words is one of the best ways to help your child succeed. Be an active participant in her education by cheering her on when she succeeds and offering support when she struggles. Your feedback is important to helping your child learn more and grow as a student.Offer positive reinforcement. If your child gets an "A" on a spelling test, that is cause for celebration.
If your child struggles on an assignment, try to figure out what went wrong. Ask her if she needs more time at home to work on projects, for instance.

