 Visiting your general practitioner first can help you determine if you have acne by itself or an underlying problem. Sometimes, acne or bumps may be caused by other underlying medical factors, like hormonal imbalances.


If an underlying condition is causing your acne, treating the condition may get rid of the acne. This may mean you don't need a prescription acne medication.
 To get a prescription medication for acne, you should see a dermatologist. They can look at your skin to determine the severity of your acne and the proper treatment.Your doctor will determine your skin type, which will help them figure out the proper treatment.
Your doctor will also explain how you should use the medication, how often to use it, and how to ensure proper skin care.
 If you have moderate to severe inflammatory acne, a doctor may prescribe a topical prescription. Topical medications are placed directly on your skin. You can get creams, lotions, gels, and pads.Topical antibiotics work to eliminate bacteria in the follicles. They help alleviate redness and inflammation.
Retinoids are derived from vitamin A. They help unclog pores. They may be used before or with antibiotics to unclog the pores so the medicine can work. Retinoids can also help new pimples from forming.
Your doctor may prescribe stronger versions of treatments containing benzoyl peroxide or sulfur.
 Oral medications may be the right fit if you have moderate to severe acne. Oral medication helps reduce inflammation and the growth of bacteria. Oral medications are often prescribed alongside topical ones.Sometimes, bacteria will become resistant against one antibiotic. If this occurs, your doctor will change your prescription.
Some oral medications cause negative side effects. Some are not recommended for pregnant women or children under the age of 14. Talk to your doctor about any side effects the medication may have.
 If topical or oral medications don’t work, you may need something stronger. This usually occurs if you have severe acne with cysts or nodules. Isotretinoin is a retinoid taken orally for about four to five months. It helps your body produce less oil and works to decrease bacteria growth.Isotretinoin helps reduce the risk of scarring.
Women who are pregnant or thinking about pregnant should not take isotretinoin.
There have been correlations between teens taking isotretinoin and severe depression and suicide. There is no evidence that the medication caused these symptoms. However, if you are a teenager taking this medication, make sure to monitor for depression symptoms or suicidal thoughts., Teenage girls may have acne due to hormonal changes. For acne caused by these androgens, a prescription medication may be the best treatment. Birth control pills or spironolactone are often prescribed for this type of acne.Androgens are hormones that are found in both men and women. They overstimulate oil glands and irritate follicles, which can lead to acne.

