 Your first step in learning through observation is actually watching and paying attention to whatever you’ve focused on. Without committing your full attention, you won’t be able to understand and internalize what you’re observing.


If you're observing someone teach in a classroom, put all of your attention into it. Make sure you have a good vantage for watching the person instruct. Also, make sure you can hear everything they're saying. Finally, pay attention to body language and how they speak to and interact with their students.
Avoid engaging in any other activities when observing. For example, put your smart phone away, turn off music, and don’t chat with the people around you.
Don’t think about anything not related to whatever it is you are observing.;
, If possible, when you observe something, you should also take notes on whatever it is you are observing. By taking notes, you’ll give yourself the ability to record both large and small details that have to do with whatever it is you are observing.


Use a journal to record your observations. For example, if you're observing someone teach, make notes about what they do. If the person you're observing verbally repeats what they're writing on a whiteboard, write that down. It may be a technique you'll want to mimic later.
Write in shorthand, use abbreviations, or utilize some other sort of system so your notetaking will be efficient and will convey what you are observing.
Type or re-type your notes later, this will help you retain the information you learned., After you’ve observed and taken notes, you should observe again, if possible. By observing again, you’ll gain a better understanding of whatever you’re observing and you’ll be more likely to notice small details.


For example, if you’re observing someone teach, ask if you can observe them again. This time, pay closer attention to the interactions the teacher makes with students, the things the teacher says, and how the teacher organizes their desk and papers.
The more you observe, the better. Every observation will help you learn more about whatever it is you’re watching.
 An important step in reinforcing what you’ve learned is describing exactly what you observed. By describing what you’ve learned – either in writing or through words – you’ll help yourself better conceptualize what you saw.


Write a short summary of what you observed. For instance, if you observed someone else teaching, you should write a summary of how they taught. Make sure to consult your notes when you write your summary.
When writing your summary, consider writing something like "Nancy gave the lesson while showing relevant pictures. She then passed out a handout and walked her students through the directions. Afterwards, Nancy walked around the room answering questions and instructing as her students worked in groups."
Talk to someone about what you observed. For instance, if you observed someone teaching, talk to that person about what you saw. Describe how they taught and the things they did that were effective., After you’ve described what you observed, its time for you to try to reproduce it. By reproducing what you observed, you’ll further reinforce what you learned. Fundamentally, by doing something, you’ll gain a much better understanding of it.


Make sure you have all the materials and resources that you need to reproduce whatever it is you observed. For example, if Nancy used an overhead projector, a whiteboard, and a handout, make sure you have those materials, too.
Ensure that you have the proper time to reproduce what you saw.
Try to see if the person you observed can be present when you reproduce what they did. That way, they can guide you along through the process. For example, if you observed someone teaching, see if they can sit in on your classroom for the day. , The final step in reinforcing what you learned through observation is to instruct others about whatever it is you observed. By instructing others, you’ll further internalize and better conceptualize what you observed. This is because teaching is one of the best ways of learning.


Create a structured and well-planned lesson about whatever it is you observed.
Carefully explain, in steps, what you learned. For example, if you’re instructing people how to teach, explain to them basic principles and steps involved in teaching.
Answer any questions the people you are instructing might have., There are a wide variety of academic and popular books available that you can read to learn about observational learning. By reading about observational learning, you’ll learn about different techniques and perspectives about how to do so effectively.


Consider the 1977 book ‘’Self-Efficacy: Toward a Unifying Theory of Behavioral Change’’ by Albert Bandura.
Read “Observational Learning: Evidence from Randomized Natural Field Experiment” by Hongrin Cai, Yuyu Chen, and Hanming Fang.
Consider ‘’Opening Doors to Equity: A Practical Guide to Observation-Based Professional Learning’’ by Tonya Ward Singer. Singer’s book focuses on observation and learning in the education profession. , A great way to educate yourself about observational learning is to attend events where people will teach you or discuss different theories or methods about it. At such events, you’ll both learn by watching other people and by listening to them discuss their techniques.


Go to educational conferences. Depending on the conference, they might have panels or speakers that will address observational learning.
See speakers in your area who speak on the subject.
To find useful events, use an internet search engine to search for "educational conferences" or "observational learning speakers." Scroll through the results to find events in your area., The most formal way of educating yourself about observational learning is by relevant classes at your local college or university.


Consider classes on behaviorism, which focuses observing human behavior and drawing conclusions.
Programs that might offer relevant classes include education, psychology, anthropology, sociology, and the sciences.