 Layering your clothing helps to hold in your body heat, which will raise your overall temperature. For this reason, simply putting on more clothing will raise your body temperature. Deliberately layering your clothes to maximize heat retention will also help. For example, try layering your clothes in this way:


Undershirt
Overshirt
Sweater
Light jacket
Heavy coat

, A significant amount of body heat radiates out from your head; wearing a hat or other covering can help retain that heat. Similarly, mittens and a scarf will help retain heat in your hands and chest, raising your overall body temperature.


Mittens are often preferable in very cold climates, as they allow the heat from each finger to warm the entire end of the mitten.
 If you really need to raise your body temperature because of cold weather or some other reason, and you don’t have extra clothing, you can wrap blankets or towels around yourself instead. If you don’t even have any blankets or towels, you can improvise using other materials.


Try wrapping yourself in layers of materials such as newspaper or plastic trash bags.
If you are in nature, pine boughs are very insulating as the needles trap air when layered upon each other.
 Digestion in general raises your temperature as your body metabolizes food.Eating any food at all, for this reason, will raise your temperature at least a small amount.


Note also that your body's natural efforts to warm up in the cold raise your metabolism significantly. That is, you burn far more calories than you normally do, when you are not trying to warm your body.
Therefore, consuming food also helps to ensure you have the energy necessary to fuel your body's innate warming processes.
 Any hot meal will help, but warm, sweet drinks can be prepared quickly and the sugar will give your body an added boost of calories to digest (and to fuel thermostat). Good choices include:


Coffee
Tea
Hot chocolate
Warm milk with or without honey
Hot broth
Soup

, The act of movement keeps your body temperature stable, and exercise can partially counteract the cooling effects of a cold environment.Walk or run; do jumping jacks or other dynamic stretches; run sprints or do cartwheels. The most important thing is that you don't stop for longer than a few seconds. You may find that when you stop moving, the cold sets in.


Be cautious. If someone is suffering from severe hypothermia, a sudden or jarring movement could trigger cardiac arrest. Don't massage or rub a person, and don't try to shake them warm.
Only use movement as a strategy if the affected person is not severely cold and at risk of hypothermia.

