 Sterling silver in the U.S. is almost always marked with a small engraving of 925, .925, or 92.5. This is one of the ways to know if it is real sterling silver. Other countries have different standards, so pay attention to the hallmark on any piece of jewelry you buy., If an item is described as “silver-plated,” then it is not sterling silver. That means it is coated in silver for appearance, but the piece itself is often made of nickel, copper, or another metal. This silver coating will eventually wear away., Test all clasps to be sure that they're secure, but not difficult to open. Lay chains flat to check for any kinks or bends in the metal. And make sure earring posts are straight and not easily bent.New sterling silver jewelry should be shiny and show no signs of tarnish. If you're buying used jewelry, tarnish does not necessarily mean it's poor quality. You will simply need to clean it.
 Decide if you want to visit a department store, a dedicated jewelry store, or a resale store. Department stores may offer frequent sales and promotions, but they also regularly mark up their prices higher than independent jewelers.The staff at a jewelry store is also likely to be more knowledgeable about the products. Antique stores, thrift stores, and flea markets are also an option if you’re open to second-hand jewelry.


Seek recommendations from friends or family about where they have purchased sterling silver jewelry in the past. Localized recommendation websites like Yelp can give you good insight into the quality of products and customer service at nearby stores.
 Choose from earrings, necklaces, bracelets, rings, pendants, and more. Search for the hallmark and test all clasps and backings. Use a magnifying glass or jeweler's loop if you want to inspect pieces more carefully.
 The associate should be able to tell you who the designer is, what metals the piece is composed of, and where the hallmark is located. Walk away if the associate refuses to answer a question or seems reluctant to find someone else there who can answer your questions.Don’t be afraid to ask about the store’s return policy. Any reputable jeweler or department store should have one in writing.
 Once you have determined that you are comfortable with the quality and price of a piece, purchase it. Keep any documentation that the associate gives you – receipts, proof of authenticity, or care instructions.
 Online retailers like Amazon and Overstock.com offer a wide selection of jewelry and make it easy to search for what you want. Many brick-and-mortar jewelry or department stores offer all their products for sale online as well. Etsy is another option if you’re looking for something handmade or vintage.


If you’re shopping for a ring, you’ll want to find out your ring size since you won’t be able to try on different sizes before buying.
 There should be a thorough description with measurements of the item and details about the metal composition. There should also be several photos to show you the piece from multiple angles. If you have any questions, contact the seller for more information., The site will either list their return policy within the product details, or there will be a separate page with a more broad return policy for all items on the site. Be sure the site allows you to return the piece if you don’t like it, not just if it’s damaged during shipping.
 If it is an expensive piece, schedule the shipment so that it will arrive while you’re at home to avoid theft. Or have it shipped to your office if your employer allows it. Many sites offer shipment tracking, so watch for tracking updates to see where your item is.

