 Some lies are forgivable; others you cannot simply get over. You are not obligated to "forgive and forget" everyone's lies and mistakes. Even if you decide to end a relationship with a liar, it can sometimes be beneficial to confront him to let him know your feelings. In this case, you are confronting him not to encourage him to improve his behavior but rather to empower yourself and regain your confidence after a betrayal. You need to be certain, however, that you truly want to end the relationship. Do not use the threat of a break-up as a way to try to control his behavior. , Sometimes a lie is just a lie. But sometimes lying behavior is linked to other, even more dangerous behaviors and conditions. Narcissists, abusers, overly jealous people, and obsessives are all more likely to exhibit pathological lying behaviors.Consider whether your partner has shown other concerning behaviors of late, such as possessiveness, jealousy, anger, or a lack of empathy. If so, you might not want to discuss his lies at all and instead simply exit the situation.
 Because you are ending the relationship, you do not need to determine whether or not he is still lying to you. You no longer care what he does: this conversation is all about you and your needs. This frees you from having to read his body language or maintain eye contact during an in-person conversation. All you have to do is say what you need to say, however you feel comfortable saying it. You can confront the liar:


In person. It will mostly likely be safest to do so in a public place. Consider telling a close friend or family member where this meeting will take place, so that you have back-up if the conversation escalates. This is a riskier option, but it also gives you the pleasure of seeing his face when you tell him that you know he lied to you.
Over the phone. Consider writing yourself notes or bullet points so that you remember to cover everything you want to say. Remember: this will hopefully be the last time you contact him, so you don't want to leave anything important unsaid. This option also gives you the opportunity simply to hang up the phone if he begins making up silly excuses or yelling.
Through an email. An email will allow you to express yourself clearly and concisely. This option is especially useful if you do not want to see that liar's stupid face again. Consider having a close friend read the email before you send it to make sure that it is legible. If the liar responds, you have the option of reading his reply or simply sending it to your spam folder. Though there might be a stigma against ending a relationship over email, sometimes it is the safest method, especially if your soon-to-be-ex has exhibited other concerning behaviors., Because you are not seeking to repair the relationship, tell him honestly how his lies made you feel. Try not to yell or use profanity, but do emphasize the fact that his behavior was unacceptable and that he is to blame for ruining the relationship. Perhaps your bravery will help him be truthful to his future partners, but his actions are no longer your responsibility. You are not responsible for changing him: you are only responsible for ending the relationship with your pride and honesty intact.
 It is likely that he will try to distract you with apologies or excuses, and he might even blame you for his lies.Do not react in any way to these excuses: keep a stony, silent face, and then resume telling him about your feelings. Soon he will learn that this conversation is about what you have to say, not about what he is thinking or feeling.
 This is not a time to keep your problems to yourself. This is a time to reach out to your close friends and family members. Not only can they give you a more objective perspective on your partner's lies, but their company and fellowship will help keep you from falling back into a relationship with a liar. If you forget that you ended a relationship with a liar for a very good reason, they will remind you that you did the right thing.Indeed, studies have shown that a breakup can cause you to strengthen and develop your friendships, leading to increased happiness. , Breakups are painful, but they can also lead to positive outcomes, especially if you focus on how you've grown because of the experience. Tell yourself that you can thrive more now that you are no longer in the company of a liar.

