 Create a max for the amount of money that you can spend for the party and stick to it. Write down a list of all your expenses and see if it matches up with the amount of money you'd like to spend. If your expenses run higher than the budget that you set for yourself, take steps to reduce or eliminate costs for the party.For example, if you only have $100 dollars to spend on the party, but the libations, decorations, and food that you want for the party cost $300, you'll have to figure out a way to reduce your costs by $200.;
, Find less expensive alternatives to products at the supermarket and make the food for the party instead of scheduling a caterer. Try to cook most of the food the night before so that you only need to reheat it on day of the party.If you have a grill, you can make hamburgers and hot dogs for the party.
You can also make affordable french fries out of potatoes.
Other affordable dishes include kabobs, fried shrimp, or mini sandwiches.Think of dishes that you can make in large batches.
Purchasing ingredients in bulk will also save you money.
 Appetizers and hors d’oeuvres don't need to be elaborate and expensive. Instead, consider cheaper alternatives like fresh fruit, trail mix, popcorn, cookies, or potato chips.If you want to spend a little more, but still stay on your budget, frozen cocktail shrimp is an affordable option.
 Instead of going out and getting expensive party decorations, you can save some money by creating them yourself. Dyed Mason jars, wheelbarrows that act as ice coolers, and colored balloons are cheap ways that you can add a sense of rustic elegance to your party.You can also use freshly picked flowers from your yard as a centerpiece.
Multi-colored bandannas make for great table runners.
 Purchasing simple equipment like chairs, coolers, speakers, or tableware can become expensive. Instead of outright purchasing your party equipment, see if you can rent the equipment at a lower cost.Even things like folding chairs and serving bowls can be rented.