 The baking sheet needs to have raised sides, or the melted sugar will slide off. If you don't have cooking spray, wrap the inside of the sheet with tin foil or parchment paper.;
, Place the pot on the stove. You must use light corn syrup, or the glass will turn out too dark.
 The sugar will boil too quickly if you do, and start to caramelize. Stir the ingredients often so that you don't scorch the bottom of the pot. As the the mixture heats up, it'll go from a cloudy color to clear. When it boils, it will start to form foamy bubbles at top.









A silicone spatula will make clean up a lot easier than a wooden, plastic, or metal one.
 You can find one in a baking and cooking supply shop, an arts and crafts shop, or in the baking section of a super market. You will need this to get the temperature of your candy.









If your candy thermometer does not have a clip, tie it loosely to the handle of the pot with a piece of string.
 The candy must reach 300°F (148.89°C). This is known as the "hard crack" phase.If you do not get the candy hot enough, it will not set properly. Your candy will end up sticky no matter how long you let it sit or cool.It will take about an hour for the candy to reach the right temperature.


The temperature will stop rising for a moment somewhere between 210 and 240°F (98.89 and 115.56°C). This is because the water is evaporating. Once the water has evaporated, the temperature will begin rising again.
Keep the temperature between 300 and 310°F (148.89 and 154.45°C). Do not allow it to reach 320°F (160°C) or your sugar glass will caramelize and turn brown.If you do not have a candy thermometer, test the candy by dropping a tiny amount into a glass of cold water. The candy has reached the "hard crack" phase if it hardens into threads., This will minimize any bubbles. The candy will be thick, and spread slowly across the baking sheet.
 This will help the candy spread out evenly so that the finished glass is smooth and not lumpy. Leave the candy to dry for about an hour.









Don't move the candy until the full hour has passed. It will be be cool to the touch after 45 minutes, but it won't be hardened.
 If you used a cooking spray, flip the baking sheet upside down over a table. The candy should simply fall out. If you used tin foil or parchment paper, pop the candy out of the baking sheet. Then, peel the foil or paper off of the candy. If your candy does not come away easily, do this:









Take a knife and heat it up under hot water.
Cut along the edge where the glass meets the edge of the pan.
Use the knife to carefully loosen the candy from the baking sheet.
Flip the baking sheet over, then slowly lift the sheet away from the sugar glass that is resting on your hand.

