 The equipment you use can make a difference in the results of your lawn fertilization. If you have a large lawn, you might need to buy or rent equipment designed to evenly spread fertilizer throughout your yard.









Choose a rotary spreader for larger lawns.
Pick a drop spreader for smaller lawns or for lawns with areas that need precise fertilizing, such as around flower beds and landscaping.
 In order to your fertilizer to work best, you'll need to time it so that you fertilize at the beginning of the growing season. This is different for different types of grasses.









Fertilize warm season grasses when the grass begins to turn green at the beginning of spring. Fertilize the lawn again just after the hottest part of the summer is over.
Fertilize cool season grasses after the heat of the summer is over, since their growing season gets under way in early fall. You can use a Winterizer fertilizer toward the end of the summer to protect the grass over the fall and winter. Fertilize again early in the spring, making sure the fertilizer is timed to be used up before the hot summer weather begins., Open and close your spreader while it is empty to ensure that it works properly. Fill the spreader with the appropriate fertilizer for the time of year and needs of your lawn. Check the packaging to see the recommended amount. Adjust the spreader so the release of fertilizer matches the recommended dosage on the fertilizer bag.
 Choose a place in your yard to begin and open the mechanism on the spreader. Walk at a normal pace while spraying the fertilizer. Remain as constant as possible without stopping, slowing or speeding your pace or turning off the spreader.









Cover your entire yard with the fertilizer. Be cautious about not overlapping or skipping areas.
Be sure not to spread too much fertilizer. Your yard could experience chemical burn if you aren't careful.
Clean your spreader when you're finished. Spray the inside and the outside of the spreader with a water hose.
