 Different occasions and events call for different types of ‘thank you’ etiquette. While there’s no rule that says you must follow these guidelines, they have become tradition. It is typical to send a ‘thank you’ note or card for the following reasons:Receiving any type of gift, including money. The gift may be for your birthday, anniversary, graduation, house warming, holiday, etc.
Attending a dinner party or special occasion (i.e. Thanksgiving) at someone else’s house.
 It is customary to send a handwritten 'thank you' card to anyone who has done one of the following things for your wedding. It is also customary to send the card within 3 months of the event, although it is much easier to keep yourself up-to-date if you send cards when you receive gifts instead of waiting until after the wedding is over.Someone who has sent you a gift for your engagement, wedding shower or wedding, including money.
Someone who was a member of your wedding party (e.g. bridesmaid, maid of honour, flower girl, etc.).
Someone who hosted a party of some kind in your honour (e.g. wedding shower, engagement party, etc.).
Someone who helped you plan or execute your wedding, including the vendors and suppliers who made your wedding a success (e.g. baker, flower arranger, decorator, chef, etc.).
Anyone who went out of their way to help you while you were preparing and planning your wedding (e.g. the neighbour who mowed your lawn, etc.).
 If you have been interviewed for a job, internship, or volunteer position, you should send a ‘thank you’ note or card to the interviewer as soon as possible after the interview is finished.Make sure you personalize the card or note to be specific about the job for which you were interviewed, and even mention something specific from the interview.
Ensure that you’ve spelled everyone’s name properly. There would be nothing worse than sending a ‘thank you’ note after an interview and spelling the interviewer’s name wrong.
Use formal greetings in your ‘thank you’ note unless the interviewer introduced themselves by their first name and insisted you call them that.
In the case of interview ‘thank you’ notes, it is not uncommon to send a personal email rather than an actual card or letter. Logistically this might be the better option if physically getting a card or a note to the interviewer is difficult or might take too long.
 Receiving any type of financial assistance in university or college is awesome. Many of the scholarships and bursaries provided to students come from donations. Whether donated from an individual, family, estate or organization, sending a ‘thank you’ note for providing you with the funds is a great way to show your appreciation.If the scholarship or bursary was awarded via your school, the department who choose the recipients should be able to assist you in obtaining a mailing address for where to send the ‘thank you’ note.
Since these are not people you know personally, keep the ‘thank you’ letter formal and elegant, rather than casual.
Before sending the letter make sure you check (and double-check) that there are no spelling or grammar errors. You may even want someone else to read it over for you in case you’ve missed something.
‘Thank you’ notes like this are best sent via formal business letter on nice paper, as opposed to a handwritten note or card.

