 Gothic and messy do not mix. It is absolutely essential that you remove all clutter, unnecessary objects and completely clean up the room. A good way to start is to create some piles: a "keep" pile, "throw away" pile and a "maybe" pile. Arrange everything into those three piles and go from there. Remember to clean the room very thoroughly- dusting, washing, vacuuming, polishing...whatever needs to be done.;
, There is not only one style for a Gothic room, which gives you a little diversity and freedom of choice while decorating. Before you jump into things, have a good think about what style, effect and message you're going for. Remember that the room still needs to be comfortable and you need to create an environment that you feel happy and safe in, while also being appealing and attractive to others. You may want to create a fantasy room, complete with silver walls and stars, or a darker room, with black walls and haunted pictures. There are many other styles you can go for, but feel free to create your own.
 One of the easiest ways to pull off one of the biggest effects is to paint the walls. Don't fall into the stereotyped trap and immediately buy fifty cans of black paint. Take some time to decide what kind of color you would like. You could also create a mural, and make a feature wall. Some suggestions for colors would be silver, deep purple, black, or maybe even a royal red or blue.
 Ornaments are essential for a Gothic room, as they beautify it and add whatever the desired effect. Some ornaments are designed to suit the Gothic style, while others simply slide in accidentally. Browse the shops and online for things that catch your eye. Some suggestions would be:



Candles. Candles will always give you a great effect, because they come in so many different styles. Silver, black or red candles are all good. Cream colored or yellow/gold candles can also set off a very romantic look. Scented candles are also extremely effective.

Candle holders. Majestic, silver candle holders will add a great decoration to any style of gothic room, with or without candles.

Plants. Don't think of the immediate plant: green and leafy, filling the pot. Try other plants, or even fake ones, in pretty silver, white, or dark pots. Plants with white or red flowers are good for a romantic goth look. You can also try the fake plants, which are much easier to look after, and are designed in a variety of styles.You could also cut off rose petals on a rose ala Morticia Addams !

Cushions. Black silk, silver embroidery, crystal white... cushions create a relaxed, comfy and beautiful environment. Gothic cushions are not difficult to find, either.
 Beautiful paintings or other mysterious works of art will always have a big impact on a room. If you're an artist, get creative and make your own things. If not, shop around and see what you can find. Masks, mosaics and paintings are all very good.
 Ditch the plain bedsheets for something more dark or romantic. Black silk is perfect, as is velvet, plain white, silver, and if you're looking for more color, purples, reds and blues. Have a good browse and find something that works for you. Remember to get something comfortable and easy to look after, and try to match it with the colour theme. You can also get some bed hangings- white lace is perfect.
 Look around for colours that suit your room. Try getting something unique and interesting, something that will catch people's eye. Remember to make sure you buy one that isn't high maintenance and won't wear out over the years.
 If you want, you can simply paint your old furniture, or even leave it as it is. But if you can afford to, why not get some new things? Dark marble and other stones, as well as wood, are good materials for Gothic furniture. White, black, silver, or dark, deep woody browns are good colors.
 Set up a CD player or stereo and mystify or rock people's minds with your choice of music. Keep your CDs on display so people can see what kind of stuff you like.

