 In order to interest children in astronomy, you yourself need to have some interest in the subject. While many of the activities suggested in the following steps will further your interest along with your child's, you first need to familiarize yourself with the planets, their moons, and some of the major constellations.


You can find a number of resources at your local library or bookstore and on the Internet, some of which will be discussed in later steps. While you read up on the solar system and universe, take some time to look at the night sky. This will make real some of what you're learning and help you find places to interest your child in astronomy, as well.;
, Science, not just astronomy, is based on coming up with ideas and testing them out to see if they work. Much of the way children play is devoted to exploring and understanding the world around them. While you should restrict your child from doing anything that would hurt someone or that is simply unacceptable behavior, giving him or her the opportunity to play with various things, with supervision, is a good way to stimulate creativity and to develop a desire to learn new things.


For encouraging a love of astronomy, many parents choose to buy their child his or her own telescope. While a telescope is a good way to view the night sky, in many cases it may be better to start your child observing the night sky with a good pair of binoculars and then move to a telescope as he or she shows a deepening interest in the subject.
 A good book on astronomy should explain concepts in simple, clear, real-world language, with examples that your child can relate to, and plenty of pictures. You'll want 2 kinds of books, a desk reference that you can keep in the house and a field guide that you can take with you on outings in your backyard and elsewhere. One good astronomy field guide is Howard Schneider's "Backyard Guide to the Night Sky."

, Computer software adds a visual dimension to teaching astronomy to children along with the ability to control what they learn. Astronomy programs include star-map programs that display the night sky for various dates from various latitudes, Orrery programs that chart the positions of the planets, ephemeris programs that give rising and setting times for the moon and planets, and programs that graphically display moon phases for any date. Many programs are available commercially at software stores or on the Internet, and other good programs are available as freeware or shareware on the Internet.


One good freeware program is Celestia, created by a development team led by Chris Laurel. It is designed to let users tour the solar system and the stars in its catalog by either entering the name of a destination or browsing the solar system or its star catalog. You can tour other solar systems and return to our own by selecting our sun (Select Sol), read summaries of solar system objects and then display them, or see a list of stars currently known to have planets orbiting them. You can capture any of the images displayed and even create short animated tours of your own. The program is available at http://www.shatters.net/celestia/.
You can install star-map programs on a laptop or tablet computer and take it with you when exploring the night sky. Check with the manual for your laptop or tablet for the minimum air temperature at which it can be safely operated and any recommended means to protect the unit against moisture if you decide to do this.
With the advent of the smartphone, astronomy software is now available as downloadable applications for the iPhone, Android, and other systems. One such app is Google Sky, which works with global positioning satellites to let you point your phone at a location in the sky and display and identify the constellation your phone is aimed at on its screen.
 There are a vast number of websites that can help you teach astronomy to children or simply help them further their interests. Sites such as http://www.kidsastronomy.com/, http://osr.org/en-us/articles/great-space-and-astronomy-lesson-plan-ideas/ and http://geology.com/teacher/astronomy-space.shtml are clearinghouse for astronomy lesson plans for teachers and for parents who home-school their children. NASA also maintains an education website covering concepts in astronomy and science in general, ttp://www.nasa.gov/audience/foreducators/index.html, as well as an Astronomy Picture of the Day site, http://apod.nasa.gov/apod/astropix.html.
 While astronomy software can display constellations, it can only do so on a single, flat computer monitor, instead of the large hemisphere that planetariums use as a display screen. Planetariums also let multiple users share the experience of viewing a simulation of the night sky, accompanied either by a lecture given by the operator or a recorded show that may also include projections of still photos or movies on a portion of the screen. A few even feature a series of pre-recorded programs from which viewers can assemble their own customized shows.


Planetariums may be found on college campuses or attached to science, history, or children's museums. Planetariums attached to science museums often include exhibits in rooms adjacent to the planetarium that cover the history of astronomy or space exploration.
Some colleges with astronomy programs own observatories as well as planetariums. These observatories may be open to the public 1 night a month either year-round or during seasons such as spring or fall. In addition to offering visitors the opportunity to look through its main telescope, they also feature short lectures on the night sky and science demonstrations by visiting professors and graduate students.
 Many science fiction conventions have a dedicated science track, with panel presentations by guests who've been associated with astronomy and space exploration in some fashion, such as current or former NASA or Jet Propulsion Laboratory employees. Conventions also feature art shows, many of which may include art by artists who specialize in astronomical art, and dealers' rooms, in which you can purchase astronomical art. You can learn about science fiction conventions in your area by doing an Internet search or through publications such as "Locus," "Science Fiction Chronicle," or other magazines dedicated to science fiction fandom. Many conventions also feature reciprocal links to other conventions, so that if the first convention whose site you visit doesn't interest you, you can look for others that might.
 You can further your child's interest in astronomy by painting the ceiling of his or her room with the planets of the solar system or a view of the night sky, hang astronomy-related posters and art on the walls, or both. If your child has particular artistic talent, he or she can do this with you.
 If either you or your child have musical ability, you can write songs about certain astronomical concepts or objects, such as a song about the planet Venus to the tune of either the Frankie Avalon or Bananarama songs of the same name. If you and your child share an interest in computers or broadcasting, you can do your own astronomy podcast. As suggested previously, you can also encourage your child to produce space-themed art if he or she has artistic ability.


Science fiction conventions have long featured late-night sessions of folksinging, devoted to original songs and song parodies with a science or science fiction theme. Some conventions are now offering talent showcases for attendees to perform their own creative works in front of others. If your child has both a performing and an astronomical interest, this can be a suitable venue to share his or her creative works with others.
 If you enjoy camping, take along a field guide and pair of binoculars or a telescope to do some field observing of the stars, planets, and constellations. You can also view the sky from a deserted road or from your own backyard, if you're sufficiently far away from city lights that can obscure your view of dimmer stars.


Be aware that as the moon approaches its full phase, it gets brighter and can make it harder to see dimmer stars in the sky. If you choose to view the sky during or near the night of the full moon, you may want to make it the primary focus of your observing session.
 Astronomy clubs are great local resources for promoting and supporting interest in astronomy for both children and adults. Some clubs have their own observing areas from which members can observe the night sky at regular times and maintain an inventory of telescopes that can be checked out to members. Some clubs organize "star parties" by themselves or jointly with other clubs at which a large number of astronomy enthusiasts gather, and they also have observing programs, with certificates of accomplishment, for such things as viewing all the objects in the Messier catalog.


Many astronomy clubs have an education or outreach coordinator who works with local school systems to interest children in astronomy. This person can also be a resource to you in providing ideas to teach astronomy to your child.
 The easiest way to reinforce lessons learned in teaching astronomy to children is to make astronomy a part of your everyday life. You can point out newspaper articles on the latest discovery of a new planet or new fact about one of our planets or watch astronomy-related science shows on television and discuss them over the breakfast or dinner table. For young children, you can celebrate their "Mercury birthday" with a small gift 4 times a year. (Mercury's orbital period is 88 days, as compared to Earth's 365 1/4 days, or roughly 1/4 that of Earth.)

