 Most middle schools have a track team, but you can look into teams at YMCA's and local community centers if yours does not.


Talk to previous athletes on the team and make sure that they've had generally positive experiences.;
, Track is a big commitment during the season, and most also do individual training during the off season. On average, expect to have 5 days a week practice for about 1.5 to 2 hours. It's also best to have the time to train on your own for at least a month before (see Training).


Track is hard work. Know that practices will be difficult, and competitions nerve wrecking. Be willing to push yourself.
 A good pair of running shoes is essential. If you've actively used your running shoes for more than 3 months, replace them. Many shoe stores have assistants who can help you choose a proper pair. At the junior high level, most schools don't allow spikes but check to make sure. Invest in a good pair––they may be a bit pricey but it's worth it in the end.
 A watch is crucial to training and the competitive season. You will often do timed interval workouts or go on long runs that need to be precisely timed. Most Walmart and Target stores sell them for roughly $20. They don't need to be really fancy-just make sure they have a stopwatch and timer.
 Create a schedule that you can stick to for pre-season training. Tack this up somewhere where you'll be reminded to train. In order to create this schedule look to the following steps.
 If you're a beginner at running start out with 30-minute intervals of walking and running. Work hard, and slowly increase the amount of running time to a non-stop 30 minutes. Once you've achieved this incorporate increasing intensity workouts and tougher terrain.


To start, try 4 to 5 minutes run/jog, 1 to 2 minutes walk for 25 to 30 minutes.
For beginning workouts, try run fast for 1 minute regular pace for 3 minutes for 30 minutes. Then gradually increase the running fast time.
Start by running 2 days a week.
 If you've previously participated in XC or Track or already run Congrats!, you have a bit of a head start.


Alternate long runs 40 to 60 minutes and workout days.
Finish long runs with hill sprints or accelerators.
Run 6 days a week.

