 If you’re throwing a party for grown ups, then this is the #1 most important rule to keep in mind as you plan to entertain people. Nothing makes a good party go south faster than when the guests realize that the beer and wine supply has run out. Alcohol is a social lubricant, and without it, guests are likely to feel a bit uncomfortable, or sometimes, even a little bored. Alcohol running out is also a sign that the party is over and that it’s time to head home, and you don’t want to give your guests that impression.


When you’re planning on how much booze to get, you should always get a little extra in case you have some unexpected last-minute guests or people stay later than you planned. If cost is really a factor, you can get booze at Costco or another place that lets you return it if you don’t think you’ll end up drinking it later.
 When it comes to entertaining guests, you don’t need to have the fanciest food available, unless you’re throwing a dinner party. In most cases, just having enough pizza, snacks, burgers, or whatever the event calls for will more than do. You can have a potluck so everyone contributes something and so you don’t have to worry about cooking or buying everything. In fact, the easier the food is to choose from, the better, because it won’t distract your guests.


Even if you’re just throwing a party and there’s no dinner component, it’s nice to have a few snacks ready. You don’t want your guests to go hungry and plus, that food will help absorb the alcohol you’re serving.
 One way to get your guests talking is to have a few conversational pieces out so your guests can have something to talk about. It can be a goofy photo of you dressed up as a zebra so your guests can ask about it, a flower arrangement so exotic that people will have to ask where it came from, a new gadget you’re excited about, or heck, even your pet kitty, Dexter, who is always the life of the party. Though this isn’t mandatory to entertaining guests, having something around that will get the guests talking, laughing, or asking questions will definitely help keep people entertained.


You can even leave some gossip magazines lying around. Though you want your guests talking instead of reading, someone can pick up a magazine and it can lead to the guests laughing (or swooning) over Justin Beiber together, and who doesn’t want that?

, It can be fun to have a few activities out that can help entertain your guests and keep the party from growing stale. Though many parties only need a few people who want to talk to each other and have fun, having a few games or activities can help people get into a fun-loving spirit and get to know each other a bit better. Here are some things that you can put out to help entertain your guests:


Jenga
Cards against humanity
An old photo album
Video games
A record player
Dominoes

, Make sure that your guests know where to put their shoes, where to hang their coats, where to put the drinks they brought, and generally where everything in the house is located. You don’t want a newcomer to feel lost or uncertain at your party. When a new guest comes in, ask if you can get him or her a drink, show him or her where the bathroom is, and just be friendly and helpful so your guest feels at home.


You don’t want to be pushy, but you should ask your guest if he wants a snack, water, or another beverage pretty soon after he walks in the door.
Make sure you don’t seem stressed out or worried about throwing a party. This vibe can ruin an evening, and you want your guests to feel like you want them to be there, not like they’re causing a huge inconvenience.
 A big part of entertaining people is making sure that they all like each other and really get along. You want your guests to feel comfortable with each other, not like they don’t know who the guy who has been standing near them is or where he’s from. You can quickly introduce people and even say a few words about them so everyone knows how the guests are connected. If you’re having a small party, with less than ten people or so, then introducing everyone to each other can really help make the environment feel friendly and intimate.


You can even take it a step further and help people start a conversation by pointing out that they have similar interests. You can say something like, “Jackie, have you met Eliza? She’s a gymnast, too…”
You can also tell people how you’re connected to the people you’re introducing them to so they’re oriented a bit better. You can say, “Mary, this is John, my friend from college. John, this is Mary. I’ve known her since fifth grade summer camp…”

, One entertaining must is to make the guests feel welcome until the moment they step out the door. If you start putting away dishes or garbage or scrubbing counters in the middle of a party, then this will be telling your guests that you want them to leave and that they’re causing a nuisance. Even if you’re a neat freak or are just trying to save a bit of time, it’s important to let the party happen and to clean later so your guests don’t feel like they’re causing a burden.


Okay, so if it’s really the end of the night and everyone is leaving and a few people offer to help clean up, then that’s fine. You may not want to deal with that mess on your own. But the important thing is that you don’t make people feel unwelcome by cleaning up every little empty beer glass half an hour after the party as started.
 Though a theme is not mandatory to throwing a party or entertaining guests, it can help get people talking, laughing, and generally having a good time. If there’s a natural holiday or occasion for a party, such as New Year’s Eve, 4th of July, or Halloween, then you’re all set, but you can also throw a party that is animal themed, sports themed, based on your favorite movie or TV, vampire themed, or which really has whatever theme you think will get people talking, laughing, or even dressing up.


Having a “dress up” element to the night can make people naturally more inclined to talk to each other because they can talk about their outfits or what made them dress up a certain way. It can also lead to fun music or props around your place, which will also get the guests talking and laughing.

