 Community Filters are Snapchat overlays available in public locations. They are free to create, and can be used by any Snapchat user within the area you specify.

You’ll need to create your filter with Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, or another application capable of saving 24-bit transparent PNG files.Community Filters are for public, non-promotional use only. To advertise a business or private event, see Creating an On-Demand filter.;
, It’s on the left side of the screen, under “Community.”,

The filter must be saved as a transparent PNG-24 file (.png).
The image dimensions must be 1080 px by 1920 px.
The size of the file cannot exceed 300 kb.
 It’s at the top right corner of the screen., Using the template ensures that you submit the correct size and type of file. Select “Photoshop” to download a .PSD file, or “Illustrator” to download an .AI file.

If you don’t have Photoshop or Illustrator, consider GIMP, (a free alternative to Photoshop). If you use GIMP, download the PSD file.
 In most applications, you’ll do this by clicking File at the top of the screen, then selecting Open., Your custom filter should be visually compelling and relevant to the location.To edit the sample text, click the Text tool (the T icon in the left toolbar of most image-editing programs), then click the text.
You can copy and paste other designs and images into your filter, but they must be your original art.
The center of the image should remain clear.
Avoid creating a full border. Instead, concentrate on a single corner, bottom, or side of the image.
 Here’s how to do this in Photoshop (the steps should be similar in other editing programs):

Click File in the top menu bar.
Select Save for Web and Devices.
Select “PNG-24” from the “Presets” menu at the top right area of the window.
Make sure the box next to “Transparency” is checked.
Click Save.
Enter a name for your file and click Save again.
 It should still be open to the Snapchat filter upload page. If you don’t see a map and a yellow bar on the right side of the screen, navigate to https://www.snapchat.com/geofilters/submit.html., You can define an area (between 20,000 and 5,000,000 square feet) by drawing a virtual “fence” on the map. Here’s how:


Click Draw Fence at the bottom center area of the map.
Use the + and – buttons on the bottom right corner of the map to zoom closer to an area.
Click a place in the map where you want to start drawing the fence. A dot will appear at the place you clicked.
Click additional points in the fence until you’ve returned to the first dot.
Click the first dot to close the fence. The selected will turn red.
 It’s in the large white box on the right side of the page. Once the file selection window appears, navigate to your filter, then double-click to upload., Besides your name and email address, you must enter a description for your filter in the “Why is this location important to you” box. Include a detailed explanation of why you think people will want to use the filter., You must place check marks in all empty boxes before you can submit the form., Snapchat will review your filter submission and send you an email once it is approved or denied. You should hear back in a few days to a week, but it may be longer during holiday seasons.