 You may choose jeans, slacks, long pants, and even shorts. Choose the pair of pants that you are comfortable in, fasten them, and wear them as normal on your hip line.Some material may be difficult to sag so be sure to test your underwear and pant combination. For example, jogging pants may easily slide off underwear made of silk or synthetic material.
Jeans and jogging pants are the most common types of pants that people sag. If you sag jogging pants, make sure to have a drawstring that you can adjust, tighten, and knot into place. People also prefer to wear gym shorts between their jogging pants and underwear to help set their sag into place. Jeans can be set into place with a belt or by finding the right measurement of waist to fit around your upper thighs.;
, Shift your pants down to the desired length. They may already be loose so you may need a belt to keep them at the desired height. Choose from the following:


The high sag that shows a lot of the waistband of your underwear. This goes well with designer underwear to show off the brand name.
The medium sag exposes half of your underwear which, in turn, shows off half of your butt.
The low sag exposes your entire butt and almost all of your underwear.
The medium sag without underwear exposes your nude butt. While it usually exposes the upper half, it could expose the majority.
 You could emphasize the sagging look by bunching up boxers at the top of your sag. As you shift your pants further than your desired height, pull up and gather the material of your boxers above the waistband of your pants.You may use your hands to further spread out the material to your desired look.
 A belt can be worn out of necessity or fashion. If you are sagging your pants particularly low you may need a belt to keep your pants in place.For an extreme sag you will need to pull your pants so that your butt is completely exposed as you make the front of your pants slightly higher. Tighten your belt diagonally so it’s just above your thighs in the front and below your butt in the back.You may use your hands to further spread out the material to your desired look.
 Wearing boxers and gym shorts under your pants creates a double sag. You will basically be showing more of your gym shorts as you sag your pants while you expose the waistband of your boxers as you sag your gym shorts as well.Make sure that your gym shorts are tightened as they usually are made of slippery material that can cause your pants to slip off if there’s too much movement.
 When you sag your pants your underwear will be visible. Make sure you choose boxers, briefs, or boxer briefs that are clean and don’t have any damage. You may also choose designs that will particularly pop when revealed.Bold colours or cartoon characters can catch the eye.
 Some state that sagging started because inmates are not allowed to wear belts for fear of creating weapons.Being unable to wear belts in prison along with being issued clothes that don’t fit properly created pants that naturally hung below the waistline.Convicts carried this style back home after they were released., Another reason why someone would sag his pants is because he is going through a growth spurt and can’t afford the constant change in sizes. Young men might be issued baggy clothes that they could grow into. Make sure that the pants are slightly larger than your current size so that it doesn’t create a comical oversize look., Many states have banned sagging pants because of its association with prison inmates. You may be unfairly profiled if you sag your pants. You may want to avoid the look entirely to avoid unnecessary suspicion by strangers and police., Sagging pants has been popularized by hip hop culture.Whether you embrace the hip hop look or create your own, make sure you are comfortable with your own appearance.Rappers often come from backgrounds that sagged pants for necessity and later turned it to fashion. Be prepared to defend your fashion choices and carry yourself with self-respect., You may sag your pants to make a statement about social injustice and personal rights.You may feel like the government is making an infringement on your civil liberties if they are taking away your fashion choices rather than focusing on changing social conditions that create these choices.


If your style comes into question you may ask, how low is too low? Should lawmakers be in the fashion business and be able to dictate what we wear and how we wear it? How does the constitution come into play?
Whether it’s political or fashion, your style can make a statement. Make sure you understand what your choices are saying about you. You may have to pay a fine or other consequences for your sagging pants. You may also find yourself being unfairly judged. Sag carefully., Sagging pants may be against school rules.It may also be illegal in your city.


Cities in states including New York, Georgia, Michigan, Louisiana, and Alabama have all passed laws against sagging pants.