 Focus on developing one or two psychic powers at a time, rather than spreading yourself thin trying to learn a dozen simultaneously. Figure out which mental abilities are the most important to you and work diligently toward achieving them.


Clairvoyance means to gain information about an object, person, location or physical event through means other than the known human senses.Empathy means being able to feel deeply the emotions of another person. An empath can channel the emotions of another person.
Clairaudience is the psychic gift of hearing. You can contact spirit guides or angels through your sense of hearing, or tune in to sounds of the universe or the astral plane.
Astral projection is when you can detach yourself from your physical body and move around in reality unseen. Most people achieve it when in a trance or during sleep.
Psychokinesis means to levitate or move things with your mind.;
, At night, take time to write three predictions for the next day. Before you do so, close your eyes and focus. What impressions are you getting? Any gut feelings? What song is running through your head? How do you feel? Who do you see? Is your mood changing?


Do this each day and note the patterns that emerge when you are right and wrong.
Keep detailed notes about your predictions.
 A clairsentient is believed to read these impressions and energies by touching that object. This ability may allow you to sense the characters, surroundings, and events related to a person by holding an object that belongs to them in your hands.


Have a friend blindfold you and then hand you a small object. Ask them to choose items that are used frequently, like keys or jewelry, since these are believed to have a stronger energy around them.
Take the object in your hands, then relax and note any ideas, impressions or feelings you have. Write down everything. No piece of information is insignificant. When you’re done, go over the session with your friend.
Ask them to give you feedback and see if they can provide validation for any of your feelings.
 Choose any location. Determine what you are trying to sense about the location before you begin. Are you looking for a person? Are you trying to see events taking place there? Then focus and picture that place clearly in your mind. Note any thoughts or impressions that came to you as you visualize the location.


When practicing remote viewing, close your eyes and direct your attention upward to your Third Eye, which is located in the middle of your forehead, slightly above eye level.
If possible, try practicing remote viewing with a group, as well. These sessions can become quite powerful in a group situation.
 Every person is believed to have their own energy, which they exude, much like an aura. When you scan someone's energy, you can tune into their frequency and learn things about them by interpreting their energy.It is a skill that psychically sensitive people are believed to have. Practicing scanning can help you develop the skills of an empath.


Try this exercise – find someone, preferably someone you don’t know well, and stand 4 - 6 feet (1.2 - 1.8 m) away from them. Both of you should close your eyes and imagine the other as a ball of energy or light.
As you both imagine this, scan each other's energy, top to bottom, and note any associations you feel – colors, numbers, words, images, or sensations. After a few moments, both of you should open your eyes and discuss what you "saw."
Discuss how these “visions” correlate to your lives.
 Leave this journal on your bedside table so that you can write down your dreams as soon as you wake up from them. Each dreamer has a code of symbols they see repeatedly in dreams. Writing down your dreams can help you decipher your code. This is important if you want to astrally project or practice lucid dreaming. In addition to writing down dreams, write down any questions or intriguing thoughts you find yourself having repeatedly.


If you are trying to contact your spirit guides, this may help you tune into them and find answers.
Write down any persistent ideas or images that occur during meditation.

