 You want someone with whom you can do activities, so you'll easily be able to spend time together. You want someone who you can have a conversation with. Choosing a girl with similar interests is crucial in making sure that neither of these things are a problem in the future.


You start your relationship with things in common or you can build common interests over time. Try taking up new hobbies together in order to build new interests. One good example of a hobby to try as a couple is learning a language.You can find free language classes online or you can take a course at your local community center or school.
 The person who you choose to be with should share your values and priorities. This is one of the defining features of someone who is right for you.They don't need to be the "normal" values or priorities, but they should be the same as yours. This will prevent tension and conflict as you go through a relationship.


For example, if she's a hardcore conservative and you're very liberal, you're going to encounter a lot of philosophical differences that can, over time, make you respect each other less.
However, if you can find common ground even between different values and priorities, you can sometimes make it work. You see this, for example, in couples with different religions. One might be Jewish and one might be Christian, but they're both devout in their love to God and that is enough for them. Sometimes the fundamental belief is more important than the details.
 You should have similar goals in life, if you plan on making this a very long-term relationship. It's okay for specific goals to change over time but the broad strokes should match up. This is because your goals will put you on a particular path in life, just like hers will determine her path. If your paths diverge, the relationship will be very difficult or even impossible.


For example, it's okay if she doesn't plan on pursuing higher education if that is something that is also unimportant to you. However, if education and ambition are things that are important to you, you will find your relationship filled with challenges.
 The two of you won't be the only players in this relationship. The relationships that you have with other people often play a major role in making a romantic relationship work. You want a girl who can interact with and respect your friends. Similarly, her friends should be people that you can coexist with.For example, if her friends are really catty and always try to get her to spend less time with you, you should expect that there will be a very bumpy road ahead of you.
You'll have to determine what you want to do about this kind of problem. If these problems weigh too heavily on your relationship and she isn't willing to work on the problem, you might need to consider someone else. Certainly, you should talk to her about it and see what kind of solution the two of you can create though.
 Now, this isn't a requirement to a happy relationship, but it can certainly be a major added bonus. People that grew up in similar environments or have done similar sorts of things in their life tend to understand each other better, think in similar ways, and have more to bond over. If your girl's life looks much like your own, it can make certain things easier in your relationship.


For example, maybe you both grew up with difficult siblings or family members. While someone who didn't might have a hard time understanding why you don't want to go home for the holidays, someone who did might be perfectly happy to make your holiday happier by keeping it just the two of you.

