 In order to join the Canadian Forces, you must meet certain requirements in terms of age, citizenship, education, and health.


If you are 17 years old, you must have parental consent. You do not need consent if you are older than 18. You must also be able to complete any required training and at least one term of service before the compulsory retirement age of 60.
You must be a Canadian citizen.
You must have completed at least Grade 10 education or Secondaire IV in Quebec. Certain positions will require higher levels of education.
You must be healthy enough to meet the medical standards for your chosen position at the time of the medical assessment.
 It will usually take about 20 to 30 minutes to set up an account online.


Access the online application at: https://www.recruiting-recruitment.forces.gc.ca/public/home-accueil.aspx?lang=eng

You will need to fill out your biographical information and information indicating your understanding of the eligibility requirements and responsibilities.
Alternatively, visit a recruitment centre and set up an account with their help. You must contact a recruitment centre, in fact, if you plan on joining the Army Reserves instead of the normal forces. If you do not know where your nearest recruitment centre is, you can locate it in a phone book or at the following web address: http://www.forces.ca/en/centres/findarecruitmentcentre-110


, Once the Canadian Forces Virtual Recruiting Centre receives your online application, you will receive an email asking you for photocopies of important documents.


You will need to send a copy of your birth certificate, a government-issued photo ID, educational transcripts, proof of trade qualifications and professional licenses, and any additional forms indicated needed for the job or program you applied for.
The address you need to send the documents to should be provided in the email you receive.
 You will need to have your personal information, education qualifications, professional credentials, criminal record, credit history, and employment history verified.


You will need to fill out authorization forms and provide five personal references.
 The Canadian Forces Aptitude Test (CFAT) assesses your verbal, spatial, and problem-solving skills.


The test can be completed by hand or on a computer. You will have 45 minutes to complete 60 multiple choice questions.
 The medical exam consists of a health questionnaire that you must fill out about your medical history as well as a physical exam. This will all be followed by a review of your medical files.


During the physical exam, you will have your vision, color perception, and hearing tested.
 Once you pass the aptitude and medical tests, you will need to meet for an official job interview.


Be prepared to explain why you want one of the jobs you marked on your application and why you are qualified for it. Understand that some jobs are more competitive than others.
 If you are selected, you will receive a formal job offer from the Canadian Forces.


You have 10 days to accept or reject the offer.
Upon accepting the offer, you will be given instructions on the enrolment ceremony, final paperwork, travel arrangements, and basic training start date.

