 Did you know that for every ton of paper, 17 trees live? Recycle paper that you are done with, even if it has pencil-marks on it. Just because you don't have a use for the paper, doesn't mean it should just be disposed of! If you recycle it, it can be reused and turned into many different useful products without being wasted. You could also recycle paper by using it to make more paper or turn old junk mail into paper beads.
 Paper is for story-writing! You probably already know that. Grab a pen and bring your imagination to life! Get thinking of some ideas and characters, and make sure to have a beginning, a middle and an end to your plot. Have fun and make sure not to strain your hand too much! Once you're done you could show it to friends or family for some feedback. Congratulations!


Don't feel up to writing a whole story? That's totally okay! There are a number of different writing forms you could try out, including:


Poetry and Haiku

Short stories
Your very own magazine

Comics



, Start off by wrapping your hair in the desired shape with brown-bag paper, in the way that you would use a curling iron. You can set it by doing this technique when the hair is wet, applying hardening or setting sprays, and then sitting under a dryer. Afterwards your curls will be very soft and much healthier because you avoided applying direct heat. Enjoy your cute, Eco-savvy hairdo!

, You can use the paper in order to practice your handwriting. Most people can stand to have nicer handwriting, but you can also use it to practice changes in how you write, stylistically, as well. Master a new signature, come up with your celebrity signature, or even try your hand at calligraphy!

, You can do a couple of different science experiments with paper. This might sound boring, but it can actually be really fun! Try invisible writing with lemon juice (it will magically appear when you hold it over a toaster!) or try to see how many times you can fold it. You can even try the classic tablecloth-pull magic trick with a sheet of paper instead of the cloth!

, This is a fun game that will also help you build your math skills. Draw a circle for the center and then however many flower petals you want. The more you have, the more challenging it will be. Write a number, any number you want, in the center and in each of the petals. Now your challenge is to make the petal numbers equal the center number. Add, subtract, multiply, and divide in order to make a math equation for which the center number is the solution!

