 This will allow you to become more comfortable with your date until you get to know each other better, and prevent him from becoming turned off immediately if you disagree on important topics.


Talk about fun, neutral topics such as movies you enjoy, vacations you have taken, or other types of funny, entertaining stories. Refrain from talking about topics that may initiate a debate; such as politics or religious and spiritual beliefs that he may strongly disagree with.
 This will help set an overall positive and fun tone for your date.


Talk about your ambitions and dreams without speaking of marriage or future children. These topics may make your date feel uncomfortable, pressured, or rushed into having a relationship with you.






Refrain from complaining about things in life that upset you and from talking about ex-boyfriends or ex-spouses. Negative topics or discussions may not be fun for your date or engender enough excitement that will motivate him to ask you out a second time.
 This may make you look unique and cause you to stand out from every other date he has had in the past.


Ask him about specific interests of his that you may have noticed, instead of asking questions about topics that may seem general; such as his profession or the type of car he drives. For example, if he is wearing a t-shirt with a band logo, ask him if he likes the band, or where he obtained the t-shirt.
 This will show your date that you are genuinely interested in him and what he is saying.


Ask him questions in response to what he is sharing with you. For example, if he talks about how much he enjoys attending baseball games, ask him where and when he attended his first game and what his favorite teams are.
 Non-verbal cues may indicate to your date that you are genuinely enjoying his company.


Express subtle flirtations by leaning forward as he is talking to you, playing with your hair, crossing your legs, or blinking your eyes slowly. These types of gestures may excite him without coming across as too aggressive or overbearing.







