 Before you buy fiberglass insulation batting, you need to find out how much you'll need. To do this, you'll need to take measurements of the total area of the individual walls to be insulated, and also the width of the space between the studs. Count up the number of wall gaps you have that need insulation and buy insulation batts accordingly.


For the most part, studs will be built at uniform spacing, and batting is manufactured to fill those gaps. It should be the perfect width. Still, it's a good idea to count up the number of spaces you have and take a measurement to make sure you don't come home with the wrong size.;
, The grade of batting will vary, depending on the wall that you’re insulating. There are various grades of insulating batting for different locations in the house, so you'll need a different insulation for interior, exterior, attic or basement walls.


The R-value of the batt measures the thermal resistance, so the higher the R-value, the more effectively the batt insulates. Typically, for interior walls, R-13 batts are used for 2 x 4 studs and R-19 batts are used for 2 x 6 studs.

Note their are two R-value scales; US customary and metric. The US scale is approximately 5.68 times the metric scale, so R-13 in the US is equivalent to R-2.3 elsewhere.


You'll also need to choose between faced batts, which have a paper "face" on one side that will cover the insulation to the outside, and un-faced batts, which are just the fiberglass.
 While fiberglass is actually up to 40 percent recycled material, there’s still a common complaint about the health-risks regarding airborne fibers of spun glass in your living space. Fiberglass is safe and the most inexpensive form of insulation, but it’s certainly not the only kind.You might consider alternatives, like:


Cotton. Recycled denim is regularly turned into a kind of insulation that's quite effective, and without the microfiber air problems that some people complain about with fiberglass.
Mineral and sheep wool, cementitious, and cellulose-based insulation's are also common alternatives to fiberglass.
You need to only use materials that have a thermal resistance rating. Insulating with things like egg crates and other recycled materials is a dangerous practice that can result in a fire.
 To install fiberglass or other insulating strips into your walls, you'll just need a few basic tools and the proper safety equipment. Make sure you've got:


A staple gun
Utility knife
Protective gear (gloves, mask, long sleeves and pants)

, You should have purchased insulation of the appropriate width, but you'll have to cut it to size for every space you want to fill, in terms of height. Lay the insulation out, then carefully use your utility knife to cut through the face (if you've purchased faced insulation). It's kind of hard to cut through the insulation itself, which has the consistency of tenacious cotton candy, but you can pull it apart once you get it started.


When you get your insulation home, keep it wrapped up until you're ready to use it. Cutting fiberglass insulation sends lots of little fiberglass particulate up into the air, which can cause allergic reactions and breathing problems. It's also extremely itchy, and can cause rashes in some people with sensitive skin. Never touch fiberglass batting with your bare hands and always wear breathing equipment when handling it.
If you come into contact with fiberglass insulation, don’t scrub your hands or face with water, which can cause micro-abrasions. Dust yourself off outside and wash your clothes immediately.
 When you get it cut, just shove it in to the space, with the face pointing back outward, if you're using it. Try to handle it by the edges as much as possible, to keep the floating particles down. Gently tug each batt outward so it fills the gap entirely.
 Use your staple gun to secure the paper lining to the stud, roughly every 7 inches (17.8 cm). It's helpful to have an assistant hold the insulation in place, if necessary. Staple each piece securely, then move on to the next row.


If you're looking for sound-dampening, it's a good idea to apply a thin line of caulk between the top plates, at the bottom plate, and around the floor of each batt. This will create a more secure seal that will keep sound from coming through.
 To make external walls extremely insulated, it's common to apply a layer of vapor-retardant film over the insulation, to make it more secure. This will help to maximize the insulating potential of the batting, and you can find this at most home retailers.


To install, you'll simply pull the film tight over the batting, stapling to the studs every foot or so, with the staple gun. Trim the excess with the utility knife.

