 You may not have time for an entire day of pampering, but even 15 minutes or an hour is enough to indulge. Put aside any distractions like your phone, computer, or work and let your friends and family know that you’re going to be unavailable for a short time.


Sometimes you need to get away by yourself to help clear your mind and take some good, deep breaths away from stress.
As you sit down for some alone time or a restful activity, take 15 minutes to stretch your muscles out so that your body also feels rested.
 Entertaining yourself doesn’t have to cost much. Make a cup of tea or coffee at home and read while curled up on the couch or make some snacks for an at-home movie night. Use your favorite author or director to escape from the real world for a little while.


Your local library is a great place to rent movies for free and stock up on some new books as well.If you don’t have time for a full movie or novel, pick an episode of your favorite show to watch or find some short stories to discover.
 Wind down by taking a walk, jog, or take your bike through your neighborhood to work up a good sweat and some feel-good endorphins. A little exercise is a great way to detox and get ready for a spa night or just a good hot shower before bed. Bring a friend or your dog along if you want a companion or motivation buddy.
 Friends can be a sympathetic ear or a helpful advisor when you need some emotional support. Spend some time catching up with a friend you haven’t talked to in a while. It’s a chance to learn about what’s going on in their life and most likely they’ll be excited to hear how you’re doing.


A phone call is the most convenient way to get in touch, but you can also invite someone over for a light snacks and drinks., Make the most of a beautiful day and drive to a nearby park, body of water, or overlook to enjoy nature. Double check that you have enough gas for a round trip and then cruise out of town towards your destination. You can also take a quick walk on a nearby trail if you don't want to worry about filling up a tank of gas.


Drive with the windows down and enjoy the wind or crank up some tunes.
Remember to pack a lunch and plenty of water.

