 If you know your own value, others may learn to recognize it as well.


If you ever feel devalued or unimportant, remind yourself that you are a worthy, valuable, and unique person.
You are not just an object, you are a person. You are more than a body or something pretty to look at. You have a beautiful mind you can share with others.
Respect yourself by making responsible choices that benefit you or others and do not cause harm.
Give yourself respect by treating yourself and your body well. Ways to treat yourself well include: eating healthy, getting enough sleep, exercising, relaxing, and engaging in safe recreational or creative activities.;
, Identify what you believe in and hold dear and stick to these values. These values might include things like: freedom, empowerment, equality, respect, justice, family, love, and stability. Focusing on your values can help you make better decisions and ultimately get people to take you seriously.If you aren't sure of your values, make a list of everything that you care about. These things are part of your value-system. Add to your list as you come up with new ideas.
If you are disrespected by others, pay attention to your personal values. Remind yourself of what you think is important and act in line with these values. For example, if someone treats you poorly and you have an impulse to yell at them, you can remind yourself of your core value of respect; if you yell at someone you may not be showing them respect.
Avoid any activities that go against your personal value system (such as stealing, disrespecting others, or treating yourself poorly).
 It is a sad reality that some women may be unhappy with themselves despite the many positive characteristics they have. However, if you truly love and accept who you are and what you do, you may be able to get others to accept you as well. The work always starts with you.


Focus on your strengths on a daily basis. You can list them in a journal or Word document. List things such as: ambitious, loving, caring, friendly, and athletic. Do you see how some of these strengths might coincide with your values? They are many times linked.
Acknowledge some of your flaws, and learn to accept them as they are. They may make you the unique person that you are, and perhaps people even love you for your flaws. You can love them too. Perhaps see them as unique qualities instead of flaws; they may make you different and interesting.
Avoid comparing yourself to others. This can cause you to feel inadequate or flawed.Use mindfulness to promote self acceptance.Begin by sitting in a comfortable position. Focus on the criticisms you have of yourself, such as, "I feel ugly and fat." Take a moment to experience these thoughts without judgment. Then practice nonjudgmental acceptance by saying or thinking, "I'm not perfect. I can accept myself without judgment." Notice any additional thoughts you have; simply observe them without making a judgment about them (whether they are good or bad). Thoughts may come and go and they are always changing., Appearances do matter, and being taken seriously requires you put effort into how you look.Grooming, hygiene, physical fitness, and regular health check-ups are a must.
Makeup is a controversial subject in terms of whether or not women should or should not wear it to be successful. This is honestly about preference. Some sources state that men prefer women with natural beauty or little-to-no makeup. However, some woman feel more confident with makeup.
 Studies suggest that doctors may treat males and females differently in regards to their physical pain; women may be discounted and not be taken seriously more often than men.Hold men, and people in general, accountable if you notice any prejudice or biases toward you.
Choose your friends wisely and keep all personal struggles and defeats to yourself and a close group of friends and family you can trust.
Getting support from others (other women, family, friends) may help you cope with personal difficulties or dealing with prejudice.