 Your skin might change as the seasons go by. For example, it might be more dry in the winter and more oily during the summer. As such, the face cream that you use in the winter might not be suitable during the summer. It might be a good idea to switch your face creams out with the seasons.


If you skin is dry, especially during the winter, opt for a richer, moisturizing face cream.
If your skin is oily, especially during the summer, opt for a light-weight face cream or moisturizing gel.
 This is great for those who wish to even out their skin tone but don't want to wear makeup. Choose a moisturizer that matches your skin type and skin tone.


Most tinted moisturizers come in three basic skin tones: light, medium, and dark. Some companies might offer a wider range of skin tones.
If you tend to have oily skin, consider getting a tinted moisturizer with a matte finish.
If you tend to have dull or dry skin, consider getting a tinted moisturizer with a dewy or luminizing finish. This is also great for giving any skin type that healthy glow during the winter months.
 Sunlight provides lots of vitamin D, which is essential for skin health; however, too much sunlight can also cause wrinkles and other skin damage. Protect your skin by wearing a face cream with some SPF in it. You will not only be moisturizing your skin, but protecting it from the sun's harmful rays as well.
 If you have oily skin or acne, you might still want to use some sort of face cream or moisturizer. If your skin becomes too dry, it will produce even more oil. A face cream will keep this from happening. Here are some things you should look for:


Look for face creams that say they are meant for oily skin (or acne) on the label.
Opt for a light-weight, moisturizing gel instead.
Consider getting a matte-finish cream. It will help reduce shine and make your skin appear less oily.
 If you can't find any, then look for labels that say "hydrating" or "moisturizing."

, Read the labels carefully, and avoid buying anything that has too many chemicals; many of these chemicals can be problematic for sensitive skin types. Consider instead creams that have soothing ingredients, such as aloe or calendula.

