 Vellum is an excellent surface for drawing and illustration. If you draw and illustrate as a hobby, try doing some drawings on vellum. This can give your pictures a unique look, and vellum can provide a sturdy surface for drawings.Typically, ink drawings are done on vellum. Preliminary drawings can also be done on vellum. That is, if you want to draw or paint something on a canvas, you can practice on vellum paper first.
If you want to add color, vellum's surface works well with colored pencils. Colored pencils will blend more easily, creating a smooth texture.
 As vellum is translucent, it is perfect for tracing existing designs or replicating a drawing that you are particularly proud of. Lay the vellum over the design and use ink or pencil to recreate the image.When tracing on vellum, you will be drawing on what is known as the "hair side." This is the side of vellum that is hard and smooth. The "skin side" is softer and fuzzier, and should not be drawn on.
Test different types of pencils on a vellum surface. You want to find a pencil that works with your chosen vellum. You want the trace marks to be thin and smooth, and you do not want lead piling up on the vellum and clogging the pores.
Use tissue paper to cover areas you are not drawing on. Lead may smear during the tracing process, so tissue can help keep the lead contained.
 Vellum may be used with certain painting mediums. Vellum can make a painting's colors appear shinier, and many people enjoy painting on vellum. Apply a neutral base color to the vellum before you begin painting. When dipping your brush in paint, you want to have enough to coat the vellum evenly, but not so much that you're leaving blobs of paint on the vellum.It may take a few brush strokes before you find the right amount of paint to add to your brush.
Once your base coat is dry, you can begin painting you images on vellum. With vellum, you paint in layers. You add one layer of color, wait for it to dry, and then add another. Move from light colors to dark colors, and move your brush slowly over the vellum to prevent smearing and paint blobs.
Use the type of brush your painting requires. To create thin lines, for example, you would need to use a thinner brush. You may have to switch between various brush types as you create your painting.

