 An official broomball court is 200 feet (61 m) long and 85 feet wide, with your goals placed at either end. If you are playing outside, it is important to clear the ice of bumps, snow, and any other debris, if possible. A semi-circle, called the goal crease, should extend out around the goal. A player cannot make contact with the broomball while inside the goal crease, and the goaltender cannot leave this area., This step is optional if you are playing recreationally. The referee will start and stop the clock, call penalties, and conduct face-offs. Of course, this ref should be very knowledgeable about the official rules of broomball. The most up-to-date rule book can be found on the USA Broomball website., An official game of broomball consists of two halves of at least 30 minutes each. Teams should switch sides at the end of each half. Depending on the rules your team is following, an overtime can be called if there is a tie game at the end. Teams are allowed a minimum of two breaks between periods, and can use one sixty second time out per game., In a face-off, a player from each team meets in a circle in the middle of the rink. A referee drops the ball, and each player attempts to gain possession to start out the period. Every goal scored will also be followed by a face-off.


The players can’t touch each other at all before the ball is dropped. Their brooms cannot touch the ball until it has made contact with the ice.
If your court does not have a center-court circle, just make sure that the players not participating in the face-off are at least fifteen feet away.
If there is a stoppage of play for any reason, such as a penalty, the face-off will occur wherever the stoppage was called., This can be accomplished by running the ball or passing with your teammates. Passes made by a player’s broom or foot are allowed. The team with the most goals at the end of the game is declared the winner.


A goal is legal if it is hit into the goal with the broom, bounces off any player’s body into the goal, or enters the goal while a player is in the goal crease against their will (i.e. is dragged or pinned by another player).
A goal is illegal if it is hit deliberately into the goal with anything other than a broom, if the player’s broom is higher than their shoulders, if the player is within the goal crease, if it enters after a buzzer, or if it bounces into the goal off a referee., As a beginner, it’s always helpful to see what a game actually looks like. It’s not a sport that you’ll find regularly on ESPN, but luckily The International Federation of Broomball Associations offers videos of games online. Check these out, so you can see some experienced broomball athletes play a game start to finish.If your town has a broomball league, stop in and check out one of those games. You’ll get to see firsthand what it would be like to play there, and pick up some techniques.
 Unlike some sports, broomball requires several pieces of specific equipment. It’s important to decide how much you’re willing to spend, and scout out where you can buy this equipment in your area. There are several official broomball equipment sites if you have trouble locating the correct pieces. Additionally, you will need to research the cost of renting time in an ice rink or paying dues to a league.


If you’re hoping to save money, check websites like CraigsList to find used options.
If you’re not picky about having standard broomball equipment, some of the equipment can be swapped for things you already have. For example, you can use a soccer ball in place of a broomball, and you can use hockey nets instead of regulation size broomball nets., Once you’ve seen what a game of broomball entails, start conditioning! It’s a cardio-heavy sport, so running, cycling, or using the elliptical can help you prepare. Simple drills like hitting a broomball into a net or against a wall can help you get a feel for the equipment you will be using.
 Sticks are also called “brooms,” and they’re your most important piece of equipment. They can range anywhere from $20 to over $100. Brooms have shafts made of either wood or aluminum, but you may want to test both to decide which one feels better to you.
 There are different types of balls depending on your area of play. The outdoor ball could be mistaken for a soccer ball, though slightly smaller. The indoor broomball is the same size as the outdoor ball, but has a smooth exterior. Balls are typically sold for around $20, and it is recommended that each team has their own. Broomball nets are larger than standard hockey goals, measuring in at 6 feet (1.8 m) by 8 feet, while standard hockey goals are 4 feet (1.2 m) by 6 feet., Because broomball is played on ice, wearing the proper footwear is crucial! Normal sneakers will do OK, but shoes made specifically for broomball will provide a player with more traction. The sole is made of a thick neoprene foam that helps traction on ice. Like the balls, these shoes are specific to either indoor or outdoor play. Shoes are usually the most expensive broomball gear, so make sure you shop around!

, Unlike the other equipment, your helmet does not need to be broomball-specific. A standard hockey helmet is used in broomball, and you can also add a face shield if you choose. Some recreational players do not use helmets, but they are strongly recommended since you are playing on slippery ice.
 If not, form your own. Recruit friends, coworkers, and neighbors to play. If you’re hoping to create a more competitive team, posting flyers at parks and rinks, as well as looking online, can be good places to start.


You need at least 6 people to form a team- and 12 people for a game.
A standard team comprises three forwards, two defensemen, and one goalie.
 Make sure everyone understands the rules, which can be found here. Find times to meet and work on drills. The more you can scrimmage other teams, the better!

, This step, of course, is only for those who want to get more competitive. The USA Broomball website offers a search engine to find leagues near your town. While it isn’t as common as hockey or soccer, it is gaining popularity. There are both city and collegiate leagues in most states.