 Visiting your elderly loved ones will keep them from being lonely and strengthen your relationship. Plus, the more often you visit an elderly loved one, the more aware of his situation you will be. This will help you keep track of his health, financial situation, and well being.


Be sure to look for risk factors of elder abuse, which are outlined later in the article.;
, Whether the main caregiver for your elderly loved one is a family member or hired help, she may need a break from time to time. It can be hard to be the one solely responsible for an elderly person, and these breaks will help give the caregiver time to regroup and destress.


This will help lower the chances that the caregiver will, intentionally or unintentionally, commit elderly abuse.
 When you visit your elderly loved one, pay attention to physical changes. Look for bruising, scrapes, and other physical injuries. Also pay attention to his hygiene, the state of his clothing, and general physical well being.


If you notice something off, ask him what is going on to see if there is an explanation for the change or injury.
 When you interact with your loved one, notice any changes in his emotional state. Note if he is more irritable, confused, unhappy, removed, anxious, or depressed. If you see changes, ask him if there is anything going on that you can help with or that may explain his change of temperament., If you are worried about your elderly loved one's finances, especially if you cannot be around him as often as you like, think about streamlining his finances. Instead of having checks sent to him in the mail, have all of his money deposited into his bank account each month.


Also look into having his bills, such as utilities, house payments, or other recurring bills, taking out of his account every month instead of needing to pay them month to month. This avoid needing to have others in charge of paying his bills and will keep him covered.
 If you hire an outside caregiver to take care of your loved one, so plenty of research into their company and history before you hire anyone. This will ensure that you hire the best person possible for your loved one. Do the same if you are looking into an assisted living arrangement or retirement home.


If you aren't sure, ask for recommendations from your doctor., In order to keep your loved one happy and healthy, encourage him to be active. Get him involved with a senior group, a church group, or other social grouping that will get him out of the house.


The happier your loved one is, the less likely he will be to put up with or be a victim of elder abuse., If you are worried about your loved one's personal and financial information, encourage him to take measures to keep it safe. Put financial documents in safe places and have him discuss any changes he wants to make with you.


Have him draw up living wills, power of attorney documents, and other legal documents that will allow you or other family members to take over his affairs if anything should happen.