 Tap the ⋮⋮⋮ button to view all of your apps.;
, This may be located in a folder labeled "Samsung."

,, You should see the Samsung Kids Mode app appear at the top of the list.
 This will open the app's details. If you are having difficulty finding the Kids Mode app, you can download it from the Google Play Store instead.


This app is only compatible with Samsung Galaxy devices.
 The Kids Mode app will begin downloading and installing.
 This button appears after the app has finished downloading and installing.
 Allowing these permissions will help you get the most out of the Kids Mode app.
 Kids Mode will download additional files it needs to run.
 This button appears once the installation is complete.
 This PIN will be used to secure Kids Mode so that your child cannot exit the app or make any purchases. Make sure you don't use a PIN your child can guess.
 You'll be asked to enter your child's name and birthday. The birthday will be used to determine which apps are best suited for your child's age.
 You can create additional profiles for your other children later.
 You'll see a list of contacts from your phone. Tap the checkboxes next to each one that you are OK communicating with your child.
 You'll see a list of the apps that are already installed on your device. You can add any of them to the approved list. When your child uses Kid Mode, they'll have access to many additional age-appropriate apps.
 Your child's profile will be created, with a custom contacts and app list.
 When Kids Mode launches, you'll see the basic apps that are available to your child. This includes a special Phone app that only allows calls to authorized contacts, a Camera app that keeps photos separate from your device's main Camera app, and a Kids Store for installing new apps.


When you launch these apps for the first time, you'll be prompted to allow them access to certain device services. It is recommended that you allow these for the best experience.
 You'll see an app store much like your regular app store, but designed specifically for childrens' apps. The apps are broken down into age groups, but you can also view by category or search for a specific app.
 There are several settings you can adjust for Kids Mode before handing it off to your child. You'll see the Settings button in the lower-left corner.
 You'll need to enter your PIN in order to access the Settings menu.
 This will allow you to set a time limit on how long your child can use Kids Mode each day. You can set different amounts of time for weekdays and weekends.


Tap the Gear button next to the time limit to change it.
 You can see the pictures they've taken, the images they've drawn, and the apps that they use the most.
 Once Kid Mode is configured, it's ready for your child to use. In Kid Mode, your child can safely use the apps and services you've approved without being able to access the internet, change your settings, or make purchases.
 You'll be prompted to enter the Kids Mode passcode to exit the Kids Mode app. This will prevent your child from exiting the app and using your phone as normal.

