 Learning that you have cancer is a very emotional experience. It is common to feel a wide range of emotions. Many people feel shock, anger, fear, and disbelief.This is life-changing news. Allow your self some time to react to the diagnosis.
Don't feel like you have to make any decisions right away. Give yourself a few days to process your feelings before you start making any important choices about treatment.
Allow yourself to be emotional. Don't become frustrated with yourself if you find yourself suddenly crying or feeling angry. That is normal.;
, Finding out that you have cancer is very scary. Many people deal better with new circumstances when they arm themselves with as much information as possible. It might help you cope if you start learning about your cancer and possible treatments.Seek reliable, up to date information. Science and medicine can change quickly, so make sure you are given the most recent information.
Ask your doctor to talk to you thoroughly about your particular type of cancer. Each individual will have a unique experience with cancer.
Get recommendations for reputable websites. For example, Cancer.org and Cancer.gov can provide a lot of information.
 Your cancer is personal. You shouldn't feel pressured to immediately share the news of your diagnosis with everyone that you know. But you might find some solace in talking to people you are close to.If you have a spouse or partner, you will want to have a serious conversation with that person. Tell them about your diagnosis, and also tell them how you are feeling.
Remember that everyone reacts differently. It might take your spouse or best friend a little while to adjust to the news. Remember that shock and denial are normal reactions.
Tell your family what you need from them. For example, it is fine to say, "I need a little bit of space to deal with my feelings."
It is also okay to say that you need extra support. Try saying, "I am going to need a lot of extra attention and affection for a while. Thanks for understanding."

, Cancer can change everything. You might have some new physical limitations. You will also likely deal with a lot of emotions.One of the first steps in coping is to recognize that there will probably be changes in your daily routine. For example, you might need to cut back on your hours at work.
Many cancer patients deal with fatigue. It is understandable if you can't work as many hours as you used to.
Your treatment might require a lot of visits to the doctor's office. Acknowledge that you might have to cut back on some of your other activities in order to make time for treatment.
Cancer can also be a major financial burden. Talk to your spouse about your insurance plan and how you will pay for any additional costs.
 Cancer affects each person differently. What works for some may not work for others. Take some time to think about what you need to help you cope most effectively.Many people find that they want to spend more time around loved ones in the early stages of treatment. If that's what you want, ask your family to be aware of that.
Some people find that relaxation can help with the strong wave of emotions. If you need to, try to take a short weekend getaway.
Other people find it helpful to tap into their faith. If you are a spiritual person, allow yourself extra time to explore that part of your life.
Share your feelings honesty. Let others know how you feel and what you need.

