 If you and your partner are willing, you might try the pause-squeeze method for learning to delay ejaculation.Stimulate the penis without entering your partner. Notice when you are about to ejaculate.
Ask your partner to squeeze your penis at the place where the head meets the shaft. Your partner should squeeze for several seconds until the need to ejaculate lessens.
After 30 seconds, resume foreplay and repeat as necessary. This will help you to gain control and enable you to enter your partner without ejaculating immediately.
Another variation on the pause-squeeze method is the stop-go technique. This is the same as the pause-squeeze method, except that the partner does not squeeze the penis.;
, These are methods that you can do yourself that may help you to delay ejaculation:Masturbate before sex. If you plan to have sex later in the evening, try masturbating an hour or two before.
Use a thick condom that will reduce the amount of stimulation you get. This may make it take longer for you to climax. Avoid using condoms that are designed to increase your stimulation.
Breathe deeply right before you ejaculate. This can help you to stop the ejaculation reflex. It may also help to switch to thinking about something boring until the urge passes.
 If you are usually on top, consider switching to the bottom or changing to a position that will allow your partner to move off of you if you are about to ejaculate.Then resume sex once the urge to ejaculate has passed.
 You can do this either alone or with your partner. This can be helpful in dealing with:Performance anxiety or other stresses in your life. Sometimes if men are concerned about being able to get or keep an erection, they may develop a pattern of ejaculating too quickly.
A traumatic sexual experience when you were younger. Some psychologists believe that if your early sexual experiences included feeling guilty or a fear of being discovered, that you may have learned to ejaculate very quickly.If you and your partner are having problems in your relationship, this may be a contributing factor. This could be the case if the problem is new and did not happen in previous relationships. If this is the case, couples counseling may be helpful.
 These medications are available by prescription or as over-the-counter as sprays or creams. You put them on your penis before sex and they reduce the sensations you feel, helping to delay the climax. Some men, and occasionally their partners as well, have reported a temporary loss of sensitivity and reduced pleasure. Common ones include:Lidocaine
Prilocaine

