 What made you decide that you wanted to date him? Was it his intellect or his style? Perhaps he was in a costume when you first met––you know he wore costumes regularly when you initially started dating? It may well be his sense of humor or belief in all things being possible that attracted you to him, as regular costume wearing often signifies a person comfortable with assuming other personas, stretching boundaries and having limitless imagination. It’s important you ask yourself questions about your initial attraction as your answers may reveal to you that the aspect of his personality that you adore is also the one that feeds his love of wearing costumes. Things to consider include:


He’s incredibly creative. If you sought a dude who is more imaginative than the average bear, you may (consciously or subconsciously) really love the fact he’s into dressing up.
He doesn’t care what others think of him. True evidence that he’s very self-assured and confident, a man who doesn't care less if someone makes fun of his costumes may be just the kind of person you’ve always wanted to hang around with, throughout your life.
He’s the boss. In line with being confident, if your man runs his own company and is an entrepreneur, he may feel as if he wants to dress up like Batman, then he should be able to go for it. There's nobody telling him not to, so why be the first?
He’s an actor, performer or an undercover cop. In some instances, your man has to wear a costume since it’s part of his gig. In this case, all will be revealed as you get to know him more.;
, If he’s wearing a costume every day, chances are he really enjoys dressing up. Try to remember when you were very young and how you may have enjoyed dressing up. Many adults say that they miss the days of make-believe and the societal acceptance of being able to become something they're not. Perhaps your boyfriend simply wants to play a superhero for the betterment of society.

In Dunedin, New Zealand, a costumed student has been delivering food and other items to students in need. Known as "Flat Man", the "mysterious caped avenger" has been doing good anonymously and people love it.If your costumed man has the spirit of an angel and is delivering help to those in need via his costume, admire his compassion and realize that your guy really is a superhero!
For additional reference, check out the film/graphic novel, “Kick-Ass.” Dave is a teen boy who decides to fight a persistent string of robberies and crime, but the only way he feels confident doing so is by wearing a costume. Is your man like the loveable character, Dave in “Kick-Ass?” To some Dave is awfully sexy.
On the other hand, if your man is acting like a vigilante and actually harming people while wearing the costume, then you should be very wary. Not only is acting like a vigilante illegal but your own safety may be at risk.
 While you may have fully accepted his love for costume wearing, average society typically does not accept a grown man’s passion for flamboyant accoutrements. Instead of banishing his Batman getup to the basement, establish rules that ensure common ground for both of you and to reassure you that the costume won't turn up when it's least wanted.

Determine what types of situations are off limits for wearing the costume. Whether it’s having dinner with your boss or parents or date night on Friday, come to an agreement as to when he cannot wear the costume. Be kind when explaining why this matters to you but also stay resolute––there are just certain times when the hidden persona is not welcome.
Identify situations where he should be able to wear the costume. If you're comfortable going shopping with him or going to the dog park in the costume, let him know this. He should have a clear understanding as to when he can wear the costume to avoid having an argument with you. But you should equally be prepared to make some compromises which show your love for him.
Keep the rules fluid. While you will want to make a few rules as to when and where he can wear the costume, let him know that nothing is set in stone. As you become more comfortable with his costumes, you may feel more flexible about when and where you are okay with him wearing it.
If it gets this far, consider what will happen at the wedding. Are you up for a costumed wedding? Or perhaps just a costumed wedding reception? If the two of you are serious about staying together, this is likely to be an issue when discussing wedding options.
 Take an interest in his passions for costume wearing. For example, if vintage is his thing and he simply likes dressing up like a 1940’s gangster, explore other aspects of retro-ware including frequenting swing clubs, checking out films of the time and listening era music. You may end up becoming a devotee too!


If he is attending an event or a performance when in costume, ask if you can come along too. This will allow you to see how other people who love wearing costumes interact and you'll get to see what all the buzz is about. You may even want to join in! Be open-minded––you just don't know until you've allowed yourself to investigate some more.
 Be true to yourself––you owe it to the both of you. If you honestly feel too embarrassed or annoyed by his desire to dress up, tell him. If wearing the costume is a priority to him, then you need to make some tough, personal decisions. If you feel as if you are constantly embarrassed or feel the need to make excuses or hide him, it may be time to part ways. On the other hand, if you choose to see this as an occasion for your own personal growth and expansion of your ability to accept difference in your life, you may just find yourself strengthening your own ability to tolerate and let live. Which is always a good thing for every human being.

Realize that you have your own quirks. If you accept his love of costumes, he may be far happier to accept your need to get tattoos, wear a nose ring, party all hours, devote yourself to running a marathon, whatever. Relationships are about tolerance and give-and-take and your acceptance will usually be repaid in kind.

