 Some other metals look similar to brass, but will respond differently to these aging methods. The wrong treatment could corrode your object, so take your object to an antique shop or other expert if you can't identify it yourself.


Clean brass has a bright, golden brown appearance. The most similar metals in appearance are copper, which is brown or pink-brown, and bronze, which is a much darker brown.Brass is slightly magnetic, but should only respond noticeably to a powerful magnet. If a small magnet sticks firmly to the surface, you probably have an object made from a different metal, then plated with a thin layer of brass.;
, If your object is only brass-plated, try using a gentle treatment such as vinegar or salt water, as harsher materials may corrode through the thin brass layer. If you are trying to age copper, see these linked instructions. To antique bronze, purchase a "bronze ager" and follow the Using Antiquing Solution method.
 Lacquer is a clear, hard, protective finish that prevents the brass from oxidizing, which is the aging process you're trying to encourage or imitate. Apply the nail polish remover, also known as acetone, to the object to strip off the lacquer.Wear rubber gloves and work in a ventilated area to avoid inhaling fumes.
Let small objects soak in the acetone.
Use a paintbrush to brush the chemical onto large objects. Be sure to coat every corner of the object.
Methyl alcohol, paint remover, or lacquer thinner will also do the job., Wait a few minutes or until the lacquer is peeling off or dissolving into goo. Wash the object in hot water to remove the lacquer


Check to make sure there is no remaining lacquer. Modern brass objects are often protected with tough lacquer that can take several attempts to remove entirely.
 If the object feels greasy or has a thin layer of polish on it, you can probably clean it with a cloth soaked in rubbing alcohol or a 50/50 mix of vinegar and water. For completely untreated brass, a thorough wash with soap and water should be enough to prepare it for antiquing.


Wear gloves even when using these skin-safe cleaning products, since oils from your hand can get on the brass and prevent the antiquing effect from taking place evenly.
 Do not begin the antiquing process until the brass is completely dry. A hair dryer, propane torch, or oven can speed up this process.Be cautious when applying heat to a brass object that recently had its lacquer removed. If you missed a piece of lacquer, it could catch on fire or release fumes. Dry the brass in a well-ventilated area with no flammable objects nearby.
You can now use any of the methods described below. If you're unsure which to use, read the first step of each one to learn the benefits of each option.

