 There are two main types of PAS and both are driven hydraulically. All power steering systems operate by a pump with a pulley attached. They are belt driven. Pumps will have a fluid reservoir attached, where fluid is checked and added. Hydraulic hoses feed fluid to the steering mechanism that turns the vehicle’s wheels. There are two hoses leading from the pump to the steering box (or rack). One hose is under extreme pressure when the vehicle’s engine is running and the other is a low-pressure return line.


Hydraulic fluid is hazardous and can cause serious skin and eye injuries. Use care when handling and always use hand and eye protection.;
, There are two main types of power steering systems used in automotive vehicles. Modern cars now use a more advanced design called “Rack and Pinion” power steering. This design is identified by a long rack of “gear teeth” and a pinion gear at the end of the steering shaft.


The assembly is shrouded by a steel cylinder that contains the hydraulic fluid and lines and is located directly under the vehicle, near the transmission bell housing.
All front-wheel-drive cars, most small trucks and some SUV’s use this design today.
 When manufacturers introduced power assisted steering, the original design was a hydraulically assisted gearbox called a recirculation ball. Identify this steering type by looking for a steel block with hydraulic lines attached.


The gearbox will be located at the end of the steering shaft and connected to the steering linkage (pitman arm, center link and tie-rod ends), under the front of the vehicle.
This design is still used today, mostly in trucks and heavy equipment.
 Whether the vehicle has rack and pinion or a gear box, hydraulic fluid leaks are common. Both system types develop leaks over time and are addressed much the same way. Fluid leaks are most common at each hose end or along the hose itself. Pumps can develop leaks at the front seal or between the reservoir and pump.


Most leaks can be identified by observing the leak’s path back to its origin.
 Such leaks can be found by adding fluorescent dye to the reservoir and using a black light to easily identify problem areas. These single-use test kits contain fluorescent dye, a black-light flashlight and visually enhanced safety glasses. To use the kit:


The fluorescent dye is added to the fluid reservoir and circulated throughout the system. When the dye leaks out of the problem area, the black light causes the dye to glow brightly, making it easy to identify.
Leak detection kits can be purchased from most auto part stores. Power steering test kits are most helpful when dealing with multiple leaks or when clear visibility is an issue.

