 Learning about pleural lung cancer may help you to feel a bit more prepared to face the cancer-head on. The pleura is a space in between your lungs and chest wall. It contains pleural fluid that is responsible for lubricating your lungs and chest wall while you breath. When a cancerous tumor develops in the pleura, it is considered pleural lung cancer.Ways to learn about pleural lung cancer include:


Discussing the condition with your doctor.
Running an online search through different cancer websites.
Talking to friends or family members who have experienced or are experiencing this condition, or who have a loved one that is.
Reading books or articles about about pleural lung cancer.;
, While spending time at the doctor's office may be the last thing you want to do, it is important to learn what you can about your condition. Your doctor will be more than happy to answer anyway questions you have about this type of cancer, as well as your specific diagnosis.
 One possible cause of pleural tumors is exposure to asbestos and smoking. Asbestos is a potentially hazardous mineral. Cigarette smoke can also lead to the growth of a tumor in the pleura.
 You may find that you begin to experience these symptoms as your pleural tumor continues to grow. These symptoms can include:


Shortness of breath when you do physical activities. Shortness of breath can occur because fluid may begin to accumulate in your lungs as the tumor grows.
Prolonged or chronic cough. A persistent cough can indicate an infection in your lungs or that the tumor is growing. Infections and tumors can lead to the growth of scar tissue in your lungs that can irritate your lungs, causing you to cough.
Weight loss for no apparent reason. Lung cancer can cause you to lose weight, though the reason for this is unknown. Weight loss generally occurs in people with solid tumors.
Pain in your chest. Chest pain can occur because the tumor can cause tissues and muscles to tear, causing scarring and pain in your lungs.
 Having any kind of cancer can change your physical being. While everyone reacts to conditions in different ways, common changes that occur in people diagnosed with lung cancer include:


Weight loss.
Stress-induced physical changes like fatigue, pale skin, and loss of appetite.

