 Prepare yourself for the rigors of years of medical training by taking advanced placement classes during high school. While these type of classes are not available at all high schools, and are not a requirement of getting a Pre-Med degree, they will put you on good footing when starting college.


It's important to develop a work ethic early. Advanced placement classes will help you get a foundation understanding of complex topics but they will also help you become used to the extended periods of study you will need to complete during your medical education.
AP credits in high school may even count as college credits in some cases. Remember, however, that those same credits, while they may help you get your undergraduate degree, may not count toward the prerequisites required to get into medical school.;
, A premed degree will include most, if not all, of the required prerequisites to get into medical school. Classes taken should include a wide variety of topics in the sciences, especially biology, in addition to classes in English, Math, and other general requirements.


If you choose not to major in premed you can still go to medical school. It just means that you will have to complete required classes for medical school, in addition to those required for your major.Prerequisites for pediatric college include at least 8 credit hours each of Biology, general or Inorganic Chemistry, Organic Chemistry, Physics, and English. All of the Science classes also need to include a lab.Make sure that your undergraduate education includes all of these prerequisites.
 Even more than what undergraduate degree you get, medical schools are looking at MCAT scores to judge whether you should be admitted.The MCAT is designed to test "problem solving, critical thinking, and knowledge of natural, behavioral, and social science concepts and principles."The MCAT consists of four multiple-choice sections. The first section is "Biological and Biochemical Foundations of Living Systems," the second section is "Chemical and Physical Foundations of Biological Systems," the third section is "Psychological, Social, and Biological Foundations of Behavior," and the fourth section is "Critical Analysis and Reasoning Skills."The full test is 230 questions and takes a little over four hours to complete.
Studying for the MCAT is an important step toward passing the exam. You can either buy published study guides or use online study guides and practice tests. Either way, you need to devote a lot of your time to studying leading up the the test.
, This can be done on the website of the American Association of Colleges of Pediatric Medicine.With one application on their website you can apply to all nine colleges of podiatric medicine at the same time.


Applicants to podiatry school with be evaluated on their GPA, MCAT scores, and an interview, in addition to a variety of extracurricular activities. Experiences in the medical field, such as volunteer work or shadowing a podiatrist are good to have as extracurricular activities, although the requirements for admission can vary from school to school., These requirements will vary slightly from school to school but all will be very similar to any medical schooling, aside from the focus on the foot. Topics will include anatomy, physiology, and pharmacology, among others. In addition, students will need to learn about medical ethics and regulations about the practice of podiatry.


Podiatric medical school will also include hands on training. Students will need to complete several clinical rotations before graduating. These rotations are usually completed during the last two years of the program., The second part, covering clinical areas, is taken just prior to graduation.


As of 2015, the complete APMLE consists of three parts, consisting of four sections.The first two sections, considered one part, are written, testing that the candidate has the scientific and medical knowledge to work as a physician. The third section of the test evaluates the candidate's clinical skills, focusing on their skill at examining and communicating with patients.
 Residency allows future podiatrists to apply the knowledge they have learned in school in the real world.It also allows them to practice the skills they have learned in school with supervision.


In comparison to the small number of schools where you can get a DPM degree, there are quite a few residencies you can do in podiatry.Approved residencies in podiatry can be found through the American Association of Colleges of Podiatric Medicine and the Council on Pediatric Medical Education.The residencies listed on the websites of these organizations have gone through the approval process of the American Pediatric Medical Association., While residency should give all future podiatrists some experience in a variety of specializations, you can specialize in a specific aspect of podiatry. Podiatrists can become specialized in two different fields, primary care and orthopedics, or surgery.Picking a specialty requires specialized training and passing exams in the specialized field. National specialty boards then grant certification., This is the final step in becoming a podiatrist. Passing the test allows you to obtain a license to practice podiatry.The fourth part tests the clinical skills of the candidate, gauging their skills at evaluating, diagnosing, and treating patients.
Requirements vary from state to state. Your state may require you to take an additional state specific test in order to practice podiatry. Check with your local licensing board for specific details.
Remember that your license will need to be renewed periodically. Don't accidentally let it lapse!

