 Use a knife to trim off the top and bottom of the onions so you can easily peel off the papery skin. Next, cut the onions into pieces to prepare them for pureeing. You don’t need to chop or dice the onion, but cut it into chunks that are small enough to fit in the blender.Use the pitcher from your blender as a guide for how small you should cut your onion. If it’s not very large, you should cut the onion into small pieces. In a large pitcher, cutting it into eighths may be sufficient.
 When you’ve cut all the onions into pieces, place them in a blender. Use the puree setting, and hold down on the button until the onions are ground into a thick but smooth puree.If you’re freezing a large number of onions, you’ll probably need to puree them in batches. Overfilling the blender’s pitcher makes it more difficult for the appliance to puree effectively.
If your blender’s motor isn’t very strong, you may need to push down on the onions as you’re pureeing to bring them into contact with the blades. To do so, set the handle of a metal ladle through the opening in the blender’s lid before placing it on the pitcher. The rounded end of the ladle should be inside the pitcher, so when you start pureeing, you can press down on the onions with the ladle. Because the bottom is rounded it won’t get caught in the blades., Once you’ve pureed the onions, use a spoon to carefully pour the puree into a clean ice cube tray. Place the tray in the freezer, and allow the puree to fully freeze, which should take approximately four hours.Be sure to cover the ice cube tray with a sheet of plastic wrap to prevent the onion smell from reaching the other food in the freezer.
 After the pureed onion ice cubes have frozen fully, carefully remove them from the tray. Place them in a plastic freezer bag, and store them in the freezer until you’re ready to use them.Remember to label the bag with the date that you’re freezing the onions, so you can be sure to use them within 6 months.
These pureed onion cubes are ideal for adding to sauces, gravies, and soups.

