 An alternative, or perhaps supplementary, method for learning a language, is to work with a private tutor. These one-to-one classes can help you to focus in on your study, and are much more intensive than studying with a group. If you think this could be a good approach for you, start by searching online for tutors advertising themselves.


As with any online transaction, try to find out as much as you can about the tutor online.
Use trusted websites that allow private tutors to advertise, an always look for online reviews.
Look at the qualifications and experience the tutor has, as well as the price of lessons.
When you find a tutor you like, ask for a trial lesson before committing to a longer programme.
 More and more language teachers are working online, delivering lessons over skype to their students. This can be a good option if you have a busy schedule, and will struggle to have time to travel to classes. You may have to endure difficulties with the connection, and you may find it harder to develop as good a rapport as you could if you were having the lessons in a room together, but skype lessons are often cheaper., As with any method for learning a language, it’s crucial that you commit as much time as you can to studying and practising. A lesson with a private tutor will give you more direct time with the teacher than if you were in a group. A lesson with a group may last two hours or more, but one with a private tutor is unlikely to be longer than an hour.


Be sure to explain what exactly you want to achieve and why you are learning the language.
Try to have a lesson every week, and be well-prepared to ask questions and practice your speaking.
Although the cost of the lessons per hour will generally be higher than a group lesson, you are effectively getting more contact time and attention in each lesson.
 The main advantage of working with a private tutor rather than a class, is the amount of one-to-one time you have with the teacher. This can be intimidating, especially if you are just beginning to learn, but is also gives you plenty of opportunity to get clarity on things you are struggling with.If you are having one-to-one lesson you will be spending almost the entire time in conversation with your tutor, hopefully in the foreign language.
This can really help you work on your speaking and listening. Expect the teacher to quickly pick up quickly on any mistakes in your pronunciation that might get overlooked in a larger group.
Once you and your teacher get to know each other a little better, she will be able to tailor the classes a bit more closely to your needs.
If you are trying to learn a language for business, a good teacher will be able to modify the lessons to teach you relevant vocabulary.
 Although having one-to-one lessons will give you plenty of time to practice speaking and listening, you may like to find opportunities to practice with other people. If you are only working with the teacher, you could investigate a conversation group with people who are closer to your level.


It can be isolating to learn just with one-to-one lessons, so look for opportunities locally to meet other people learning the same language.
Adding a social element can help you keep up the motivation to study and practice.
It’s important to have fun while you learn and practice the language.