 Bloggers and vloggers across the internet claim to have effectively whitened their teeth in just a matter of weeks, using nothing more than a banana peel.


They claim that minerals in the banana peel (such as potassium, magnesium and manganese) are absorbed by the teeth, making them whiter.They also believe that using banana peel is kinder to teeth than many alternative options, as it is not abrasive (unlike many other natural whiteners).






However, this natural remedy also has its detractors -- one Colorado dentist tested the banana peel method over a 14 day period and recorded no noticeable improvement in the whiteness of his teeth.So the only way to know for sure is to try it out for yourself!;
, Choose a banana from your fruit bowl -- you want it to be ripe (as this is when it contains the most minerals) but not black.


Peel a single strip from the banana, leaving the rest of the skin intact (you can use it over the next few days).






Try to peel the banana from bottom to top (like the monkeys do) as this leaves more of the stringy flesh attached.
 Rub the inside of the banana peel against your top and bottom teeth, until they are completely coated in a layer of banana paste.

Once your teeth are coated, sit back and let the banana paste work its magic for approximately ten minutes.






Try to keep your mouth open and your lips away from your teeth -- this may feel a little uncomfortable, but it will prevent the banana paste from rubbing off.
 Once the ten minutes are up, take a dry toothbrush and use it to brush the banana paste into your teeth.


Brush using gentle circular motions, for between one and three minutes. This will help to get it into all the little nooks and crannies!






Then wet your toothbrush and use it to rinse the banana paste from your teeth. You can use your regular toothpaste if you like.
 It's unlikely that you'll see any results after just one treatment, so continue rubbing your teeth with banana peel for up to two weeks -- hopefully you will see a difference by then.


It can be difficult to notice changes in the color of your teeth, so it's a good idea to take a before and after picture. This way you can do a side-by-side comparison of the two.






Don't throw away your banana peels! They make an excellent mineral compost for plants -- all you need to do is add them to your compost bin, or grind them up in your food processor and sprinkle directly over the soil.
 If banana isn't really your thing, you can turn to other natural remedies for whitening your teeth:


Use strawberries and baking soda: A paste made from mushed up strawberries and baking soda helps to clear away surface stains and remove plaque. Simply brush the paste onto your teeth with a toothbrush for several minutes, then rinse away.







Use lemon: The citric acid in lemon is a natural bleaching agent, therefore it can help to whiten teeth. Mix some fresh lemon juice with a little baking soda or salt and rub this mixture onto your teeth with a toothbrush -- just be sure to brush your teeth with toothpaste afterwards, as acidic lemon juice can also wear away tooth enamel.







Eat more apples: Eating apples can help to whiten teeth, as their crunchy texture helps to remove excess food and bacteria from teeth and wipe away surface stains. The juice also contains malic acid -- an ingredient which is used in many teeth whitening products. 