 As you will spend most of the time trying to survive as a human, you are very likely to at some point have to flee from the infected. That requires speed gear as they are normally faster than you. Also always use standard backpack, the other ones will slow you down. Here are some examples


Specialist: You can buy Viper (15%+ speed and 20%+ sprint stamina) or Hawk (16%+ speed). Scorpion is not recommended as he only gives a 10%+ speed increase. They are available by NX at about 4K for a week (all prices EU version) or GP for about 17K a week (to buy with GP you need to have Lieutenant rank).
GP gear: Light vest + Military bandanna gives you a total of 15%+ speed increase.
Fastest (NX): Buy Recon vest + Cyclops bandanna, it gives you a whopping 22%+ speed increase. If you have extra nx, you can buy either an Anti-Flash Glasses or one of the Patriot Skull masks. They both add +3 speed, but the Patriot Skull mask gives also a +10 stamina increase. In total, you can have up to +25 speed and +10 stamina.
 Unlike in Elimination, some weapons are not suited for use in this mode. This is a summary of what you should carry


Primary weapon: A shotgun as they push back the zombies a lot and can be shot while reloading. M4/M3 Super 90 is best as it reloads really quick, M590 Military is another nice gun, but it only comes only with 6 rounds. If you are going to buy a gp shotgun, buy the Spas-12 because it is automatic and shoots faster.
Secondary weapon: Pretty much any pistol will do, however you shouldn't bring power pistols, because if you miss a shot, you have to shoot again, and by that time, the zombies probably infected you. I would recommend a m92fs or a pistol that shoots fast like the g23 usp and p226.
Melee: Standard M9 will do the trick. If you have extra nx, buy a Tracker knife.
Support: Mines if you plan on some camping, otherwise M69HE nade.
Backpack Slot A: If you bought a specialist you will want to buy and equip a specialist weapon like M32 or the Flamethrower as they take loads of HP from the infected. If you have your normal character, a second nade or LAW/RPG is a good choice.
 To become a pro at Quarantine Regen you need to know all the maps extremely well, both for hiding or running as a human and for finding the humans when you are infected. This is a short review of the maps, for a better understanding play them multiple times.


Overdose: Small map with safe-rooms for the humans that opens when there is about 1 minute left of the game. You can rarely hide anywhere for a full round without being spotted so your best chance is to cooperate with other humans and guard the saferooms. If you are trying to free run, there is an area next to Site A that is filled with boxes. There are many cool neat tricks you can do there. More than you think.
Junk Flea: Also tiny map but without any safe rooms. Best suited for free runners. The only good spot a group of humans can defend is the roof at Bravo base.
Warhead: Huge map with lots of hidey-holes, it also has a few spots that a group of humans can defend. Take any chance you get to spectate other humans when you join the game or when you are dead to get tips on nice hideouts.
Two Towers: A lot like Warhead, lots of places to hide and a good runner can easily survive by running and jumping from the roof onto window ledges etc.
Showdown: This map is not that big actually but it still have some spots where you can hide. A group of humans is most of the time gathered at one of the roofs.
Kill Creek: The largest map of them all although it lacks good hiding spots. It's a nice map for runners though and at all times you are likely to find some people camping under the bridge.
 You don't want to stand next to a player that turns into a zombie, on the other hand you don't want to be too far away either if you become infected. Best thing to do is keeping some distance to the other humans and be prepared to run in case anyone near you become infected.;
, If you decide to hide you should do it as quick as possible before or after the host infections are selected. Otherwise you risk that a zombie spots you and follows you to your hideout. If you want to defend with other humans, try to group up with middle or high rank players that has mines/rocket launchers/specialist weapons. Some short tips


Hiding: Refrain from hiding at places everyone does, try to find the unusual spots where people normally doesn't look. Also never use the same spot several times in the same game if you have been found, some people will remember it and go look for you there.
Defending: Avoid any spot that has multiple ways to access it. The Office safe room in Overdose is ok as it's easy to cover the ways because zombies has to jump to get there, open areas however aren't.
Free running: Don't try Free running without having speed gear equipped. (discussed above). Also don't run like a fool without looking over your shoulder every now and then to see if any zombies are following you. Do not completely use your sprint while running away from zombies, because it regenerates slowly when you have less sprint.
 A good Quarantine Regen player knows when it's time to abandon a strategy and choose another one. If you are defending with other humans and a zombie break through, it's time to start running. Or if you normally like to just run but all humans are gathered at one spot and there are only host infections you might wanna considering teaming up with the humans.
 In any Quarantine Regen room you will find at least some people with different types of explosives. Shooting or grenading the mines like some people do is utterly stupid, it ruins the defence and in some cases it also kills the player that planted them. Same goes for when there is a specialist with M32, too many players tend to jump in front of them while they are a launching a nade which either damages or kills them. Not only is this behaviour foul against the other players, lots of times you will also be kicked for team-killing. Also be gentle when you are handling explosives, launching with M32 or LAW/RPG too close to you may damage or kill you.
 Sometimes you will find yourself lucky enough that one of the host infections are AFK. However, be suspicious of the AFK zombies, because sometimes they move. If they move in any way, do not try to knife them. This is a great possibility to narrow the number of infected people as a single host infection have a hard time attacking a room full of humans, instead it often turns into a "zombie hunt". Use your knife when killing AFK zombies as its the quickest way. Also, if any zombie has been severed by nades or lots of gunshots and is trying to escape, they are likely to run low on HP and are trying to get away to regen. Always follow these zombies (preferably if you are a group of people) and continue attacking them, chances are you can finish it off.
 Whenever you are playing at a map where most humans normally team up (Overdose, Showdown etc), it can be hard to attack them if you are only 2-3 host infections. Instead go look at the regular hideouts and infect any human you see, when you are a bigger number of zombies you can attack the groups.
 As there are lots of weapons that can sever you badly (mines, nades, M32 etc) you should always regenerate when your HP is becoming low. Keep in mind that you only regen when you are standing still and the regen process is aborted if you get hit by weapons.
 There are lots of ways you can infect the humans. If you are playing at a small map and have a hard time infecting anyone, one trick is to pretend to be AFK somewhere close to the humans. It's very likely that one or several of them soon will come and start knifing you. All of a sudden you got yourself some free kills. Also sneak upon the humans whenever possible, it's a lot easier to infect them when they are not aware of your presence and are defenseless.
 CA now has several potentially deadly mines which are often used in Quarantine Regen to kill or damage the infected. 3 regular mines, 2 hornet mines or a claymore can kill you depending on your HP. Never try to jump over these without having full HP, regain if needed.

