 Signals that don't have to travel through large, cumbersome furniture will make reception better.;
, All metallic surfaces reflect WiFi signals, including the thin metal layer found in most mirrors.
 Where you place your router has a lot to do with how it performs. When placing a router, consider putting it:


Near the center of the house, on a top floor. Radio waves best travel down and laterally.Off the floor, ideally on a wall mount or high shelf.As far as possible from your neighbor's WiFi router (which, of course, you've made sure is using a different channel).
Away from cordless phones and microwaves, which operate on the same 2.4-Ghz frequency. (There are some cordless phones that are WiFi friendly).
Away from power cords, computer wires, microwaves, baby monitors, and halogen lamps.These wires and waves can interfere with radio reception.
 If your office is inconveniently far from your wireless access point, and you find yourself stretching to the edge of the room to get better reception, install a wireless signal repeater. Wireless repeater extend your coverage without the need for more wires or hassle.Place your repeater halfway between your access point and your computer for an instant boost.


A wireless bridge (also called an Ethernet converter) is used to get better reception for wired devices. If you're having trouble getting reception on your wired devices, try the Ethernet converter for a few extra bars.
 WEP and WPA/WPA2 are security algorithms that keep hackers from breaking into your network. The only problem is that WEP ("Wired Equivalent Privacy") is a lot less secure than WPA/WPA2 ("Wireless Protected Access").So if you're still running your internet through WEP instead of WPA/WPA2, consider changing so that unwanted forces don't break into your network.
 The fewer devices your network has to support, the stronger speed you get out of it. (Usually.) Limit the number of devices can access your network by creating a device access list of MAC addresses. A MAC address is a "Media Access Control" identifier for devices that you and your family use.Create a device access list of MAC addresses by first finding your devices MAC addresses, and then by going to your access point's configuration screen and setting which addresses get the green light.
 If you don't want other people from potentially mooching off your signal, don't let them know it's there in the first place. (It is possible for software to locate "hidden" networks, but the point still stands.) Go to your access point's admin page and uncheck "Enable SSID Broadcast." You can still access your network, of course, but it won't be discoverable when a computer is looking at the list of available networks.

