 Check a thermometer for the temperature before you go outside. When you know what the temperature is going to be, you can mentally prepare for how cold it will feel.


If you're planning for the future, check a weather service to anticipate how cold it will be, so you can gradually allow your body to get used to the cold.
Keep in mind what the wind chill is before you go outside. Wind Chill is the temperature that it "feels like" based on actual temperature and wind speed.;
, When it's cooler inside your house, you won't notice how much colder it is outside. Getting used to being chilly indoors can help you adapt to the colder weather outside.


Be considerate of other people in the house. Don't lower the temperature too much, or it will make everyone else uncomfortable. It can also change energy bills, so be considerate of who's paying the bills, too., Allow your body to change your temperature when you're outside. Eventually, you'll start being more comfortable in the weather, but be wary that temperatures could drop even more the longer you're outside. Don't be surprised if your nose gets a little runny the longer you stay outside.Do this every day for several weeks leading up to winter. Eventually, your tolerance for cooler temperatures will increase.
 Turning the "hot" lever down a little bit will help your body adapt to colder temperatures in the long run, and it saves hot water. It might be uncomfortable, but it can be relaxing.


Colder showers can also be good for your health and blood circulation., Even if the temperatures are low, the sunshine can still warm your body if you're standing in it. Staying in shaded areas or shadows makes it feel significantly colder outside than if you stand in the sun.


There is a 10-15 degree temperature difference between standing in the shade and standing in the sun.Other factors affecting degree difference include a wind or breeze blowing through, as well as how much you've been sweating.
 Actively keeping your mind on warm weather can take your mind off the cold temperatures. Most people tend to think about the beach or the tropics, where the weather is warm year-round.


It's easier to think of warm places you've been personally. Everyone knows it's always warm in the Bahamas, but if you've never been there, it's hard to personally imagine it. Try thinking of a warm fire or sand on your toes.

