 They don't have to match at all, really. All you need is one of scenery and one of a subject (or two). If you'd like a photo of a dinosaur crashing into your kitchen, all the more power to you. The more absurd the combination, the less emphasis there will be on the popping. So if you'd like to keep your friends' reactions to, "Wow! A 3D photo!" keep your two images similar.









Make sure your object is smaller than your scenery. If T-Rex is 10" tall and the photo you have of your kitchen is 4x6, there's a problem there. Luckily, resizing photos is a piece of cake (if cake isn't what you're looking for, you could always make the Walgreen's employees do it for you).
Your subject should be whole. The torso of T-Rex dragging through your kitchen (trying to reach your cabinets?) just doesn't make sense. For the subject you choose, make sure you have a complete image, top to bottom.
 For an 8x10, 2" (5 cm) from the bottom, make a fold, with the new flap facing toward you, image side up. For smaller or larger photos, adjust accordingly. Your photo should now be able to stand up.









This flap is what your subject will stand on. That way, they're in all of the photo, not just in front of it.
 The fewer intricate cuts you have to make the better, so if you have an image that's fairly straight and to the point, great. You want your cuts to be as close to the edge of the shape as possible.









If you have more than one subject, just make sure they both fit!

, Grab a piece of photo paper (photo paper is a lot sturdier than regular paper) and cut a strip about 1/2" (1.25 cm) wide and 8" (long). Each subject will need one -- so if you've two subjects, cut two strips.









Again, these are proportions for a decent-sized object on an 8x10. If your subject is bigger or smaller, you may need a different sized stability strip.
 You need it to be bent into a geometric U-shape. The sides should be 3" (7.5 cm) long and the middle (bottom of the "U") should be 2" (5 cm) long.
 Taking one of the longer sections of the strip, glue it to the back of your subject, preferably centered. The more centered it is, the more stable your subject will be. Glue the other longer section to the background. The 2" in between is how your subject pops.









Repeat for each object you have. If anything seems to be leaning, use a bit of transparent tape to solve the problem.
 Now that you have an awesome pop up photograph to your name, what to do with it? The only trick here is positioning it where it can't really be seen from the sides. Place it where you'd like, but stand at different points in the room to see what it looks like from all angles.









Higher works better than lower. If viewed from below, the photograph stays intact; if viewed from above, it loses its dimensions and depth.
