 You've heard that you need to eat your veggies; now is the time to take this advice to heart. Vegetables provide your body with essential vitamins, they aid in digestion, they provide extra hydration, and they deliver nutrition without too many calories. Basing every meal on vegetables will help you look toned faster.


Make salad or cooked green vegetables the biggest part of every meal. Eating plenty of leafy greens like dandelion greens, spinach, kale, collard greens, mustard greens, broccoli, or Brussels sprouts will fill you up and nourish your body with vitamins A, C, K, and other essential nutrients.Eat a regular rotation of other vegetables like sweet potatoes, carrots, cauliflower, squash, green beans, cabbage, onions, and so on. Try to eat vegetables that are in season, which is when they are the most nutritious.
Start your day with a vegetable breakfast smoothie. Ditch pancakes and bacon and instead blend almond milk, a few handfuls of spinach or kale, and a kiwi or a banana for a powerful green smoothie to get your day started. Replace daily snacks with raw carrots, broccoli, or another vegetable smoothie.;
, Eating whole fruits is another great way to get the nutrients, water, and fiber your body needs to start looking more toned. Make sure to get several servings a day, choosing fruit that is in season in your area whenever possible.


Eat whole fruits like berries, bananas, apples, pears, oranges, melons, and so on instead of buying fruit juice.Eating fruit whole gives you the benefit of the fiber; without it, you end up consuming too much fructose, the type of sugar found in fruit.
Replace your typical desserts with fruit salad, or try making other healthy fruit based desserts. For a delicious, light take on ice cream, try this amazingly simple dish: freeze a banana solid, then put it in a food processor or blender and whip until it turns creamy. It will have the consistency of ice cream or custard.
 To achieve muscle tone, you'll need to feed your body with plenty of lean proteins. Protein can come from meat, but it is also found in vegetables, legumes and nuts.


Eat plenty of fish.Fish contain all the protein you need, as well as essential fatty acids that help make your body strong and lean.
Eat beans and tofu. If you're a vegetarian, try chickpeas, black beans, fava beans, and other legumes to get the protein you need. Tofu is also a healthy choice.
Eat red meat sparingly. Steak, hamburgers, bacon, and other beef and pork products are fine once in a while, but they should not make up the bulk of your daily means when you're trying to achieve a toned body.
 A balanced diet also includes healthy fats that promote organ and skin health as well as grains to give your body the fiber and minerals it needs.Choose whole grains like steel-cut oats, barley, buckwheat and quinoa rather than processed flours.
Nuts, avocados, olive oil, grapeseed oil, and other healthy oils are important supplements to a healthy diet.
 Drinking water helps your body flush away toxins and stay hydrated, both of which lead to a toned, healthy look. Try to drink 8 or more glasses a day, and more when you're exercising.


Avoid drinking too much alcohol. It causes your body to retain water and has other harmful effects that lead to bloating, rather than toning.
Choose water over soda, juice and milk. Pure water is calorie-free and healthier for your body than any other drink.

