 There are an abundance of skin lightening creams available over-the-counter. They all work by reducing melanin (the pigment which causes tanning and sun spots) in the skin.









Look for products containing effective skin-lightening ingredients such as kojic acid, glycolic acid, alpha hydroxy acids, vitamin C or arbutin.
These products tend to be pretty safe to use, but be sure to follow the directions on the packaging and to stop immediately if your skin has a bad reaction.
Never use a skin lightening cream which contains mercury as the active ingredient. Mercury-based skin creams are banned in the US, but are still available in other parts of the world.
 Retinoid creams are made from an acidic form of Vitamin A and can effectively lighten skin through exfoliating the skin and speeding up cell turnover.









Not only do retinoid creams lighten skin and clear discoloration, they are also highly effective at smoothing out fine lines and wrinkles, plumping up the skin and making it look brighter and younger. In higher concentrations, it can also help to clear acne.
Retinoid creams can cause dryness, redness and flakiness at first, but these symptoms should subside once your skin gets used to the product. Retinoids also make your skin more sensitive to sunlight, so you should only apply them at night and be sure to wear sunscreen during the day.
Retinoids are only available with a prescription, so you should make an appointment with your dermatologist if you are interested in pursuing this treatment. However, a less potent version of retinoid cream, known as retinol, is available in many over-the-counter beauty products., Chemical peels can be very effective at lightening the skin. They work by burning away the top layers of skin which are highly pigmented or discolored, revealing the fresher, lighter-colored skin underneath.









With a chemical peel, an acidic substance (such as alpha hydroxy acid) is applied to the skin and left to sit for 5 to 10 minutes. The peel may cause a tingling, stinging or burning sensation on the skin can often leave it looking red or swollen for a couple of days afterwards.
A series of chemical peels (done 2 to 4 weeks apart) is usually recommended. During this time it is important to avoid the sun and to be vigilant about wearing sunscreen, as your skin is extra sensitive., Microdermabrasion is a good alternative option for people whose skin is sensitive to acid peels and creams. It essentially exfoliates or "polishes" the skin, removing dull, darker layers and leaving skin brighter and fresher.


During the treatment, a small closed vacuum with a rotating diamond tip is applied to the face. Dead skin cells are removed and sucked into the vacuum.
The treatment usually takes somewhere between 15 and 20 minutes, although 6 to 12 treatments may be necessary to achieve noticeable results.
Some people may experience a little redness or dryness after the treatment but, in general, microdermabrasion has fewer side effects than other treatments.