 Card magicians use fancier shuffling techniques to add flourish to a trick. Using an elegant, smooth shuffle like the Riffle Shuffle shows your spectators that you are skilled at handling the deck. To do the Riffle Shuffle:Take the deck and split it in half into two packets. Hold one packet by cradling it in your hand. Place your pinkie, ring, and middle fingers on the corner and bottom of the cards. Place your pointer finger on the upper top of the cards. Place your thumb on the top horizontal side of the cards.
Grip both packets in each hand in this position. Press your fingers so they move against the inside of the packets, almost like you are trying to squeeze both packets in your hands.
Turn the packets over with your hands. No cards should fall out as your hands should have a solid grip on the packets.
Use your thumbs to riffle the deck together. Lift the cards by your thumbs and let them fall one on top of the other.
The cards should shuffle together an inch or two. Push the two packets together and square them up. Or, use the cascade finish.
To do the cascade finish, bend the cards while keeping your thumbs on the top of the cards.
Gently release the pressure from your thumbs. The cards should cascade into a nice dome shape and then lay flat. If the cards go everywhere instead, don’t panic. Put the deck back together and try the cascade again.
Square up the deck and shuffle again if necessary.;
, This is another common shuffle technique used by card magicians. It is easy to perform and looks less sloppy than the Overhand Shuffle. To do the Hindu Shuffle:Hold the deck of cards by the end with your thumb and middle finger. Rest your index finger on the top of the deck for support.
Move your right hand underneath the deck. Keep your thumb, middle finger and ring finger on the side of the deck.
Use your right hand to take packets of cards from the top of the deck.
The removed cards should fall onto the palm of your right hand. Use your index finger to stop the cards from flying forward as you move them.
Move your right hand underneath the deck again and remove another packet.
Repeat this shuffle several times until there are only a few cards left. Place the remaining cards on the top of the deck and square off the deck.
The key to this shuffle is to form a trap with your fingers so the cards fall neatly into your palm.
Practice this shuffle slowly at first and gradually it speed up so you can do it with ease.
 This grip is the most basic and common way to hold a deck to set up for a magic trick. It’s important to use this grip because more of the deck will be covered by your hands, making it harder for spectators to see what you are doing. To form the Mechanic’s Grip:Hold the deck in your hand with your palm facing up.
Take your pointer finger and move it to the side facing away from you.
Take your middle finger, your index finger, and your pinkie finger and position them on the side of the deck.
Your thumb will hold the deck together on the opposite side of the other fingers.
Hold the deck of cards with this grip daily to get the feel for the grip. You want your hand to relax and get used to the grip so it seems natural.
The Mechanic’s Grip is an essential element to pulling off many basic magic tricks like the Double Lift, Forcing a Card, and more.
 This is another simple grip used in many card tricks. You can use a Biddle Grip to hold a deck of cards, multiple cards, or single cards. This grip is commonly used when doing tricks that transfer cards or show cards to spectators. To do the Biddle Grip:Hold the deck of cards in your right hand using the Mechanic’s Grip.
With your left hand, reach over and grab the top card in your right hand.
Your left hand thumb should be on the short side of the deck, facing towards you. Your middle and index finger should be on the opposite short side of the deck.
Place your pinkie on the corner of the deck.
 The double lift is a simple but clever sleight of hand. Two cards are lifted on the top of the pack at the same time, without the spectator realizing this is happening. The spectator is then shown the face of the second from the top card, which they believe is the top card., The first two to four cards should move a little off the top of the deck. It should look like you’re about pick up the first card and deal them out.
 Once you feel the second card, use your middle finger and thumb to slide the two cards off the deck. Try to keep them stacked together so they look like one card instead of two.
 Hold them against the base on your thumb. Bend the cards toward the spectator so they appear as one card.


Continue practicing this technique until it looks natural and the spectator really can’t tell you are moving two cards instead of one.
 A false cut is a way of cutting a deck of cards. The purpose of a false cut is to convince your audience that the cards are randomly mixed in the deck. When you do a false cut successfully, the cards will remain in the same order as they were before you did the false cut. Without your spectators being aware of this, of course., Place them on the back of the deck and slide a portion of the back of the deck out, about a quarter of the deck.
 Holding the packet on the top of the deck, use your ring finger and your thumb to pinch up the top quarter of the deck.
 Then, place second packet, between your ring finger and thumb, on top of the deck.


Using this cut, the top card on the deck should remain the top card on the deck, even after you have “cut” the deck.
 Make sure all the suits are together as well, in order.


A false shuffle is when you appear to shuffle the cards correctly. The idea is to convince your spectator that the cards are thoroughly mixed and you do not know the order of the cards. Like a false cut, doing a false shuffle properly means the order of the cards will remain unchanged., Place your index finger, middle finger, and ring finger on the bottom of the deck. Place your thumb on the top of the deck.
 Your thumb should be on the top side of the deck. The rest of your fingers should be on the bottom side of the deck.
 Hold the third of cards in your hand, underneath the rest of the deck.
 Pull down a second third of cards with your thumb again. As you drag down the second third of cards, move the first third of cards in your hand so it fits behind the deck in your other hand.


Use your ringer finger and the inside of your thumb to hold the first third of cards behind the deck.
You should now have two quarters of the deck in your dominant hand and one quarter of the deck in your non-dominant hand.
 Release the ring finger on your dominant hand so the back quarter of the deck falls in front of the quarter of the deck in your non-dominant hand.


As you do this, peel one card from the front quarter in your other hand with your thumb and drop it so it falls in front of the back quarter of the deck.
Peel off two more cards with your thumb so it falls on top of the cards in your non-dominant hand.
 Use the ring finger on your dominant hand to grab the packet.


Essentially you are shifting the packets around so the order does not change.
 Then, throw the rest of the cards on the packet in your non-dominant hand.
 If not, repeat the shuffle until the cards remain in the same order.
 This trick is the art of hiding a card in the palm of your hand while keeping the hand in a natural looking position. When done correctly, the spectator should be unaware you hid a card in your palm. You should be able to move the hand around normally., Check that the width of your hand is greater than the width of the card.


In the rare case you have very small hands and it is obvious that there is a card in your palm, practice this trick anyway. Especially if you are younger, as its possible your hands will develop and get larger.
 Apply pressure with your pinkie and with the base on your thumb so the card stays in place. #*Your other fingers are there to cover the top of the card, but they should not be applying any pressure on the card.
 It should look like you are simply holding your palm on the table. Notice how you are holding the card in place with your pinkie and the base of your thumb.


Keep your other fingers together so there are no gaps between them, and they are loose and relaxed. You should be able to lift your other fingers up without dropping the card in your palm.
Make sure your thumb also remains relaxed. Don’t let it stick out to one side.
 With more practice, your hand will get comfortable with the position and look more natural.

