 You will need 5 pounds of tomatoes as fresh as possible. However, if you don't have fresh tomatoes available in that quantity, you could substitute canned diced or whole tomatoes for the fresh tomatoes. Choose canned tomatoes without added spices.


Carve an X into each tomato's bottom, and put the tomatoes into a pot of boiling water.
You are waiting for the tomato skins to loosen. Usually, this takes 5 to 20 minutes.
Put the tomatoes in a bowl of ice water.
Peel them. Then, chop the tomatoes.
Red sauces are usually lower in calories than white sauces. Homemade sauce is better for you than canned sauces. , Take a Dutch oven and heat oil in it. Then, cook 2 medium onions and 4 cloves of garlic in it, and add your tomatoes (and juice) and then herbs.


Choose fresh herbs. It's recommended that you use 3/4 a teaspoon of basil, thyme, and oregano each.
Some people put a teaspoon or two of sugar into the sauce but don't use sugar if you are trying for a healthier version.
Boil and then simmer the sauce for 2 hours.
 Put the sauce in a blender, and add 2 tablespoons of tomato paste. Blend until the sauce is a smooth consistency. However, you want to let the sauce cool before you blend it. If you blend hot sauce, you could make the top of the blender explode. Alternatively, you could blend smaller amounts of the sauce at a time, rather than fill the blender with hot sauce. You can also lift the lid to allow steam to escape before blending. The sauce can be safely refrigerated for three days or frozen for six months.
Spread the sauce on your dough. The amount of sauce you should put on the pizza depends on its size. For a 16-inch pizza, you need about a cup of sauce. For an 8-inch pizza, 1/4 cup of sauce will do. For a 12-inch pizza, use 1/2 cup sauce with 1 tablespoon of sauce. , You could add vegetables into your tomato sauce. Possibilities include carrots, squash, peppers or greens. You could make a Margherita pizza with fresh tomatoes, basil, and mozzarella cheese. Plum tomatoes can be a good choice for this kind of pizza, which is healthier for you because it never includes meat. Olive oil, garlic, or pesto are other healthier alternatives to tomato sauce. Brush olive oil over the crust and skip the sauce. There are many known health benefits to olive oil. Although high in fat, the type of fat included in olive oil is considered healthy dietary fat. It contains unsaturated and polyunsaturated fats (PUFAs) that can lower heart disease risk and cholesterol. This might be a better choice if you don't have fresh tomatoes because canned tomatoes can be loaded with sugar. 