 Of course, this goes without saying; if you're the type to rush in head first, then a Mage class is obviously not for you. Always choose a class that you'll be able to play with your style. Here are some information that will let you choose which is best for you:


Knights have the highest amount of vitality among all of the classes. They also have a decent armor set at the beginning of the game. It's also the most balanced class, but of course, if you play as a Knight, you'll have to be up close and personal with the enemies.
Pyromancer are a Mage class, and Mage classes are well-known to be squishier than warrior types. The plus side on this job is that you'll be able to kill enemies from a distance, provided you can dodge well.
Using a Knight or Pyromancer is best for new players.;
, A general rule of thumb when it comes to Dark Souls is that when the path you're taking is too difficult, there's probably a better route to take.


Take your time and look around the areas; this may end up as a trial-and-error method, but certainly better than continuously charging at enemy mobs and dying.
This strategy also applies to boss battles. Some bosses like the Asylum will require you to think outside the box in order to beat it.
 In any hack-and-slash game, it's always important that you know when to block, hit, and occasionally run. Learn your enemy movements and strike when they give you an opening; chances are you'll be able to get away unscathed by carefully planning your movements in battle.


Occasionally running away from battle is nothing to be ashamed of, especially if you have to go through 40 whole minutes again before you get your souls back.
 Bonfires are the save point and checkpoint of Dark Souls.


Much like some other games (e.g., Witchers), you'll have to be at the Bonfire in order to level up; meaning if you die before reaching one, all your souls will be left at the place where you died—very, very frustrating.
Another thing about bonfires is that it will cause all the enemies that you've killed to re-spawn, thereby letting you conveniently farm souls!

, Souls are a very important element in Dark Souls; after all, without them you'll be stuck at level 1 with your newbie weapons. You’ll also be stuck with getting killed over and over, so use your souls wisely.


Souls can be used not only for leveling up but also for purchasing items, upgrading some items, or even crafting rare weapons (boss souls only). Good Luck!

