 Open a new web browser tab on your PC or Mac, and depending on your OS, search for either “iTunes Agent” (Windows) or “iTunes My Walkman” (Mac). The results will return several websites that offer these software for download.


Select the website you want to use. Make sure that the website is reliable.
On the download page, look for the “Download” button, and click it.;
, Locate the downloaded installer and run it. Follow the instructions on the Installation window to install the software.
 Once the software has been installed, launch it by clicking the “Open” option at the final page of the Installation process, or by double-clicking its icon in your Programs menu.
 Using its USB cable, connect your Tab into the USB port of the computer to mount it. On the device’s screen, open the notification panel, and tap “USB Connected.”

, After connecting the Tab to your computer, go to the computer’s system tray. Search for the iTunes Agent or My Walkman icon and right-click on it. This will give you a prompt. Click “Preferences” from the drop-down menu and select “New” from the pop-up.


Give a name to your device (for instance, Galaxy Tab) in the pop-up. This will set the pattern related to the synchronization of the device itself whenever you need to sync again in the future. After naming, click “Choose” and go to the folder containing the Music files on the Galaxy Tab. Create a new folder for your iTunes music by clicking “Create.” Name this folder, and click “Save” and “Close” to exit the pop-up

, Restore down the iTunes Agent or My Walkman window by clicking the button with a box, next to the X close button, at the top right corner. Open a file explorer on your computer, and locate the iTunes music files.


Select those music files that you want to sync to your Tab, and drag them to the iTunes Agent or My Walkman window. Once you’ve dragged all the files to the window, right-click the iTunes Agent or My Walkman icon at the top and select “Synchronize devices.” This will copy all the music you selected to your Galaxy Tab.

