 As an alternative to shaving, try trimming the hair with scissors instead. Simply pull the hair away from your body and trim it.


Do not use dull scissors. Invest in a pair of scissors that are designed specifically to cut hair.
Be careful not to cut yourself though by trimming the hair in a well lit area.
 Exfoliation helps to remove dead skin cells, which contribute to issues with ingrown hairs.Get in the habit of exfoliating 2-3 times a week.


Use a loofah or a wash cloth. Gently rub the area, but don’t scrub too hard.
You can either exfoliate in the shower or prior to showering.
Stop exfoliating if you notice the area is red or irritated. Give it a week or so before resuming your exfoliating routine.
 There are various products on the market, which allow you to chemically remove your hair from home. Typically, they are inexpensive and easy to use. However, there are some risks associated with using chemicals.


Always test the product on another part of your skin prior to applying it to your pubic area. Watch for a reaction or irritation and discontinue use if one occurs.
Keep the product away from your genital areas. Only apply it to the hair. Be sure to read the directions prior to applying the product so that you know how long to keep it on for.
Have a timer and a wash cloth on hand so that you can effectively remove the chemical when the time is up.
Chemical hair removers are more effective than shaving; however, the results do wear off more quickly than if you were to wax.
 If you’d like to try an alternative method to chemical hair remover consider using wax. Wax can be applied either at home or in a salon by a professional.


Costs associated with waxing are typically minimal, particularly if you choose to try waxing yourself at home.
In order to effectively use wax, your hair should be at least one fourth of an inch in length. There’s no need to have an exact measurement, but keep in mind that the wax needs something to grab on to. If the hair is too short, the wax will not be effective.Always try a strip on another part of your body to test for any reactions prior to applying it elsewhere.
Be sure to have towels and enough wax on hand.
As with the chemical hair removal, wax should only be used on the hair and should not come in contact with your genitals.
There are risks associated with attempting to wax yourself, such as burns and infection. Ideally, you should seek the help of an experienced professional to avoid injuries.
 If your budget allows, consider removing the hair permanently. The most efficient (and costly) method for permanently removing hair is through laser hair removal.


There are many benefits to laser hair removal including the precision and speed. However, be prepared for multiple visits, as it takes anywhere from 3-7 sessions to complete the process.Always do your research prior to getting the treatment. You’ll want to know about the doctor’s experience, treatment plan and the cost.
Additionally, you’ll need to understand what steps you need to take prior to the hair removal. You may need to limit how often you wax or shave in the six weeks leading up to the treatment. Typically, you need to avoid exposing the area to sun before and after as well.

