 Some find Cancer women are sincere and loving by nature. They tend to be drawn to partners who can match them in this respect. When dating a cancer woman, work on opening up to her. Be sincere about what you're feeling and thinking if you want to win her favor.Be honest about expectations regarding the relationship. Let her know if you're looking for something casual or something more longterm. Cancer women appreciate honesty.
Share your feelings with her. If a Cancer woman asks, "How are you?", they are not looking for a generic answer. Tell her honestly. Instead of saying, "I'm all right," say something like, "I'm feeling a little stressed at work. Can we talk for a bit?"

, According to astrology, Cancer women tend to have more volatile emotions. It's not uncommon for a Cancer woman to be in a good mood in the morning and a sour mood by nightfall. Make sure you deal with her emotions accordingly. Cancer women need partners who are able support and understand their feelings.Do not try to talk a Cancer woman out of her feelings. This will not go over well. Instead, ask questions and let her express herself.
Provide support rather than advice. Say things like, "I'm sorry you're feeling that way? How can I help?"

, Some think Cancer women are naturally nurturing. Do not be surprised if your Cancer girlfriend wants to baby you a little. This is how Cancer women show affection, so try to accept it rather than push away from it.A Cancer woman may want to nurture you when you're feeling down. It's not uncommon for her to do things like do your dishes or clean your house if you're having a bad day.
Allow her to do this on occasion. Do not try to talk her out of it. Instead, show gratitude. Thank her for what she does.
 According to Astrology, Cancer women need to express themselves openly. As a Cancer woman's partner, you need to learn to listen. When she talks, give her your full attention.Do things like nod and maintain eye contact to show her you are paying attention.
Repeat what she said to make sure you understand and ask clarifying questions if necessary. For example, "I'm hearing you feel a little stressed out at work. Why is that?"

, Those who believe in astrology find Cancer women tend to want a partner who is emotionally in sync with her. She finds intimacy by having someone understand her wants and needs. In order to foster an intimate connection, make sure to ask what she wants.Cancer women may assume their partners are on the same page as them. She may assume that, if you're dating her, you understand her. As you're unable to always see what's going on in her mind, this can be frustrating. Make sure to take the initiative to ask.
For example, say something like, "I was just wondering if we could talk about what you want and need? Just let me know where you're at with this relationship and what you're feeling."

