 Select a shoot with a semi-ripe stem that is mostly green with hints of light brown, snipping it off with sharp scissors directly above the node. Do this in the early morning, when the plant is full of moisture.;
, Use scissors to snip away all the large leaves, but you can leave the small, fresh leaves growing at the tip of the cutting alone.
 Regardless of the cutting or the conditions it grows in, rooting hormone can give your plant a helpful boost. While helpful, though, this step is not always necessary.


If you have had luck growing other plants without using rooting hormone, or if the clipping you took came from a notably strong confederate jasmine plant, the cutting will likely take root even without the use of rooting hormone. Make sure to keep the soil, moisture, and temperature conditions ideal to give your cutting the most opportunity to grow.
If you have never grown a plant from a cutting before, or if you have had difficulty doing so, you should seriously consider using rooting hormone. Rooting hormone is also beneficial in cases where your cutting may not have the chance to sit in ideal conditions.
 The container should be no more than 4 inches (10 centimeters) deep. Use a potting mix that consists of soil and organic material, like peat. Selecting a mix that includes perlite can improve drainage.
 Make a hole with your finger or the blunt end of a pencil before inserting the stem to avoid putting unnecessary strain on the stem itself. Pack the soil around the stem to hold it firmly in place.
 Use a spray bottle, since a watering can is likely to moisten the soil too much. Do not drench the growing medium. As your cuttings develop into seedlings, you should avoid allowing the medium to dry out, but you must also prevent it from becoming soggy.
 Direct sunlight can dry the soil out too quickly, thwarting its development.
 Resistance indicates the development of roots, which means that it is ready to be planted in a more permanent spot. Check your cutting after each week. If you do not feel any resistance, allow your cutting to continue growing, checking again the following week.


If you do not feel any resistance after the first two months, and the cutting has begun showing signs of withering, dispose of it and try again.
If you do not feel any resistance after the first two months, but the cutting looks as healthy as ever, enough of a root system may have developed for you to attempt transferring it. The roots will be weak, however, and the plant will have decreased odds of survival, so it is your decision whether or not to exert additional energy or whether you would prefer to try again with a new cutting.

