 There are lots of ways to interpret a beach theme, including nautical, rustic, and tropical. Each one will have its own set of colors, plants, and decorative elements. Choose one that appeals the most to you.;
, Most beach themes will be bright and colorful, but if you are going with a nautical theme, you might want to use a limited color palette instead. A tropical theme might include lots of bright colors, while a rustic theme might use softer ones.
 You can create a beach-themed garden just about anywhere—including in containers on a balcony and patio. The larger garden you have, the more options you will have. If you don't have a lot of space, however, you may not be able to plant some of the larger plants, such as palms.
 Not all types of plants work for a beach-themed garden. At the same time, not all plants will be well-suited to the area that you live in. You will need to find a balance between the two by first finding beachy plants, and then selecting the ones that will flourish in your area.
 Like all living things, plants require care. They need water, fertilizer, and pruning. Some plants, such as succulents, require a lot less care than others. If you don't have a lot of time to spare, consider selecting some low-maintenance plants for your garden.
 This will help reign in some of your ideas, and may help you decide between two different plants, pebbles, and decor. If you live close to a beach, you might even be able to scavenge some rocks, shells, and driftwood, saving yourself some material costs.


Instead of buying expensive decorations, consider making your own!

, Plants found along beaches have to survive harsh conditions, with varying temperatures, strong winds, and salty air. They have to be drought-tolerant as well.Great beachy plants include:Beach strawberry
Common thrift
Gold coin
Saffron buckwheat
Seaside daisy

, Great coastal trees include coast banksia and eucalyptus. They act as natural buffers for smaller plants on real beaches, and can make your beach garden look more beach-like.Small palm trees, such as Mexican fan palms, are a great option for tropical beach-themed gardens and side gardens., Examples of bushy shrubs include: coastal rosemary, diosma, and woolly bush.Plant taller bushes towards the back of your plant bed. Use smaller bushes near the front as groundcovers and borders.
 Not only are they beach-like, but they are also very hardy and don't require a lot of care. Great succulents include: agave, blue chalk sticks, and pigface (also called "ice plant").Plant different types of succulents together in batches for a variety of color and texture.
 Skip the green, bushy lawns, and pick out some scruffy, drought-tolerant grasses instead.Great coastal grasses include: coast tussock grass, fountain grass, and orange sedge., Not only will this be more aesthetically pleasing, but it will also look more natural. Many coastal plants like to grow close together for protection against the coast's harsh winds and climate., After you have planted your flowers in their preferred soil, top it off with a layer of sand. You could also consider a crushed seashell blend or granitic sand instead., You can scatter these about randomly, or use them as borders for your garden.You could even use large shells (real or cement) as planters for small to medium-sized plants. Sea urchins make great planters for succulents and air plants.
 Beautiful and organic, no two pieces are alike. You can make these special features in plant beds, or you can display them on your patio table instead.If you have any driftwood planks, you can use these as stepping stones to mimic paths found in beaches.
 Add a hint of rustic by using twine to hang up baskets and planters. Wrap twine around mason jars or candle votives. Add a rustic touch to wooden furniture by winding twine around the joints to make them look as through they are handmade.


If you have a lot of sea shells at home, drill some holes into them, then string them onto a piece of twine to make a garland. Hang the garland on a wall or in a window., Brainstorm some items that might be found at a beach, and incorporate them into your garden. Things like surfboards, life savers, wooden oars, and ship wheels are all good bets. Clear, glass gazing orbs (not the mirrored king) would also work well because they mimic sea glass.
 Another option is to use a synthetic wood made from recycled materials.Not only is this more environmentally friendly, but it also lasts longer.
 You can also use white or unpainted wood furniture, and then add color with bright tablecloths, pillows, and cushions.
, These do especially well in front yards.You can also put one in your backyard instead, however. When filling it, consider white pebbles, or glass—be sure to use the type meant for fire pits, however!

, If you want something more tropical, consider getting an awning made from straw or palm leaves instead. This would work great paired with a hammock and some tiki torches.
 Candles are a great option for just about any garden, but you can also install other lighting features as well. For example:


If your have a tropical beach garden, consider getting some tiki torches.
If you have a rustic garden, consider getting some mason jar lanterns instead.

