 Prolotherapy helps dogs with a range of joint and spinal issues, including arthritis and back pain.Your vet will want to have a consultation with you to decide if prolotherapy is right for your dog. During this appointment, ask your vet some questions:


Is prolotherapy a cure?
Is prolotherapy better than surgery?
How long does prolotherapy take?
When will my dog start feeling better?
How much does prolotherapy cost?;
, Prolotherapy is performed as a series of treatments. Most dogs need four treatments, spaced about three to four weeks apart.You can either schedule just the first appointment, or schedule multiple appointments at one time.


Your vet will determine how many treatments your dog will need.
 To perform prolotherapy, your vet will inject a sterile combination of medications directly into the affected area. This injection can be painful, so your dog will need to be sedated or anesthetized for the procedure.Because the injection location must be precise, having your dog sedated or anesthetized will help your vet perform prolotherapy more accurately., The sterile mixture of medications will contain dextrose (sugar), a numbing agent, and a vitamin, such as vitamin B12. Injecting this mixture will trigger a localized inflammatory reaction, which will stimulate collagen growth and a strengthening of the ligaments and tendons in the affected area.The entire procedure should take about 20 to 45 minutes.Because your dog will need time to become fully alert again after the procedure, your vet will recommend that your dog stay at the clinic for half a day., After your dog has ‘come to’ again, your vet or one of your vet’s staff members will call you. They will let you know how the treatment session went and when you can pick up your dog.
 Because the prolotherapy injection can be painful, your vet will prescribe a few days’ worth of pain medication after each treatment session. They will prescribe a pain medication that is not a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID)—these can make prolotherapy less effective.Your vet will prescribe another type of pain medication that will not interfere with the healing process.
 Ice can also reduce pain and discomfort at the injection site. Make an ice pack by filling a sturdy quart-size plastic bag with crushed ice and wrapping this bag in a towel. Keep the ice pack on the affected area for about 15 to 20 minutes, or as long as you were instructed by your vet.Squeeze the air out of the plastic bag after placing the ice in it.Wrapping the bag in a towel will keep the ice from being too cold against your dog’s skin.
 Because prolotherapy provides significant pain relief, your dog may want to run and jump around after a treatment session. However, doing so could keep your dog’s ligaments and tendons from healing properly.Restrict your dog’s activity for at least one to two days after prolotherapy:Take your dog only on leash walks.
Do not allow any running, jumping, or intense playing.
 Your vet may recommend some physical therapy exercises to help the healing process. For example, your vet may have you perform passive range-of-motion (PROM) exercises, which involve gently moving joints through their natural ranges of motion (straightening, bending, rotating).PROM exercises reduce pain, improve blood flow, and improve strength.Your vet may also recommend different stretching exercises.Have your vet demonstrate each type of exercise so you know how to perform them properly at home.

