 The Association of American Medical Colleges is responsible for administering the MCAT exam, so you must create an account with a username and password you will use to register for the test. Your AAMC account also gives you access to practice exams and fee assistance programs.
 The American Medical College Application Service and American Association of Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine Application Service are centralized application processing services available to students applying to their first year of medical school. The good news is, no matter how many medical schools you apply to, you only have to submit one online application. The less good news is that the process can be a bit overwhelming, so it's best to begin by reading the thorough instruction manual (85 pages at last count)so you know what to expect.
 Applying to medical school is a multistage process, so start early so that you can collect and record accurate information and devote time to your admissions essay.



Identifying information. This section captures basic information such as name, gender and social security and/or other identifying numbers.

Schools Attended. In this section, you will record information about the high school and colleges you have attended including study abroad programs and military education.

Biographic information. Here is the place where you will record information that includes citizenship status, family make-up and relationships, military service and criminal background.

Course Work. Students have identified this as the most difficult section to complete. The best way to go about it is to request transcripts from every school you attended after high school and use those transcripts to enter detailed information about all the classes you have taken.

Work and Activities. You have the opportunity to enter information about your work experience, extracurricular activities, awards, honors, or publications in this section. You are limited to 15 entries, so choose wisely and know that some of the things you list you will designate as your “most meaningful” experiences.

Letters of Evaluation. Here you will enter information about each letter of evaluation being sent to AMCAS or AACOMAS. You can make up to 10 letter entries and update them throughout the application process right up until you submit your applications.

Medical Schools. This is the place where you will select the schools to which you plan to apply. You can also use this section to designate the schools you wish to receive specific letters of evaluation.

Essays. This is where you will write your personal statement to convey your genuine interest in becoming a physician and how you believe you will be an asset to the school and to the profession.

Standardized Tests. Enter or edit future MCAT tests dates here along with your test scores and any additional test information such as scores from the GRE is applicable.

