 Eating a well-balanced diet is a sure way to start growing thicker, healthier hair.

Make sure you get plenty of protein - eat fish, chicken, legumes, and lean meats.






Omega-3 fatty acids are essential to hair health. Eat nuts, avocados, and olive oil.






Vitamin B is also important when it comes to nourishing your hair. Make sure you eat plenty of fruits and vegetables.
Biotin is another essential nutrient for hair growth, found particularly in seafood, eggs and soybeans., You can buy supplements specifically designed to help you get the nutrients you need to grow thick hair. They usually contain biotin, fish oil, protein, and a range of vitamins. Prenatal vitamins are another good choice when your goal is growing thicker hair.
 Spending time in the sun, in the pool, and even on your morning commute may be affecting your hair if you aren't taking measures to protect it. Being more mindful of keeping your hair safe - the same way you would your skin - can lead to thicker hair in the long run.


Wear a hat when you'll be in the sun for long periods of time. This way your hair won't get dried out and brittle.
Wear a swim cap in the pool, so the chlorine doesn't damage your hair. If chlorine does get on your hair, use a daily clarifying shampoo afterwards to remove it.
Try not to spend too much time in polluted areas. If you have to walk next to traffic, wear a scarf or hat.
 Having your split ends trimmed off immediately gives your hair the appearance of being thicker. Over time, trimming your hair also keeps it healthy from root to tip.
 Stress can be a cause of hair loss.Find ways to make your life calmer, and eventually you may find that your hair begins to grow in thicker.

Start meditating. You can't wish your problems away, but meditation helps you figure out how to handle them better.






Get regular exercise. Keeping your body healthy helps destress the mind.






Get plenty of sleep. Sleeping for 8 hours a night is essential to your mental and physical health.







