 These crystals can be obtained through hunting open-world monsters, opening daily quest rewards, and also through Eidolon interaction.


Most players use Eidolon Dialogue since it's more convenient than hunting in open world.;
, To feed Eidolons, simply click on the Eidolon button found below the screen, click on your Eidolon, and then choose an Experience Crystal in the list. Each Experience Crystal has different sizes that gives different amounts of experience points:


Crystal Experience Dust gives 1,315 EXP but has a level 25 cap.
Medium Experience Crystal gives 1,000 EXP but has level 50 cap.
Large Experience Crystal gives 15,000 EXP.
Pure Experience Crystal gives 20,000 EXP.
 Unlike players where you get to distribute your free stats, Eidolons have to be fed with certain Crest to increase specific stats. Crest stats are useful in strengthening your Eidolon, and each Eidolon has their own main stat base.


Crest of Flame will give DMG 3–6 if fed to Eidolon
Crest of Ice gives DEF 1–3
Crest of Wind gives SPD 1–3
Crest of Thunder gives CRIT 1–3
Symbol of Sand gives HP 5–10
Symbol of Forest gives EVA 1–3
Symbol of Darkness gives DMG 1–4, CRIT 1–2
Symbol of Light gives HP 2–6, DEF 1–2
Note that Crests are consumable items and cannot be reused.
 Eidolon have stat caps as well, like everybody else, so make sure to know the max stat to avoid wasting Crests.


DMG (750)
CRIT (250)
SPD (250)
HP (1250)
DEF (250)
EVA (250).
 Yes, you can equip your Eidolon with accessories, which gives them decent stats. Each Eidolon can equip up to two accessories.


Accessories can be crafted after purchasing the recipes from the blacksmith in Navea City. These accessories will take time to be completed since it requires you to gather materials.
You can see the list of materials needed in your recipe. Some can be obtained through mine (such as Alloy) while others are dropped from the dungeon monsters.
Level 50 Eidolon accessories requires small experience crystal as well.
If you have gold to spare, you can buy these materials through the Auctioneer.
 Eidolons can evolve to their next stage, which increases all the stats to a higher grade. Eidolons much reach level 40 to evolve, and the owner must have certain materials.


Most Eidolons need a small Experience Crystal, Key of Gaia, and a certain crest. You can check this through your Eidolon Info tab and then choose Evolution.
The more you evolve your Eidolon, the stronger they get.

