;
, Measure and cut another piece of string to 130 feet (40 m) and mark the start and end of 127 feet (38.7 m) and 3 3/8 inches (38.8 m) with a marker.


Leave a couple extra feet on either side of the black marks for tying the strings to the stakes.
 Drive a stake into the ground and tie one end of the string around the home plate stake so that the black mark starts at the top point of home plate, which should be facing away from the pitcher’s mound. Run the string along the ground to the right at a 45-degree angle until you reach the second black mark. Pound in another stake at that point and tie the string to that stake.
 Insert the chalk into the chalk marker. Push the chalk marker along the inner side of the string from home plate until you reach the second stake to create the first baseline, which is 2 inches (5 cm) wide.


If you want to create a foul line, stake a 320 to 350 foot (97.5 to 106.7 m) string from home plate along the first baseline and ending at the outfield fence. Then chalk along that line.
 Tie the longer piece of string to the stake behind home plate, aligning the black mark with the stake, and pull the string straight out towards the area where second base will be located. Then untie the shorter piece of string from home base and pull the string out from first base to meet the black marks of both strings together. Drive another stake in the ground at this intersection to establish the bottom corner of second base.
 Turn the chalk market 45-degrees to the left and push the chalk marker along the string to the second base stake.
 Pull the shorter string from the second base stake and draw the string 45 degrees towards where third base will be located. Connect the longer string from the first base stake to the black mark at the end of the shorter string and tie both strings to a stake to establish the location of third base.
 Turn the chalk market 45-degrees to the left and push the chalk marker along the string to the third base stake.
 Use the chalk marker to draw the third baseline from third base to home plate.


If you want to create a foul line, stake a 320 to 350 foot (97.5 to 106.7 m) string from home plate along the third baseline and ending at the outfield fence. Then chalk along that line.
 Place a batter’s box chalker frame on the right side of home plate with the long side of the rectangle centered with the center of home plate. Chalk around the rectangle. Repeat the chalking with the batter’s box chalker frame on the left side of home plate.


If you don’t have a batter’s box chalker, measure a rectangle that is 4 feet (1.2 m) wide and 6 feet (1.8 m) tall on both sides of home plate and chalk the rectangle with the chalk marker.

