 Most medical receptionists do not need a college degree, but finishing high school is important.


Consider taking some classes at a junior college or business school in medical terminology, medical billing or other medical and business classes. You can also find courses online.;
, Demonstrate that you are able to work with a diverse group of people including patients, doctors, medical staff and other healthcare professionals.
 Your job as a receptionist will require you to use a variety of computer programs. There is scheduling and insurance billing software that will be especially important to know.


Learn how to use office machinery also, including copiers, fax machines and multi-line telephone systems.



List all of your experience in administrative or medical roles. Include your education and the computer programs that you know.
 Jobs can be found in hospitals, private doctor's offices, medical clinics and other facilities.


Check job postings online. Sites such as CareerBuilder, Monster and Simply Hired will list jobs available for medical receptionists. Input your city and state as well as keywords such as "medical receptionist." The site will sort jobs that are available in your area.
Look in the newspaper. Some employers will use the local help wanted ads to advertise positions.
Visit your school career center. Your high school or college may keep a listing of businesses and offices looking for help. Tell them you are seeking a job as a medical receptionist, and see if they have any leads.
 Sometimes offices and clinics could use extra help even if they are not advertising for it.
 If you know someone who is a medical receptionist, ask how she or he found the job.
 Talk to the office managers in doctors' offices to find out if they know of any openings.
 Your first medical receptionist position might be just for the summer, or to cover the full time receptionist when he or she is on vacation or other leave. Take any opportunity to get your foot in the door and develop your experience.

