 Remember that mildew starts to grow wherever moisture is present. Be aware that damp dirty clothing can start to stink up before it ever makes it to the washer, even if it didn’t smell bad when you first stripped it off. Use wet clothes as an excuse to start a load as soon as you take them off.


If this isn’t possible, don’t ball up your wet clothes and dump them in the hamper. Let them air-dry on a hanger, drying rack, or clothesline before adding them to your other dirty laundry.
 If you forgot all about your last load sitting in the washer, wash it a second time to get rid of any funky smells that may have developed in the meantime. Use the highest temperature possible that’s still safe for your fabrics. Instead of detergent, however, choose between adding color-safe bleach or chlorine to kill the mildew and eliminate that smell.Or, if you want to avoid chemical products, use plain white vinegar instead.These all smell pretty strong in their own right, so you may need to wash your clothes a third time with laundry detergent to get rid of any residual smells.
 If you’re really prone to forgetting about that last load in your washer, take preemptive action. Add several drops of lavender essential oil to your load when pouring in the detergent at the start of your cycle. Use this mold-resistant product to protect your clothes from developing mildew for longer.This can stall mildew from growing for at least a couple of days.
 If the washer itself is the smelly culprit, fill the drum with hot water. Add 2 cups of white vinegar. Let the water sit for 30 minutes or so. Then start a regular wash cycle without adding any laundry. Give it a test sniff once it’s done and repeat if necessary., Remember that mildew loves moisture and darkness. So don’t shut your washer’s lid or door once you empty it. Either leave it open all the time for more air circulation and light, or give it at least the length of your dryer’s cycle to air out before you close it., If the washer tends to stink up on its own pretty frequently, reduce the amount of liquid detergent and fabric softener that you use. Keep in mind that these are thicker than water and don’t always dissolve all the way during a wash cycle. This means that residue is left inside your machine, which can be a breeding ground for mildew.Remember that many detergents are concentrated, so you only need a little bit. If you experience buildup in your machine, check the detergent's directions for recommended amounts.

