 Pick a city and even a neighborhood that you like. Do extensive research and consider visiting possible areas before coming to a decision.;
, How much money can you afford to spend on property, and how much of that will go to agents, furnishing, and other expenses? Consider factors like your income, expenses for yourself and your family, and amount of money saved.
 Are you planning to use the space, to live or work in? Or is the property a financial investment that you hope to make money on later?

, Are you looking for a house, an apartment, an office building, or a vacant lot on which you can build whatever you want? Do you want arable land in the countryside for farming? Decide what kind of property you're looking for.
 If you're buying a house, how big do you want it to be, and how much space do you want around it? If you're buying land for a farm, think about how much space you'll need to appropriately develop and run your farm.
 Using a Pakistani real estate agent will help you negotiate the details of buying property in Pakistan, which is particularly helpful if you're purchasing from abroad. A real estate agent is also very familiar with property in the area, so they will be able to show you properties meeting your criteria.


Research real estate agents online, read reviews and stories of others' experiences, and find the best real estate agent in your area.
 With your agent, examine the property thoroughly. Ask questions and visit the property to see if you like it.
 Haggle with the seller to find the right price for both of you, without paying too much.
 Take the registry file to the registrar office and confirm that the property is original and legitimate. Then go to Patwar Khana, the the property registration office, and transfer the property to your name. They will walk you through any other administrative proceedings necessary when purchasing property.
 Decide on the method of payment and make all payments necessary. Also pay the commission to the property agent, if you bought the property through the agent.

