 Relationships are based on trust. This doesn't mean that you never feel jealous or suspicious; it means you can put those feelings aside and believe in your girlfriend. If you can't trust your girlfriend, maybe you shouldn't be with her. Suspicion and jealous behaviors pushes people away, especially if you start rooting around her stuff without a good reason.


If she's pushing you away, seems distant, or spends all of her time away from you, then you can feel comfortable asking some questions.
Your girlfriend will have other male friends -- that doesn't mean she's giving you up. Try not to feel so threatened by other men.;
, If she's told someone else she likes them or she's made a move, that's one thing. But trying to figure out every single crush and passing infatuation is a fool's errand. Think about it -- how often have you had fleeting feelings for someone else? How often have you actually acted upon them?


Small crushes are perfectly normal, even in rock-solid relationships. If you try to uncover every one of them you won't be dating her for long.
If you look hard at your life, you'll realize that you appear to like other girls when you're just being friendly. A jealous mind invents stories where there are none.
 If she likes someone else, that's on her. It is her job to break up with you and move on, or to realize that her crush doesn't mean that much. At the end of the day it's her actions, not her thoughts, that matter. Paradoxically, this confidence in yourself, knowing that she's your girl and that's that, will make you much more attractive. Possessive, needy boys end up alone.


She is with you already. She's your girlfriend! Unless she's cheating on you, it doesn't matter if she like someone else temporarily as long as she still loves you.
 You need both parts. If you don't have a reason to be suspicious (hidden text messages, distant behavior, catching her in lies, etc.), then investigating her is rude and insensitive. If you don't want the relationship to work, or have a deep distrust you can't shake, then end the relationship. Who cares if she likes other boys at that point? You have deeper problems in this relationship.


Ask yourself seriously why you care if she likes someone else. If you're terrified of losing her, then you should talk to her. If you're blindly enraged at the thought then you need to take a step back.
If you can't find a way to trust her, either because of past issues or because you can't shake the idea that she's into other guys, just break up.

