 If you have an actual storefront, place an e-mail sign-up sheet near the register. Point it out to each customer who makes a purchase.Similarly, you can instruct your cashiers to ask each customer who approaches the register for an e-mail address. Make sure that your cashiers tell your customers that providing an e-mail address is only optional while explaining the benefits of doing so.;
, Place a basket, empty fishbowl, or similar container near the register or in another equally visible location. Place a label or sign on it so people will know to drop their business cards inside.


Typically, these types of collections are encouraged by the use of special offers or contests. For instance, you might include a note saying that a random drawing will take place every week, and the winner will receive a certain percentage or dollar amount off his or her next purchase.
 Look for events that would allow you to meet prospective customers for your business. Bring a clipboard sign-up sheet with you to collect e-mail addresses at these events.


Participate in as many trade-shows and fairs as possible. These events attract potential customers, whereas conventions and conferences only tend to attract other business owners in your field.
Depending on the nature of your business, you may also host your own event, like a luncheon, consultation, or show. You can even require attendees to sign up via e-mail for these events.
 When you ship an order to someone, include a separate packing insert in the package that asks customers to sign up for your e-mail newsletter.


Provide clear instructions on signing up. Include the URL to a specific sign-up page or the e-mail address customers can contact if they wish to be added to your subscribers.
Similarly, you can make the request directly on the packing sheet itself. It may not stand out as much as a separate insert would, but it can be a good way to cut costs while still spreading the word.
 Any guide, printed newsletter, printed advertisement, or other printed material produced and/or distributed by your company should include a request for e-mail addresses within the overall content.


The same principle also applies to digital material produced by your company, like videos and podcasts.
 The sign-up form should be very easy to find and located on each page of your website. Make the process as simple and brief as possible to encourage as many subscriptions as possible.The sign-up form might be nothing more than a small, clearly identified box at the top of the website. On the other hand, you might include a link at the top of each page that directs potential subscribers to a separate sign-up page and form. This form should be fairly brief, requiring as little information as possible (name and e-mail address).
If you also have a separate blog for your company, include the form or a link to the form on a highly visible spot of your blog, too.
 Even though most people find pop-up ads annoying, it can actually be a good idea to include a pop-up ad encouraging visitors to sign-up for e-mail content. The key is to format this ad so that it pops up as visitors reach the bottom of the page or leave the website.


Someone who was interested enough in your content to spend time reading it is more likely to provide an e-mail address than someone who just stumbled onto your website for the first time. As such, the pop-up should always come at the end of the visiting experience and never at the beginning.
 Customers who purchase from you online will usually need to provide an e-mail address. Ask for permission to add this e-mail address to your subscribers during the check-out process.


This can usually be accomplished by including a check-box just above the “Submit Order” button. Beside this check-box, include a line like, “Check here to receive special promotions, offers, and news via e-mail.”

, If you aren't already taking advantage of social media to connect to prospective and existing customers, you should start. Post requests for customer e-mail addresses on occasion through each of your social media accounts.


Send text-based tweets on Twitter or post text-based and picture-based statues on Facebook.
Post picture-based advertisements for your e-mail newsletter on Pinterest and Instagram.
 When creating a business signature to automatically paste at the bottom of each e-mail you send, provide instructions on how the receiver of your message can add his or her name to your list of subscribers.


A link can be especially beneficial if you add it to the signature of your company's standard contact e-mail address. Doing so automatically informs anyone who contacts you with questions about your company to learn about your e-mail list.
 Post a screenshot of your e-mail newsletter or similar piece of content somewhere your online visitors can see. This sneak peek should provide a glimpse at some of the content typically included in your newsletter.


Another way to offer a sneak peek would be to archive old editions of past newsletters. This gives potential subscribers a way to look through multiple copies of your newsletter for a more thorough idea of what they will receive by signing up.
 Instead of using text-only advertisements to ask for e-mail addresses, accompany the text with a compelling image. Pictures tend to catch the eye more effectively than text does.


Make sure that the image you use is related to your company in some way. For instance, if you sell garden supplies, the visual could be as simple as a photograph of a beautifully maintained garden.
 Consider offering a free gift to customers who sign up for your e-mail newsletter. The gift should be fairly small yet still worthwhile enough to offer some incentive.


For instance, you might offer a free informative PDF file about a topic that would interest your prospective customers.
On the other hand, the gift could be something like 10 percent off the customer's next purchase, if that purchase is made within the next 30 days.
 Tell customers who sign up for your e-mail newsletter that they will receive a special gift on or around their birthday. As with sign-up gifts, the offer must be affordable for you yet appealing to them.


Free stuff is usually the gift of choice for a birthday club. If you have a storefront, you might e-mail customers a voucher on their birthday that can be traded in person for a small token. Another option is to offer a free gift with a minimal purchase or a significant discount.
 A good way to get a larger volume of new e-mail addresses at one time is to host a giveaway or contest for new subscribers. The winner of your contest should receive a prize, and that prize should be announced ahead of time.Since fewer people will actually win these prizes, they should be worth considerably more than the gift you would give for a birthday club or at sign-up.
You may also offer the chance to earn additional entries for old and new subscribers who advertise your contest via social media, blogs, or other public forums.
 You can post most discounts and offers online for all of your customers to see, but you should also offer the occasional discount that is only available to your e-mail subscribers.


Instruct subscribers to input a certain discount code during the check-out process. Do not post this discount code anywhere on your website, though.
 Getting e-mail subscribers are one thing, but keeping them is another. You need to make sure that the e-mails you send out to your subscribers are worthwhile. Otherwise, they may choose to unsubscribe.


This also means that the messages you do send must all be worthwhile. If you flood your subscribers with three to four e-mails each day, and those e-mails very rarely offer anything of substance, many of your subscribers will choose to delete your messages without reading them.
 Offer incentives to your employees for gathering e-mail addresses.


Offer a bonus or similar monetary incentive to employees who collect a certain number of valid e-mail addresses.
To discourage cheating, make sure that your employees know that these e-mail addresses must be valid and will be verified before the reward is granted.
 Provide incentives to any current customers or subscribers to encourage them to refer friends and family to your e-mail list.


Customers who refer you to others should be made eligible for a special discount.
 If your e-mail newsletter is strong enough to stand as its own incentive, your current subscribers may want to pass it along without any extra encouragement. Include a “forward to a friend” link at the bottom of each newsletter to simplify the process for them.This link should redirect the subscriber to a web-based form. On that form, provide room for the subscriber to enter multiple e-mail addresses and include a short message.
You can also use this trick in conjunction with a customer referral program.
 Work together with other companies and businesses who share a similar clientele. Ask them to advertise your e-mail list, and in return, offer to do the same for them.


You can trade spaces within your newsletters, on your blogs, or on your social media pages. If both businesses send print materials through the mail, you may also send each others' packing inserts.

