 You may need to modify your statement based on where your statement will be used. If you artist statement is for a particular piece or project, your statement should be tailored to that specific piece. If you artist statement is part of your portfolio, it should be a broader description.


Update your statement every time you add a new piece of work to your portfolio.You may also need an artist statement when you apply for scholarships, grants, or schools.Always check the guidelines when you are submitting it as part of an application.
 Artist statements are usually 25 words, one or two paragraphs, or one page. One page statements are used to describe your whole body of work or to accompany an exhibition, or as part of a grant application. One or two paragraph statements are usually for a specific piece of work. The 25 word statement is to describe the central idea of your work.Memorize your 25 word statement. This should be your response when people ask you what you do.
Your one page statement can also be given to publicists, writers, and gallery owners when they need a description of your work.
 Check your grammar and vocabulary. Make sure that there are no confusing ideas and your statement is written in a logical order.You may need to rearrange sentences and phrases to improve the flow of your statement.


You will need multiple rewrites and edits before you have a quality statement.
Your statement should only include essential information.
 Get feedback on your statement from artists and non-artists. Your statement will likely be viewed by people from all backgrounds. It should be clear to anyone who reads it. Do not wait until you are finished with your statement before you ask for feedback. Have someone look at your rough drafts as well.


In addition to getting feedback on your statement, also get feedback on the connection between your statement and your actual art. The average art viewer will spend 5 to 15 seconds looking at your work.Your statement should be clear enough to convey a message in a very short amount of time.

