 Add a few splashes of edible decorations around your home. Here are just a few suggestions:


Mason jars filled with jelly beans, with a ribbon around the jar. Glue a few jelly beans to the lid and varnish to help them keep for a long time.
Fill an ice cream sundae glass with jelly beans of one flavor. Place a ring of chocolate or brown jelly beans on the surface, topped off with a ring of white jelly beans to look like cream
Make a candy wreath using jelly beans. Glue or thread jelly beans on a circle of twine. Hang on the wall.
Fill a glass vase with jelly beans. Place a bunch of flowers on the top for a spring display. Try to match the jelly bean colors with the flowers.;
, Thread jelly beans onto a necklace or a bracelet and wear all day.
 Cupcakes provide an ideal surface for adding jellybeans.


Make flower cupcakes. Make rings of jelly beans around the cupcake topping to form petals. Use similar or the same colors to keep the look uniform. Add a jelly bean of a different color in the center.
Make piles of jelly beans on the cupcake as a topping.
Place three cupcakes together. Frost with buttercream, and arrange white and yellow jellybeans across the cupcakes to look like corn on the cob. Stick a corn fork each end and it'll look like a corn. Keep on a plate for each corn cupcake set.
Make animal shapes using jelly beans as cupcake toppings.
 Bake a cake of choice and frost it. While the frosting is still wet, arrange chocolate bars around the side of the cake and tie a ribbon around the chocolate bars. Fill the center of the cake with jelly beans in all colors.
 Make your usual cup of tea, hot chocolate, coffee or other hot drink. Toss in a few jelly beans in such flavors as cinnamon or vanilla. Drink.
Add to a cold drink. Jelly beans are great in an iced chocolate or milkshake. Try a thick shake to have them sit up top.
Add to an alcoholic drink. Spice up the flavor of vodka or other plain alcohol by dropping in a few jelly beans.
 Place different flavors or jelly beans in separate containers. Blindfold each player and have them guess the flavors or the jellybeans. The player who guesses the most right wins. The prize could be a basket of jelly beans.
 Find clothes with jelly beans images on them or print your own onto iron-on transfers and iron them in place on a t-shirt, baby outfit or favorite sweater.


Glue some beans to a pair of flip flops for a bit of jelly bean fun.
 Buy your favorite flavors and indulge in them all day. Invite your friends over to share them with you. And wherever you go, give away packets of jelly beans as gifts to everyone you meet. Wish them all "Happy Jelly Bean Day!".

