 Use a sharp kitchen knife to cut the Velveeta cheese into 1/2-inch to 1-inch (1.25 to 2.5 cm) cubes.


Smaller cubes will melt quicker and more evenly than larger cubes. Regardless of what size exactly you make the cubes, try to make sure that all the cubes are roughly the same size. Cubes that are unevenly sized will melt at different rates, and as a result, some of the cheese may burn before the rest melts down.;
, Heat the butter on a medium-low, stirring it frequently with a wooden mixing spoon, until the butter has completely melted and spread over the bottom of the pan.


You should not skip the butter when melting Velveeta using this method. The butter prevents the cheese from coming into direct contact with the bottom of the pan, acting as a thin barrier to prevent the Velveeta from burning.
Do not use a heat higher than medium-low at any point throughout the process.
 Add the Velveeta cubes to the saucepan, spreading them out evenly across the bottom. Stir the cubes into the melted butter, coating them thoroughly. Continue heating and stirring the Velveeta for several minutes or until the cheese is halfway melted.


You must stir the cheese constantly as it melts. If you do not stir the cheese, parts of it could end up burning.
As you stir, make sure that you scrape the bottom of the pan.
 Velveeta cheese can turn into a burnt, lumpy, and thick mess when you melt it using this method, but you should be able to prevent all of that from happening by adding up to 7 Tbsp (105 ml) of milk to the pan when the cheese is only partially melted.


You may not need to add the milk; Velveeta can melt on the stove without it. The addition of milk is strongly recommended because it makes it much easier to melt the cheese product evenly and thoroughly without trouble.
 Continue heating the Velveeta mixture on medium-low heat, stirring constantly, until it melts down into a smooth sauce.
 Use the melted Velveeta as a sauce or dip, or in another recipe, as soon as you melt it down and while it still feels warm. If you wait too long, the cheese could thicken up again.

