 Fill the bottom pan of a double boiler with approximately 2 inches (5 cm) of water. Place the smaller, top pan into the first.


If you do not have a double boiler, you can use the combination of a large stockpot and a small saucepan, metal bowl, or thick glass bowl. The smaller dish must be small enough to fit into the larger stockpot.
To prevent the bottom of the smaller dish from touching the bottom of the larger stockpot, place a metal cookie cutter inside the stockpot and rest the smaller dish on top of it.Note that the water level inside of the larger stockpot should not be high enough to reach the bottom of the smaller dish.;
, Pour the liquid to be pasteurized into the smaller dish of the double boiler.


Since this liquid will not actually reach a boil, you can fill the dish fairly high. Leave at least 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of empty headspace at the top of the dish to further reduce the risk of overflow, however.
 Place the entire double boiler on the stove and heat it over medium to medium-high.


The water in the bottom portion of the double boiler should begin to boil, but the liquid in the top portion should not be allowed to reach a boil.
Stir the liquid frequently as the double boiler heats to further reduce the risk of burning or curdling.
 Allow the liquid being pasteurized to reach a temperature of 162 degrees Fahrenheit (72 degrees Celsius). Hold that temperature for no fewer than 16 seconds before removing the top portion of the double boiler from the heat.Alternatively, heat the liquid to a temperature of 150 degrees Fahrenheit (63 degrees Celsius) and hold it for no fewer than 30 minutes before removing it from the heat.
Check the temperature of the liquid by keeping a cooking thermometer submerged inside. The tip of the thermometer should only be about two-thirds deep into the liquid. Do not allow it to rest on the bottom or sides of the dish.
If any skin forms while the liquid heats, remove it with a ladle or spoon.
 Carefully pour the liquid into previously sterilized containers as soon as you remove the liquid from the heat.


Leave 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of empty headspace at the top of each jar when pouring the liquid. After filling the jars, cover them with an appropriate lid.
You may wish to use a funnel or ladle to minimize accidental spills.
For best results, use containers that are both sterilized and preheated. Glass can break when exposed to dramatic changes in temperature., Place the filled containers in cold water and allow them to sit for 15 minutes.


Use a sink or large basin for this step.
The water does not need to be ice cold, but it should be notably cooler than room temperature. Extremely cold temperatures may cause the glass to break, however, so you should not place the containers in the refrigerator or freezer immediately after filling them.
 After rapidly cooling the jars in cold water, transfer them to a refrigerator.


The liquid should cool to a temperature below 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4 degrees Celsius) within the first six hours.
Even after the initial cooling process, you should continue to store the liquid in the refrigerator. Pasteurized milk can last for up to two weeks, while juice and cider may last twice that amount of time.

