 This drill teaches players how to move their head towards the ball. It also teaches players how to consistently contact the ball on the correct area of their forehead. Players will also enhance their ability to remain focused on the incoming ball.


Have a coach hold the ball four inches from your forehead. When you nod your head, the ball should hit the center of your forehead along your hairline.
Keep your mouth shut and your eyes open.
While looking at the ball, tap your head against the soccer ball several times.
Repeat.
Once you have mastered this, take the ball from your coach and hold it above your own forehead. Nod your forehead into the ball as your eyes remain focused on the ball. Do not pull the ball towards your head.
Repeat., This drill reinforces players’ knowledge of how to move their head. It provides them with additional practice of contacting the ball in the correct area of their forehead. This exercise also further develops their ability to remain focused on an incoming ball.


Stand up.
Have a coach stand 90° to your left or right.
The coach stretches out their arm and places a ball on their palm four inches from your forehead. When you nod your head, the ball should hit the center of your forehead along your hairline.
Keep your mouth closed and your eyes open.
Tap the ball with your forehead, knocking the soccer ball from your coach’s hand.
Repeat., This drill teaches players how to propel their body towards the ball at their waist. It also allows players to practice tucking their chin. Instead of executing this drill from your knees, you may sit on your heels or on the ground.


Place your knees on the ground.
Have a coach stand in front of you while holding a ball four inches from your forehead. When your head contacts the ball, it should hit the center of your forehead along your hairline.
Simultaneously bend backwards from your waist and tuck your chin.
Bend forward from the waist and nod your forehead into the soccer ball.
Repeat.., After you have mastered tapping the ball from your knees, you can progress to tapping the ball from a standing position. In this drill, players learn how increase their stability through the proper placement of their feet. They also will continue to work on propelling their body forward from their hips.


Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart. If you are right handed, your left foot should be slightly forward; if you are left handed, your right foot should be slightly forward.Have a coach stand in front of you while holding a ball four inches from your forehead. When your head contacts the ball, it should hit the center of your forehead along your hairline.
Bend backwards at your waist and tuck your chin.
Bend forward at the waist and tap your forehead against the stationary ball.
 This drill teaches players how to head a ball in motion. As you improve, gradually increase the distance between you and the coach by one-foot increments. The coach may also gradually increase the intensity of the throw, but never the arc.


Stand three feet in front of a coach. Place your feet shoulder-width apart. If you are right handed, your left foot should be slightly forward; if you are left handed, your right foot should be slightly forward.
The coach gently underhand tosses the ball in a slight arch towards your forehead.
As the ball approaches you, bend backwards at the waist and tuck your chin.
Just before the ball reaches your forehead, bend forward at the waist and contact the ball. Try to head the ball back at the coach’s waist.
Repeat.