 Mirrors are commonly used for magicians' allusions. Using a mirror requires more practice and patience from the magician. For this type of trick you'll need a fairly large mirror. Essentially you need one large enough for you to hide behind., There are different approaches of using a mirror to disappear. For this technique you'll need a table, blanket, and your mirror. This trick will rely on lighting and positioning of the mirror. It won't be perfect on your first attempt. You're trying to create a foreground reflection of the ground underneath the table.


A cheap, fold out table will work well for this illusion., Set up the mirror so that it lays on the ground horizontally. Make sure that the mirror doesn't overlap with the top edge of the table. Test this set up both indoors and outdoors, and see which looks the most believable., This trick can be performed by yourself. You could also use a volunteer, but it all depends on your comfort level. Having an assistant will help you to reappear.
 Set up a performance space in front of the location you've decided on. Set up chairs at a vantage point that blinds them for the behind the scenes activity. Gather willing people to be part of your audience. It may be best to practice this trick in your home to your family before bringing to the streets.
 Stand on top of the table with a blanket in your hands. Make sure you stand close to the edge of the table. Raise the blanket above your head. Say some magic words if you want. Then jump off the table and land in a crouching position behind the mirror. Let the blanket naturally drop with you and release your grip once you hit the ground., Stand on the table with your volunteer. Drape the blanket so that it covers her from the audience. Once the is blanket up, your volunteer should lightly jump off the table into a crouching position behind the mirror. As your volunteer jumps from the table, drop the blanket.


Practice with your volunteer before performing for the best results. Timing is crucial for this trick.
 Hold the blanket up again. Have your volunteer carefully climb back onto the table. Stand in a location on the table that is sturdy. Your volunteer climbing onto the table could shift the balance of the table and spoil the trick. Once your volunteer is back in position, drop the blanket down and dazzle the audience.

