 Wear acid-proof gloves, goggles, and an NIOSH-approved respirator equipped with the appropriate acid-grade filter when working with acid. You can find this safety equipment at the hardware store or online. Lay plastic sheets down at the base of the wall to act as drop cloths for the acid.Keep a box of baking soda around to pour it on yourself if acid splashes onto your skin. Caustic chemicals from the muriatic acid could cause chemical burns.
 Read the information and warnings provided with the product that you've purchased. Follow the dilution amounts and process on the back of the packaging. Typically, you'll want to create a solution that is one part muriatic acid to nine parts water.


Never mix muriatic acid with other chemicals.
Do not use acid for lightly colored or cream-colored bricks. The acid can discolor them and weaken their joints., Fill an acid-resistant bucket up with water first, then add the muriatic acid. This will prevent splashback which could potentially spray acid onto you., Before you apply the acid to the wall, it's important that it's fully saturated with water. Applying the muriatic acid directly on a dry brick may damage your wall., Purchase an acid resistant brush online so that the bristles don't disintegrate while you apply it to the brick. Dip the brush into the acid solution that you created and apply it in a layer over a small portion of the brick that you want to clean. Apply the acid in a small area to make sure that there isn't an adverse reaction with the brick in your wall., Allow the acid to soak into the mortar on the bricks and break it down. If the acid is working, it will start to bubble and fizz when it comes into contact with the mortar. Do not let the acid fully dry on the brick or it could damage them.If you notice that there is discoloration on the brick, stop using the acid.
 Use a medium bristle brush and scrub the face of the brick vigorously. Avoid scrubbing in the joints of the brick or you may weaken the mortar that holds the brick in place. Scrape the sludge that's created from the mortar and acid onto your drop cloth. Continue to scrub until all of the dried on mortar is removed., As you work, make sure that none of the acid dries to the brick. Dried acid can weaken the brick and discolor it. Always keep a garden hose or a bucket filled with water close by and rinse away the acid after you're done scrubbing away the mortar.

