 When you have a cough, drink tea or warm lemon water with honey. It can help soothe a sore throat and calm your cough. Mix two teaspoons of honey with warm water or tea once in the morning and once before bedtime to help reduce coughing. Honey is widely available at most supermarkets and health food stores.


Never give honey to a child younger than one year of age due to the risk of infant botulism, a serious form of food poisoning., Eating warm soup helps reduce inflammation in a sore throat and increases movement of nasal fluids to ease congestion. This is especially true if you have a persistent cough, cold, or fever. You can prepare your own soup or buy a healthy, low-sodium variety from your local grocery store. Heat it to a warm temperature and eat a bowl. Soup should be eaten one to three times daily until your symptoms reduce in severity or are completely cured.


To add a spicy kick that will also aid in clearing your cough, add chopped cayenne pepper or 1 to 2 teaspoons of cayenne pepper powder to your soup.
You can drink broth as well. Chicken and vegetable broth are most common. You can make your own or buy some from the store. Be careful because store bought broth can have high levels of sodium. Look for low- or no sodium varieties.
Children and infants should be given a bland soup, as this reduces the risk of nausea and vomiting. , Pineapples are rich in an enzyme called bromelain which is used in medicine for reducing swelling and inflammation of the air passages, in order to prevent mucus buildup which can lead to congestion and coughing. Eating pineapples can also help prevent respiratory infections that often trigger coughs. Incorporate more fresh pineapple and pineapple juice into your daily diet to get more of bromelain's helpful properties.


Do not eat potatoes or soy products with your pineapple. These foods contain substances that may slow down bromelain’s healing properties in the body., Certain foods can slow down the body’s healing process, impair the immune system, and increase inflammation. They may also cause gastroesophageal acid reflux, which can increase the severity of coughs.


Lessen or avoid foods that can cause chronic inflammation, such as fried foods, veal, ham, steak, hot dogs, margarine, shortening, lard, refined carbohydrates, white bread, pasta, donuts, soda, and energy drinks. , While some foods can cause inflammation, certain foods can also help reduce inflammation to help ease a sore throat. Eat more fruit, such as strawberries, cherries, and oranges. You should also eat more hearty foods, such as almonds, walnuts, salmon, mackerel, sardines, tuna, and olive oil. Consuming whole grains such as millet, oatmeal, brown rice, flaxseed, and quinoa will also help reduce inflammation.


Also try more vegetables such as olives, spinach, kale, and broccoli.
Fruits with citric acid may cause acid reflux, aggravating your throat and triggering coughs., Cayenne peppers contain capsaicin, which has antiviral, antioxidant, and anti-inflammatory properties to promote healing. This helps reduce congestion, coughs, and fevers. People who are allergic to latex, bananas, kiwi, chestnuts, or avocado may also have an allergy to cayenne.


Capsaicin should not be used by people with gastric reflux, low blood sugar, or people taking blood-thinning medications.
Cayenne may cause nausea and irritation in the throat of young children, so avoid giving cayenne or other peppers to children and infants.