 Taming items can be obtained from monsters or special quests. To tame, simply double-click on the taming item to activate it, and then click on the monster you want. Famous pets in the game are listed below.


It's important that the taming item you have is for the right monster, or it will fail.
After clicking, a slot machine will appear, and you must click again to get a chance at taming the monster.
If you fail at this point, you will lose the taming item and get no pet or item.
If you succeed, you will receive a pet egg.
Note that the success rate is unaffected by stats, reduced HP, or by using the skill Provoke.
Alice requires taming item Soft Apron. Food needed is White Potion. Alice gives MDEF +1, Demi Human Resistance +1%.
Deviruchi requires taming item Contract in Shadow. Food needed is Shoot, and it can wear an accessory named Pacified. Deviruchi gives ATK/MATK +1% and HP/SP -3%
Dokebi requires taming item Old Broom. Food needed is Pet Food, and it can wear the accessory Wig. Dokebi gives MATK +1% and ATK -1%.
Evil Nymph requires taming item Charming Lotus. Food needed is Morning Dew. Nymph gives SP+30 and increases SP Recovery.
Green Maiden requires taming item Tantan Noodle. Food needed is Bun. Maiden gives Def +1 and Demi Human Resistance +1.
Hunter Fly requires taming item Monster Juice. Food needed is Red Gemstone, and it can wear the accessory Monster Oxygen Mask. Hunter Fly gives Flee -5 and Perfect Dodge +2.
Imp requires taming item Ice Fireworks. Food needed is Flame Gemstone, and it can wear the accessory Horn Barrier. Imp gives Fire Element Resistance +2% and Damage to Fire Element monster +1%.
Incubus requires taming item Girl's Naivety. Food needed is Yellow Vital Flower. Incubus gives SP +5%, 2% chance of gaining 5% of the damage inflicted with an enemy as SP with each attack.
Marionette requires taming item Delicious Shaved Ice. Food needed is Small Snow Flower. Marionette gives 1% chance of activating (+20 tolerance to Neutral property attacks, 100 HP restored every 2 seconds) for 3 seconds while being physically attacked.
Zealotus requires taming item Forbidden Red Candle. Food needed is Immortal Heart. Zealotus gives ATK +2% and MATK damage to Demi Human +2%.;
, Another way to obtain a pet is by using the Sage skill Hocus Pocus. This allows pets whose taming items are currently unobtainable in the game to be tamed, with the risk that their food item may also be unavailable and thus must remain inside their egg.


With the current updates, devs are working on with the food and, hopefully, bonus stats to monsters that are not in the pet list.
To use Hocus Pocus, simply cast it on the monster you wanted to catch. Once successful, the item will automatically go in your inventory.
 If you don't have the luxury of hunting taming items nor have a Sage character to use Hocus Pocus, you can always buy pets from other players. Pets are cheap due to the fact that many people obtain taming items during their leveling or questing.


Pets can only be traded when they're in egg form.
 To tame a Bongun, you will need Her Heart taming item. Her Heart can be created from 1 Girl's Diary and 1 Daenggie. Once you obtained the two ingredients, simply talk to Munak's Grandma found in Comodo (comodo 112, 182).


Bongun gives VIT + 1 and Stun Resistance +1%
Girl's Diary and Daenggie are dropped by Munak at Payon Cave 3.
 To tame a Rocket, you will need Singing Flower. You can create Singing Flower using 1 Singing Plant. Simply meet Monster Tamer in Alberta Tool Shop (alberta_in 173,76), and he will give you a Singing Flower.


Rocker gives HP Recovery +5% and HP +25.
Singing Plant is dropped by Mavka at Moscovia Dungeon 3, Metaller at Comodo Field 09, and Yellow Plant in Juno Field 01.
 Craft Monster Juice using 1 Animal Gore and 2 Apple. Once you have gathered the ingredients, meet Monster Tamer in Alberta Tool Shop (alberta_in 173, 76).


Hunter Fly gives Flee -5 and Perfect Dodge +2.
Animal Gore is dropped by Medusa and Pest at Beach Dungeon 1
Apple is dropped by Mastering and Chepet in Toy Factory. It is also dropped by Poring at Prontera Field.
 To tame an Orc Warrior, you will need 1 Orc Trophy, 1 Chivalry Emblem, and 1 Scorpion Tail. Take the ingredients to Monster Tamer at Izlude Tool Shop (izlude_in 128,64).


Orc Warrior gives ATK +10 and DEF -3.
Chivalry Emblem is dropped by Raydric and Khalitzburg at Glast Heim Chivalry.
Scorpion Tail is dropped by Scorpion at Sograt Desert 18.
 You need to create a Book of Devil to tame Baphomet Jr. You need 1 Old Magicbook and 2 Horrendous Mouth to complete it. Take the item to Monster Tamer at Izlude Tool Shop (izlude_in 128, 64).


Baphomet Jr. Gives DEF/MDEF +1 and Stun Resistance -1%.
Old Magicbook is dropped by Rideword and Bathory at Clock Tower.
Horrendous Mouth is dropped by Ghoul and Flame Skull at Cursed Monastery.
 You will need No Recipient for Munak. To create the taming item, you need 1 Old Portrait and then take it to the Monster Tamer at Izlude Tool Shop (izlude_in 128, 64).


Munak gives INT +1 and DEF +1.
Old Portrait is dropped by Bongun at Payon Cave.
 Once you have obtained a pet egg, you will need a Pet Incubator to hatch it. To hatch the egg, simply click on the incubator and then click on the egg you wish to hatch. Your pet will then appear.


You can also rename your pet through the pet window and can only be done once.
To return the pet into its egg, just right-click on the pet and choose the selection. You will need an incubator to hatch the pet again. If your pet is wearing an accessory, there's no need to remove it.
Pet Incubators can be purchased from Pet Groomer in every city of the game.
 As soon as your pet hatches, feed it. To feed a pet, right-click on it and choose Feed Pet. For cost savings when working toward Loyal, only feed it when it's hunger is at Hungry.


To tame your pet faster, feed it when it is at neutral, but do not feed it any earlier than that.
Also, your pet will show an emote to let you know it has eaten, giving you an “Ok.”
If you continue to feed it, the pet will give you “Hmm” or “pif.”
Feeding it more while it's stuffed will cause your pet to show “Omg” and die.
 In order for your pet to reach Loyal, you need to increase their intimacy. A pet is given a random number of intimacy points between 250 and 399 when it's first hatched. Feeding your pet will increase its intimacy depending to its level and hunger.


Higher level pets get less intimacy per feeding, and vice versa.
A pet's hunger level is classified using the following terms: “Very hungry,” “hungry,” “neutral,” “satisfied,” and “stuffed.”
When the owner dies, the pet's intimacy decreases by 15 points.

