 If you cannot or don't want to attend an undergraduate program in computer science, you'll be pleasantly surprised at the availability of free coursework online.


For example, you can sign up for computer science related courses on Coursera.You should also check out OpenCourseWare from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.It is a goldmine of information for people who want to have access to computer science materials at an academic level without paying tuition.;
, Depending on how much you already know, you can choose topics that are of interest to you and research them online or in the library.


If you are just starting out, you will want to read books, journal articles, or websites devoted to topics like computer hardware, the internet, and basic computer programming.As you learn about these basic topics, you will find areas that seem especially interesting to you that you can investigate further. Some of these more advanced topics include security, cryptography, Turing Machines and the Halting Problem, set theory, operating systems, hardware architectures, semaphores and concurrency, computer networks and network protocols, and databases and information modeling.
You can also view do an internet search for the complete list of recommended topics by Professor Matthew Might, who teaches computing at the University of Utah., Basic computer programming is simple and easy to learn, and is a great gateway to more computer science knowledge. Plus, it comes in handy on job applications to have a working knowledge of programming, even if you don't have technical instruction under your belt.


There are a lot of different programming "languages," or systems that use unique codes. If you don't know where to start, Python is a nice language for beginners. It's intuitive and easy to learn. You can also consider C or Java.
If you have tried imperative programming languages in the past, try learning functional languages such as Haskell.These are more advanced than the basic languages.
Whatever approach you decide to take, you can do an internet search for articles or videos that will teach you all you need to know. In your search bar, type in the name of the programming method plus the words "beginner tutorial" (for example, "Java beginner tutorial").

