


Steve McGarrett is a Navy Seal. His father, ex-cop Jack McGarrett, was killed in the first episode of the series. The state's governor asked Steve to build and run a task force with her powers to eliminate convicts.
Danny Williams is recruited from the mainland by the Honolulu Police to investigate Steve's father's death. His nickname is 'Danno', which, as revealed in the first episode, came from his daughter.
Chin Ho Kelly was trained in the Honolulu Police by Steve's father. He was accused by the police of taking payoffs and was released by the department. He is recruited to the task force by Steve.
Kona (Kono) Kalakaua is Chin Ho's cousin. Coming from the police academy, she is also a surfer. In the original series, Kono was a male figure, while in the modern series, it is now a girl.;
, Because the original theme song was very known and respected, the producers kept it the same and raised it with a modernized beat. The opening credits still show shots of Hawaii, along with showing the characters in a 'technology' aspect.
 The former Honolulu Advertiser building, located on Kapiolani Blvd, is used as the soundstage for the show. Shot locations throughout the island include North Shore, Kaneohe, Waikiki, Halawa, Pearl Harbor, and metro Honolulu. They have also used the Hilton Hawaiian Village in a suspect chase and the baggage claim of Honolulu International Airport.


The University of Hawaii (UH) and the University of Southern California (USC) were both asked by CBS to participate in a "battle of the bands" to recreate the theme song in their own style. Both schools were taped and shown in two separate advertisements for promoting the show.
Between mid-September and early October 2010, 18 colleges and universities participated in a national "Marching Band Mania". Similar to the UH/USC battle, the winner of this contest would receive $25,000 and featured in a Hawaii Five-0 episode. The University of Maryland won the national contest, over schools such as the Texas State University, University of Hawaii, and Yale University.
 Watch it in the United States every Monday night on CBS, set your DVR and record it, or watch it on the Hawaii Five 0's website.
 When Steve McGarrett reunites with Chin Ho Kelly in the first episode, he remembers him from Kukui High School as the football's quarterback. However in real life, this particular high school never existed before the series premiere. Currently, the 'school' has its own mascot, logo, website, Twitter, and Facebook accounts.

