 Desquamation, or the process of shedding outer skin layers, is an important part of skin rejuvenation.Using a gentle exfoliating agent can help get rid of the dead skin cells clinging to your epidermis, which may help unclog pores and prevent them from re-clogging.If you have normal to oily skin, consider exfoliating once every day or two. If you have dryer, more sensitive skin, you may want to limit yourself to exfoliating once or twice each week.There are two categories of exfoliants: mechanical exfoliants, like facial scrubs and cleansing pads, as well as chemical exfoliants, like hydroxy acids. Both are effective at removing dead skin cells and opening up your pores.
Many different exfoliating products are available on the market today, but certain types of exfoliants may damage your skin, depending on your skin type. If you're unsure about which products to use, talk to a board-certified dermatologist or another skincare expert about the best exfoliation option for your skin type.;
, There are many over-the-counter (OTC) products that will help fight acne, including blind pimples. When using OTC products, it's important that you wash the problem areas with a gentle cleanser twice daily (unless your skin is too sensitive to be washed more than once a day). Use just enough acne product to cover the blind pimple and other problem areas on your skin.OTC products typically include one or more of the following ingredients:benzoyl peroxide - kills bacteria, removes dead skin cells and excess oil, and can help unclog pores. May cause dry skin, scaling, and burning, and can bleach hair or clothing.
salicylic acid - helps prevent pores from becoming plugged. May cause mild stinging and/or skin irritation.
alpha hydroxy acids - there are two types of alpha hydroxy acids commonly found in OTC products: glycolic acid and lactic acid. Both acids are effective at removing dead skin cells, reducing inflammation, and stimulating new skin growth.
sulfur - removes dead skin cells and excess oil to prevent pores from clogging and helps kill bacteria on your skin. May cause dry skin and carry an unpleasant odor.
 If OTC acne products do not adequately treat your skin problems, you may need to talk to a dermatologist about prescription-strength medications. Topical prescriptions are medications that are applied topically (to the external surface of your skin). For best results, wash your skin with a gentle cleanser and dry your face about 15 minutes before using a topical medication.Common prescription-strength topicals include one or more of the following ingredients:


retinoids - prevent hair follicles from becoming plugged, which can help prevent pimples from forming. Retinoids also reduce inflammation. Start by applying retinoids in the evening three times each week, working your way up to daily use as your skin becomes accustomed to the medicine.
antibiotics - kill excess bacteria on your skin and reduce redness and inflammation. Topical antibiotics are often combined with benzoyl peroxide to reduce the chances of becoming resistant to the antibiotics. Common antibiotic combinations include clindamycin with benzoyl peroxide (Benzaclin, Duac) and erythromycin with benzoyl peroxide (Benzamycin).
dapsone (Aczone) - kills bacteria and prevents skin pores from becoming clogged.May cause dry or reddish skin.

