 The IRS encourages holdovers to switch to electronic filing (or using tax preparation software) in part because it could save them money and cut down on misleading errors in their application.The IRS estimates that there's about a 20% error rate with tax returns filled out by hand, whereas tax preparation software only has a 1% error rate.If you're worried about making mistakes on your tax return, it's best to stick with tax preparation software, which catches mistakes on the fly as it prepares your taxes.
Additionally, if you have a complicated tax return (if you use Form 1040), you should consider hiring a professional tax preparer.
 Due to the low demand in manual preparation, taxpayers no longer receive tax packages in the mail. Taxpayers can also download the necessary tax forms from the IRS website.

The package includes a complete set of instructions, along with the necessary forms for filing state and federal income tax returns.
 Neatly fill in all the pertinent information on required forms. It is best to use a pen with black ink. Fill in sections relating to your income (discussed in depth in Part 1) and then move on to any deductions that you can subtract from your tax debt., You may want to employ a professional to go over your taxes and catch any errors. This will cost a bit more than filing completely independently, but it could catch errors in your tax return that might cost you money or cause you to be audited.

Make sure you sign and date each return before you mail it.
 On each page, remember to place your Social Security number at the bottom of the page on the specified section., Each year, the IRS releases the amount of taxes due depending on the amount of money made and the filing status of the filing party. To view the amount of taxes owed for the 2014 tax year, visit the IRS Tax Tables and go to your estimated income.

This table is not valid after 2014, but it can still be used as an estimate - the amounts do not change drastically year to year.
Additionally, keep in mind that the “tax owed” does not necessarily mean the tax that you will have to pay. You may be able deduct certain expenses from the total amount either through the standard deduction or itemized deductions.
 On or before the filing deadline, which is usually April 15th, mail out your tax returns using certified mail.

Address an envelope to the federal government and an envelope to the state using the addresses provided in your instructions. Your federal and state tax returns will go to two different locations.
Weigh each envelope with the return and any necessary documentation included and apply the correct amount of postage. Using the incorrect amount of postage may delay your refund.
 If you owe money, you can make a payment in one of the four following ways:

By authorizing an electronic funds withdrawal from a checking or savings account. To utilize this option, include the routing information for your financial institution and your bank account number on the Form 1040 when you file electronically.
By credit card or debit card
By mailing a check or money order (made out to the United States Treasury) using Form 1040-V, Payment Voucher
By enrolling in the Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS), which is a secure government website that allows users to make federal tax payments and schedule tax payments in advance via the internet or phone. For more information on EFTPS, go to the IRS website and choose “EFTPS” under “Filing & Payment” on the right-hand side of the website.
 You can request an extension either electronically or by mail if you cannot meet the filing deadline. If you choose to file an extension, the IRS will typically give you six more months to file your taxes.

To request an extension by mail, you will need to file a paper Form 4868.If you paid any part of your taxes due at the time you filed your extension, include that payment on your tax return form.
 Keep in mind that an extension of time to file is not an extension of time to pay. If you are unable to pay the full amount of tax due with your tax return because of financial hardship, you should still file the tax return on time with a “good faith” payment of as much of the pay due as you can afford to pay.

If you believe that you will be able to pay in full within 120 days, you should call 1-800-829-1040 to request extra time.
If you cannot pay within 120 days, you should complete Form 9465 or Form 9465-FS to request paying the remaining tax in installments., If you chose to e-file, the IRS will typically automatically deposit any refund into the provided account within 4 to 8 days.