 Put the hazelnuts in the fridge to let them chill so that they are brittle and easy to grate/process later on. Then take your butter and eggs out of the fridge and let them sit out on the counter so that they are warmer when making the dough.

Room temperature ingredients are much easier to mix, however if you are trying to save time you do not need your eggs and butter to sit out.;
, Take one orange and zest the entire orange with a grater, putting the scrapings into a medium mixing bowl that will later become the bowl for wet ingredients., Once your hazelnuts are chilled, you can either hand-grate them by using a knife to finely chop them up, or you can put them in a food processor for 30 seconds to 1 minute until they are a grainy flour.
 In the medium mixing bowl with the orange zest already inside, combine the butter, egg yolks, 2 eggs, and powdered sugar (in that order). Use an electric beater to mix the ingredients together thoroughly until you have a consistent yellow mixture similar to scrambled eggs.


Use the lowest setting of beater to mix so that the ingredients don't go flying.
 In another medium mixing bowl, combine the cake flour, cinnamon, and grated hazelnuts, then use a fork to lightly mix the ingredients together.
 Hand mix the wet and dry mixes into a smooth mass, but be careful not to knead the dough or over-mix them. As soon as all of the ingredients seem consistently mixed, stop.
 Lay your plastic wrap on the counter, then use your hands to gather the dough together in the bowl and lay it in a loaf shape on top of the plastic wrap. Be sure to scrape the bowl to get as much dough as possible and add it to the mass. Wrap the dough completely in plastic wrap, trying to form a loaf shape at the same time. Then refrigerate the dough for at least 2 hours (this is easy to do overnight).
 Preheat your oven to 350 degrees. The cutting board and rolling pin should be chilled in the fridge if possible so that when you form the cookie tray, the dough stays cool for as long as possible., Take your refrigerated dough out of the fridge and remove the plastic wrap. Cut the dough into two pieces, one roughly being 60% of the total dough for the top, and the other being 40% of the dough for the bottom.
 Remove the cutting board and rolling pin from their chilling location and put a generous layer of flour over your cutting board, making sure to cover the whole board. Place the bottom chunk of dough onto the cutting board and completely cover all sides of the dough in a light layer of flour. Use the palms of your hands to press down on the dough and spread it out into a large rectangular shape, being careful not to create any tears in the dough. While you're pressing the dough down, flip it over 3 times and continue flouring the board and both sides of the dough as you do this. Then cover your rolling pin in a layer of flour and roll the dough until about 1/4" thick, creating a rectangle as close to the size of your cookie sheet as you can.


Throughout this step, remember to continue to add flour as the dough spreads out to keep it from sticking - if you forget to add flour the dough will become too sticky and be ruined.
 Flip your cookie sheet upside down and place it over your dough, then hold on to both your cutting board and the cookie sheet and flip them over, causing the dough to fall into the sheet. Put the cutting board back in the fridge so it will be chilled when you need to use it again later on. Use your hands to press into the middle of the dough and slightly push it out, causing the edges to run up the sides of the cookie sheet a little and create a crust. Tear off any dough that has been pushed up too far and put it aside to fix any mistakes later on.
 Take the 18 oz. of raspberry jam (or 18 oz. of another jam/jelly) and scoop dollops of it on top of the dough. Use a spreading knife to work the jam back and forth and make it more pliable, and then spread it out in a thin layer across the dough.
 Take the remaining piece of dough and cut it in half. Separately, roll out the first piece of dough like you did with the bottom layer of dough (remember to use lots of flour), then cut it into long strips that are 3/4" wide. Take the sides of the dough that cannot be cut nicely into strips and set aside with your other dough scraps.


Cut at a steep angle and in a very slight jerking motion to keep the dough from sticking to the knife.
The longer the dough sits out the harder it will be to use, so working at a fast pace is recommended.
 Take the longest strip and lay it diagonally across the middle of the cookie sheet. Then continue to take strips and lay them over the rest of the cookie sheet following the same diagonal direction until you have completed the first layer. Then take the second half of the dough or the remaining strips and lay them the other way to complete the lattice.


Try using part of the knife to hold and guide part of each strip while you lay it, and be careful to fully support it or else it will tear into pieces and become much harder to use.
This is the hardest part as the strips will begin to break once the dough becomes warm. If this happens, roll out some of the extra dough you set aside earlier to create new strips.
 Once the dough lattice is laid out, take one raw egg and beat it until you have a solid yellow color. Brush the top of the lattice with the beaten egg using a food brush.
 Place the dough on the cookie sheet into the oven and bake for about 45-50 minutes or until the top is a dark golden brown.


Do not remove the cookies from the oven early even if they look done - be sure to wait at least 40 minutes.
If you end up over-cooking by 5-10 minutes it should not be an issue - they should still turn out great.
 These are best served warm and as dessert with things such as ice cream.

