 Contact paper comes in transparent sheets, each with a sticky adhesive side. This makes it a great protective cover for flat collages, plus it can also be used instead of glue! You can either use it to:


Seal a finished glued collage.
Stick leaves and other materials directly to it.Create a collage that’s totally transparent except for the leaves., Give your glue time to dry once you’re finished attaching everything to the backing paper. In the meantime, use scissors to trim your contact paper to match the backing paper’s size. Once the glued materials feel firmly in place, remove the backing to the contact paper’s sticky side. Lay the contact paper facedown, with the sticky side up. Then line up your backing paper with its edges and press the two together, with your leaves sandwiched in between.This is only a good idea for flat collages. If you’re using stuff like cotton balls and yarns, or if you like the way your leaves curl, this would only flatten them out and ruin the effect.
 First, lay out your backing paper and decide on your design. Because contact paper is so sticky, correcting mistakes will be even more difficult than with glue, so definitely take the time to figure out how you want to arrange your leaves before you begin. You’re also going to use the contact paper’s sticky side to fix your backing paper in place, so leave the edges clear so the two connect. Once you’re satisfied:Peel off the backing to the contact paper’s sticky side and lay the paper down with the sticky side facing up.
Take a leaf from your backing paper and press it facedown into the contact paper’s sticky side.
Because the contact paper is facedown, remember that sides are reversed. For example, if your backing paper and contact paper are side-by-side, the leaf that’s lying faceup all the way to the right of your backing paper should be placed facedown all the way to the left of your contact paper.
Continue sticking leaves (and any other materials) one at a time so you don’t lose track of which goes where.
When you’re finished, flip the backing paper over, line its edges up with the contact paper’s, and press the two together.
 Say you know exactly where you want to hang your collage, but instead of obscuring the wall with backing paper, you want your leaves to accent the wall itself. In that case, use two sheets of contact paper: one for the front, the other for the back, with the sticky sides facing each other. To do this:Use two sheets of contact paper of equal size, trimming one to match the other if needed.
Arrange your leaves on any surface to settle on a design. Again, contact paper is pretty sticky, and removing your leaves once they’re in place will be pretty tough.
Remove the backing to one sheet of contact paper. Lay that sheet facedown, with the sticky side up.
Stick the back of each leaf, one by one, to the contact paper, following your design exactly.
Once you’re all done, remove the backing to the other sheet of contact paper. Line their edges up and press the two together, with the leaves sandwiched between the two sticky sides.

