 Eating probiotic yogurt can help mitigate Crohn’s disease, by introducing healthy bacteria that help regulate your digestive tract.


These probiotics, such as Acidophilus and Bifidus, are species of good bacteria that fight against inflammation, as well as aid in the faster recovery in the parts of your intestines affected by Crohn's.
However, if you are lactose intolerant, be careful when considering a regimen of probiotic yogurt.
Problems with lactose intolerance can be corrected by choosing lactose free yogurt variants, as well as taking lactase, an enzyme that helps the gut digest lactose.
A recommended serving of yogurt is 1 serving or 1 cup of yogurt a day for patients with Crohn’s disease.
Although plain yogurt can suffice, it is best to choose a probiotic yogurt that is specifically made to include higher concentrations of good bacteria.
A good probiotic yogurt usually contains at least 5 – 10 billion specimens of good bacteria, as indicated in the nutrition facts.;
, Although many fruits and vegetables are known to trigger the symptoms of Crohn’s disease, some fruits and vegetables may provide a degree of relief.Eat fruit that contains less fiber and is easier to digest, in order to mitigate the symptoms of Crohn's disease.
Try bananas and peeled apples. These fruits also contain antioxidants that can help fight the inflammation in your intestines and reduce any cramping pain.
Eat vegetables that are soft and non-irritating, such as cooked carrots and steamed potatoes.
These foods are soft to eat and so they are less irritating to our digestive system. They have less fiber than leafy vegetables and are less likely to worsen the symptoms of Crohn’s disease.
These fruits and vegetables also contain antioxidants that reduce pain and inflammation caused by Crohn’s disease., Among its other negative health effects, drinking alcohol has a depressive effect on the digestive system.This depressive effect causes food and waste to remain in your digestive system longer than it should, eventually leading to inflammation.
In the worst case scenario, this slow digestion can cause an infection in your intestines.
 Drinking water consistently throughout the day is essential to fight against the dehydration that commonly results from the frequent diarrhea associated with Crohn's disease.Fluid intake also fights against constipation, and can help you have more comfortable bowel movements.
In addition to water, fluids such as fruit juices, soup broth, or vegetable soup contain essential vitamins, electrolytes, and nutrients that are especially necessary when you are suffering from Crohn’s disease.
Drink a total of at least 10 glasses, or 2.5 liters (0.7 US gal) of fluids per day to keep yourself hydrated.
 Crohn's disease often prevents you from eating the types of vegetables that contain vitamin B12, so it is important to supplement your intake of vitamins with a supplement.


Vitamin B12 is important for the proper formation of blood cells, as well as the normal functioning of nerves.
Try supplementing your diet by taking 1 capsule of vitamin B complex, containing 100 micrograms, once per day.
 Vitamin D deficiency can lead to Crohn’s disease, or worsen its symptoms if you already suffer from it. Make sure to take in the proper amount of vitamin D in order to avoid the symptoms of deficiency.


Vitamin D serves as a powerful anti-inflammatory agent, acting to normalize the functioning of your digestive system.
The best source of vitamin D is exposing yourself to sunlight for at least 15 minutes a day, because sun exposure catalyzes the synthesis of vitamin D in your body.
Vitamin D supplements are also available, the suggested dosage being at least 1 gel capsule of 1000 IU per day., Folic acid and iron are essential to the production of healthy blood cells, which are needed to distribute adequate amounts of oxygen and nutrients to other organs in the body.


Because you may be avoiding cruciferous vegetables and nuts, due to symptoms of Crohn's, you may be suffering from folic acid and iron deficiency.
Take an an iron and folic acid supplements equivalent to 60 mg of iron and 400 micrograms of folic acid in a tablet, at least once a day.

