 Radiation therapy can help shrink tumors prior to surgical removal. Radiation can also help keep a tumor from returning after surgery. In conjunction with chemotherapy, radiation can help relieve thymoma symptoms in patients with late-stage tumors, such as painful breathing or chest pain. However, radiation by itself is not the most effective treatment option., Radiation involves the use of invisible high-energy rays to destroy cancerous cells. This helps stop them from increasing and multiplying. The type of radiation used depends on the amount of energy that is required to remove your thymoma as well as how far the thymoma may have spread.If you opt for radiation therapy, you will work with a doctor who is called a radiation oncologist.
 A CT scan is an effective way to create images of your body. It involves taking a number of X-rays at different angles and then combining them to visualize cross-sections of your body.A CT scan can help your oncology team determine the correct dose and position of your radiation therapy., The most common type of radiation that is used is external beam radiation therapy. It uses x-rays from a machine just like the usual x-ray procedure, only these x-rays emit a much more powerful radiation.The procedure does not hurt, but it may cause side effects later including: fatigue, skin redness, weight loss, poor appetite, nausea, and vomiting. These are all due to intense amounts of radiation, which may normal cells along with cancerous cells.Many side effects are temporary and can be relieved with medications.Another type of EBRT that is used is the three-dimensional conformal radiation therapy (3D-CRT). This procedure is able to accurately target a malignant tumor while also affecting less of the surrounding tissues. This means that this procedure has less side effects than regular radiation therapy.Most radiation therapy is done for a few minutes at a time, for several days a week, continuing for several weeks., IMRT is an advanced form of 3D-CRT which can also be used to remove thymomas. The procedure relies on a computer to more accurately target the cancerous tissue. The beams and intensity of the radiation can be adjusted to prevent harming nearby healthy tissues., The source of the radiation can also be an implant that is placed directly on the tumor using needles or catheters.This form of radiation therapy is called interstitial or internal radiation. Internal radiation is usually given to outpatients for several weeks. You are not radioactive during or after the treatment.

