 If you’ve chosen a niche that you’re passionate about, and are confident that you have value information to share with others, readable writing will just flow.


A great copy is one that is visited a lot and shared a lot on social circles. One way of checking if your copy is actually doing well is to check your visitor’s duration of visit on your website.;
, Make that heading a catchy one! It will do wonders for your blog. How? Take this small test: Which one of these headings would you click on: “5 Ways to Seduce Google Into Ranking Your Website Higher” or just plain “How to Rank High on Google Search”. The first one, right? Point proven…

, Okay, so the heading was catchy enough to make visitors click on it and land on your page. What next? Pique the reader’s interest with the first few lines on your post. These opening lines should have the ability to capture their attention and persuade them to read the rest of the blog.
 Cliffhangers are what make the readers read on till the end of the post. These are statements or words that stitch a post together through emotions. This is applicable especially for longer posts (800 plus words). Insert cliffhangers to make sure that your visitors are hanging on, and enjoying every bit of your post.
 Have you ever watched one of those movies that have a great title, and the storyline is even better? Throughout the one and a half hour long movie, you’re glued to your seat and you’re loving every bit of it. And then it abruptly ends, out of the blue! It’s almost cruel! You’re so irritated that if you ever meet the director, you will be sure to express your annoyance! Don’t let that happen with your blog post. Give your readers a proper closure. After all, you don’t want them to get irritated and bounce off your blog, do you?

, All of your efforts to create a great copy will go to waste if your grammar is not in place. There’s nothing more irritating to the reader than grammatically incorrect sentences. Make sure you’ve got your basics right, and that your sentence structure is logical.
 Garnishing is important as it makes your masterpiece look awesome. While writing blogs, images serve as the garnishing agent. Choose images that are in tandem with your content, and are visually appealing as well.


A word of caution: be careful about copyright issues while picking up images from the internet. For free images, you can refer to websites like iStock and Flickr's Creative Commons search.
Great copy helps you to attract high traffic to your blog. Your readers love you, and so does Google. The next step now is to start monetizing your blog. There are various ways in which you can monetize, but that’s a story for a different day.
 If you’re using WordPress, choose a company that provides good (and flexible) plans at affordable prices. WordPress web hosting is a different ball game altogether, and not all companies are good at it. So take an informed decision, and it will help you reap rich rewards in the future.

