 If you accept all friend requests and follow everyone that requests it, you are bound to see something political on your timeline that upsets you. One way that you can avoid conflict about political topics on social media is to only follow people and topics that interest you and align with your values.Avoid following organizations, groups, or pages with controversial names. For example, the group ‘Political Protesters’ might not be very neutral.
It’s okay to unfollow or block certain friends if you know you can’t avoid getting into a conflict with them about political topics.
 Before you accept friend or follow requests, make sure that you actually know the person making the request. If you know the person, you will have some idea of whether they might post political content that’s controversial.


Visit their page or profile, if possible, to get a sense of them as a person.
Be wary of accounts that were recently created, have vague or no bio/profile information, and no pictures or generic pictures.
Some social networking apps allow you to temporarily hide certain users or content from your timeline.
 Even though you may have political opinions you want to express, you may want to reconsider doing it through social media. If you don’t post anything that might be controversial, it’s much less likely that you will have a conflict about political topics.Post content about neutral topics like your personal experiences and memories. For example, you might post pictures from your recent vacation.
This includes reposting or sharing political content that other people have posted. If you really want to share it, then do so in a private message.
 If you want to post political content, you can if you make sure that your posts aren’t controversial. Try to post political content that is neutral, balanced, and fair in order to avoid creating conflict.For example, instead of posting something judging a political party or movement, you could post something encouraging people to be politically active in general.
Or, for instance, instead of posting a video condemning a political opinion, post a balanced commentary about the issue.

