 Although being a ride or die chick has a positive connotation in some communities and usages, it comes with negatives ramifications that you might want to think about.


For example, if your partner is engaged in illegal activities that put others, himself, you, or your family at peril, you would do him (or her) more of a favor by helping him find another way.
There’s a reason that a person’s ride or die chick isn’t always the person they choose to be their wife; the ride or die chick is part of the "bad girl/good girl" binary that some people think is unfair to women.Although Hollywood and rap music have glamorized young death (in music as well as film), it’s really not glamorous at all to see a person you love lying in a casket. In real life, not the movies, this will come with decades of pain, endless jail visits, financial struggles, and fatherless children.
Being a ride or die chick could put your own personal safety at risk, and it could also land you in trouble with the law, depending on the activities your partner is engaging in. Consider whether that’s worth it. Isn’t there another way?, Although often used to glorify women who help men engaged in gangster life or criminality, there are positive ways to embrace the ride or die chick’s liberating allure and steadfast loyalty without the danger.


For example, the term has been used to refer to a woman who stands by her man through a very difficult battle with terminal cancer. She doesn’t run away when things are painful.In more general terms, the phrase means sticking it out when times get tough, whether because of finances or something else. If the struggle is something out of your partner’s control – they lost a job, they have a health problem – that’s different than staying with a man who actively mistreats you. Never stay with a man who puts your life in danger or subjects you to physical or emotional abuse, especially if there are children in the home.
In its most loving definition, the ride or die chick is just a play on the concept of endless love that is found in many marriage vows that say “until death do us part.” The ride or die chick sometimes comes from an impoverished and violent environment or background.
 Although some people consider the ride or die chick to be a liberating and even empowering rejection of the rules, some people don’t perceive the concept so fondly.


Some theorists have argued that the ride or die chick is an exercise in masculinity and patriarchy because the male’s needs are dominant over the woman’s. Others, though, have argued that the term can evolve and even constitutes an act of political rebellion against a culture that has stigmatized African-American love by devaluing the worth of black women.
Some people believe the ride or die chick is setting herself up for a life of depression and pain, as she allows herself to be mistreated and drawn into a life of danger.
Some scholars have recognized the ride or die chick as one of the historic stereotypes of black females. They have argued that the concept objectifies and does not empower women, and that it has contributed to rising female prison populations.