 Uala grows best in a slightly acidic soil. Ideally, soil pH should be between 5.8 and 6.2. Test your soil pH using a kit available from most home and garden stores, and use compost or Sphagnum peat moss to acidify the soil if necessary., ‘Uala readily grows in nutritionally poor soil, but may struggle in heavy clay or very sandy soil. Create a good soil environment by making rows of 10 in (25.5 cm) high and 3.5 ft (1 m) apart. Mix organic compost into the soil, but avoid adding nitrogen-rich fertilizers, as these could stunt the tubers.You may also be able to grow ‘uala in a grow bed if you do not have the space or capacity to put in rows.
 ‘Uala should not be placed outdoors until the soil temperature has reached at least 60° F, (15.5° C). In cold or mild climates, you can help warm the soil by placing black plastic over the planting area for two to three weeks prior to planting. Plastic sheeting is available at most home improvement and big box stores.’Uala does best in USDA plant hardiness zones 9, 10, and 11.Growing ‘uala outside of these zones will likely require some soil warming efforts., ‘Uala is typically grown from slips, or sprouts cut from stored tubers. Slips are often available from garden centers, nurseries, and local farmers at events such as farmer’s markets. Buying your slips locally will help you get a variety that is known to grow well in your area., About six weeks before planting in the ground, start your slips in a pot or box of moist, loose soil or mulch. Keep the soil moist and keep the area climate-controlled at 75° to 80° F (24° to 26.5° C). Leave the slips in the pot until they sprout shoots 6 to 9 in (15 to 23 cm) long., Once your slips start sprouting, cut the plant off at the soil above the roots. This allows the slips to grow new roots that aren’t bunched and can produce better tubers. Then, transplant the sprouts two to three inches (5 to 7.5 cm) deep in the rows, leaving 18 or so inches (about 46 cm) between each plant.As ‘Uala can be very temperature sensitive, it is a good idea to wait until after the last frost to transplant. If you live in a warm, rainy area, it is also recommended that you let the rains pass prior to transplanting.
 ‘Uala will typically need at least four months of frost-free growth to take hold and produce quality tubers. Monitor your garden and cover plants as necessary if unexpected cold snaps happen after they are transplanted., The amount you need to water will depend greatly on your area, but ‘uala needs ample water, especially early on while the slips are regrowing their roots. Make sure the soil is moist but not muddy throughout the day. Be sure to use a gentle water delivery system such as a low-pressure hose setting or drip irrigation system while the sprouts are still taking root in the beds.If you live in a hot, dry area, you may want to water in small five to ten minute intervals every two or three hours, whereas more humid or temperate climates may allow you to water once or twice a day for fifteen or so minutes at a time.
 Hoe or otherwise weed the growing area to keep other plants from out-competing or choking out the ‘uala. Then, reshape the beds with soil and mulch as necessary to ensure roots are covered and the plants stay healthy., While ‘uala is hearty, it is susceptible to certain pests and diseases, including sweet potato weevils and scurf. Look for indications of disease including overly-punctured leaves and stems, and black rot. Remove any infected plants as soon as you see a problem.Minimize your chances of scurf by only planting slips from healthy plants and disease resistant cultivars.

