 No matter what your reason for wanting to contact the EEOC, you can get a good start at finding the information you need by going to http://www.eeoc.gov/.


The home page includes links to information for employees, employers, and federal agencies.
There are also a number of pages listed that tell you how to do specific things, such as how to find help for small businesses or how to file a charge of employment discrimination.
If you just want to find out the latest in employment discrimination news, you can check out the EEOC's "Newsroom.";
, The EEOC maintains a list of frequently asked questions, which also can be a good starting point to find information.


You can type in your own question and search the database, or browse through the list and read questions that interest you., The EEOC's website includes detailed information about every type of employment discrimination covered by the laws the EEOC enforces, including racial and religious discrimination.


Generally, the EEOC enforces federal laws that prohibit discrimination or unfair treatment because of your race, color, religion, sex, pregnancy, national origin, age, disability, or genetic information. Age discrimination only applies if you are over 40.
If you believe you have been discriminated against at work, you must file a discrimination charge with the EEOC before you can file a lawsuit against your employer.
The EEOC website explains how much time you have to file a charge, whether your employer is covered, whether you're protected under the laws the EEOC enforces, and what the charge filing and investigation process is like., If you think you may want to file an employment discrimination claim against your employer, you can start the process online.


Although the EEOC does not accept charges online, the online assessment tool can help you determine if you should be using the EEOC or some other agency.
If you decide to file a charge, you can print an Intake Questionnaire. Once you've filled it out, you can either mail it or take it with you to your nearest field office to begin the process of filing your charge.