 If the joint in your hands or wrists are swollen and painful from arthritis, you can use an ice pack or cold compress to help reduce the swelling and relieve the pain., If your hands or wrists are painful from arthritic inflammation that won’t go away, heating up your hands may give you pain relief. In fact, many arthritis sufferers usually experience more pain in cold environments and find keeping their hands or wrists warm all the time (e.g. wearing gloves) can help relieve pain.Wearing cotton gloves while you sleep can also help to keep your hands warm and may help reduce the amount of pain in your hands and wrists.Using a hot wax dip on your hands every morning can help start your hands off nice and warm every day. The hot wax can be kept in a crock pot and re-used many times.
 Arthritis in your hands will likely cause you not to be able to perform certain activities, such as: opening a tight lid on a jar, gripping something tightly, prying open a container, etc. There are many products on the market that can help make all those activities easier for you, especially if you don’t always have someone else around to help.The internet is usually your best source for determining what products are available and finding out where you can get them. Google “arthritis self-help devices” and research which products would be best for you.
 Glucosamine and chondroitin supplements can be found at most pharmacies and health stores. They have been shown to reduce the amount of pain and stiffness in people who have osteoarthritis, but they do not work on everyone. You may want to try taking these supplements for 2 months to see if they have a positive effect on your hand or wrist pain. If they do not give you any relief, there is no point in continuing to take them.Note that glucosamine and chondroitin manufacturers claim these supplements can help rebuild cartilage in your joints. However, there have been no scientific studies to confirm this is an accurate claim and these supplements are not approved by the FDA for that purpose.
 Omega-3, which can be found in many types of fish and in fish oil capsules, can potentially reduce the amount of inflammation in your body. While this doesn’t work for everyone, trying a fish oil supplement or adding more fish to your diet can be an option to try.