 Although you can't increase the size of your lungs with aerobic activity or breathing exercises, you can improve their efficiency. Improved cardio-respiratory function increases the levels of oxygen that are pumped into your bloodstream, where it is transferred to your muscles to provide energy.Create additional space in your lungs by pulling up your shoulders towards the ears, while at the end of inhalation phase. Always be gentle when taking a breath, so you don't strain or injure yourself.
Add weight for resistance. When lying on your back, you can increase the effort level of the an exercise by placing a book on your abdomen. Remove the book immediately if you experience any discomfort., Breathing exercises can help you gain control in stressful situations, but the best place to practice the techniques is in a safe, calm environment. As with other forms of meditation, you will be able to focus best when you are not distracted.


Practice in a dark or dimly lit room. Light candles, if you wish, to create a warm and peaceful ambience.
Turn off the TV and silence the ringer on your phone. It will be easier to focus on your breathing if you are not distracted.
 Breathing exercises are often more effective when you are not full. Although it can take up to four hours for food to completely pass out of the stomach, you don't need to wait for it to be completely empty. Whenever possible, wait an hour or two after the end of a meal to begin your breathing exercises., Always try to adopt a relaxed posture when doing breathing exercises, and be careful not to strain yourself. Practice at a comfortable pace – if you are struggling to hold a breath for a certain count, hold it for a lower count at first and gradually work up to it.


If you begin to hyperventilate or become light-headed, slow your breathing until you feel better and stand up slowly.
If you have arthritis of the neck or any other spinal condition, check with your doctor before trying any exercises that involve moving or bending the neck or back.
Never experiment with holding your breath as long as you can - this can be extremely dangerous, even fatal.

