 Use water and a facial cleanser to clear make up, dirt, and debris away from your brows. Make sure your brows are thoroughly dry before you begin. , The pencil should be placed at the outer side of your nostril. Make sure to hold the pencil in a straight position. Observe where the tip of the pencil lands on your brow. This is where your eyebrow should start.


If the tip lands too far from the middle (making your nose look big), then just move the start of your brow slightly inwards to slim your nose., Angle it from the side of your nostril to the outer corner of your eye. Where the pencil lands is where your brows should end, ideally. Place a dot with a very light colored pencil at this point. This way, when you go to fill in your eyebrows, you have an idea of how far you should go.








As a general rule of thumb, the end of your brow should be at a 45-degree angle from the outside corner of your eye.
 Starting with one of your brows, brush it in an upward motion. Brushing your brows in an upward motion will help you see the shape of your brow, as well as where you need to fill it in to get a smooth, even look.
 To fill in your brow, use an eyebrow pencil that is as close to or slightly lighter than the color of your natural eyebrow hair. Using short feathery strokes, lightly fill in the gaps and sparse areas in the middle, active portions of your brow.








Do not overly fill in the inside corners and ends of your brow. These are the areas where you want to go the lightest with your pencil.
 Make sure to step away from the mirror and assess your look every minute or two while you are filling in your brow. This way you can correct your look if your brow looks too dark or if the coloring is uneven.
 After you have filled in your brow with a light pencil, go in with a darker pencil to add dimension. Using gentle pressure and short strokes, fill in the middle, active portions of your brow with the darker pencil.








Try not to fill in the inner corners and ends of your brow with the darker pencil.
Repeat steps one through four on your other eyebrow.
 To blend your brows, use a spoolie. Following the shape of your brow, brush your brow two or three times to get a blended, natural look.
 Brush your eyebrows with an eyebrow gel to set your look. The gel will hold your eyebrow hairs in place and give them a refined look.
 Dip a small, eye shadow brush in translucent powder. Then trace the perimeter of your brows. This will define the shape of your brows and give them a clean, sharp look.
