 If she hears that you've been absolutely miserable, crying in public, and shouting her name out on street corners, she'll be turned off quicker than you can say, "I miss you!" Instead, you want her to hear -- and see -- that you're having a great time going about your everyday life without her by your side. She'll see you as a dynamic person who has a lot going for him, and will begin to wonder why you're not openly showing signs of missing her more.


Casually hang out at a place where you're both likely to be. Make sure you show up with friends and she sees you laughing and having a good time without overdoing it.
If you see her socially, like at a party, don't drop everything you're doing to run up and ask how she's doing. Come up to her eventually -- but let her see that you have a busy social life without her.
 It's a fact: you will never be able to make your girl want you back if her friends can't stand you. If her friends don't like you because you were too controlling, not caring enough towards them, or just because you were a bad boyfriend, then your job is to make them think that maybe you weren't so bad after all -- and to pass this information on to the girl you want.


If you run in to her friends, make a conscious effort to make small talk without being too obvious about it.
If you talk to her friends, don't bring her up immediately. Though you can casually ask how she's doing and really let them see that you're hurting, if you're open to being so vulnerable.
 After enough time has passed and you've made it back on her radar, you should slowly start to make your way back into her life. It can be as simple as stopping to have a five minute conversation if you run into her, or casually sliding your tray next to hers at lunch, or even texting her if you know that she'll love something that's about to start playing on TV.


Keep it cool. Be sweet to her while making her wonder if you are just looking to be friends. Don't shower her with compliments the second she hangs out with you again.
Once you've started talking again, up the ante. Invite her to do something simple, like grab coffee or check out a lecture together. Don't ask her to do anything romantic quite yet.
 You can let her see that you're a changed man without shouting, "Look how different I am!" Just spend enough time with her to see that you really have changed your ways, if changing your ways was necessary. If she thought you were too messy, put an effort into your appearance. If she criticized you for always showing up late, make a conscious effort to show up early to your next coffee date. Don't point out these changes; let her see for herself and she will be truly impressed.


These changes should feel natural to you. Don't change something about yourself just to please her, or you'll fall right back to your old ways the first chance you get.
If you feel like you really hurt her while you were dating, it's never too late to apologize. She will be touched that you've put that much thought into the relationship after it ended.
 That's right. Just when you think you're about to get your girl back, just when she's finally realizing what an amazing catch you were, is not the time to declare your love. Instead, throw her a curve ball by making her see that she still has to fight for your affection instead of just falling into your arms. As you start to hang out more and more, make sure to not always be available.


Go MIA for a few hours and make her wonder where you are. Her mind will be racing.
If you've gone on dates, mention them without being too descriptive, so she really thinks that she can lose you.
 Once you feel like you've grabbed her attention and have even made her a little jealous, it's time to check in to make sure that she really wants you back before you tell her how you really feel. Though you don't have to know how she feels with 100% certainty, the more sure you are that she wants you back, the less likely you'll be to embarrass yourself. Here are some signs that she wants you back:


Check out her body language. When you talk to her, does she lean closer to you and make eye contact, looking at the floor every time she gets embarrassed?
See if she's jealous. Does she ask if you're seeing other women, or look upset if she sees you talking to other girls? If so, then she may want you all to herself.
See if she's started treating you like a boyfriend again. Has she given you hugs, compliments, and asked you to go on date-like adventures?

, Once you're pretty sure that she shares your feelings, there's no point in beating around the bush. Find a time when you can both be alone and pick a place that is just a little bit romantic and gives you the privacy that you need. Then, look into her eyes and tell her how much you've missed her, and how much you'd like to date her again. You don't have to grovel, but you should show her that you've put a lot of thought into the failed relationship and that you're determined to make it work this time.


Be specific. Show her how you've made an effort to change instead of making empty promises.
Give her time. If she's reluctant at first, don't get angry or disappointed. Remember that even if she does want you back, she still wants to protect her heart.

