 This is one of the most important parts of going green. Every single thing you'll recycle means one less piece of rubbish polluting the Earth. You can recycle paper, plastic things (such as water bottles), even soda cans. Try to convince your parents to get recycling bins.;
, As with recycling, reusing items means less trash in the landfills. Make paper grocery bags into notebook covers. Draw on the blank side of old school papers. Use an old cardboard box to organize.
 Cut down on your usage of disposable items. Use cloth towels or a sponge instead of paper towels in the kitchen. Fill up an entire piece of paper with drawings instead of grabbing another. Buy reusable bottles instead of drinking from storebought water bottles.


You can also reduce your water and electricity usage. Take shorter showers, turn off the sink while you're brushing your teeth, and open the window instead of turning on the lights.
 Do you have clothes don't fit you any more? Are you too old for toys or maybe you don't want your old DS anymore? You could donate them to the people who need them. Remember that there are babies out there who can't afford just one bite of cake. Donate the things you don't want any more to charity. You could even give food that would go to waste.
 Plant trees, exercise, create a go green group! You could go green just by planting a tree.
 Try being nice to them and try your best to never let an animal species go extinct. You could even try being a vegetarian or vegan.
 Whether an earthquake hit or there is an oil spill, it's our duty to volunteer. Save the people/animals, donate food, and donate clothing. Do whatever you can to help.
 Research the benefits of CFL light bulbs, toilets that use less water, and things like that. (Hint: they help save money!)

, You could recycle objects to make homemade crafts to be used as gifts. That way, you would have a unique object that is also green!

, You could also check the main environmental site for your country, and see what you can do to help.
