 Your voice is a delicate instrument that has to be exercised regularly. Think of it this way: football players never go out on the field before a game without stretching to warm up their muscles. It is the same concept for vocalists before a performance. A good singer always takes his or her voice through the motions before rehearsing or performing. This can be done by singing on a vowel and changing keys each time, while going up and down the scale.;
,, Never push your voice outside its comfortable range unless it has been permitted or asked of you by a professional vocal teacher.
, This can be done most easily by smiling in order to lift your cheekbones, which will in turn lift your hard palate. You should feel a sensation of openness in the throat, which is very similar to yawning, when you breathe.
 Sing from your diaphragm.Ã‚Â Keep a hand there the first few times you try to sing from there if you don't know exactly where it is, or ask a vocal teacher for help if you really can't find it. It's very easy to find, though.


Sit up straight and gasp. The area in your abdomen that "hiccups" when you gasp is your diaphragm.
 Though dairy is important to most healthy balanced diets, dairy products produce blockage in the larynx in the form of phlegm, which coats the larynx and vocal cords. Never consume dairy before a performance.
 Acidic foods such as citrus fruits can wear down the vocal folds. Try to cut back on acids if you want to keep your voice healthy.
 This is very important.
 Dehydration affects the entire body, so even if you feel hydrated, as a singer you should drink as much water as possible, as often as possible.
 This is crucial. Refrain from singing, speaking, and whispering if possible. Stay home.
 Buy a personal steamer and use it religiously when you're sick. It will relieve your pain, lessen congestion, and deliver moisture to your vocal cords without overwhelming them. It will also loosen phlegm.
 Ricola is probably the most commonly used lozenge brand among singers because it is natural. Vocalzone throat lozenges are good, as well. Make sure these lozenges have pure, naturally-derived ingredients.
 This will give your voice more time to repair itself.
 This drink is a lifesaver. Some singers like to add lemon to the honey water; however, this acidic fruit may damage your already-sensitive voice.

