 If you plan to show or compete with your horse, you likely know what breed they are. A horse trainer or veterinarian that works on different types of horses can help you identify the likely breed if you’re unsure. Visit different breed association websites to read about the characteristics of different breeds. These websites will contain guidelines, specifications and rules about registering a horse for that specific breed. Other general breed-identification websites also list the significant characteristics of different breeds., Reach out to the breed association you’re considering to ask any questions you may have. The association will provide you with any forms you’ll need to complete the application process. They may be able to point you towards another organization if there is a better fit for your horse elsewhere. , For almost all breed associations, fill out a written or online application. Follow the specific instructions on the breed association’s website. Provide your horse’s name, as well as information about the horse’s sire and dam. You may also need to become a member of the association yourself.Usually, you’ll save time and money by submitting the application online. Some associations still allow or prefer paper mail. Their website will contain this information.
You may have to make an online account to navigate an association’s application portal.
 Some horse breeds are confirmed by the physical appearance of the horse. Include several clear photographs of your horse with the application. Be sure that the photos show any swirls, brands, belly splashes, or other significant markings.One common type of required photo is a silhouette, which may need to be verified by your vet.
Wash the horse before taking photos to use in your application. Make sure the horse is dry, and that their coat is clearly visible in each photo.
 Purebred registration can greatly increase the value of your horse and make them eligible for exclusive shows and competitions. These applications will require more paperwork regarding the horse’s genetic lineage. You will also likely need to provide a DNA sample.For instance, the Arabian Horse Association will provide you with a DNA kit and instructions once you’ve submit your application and application fee.
 Certain applications or scenarios may require additional paperwork. If your horse has a microchip, include the corresponding identification number. If your horse has a passport, include this information as well. Finally, include any vaccination information in your application materials.If you’re registering a foal and do not own the foal’s dam, you will likely have to fill out additional paperwork to verify this information.
You’ll also have to include additional information if you hope to register as the foal’s breeder.
 Include payment of the application fee when submitting your application materials. These fees will vary, and some associations may require recurring fees. Further, fees may depend on factors unique to the horse, such as how the foal was conceived.There may also be a fee for you to register as a member of an association too. Fees will range from $25 dollars to more than $100.

