 From your iPod you can import your contacts from an outside source onto your iPod. Google, iCloud, Microsoft Exchange, Yahoo, Outlook Address, AOL are accounts that you could sync to your iPod. All of your contact information will be transferred to your iPod without having to manually enter the information.


If you have an account connected to your phone, this will most likely be the account that you want to sync to your iPod.
You can go through this process several times, and add the contacts of multiple accounts to your iPod.
 The Setting icon is a grey gear. Swipe right or left to find the the Settings icon. If you have difficulty locating it, keep swiping right until you get to the search bar. Type Settings into the search bar, and click on the icon in your search results.
 Click on “Mail, Contacts, Calendars”, then click “Add Accounts”, and finally click on the account service provider. For example, Google, Outlook, and AOL are email service providers. Choose the provider that houses the majority of your contacts, or the account that holds the contacts you want to add to your iPod. Type in your account information, including your complete email address and password, if you have not already synced the account to your iPod.
 Go to your "Settings", and click on "Contacts". Swipe right to turn the Contacts on. The button will turn green to indicate that it has been activated.
 Return to home screen, and click on the brown Contacts book icon. Your contacts will automatically begin to sync to your iPod. Give them a few minutes to sync completely. Check back in a half hour to see if the contacts have been added to your iPod.


Check that all of the information for the contacts have transferred over into the correct fields. If there is any missing information, add this information in manually.
If they are not syncing, make sure that your iPod is connected to the internet. If it is not connected to the internet with a stable connection, it will be unable to sync your contacts.

