 Try searching “pastry school” or “pastry school” plus the city or state in which you plan to attend school. For example, ‘”pastry school” + Indianapolis’. Sift through the results and bookmark any schools you would consider attending.;
, Many websites offer college capabilities by area and/or degree. Try a few of these sites and bookmark the websites of any schools you find that you will consider attending. Some search sites that you may want to try include:



College Navigator. College Navigator is a free program offered by the U.S. Department of Education (“DOE”). The program allows you to search for schools by degree type, program, and location.

edusearch. Edusearch offers users the ability to search by geographical area, program area, degree level, and type of school (campus or online).

All Culinary Schools is a college search engine just for culinary schools. It offers users the ability to search or browse by degree or program.

Star Chefs. Star Chefs online magazine offers a school search for website visitors to search culinary schools by name, program, and/or state.

The Reluctant Gourmet. The Reluctant Gourmet offers an interactive map so users can find a list of culinary schools in a state by simply clicking on that state.

Peterson’s. Peterson’s offers one of the best college search tools on the Internet, and has a special section just for the culinary arts.

Chef2Chef. Chef2Chef offers browse and search functions by state, popular city, and culinary program.
 Visit the following popular pastry schools’ websites to see if any have a campus in your area. Bookmark any that you plan to consider.


The International Culinary Center
Le Cordon Bleu

http://visit.artinstitutes.edu The Art Institute]
Culinard
Lincoln Technical Institute

, Accreditation means that an accrediting agency recognized by DOE has approved of the school’s curriculum and authorized it to issue degrees. To determine if a school is accredited, search the DOE’s accreditation database to see if the school is listed. If it is not listed, it is not an accredited institution and any degree obtained from it may not be as valuable as one obtained form an accredited institution. Therefore, you may want to consider eliminating any schools what are not accredited from your list of choices. For more information about accreditation and what it means, see the DOE’s Accreditation webpage.
 There are many online organizations, directories, and companies offering college and university reviews and rankings based on information obtained from students, teachers, and the DOE. If you find a lot of bad reviews for a particular institution, or the school just does not seem right for you, eliminate it as an option. Some websites you may want to consult include:



Online Education Database. The Online Education Database (“OEDb”) provides a list of online degree program rankings based on eight factors, including acceptance rate, financial aid, graduation rate, online programs, retention rate, scholarly citations, student-faculty ratio, and years accredited.

The College Degrees. The College Degrees websites provides potential students with a database of online degree programs, a top ten programs list, educational articles, and discussion boards.

Get Educated. Get Educated provides a wealth of information about various online degree programs and schools, including rankings and student reviews.
 Review each school’s website for information. You may also want to call or fill out a request form for information by mail. Some of the information you want to collect includes:


degrees and programs offered
tuition and fees
locations
transferability of credits (it is best to attend a school whose credits will transfer to others)
job placement and internship opportunities
campus activities (if you will leave on or near campus and wish to participate in extracurricular activities)

, Compare the schools, and eliminate all but your top 3 – 5 choices.
 Talk to friends, neighbors, and colleagues about where they attended college and whether they would recommend that college to someone one else. You can also find online reviews written by students and former students by searching “college reviews” at your favorite search engine, or try one of these review sites:


Student Review
College Prowler
Guide to Online Schools

, If possible, arrange a visit to each of the schools still under consideration. Many colleges offer guided tours for incoming students if you do not feel comfortable wondering around campus on your own.
