 Immediately report the hit-and-run, even if you weren’t hit. You’ll need a copy of the police report.If you or someone else needs medical treatment, you should call for an ambulance as well.


If you are in the U.S., then call 911.
In Canada, call 911.
In Australia, call 000.
In the U.K. or Ireland, call 999.;
, Other people on the road or sidewalk might have seen the car. Ask what they saw. For example, a witness might have caught the license plate of the person who hit you.Also take down the contact information for witnesses. Get names, email addresses, phone numbers, and work or home addresses. These people might have to testify for you in court or talk to your insurer.
If necessary, stop into nearby businesses and ask if anyone saw the hit-and-run.
 You might have caught a glimpse of the driver as they pulled away. Try to get as much information as possible, including the following:car make and model
year
color
license plate number
description of the driver
direction the driver was headed, If you were in the car, then document what happened. Be as detailed as possible. You might not have much information to write down but, at a minimum, record the following:date and time of the incident
location
any damage to your car

, Pictures can help you in a couple ways. First, they will show the damage done to your car. By the time the police catch the person, your car might already be repaired. If you want to sue, then the pictures will serve as evidence.


Second, you can use the pictures to show your insurer that you were actually hit by another car. Some people hit an object (like a tree) but try to blame a hit-and-run. However, if you take close-up pictures that show the other car’s paint, you can prove you were actually hit by another car.If you suffered bodily injury, then take pictures of your injuries as well. These will also be helpful in a lawsuit

, Someone can also hit your car in the parking lot while you are in the store. If they don’t leave any contact information, they’ve committed a hit-and-run. Fortunately, many stores now have security footage that records their parking lots. Return inside and check whether you can access the footage.


Ideally, you won’t delay. Go inside as soon as you see your car has been hit. Explain the situation and ask who you need to speak with.
If you were physically hurt in the accident, you can ask someone else to stop into nearby businesses and ask about security footage.
 Sometimes, police won’t send an officer out if the damage done was minor. However, you still need to create an official report. In many states, such as California and Wisconsin, you can fill out a “driver report.”Check your state’s Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) or Department of Transportation (DOT) website to see if there are forms.
Also ask the police what you should fill out if they won’t come out and create a police report.

