 You may take it if you are a physician or physician assistant, nurse or a nurse practitioner, respiratory therapist, pulmonary function technologist, pharmacist, social worker, health educator, occupational therapist, physical therapist, or are providing professional asthma education and counseling with a minimum of 1000 hours experience.;
, These are the NAECB candidate handbook, as well as the files on exam testing categories and how the exam is scored. You will need to review these documents thoroughly before taking the exam, as the guidelines will help you determine your own study needs before you take the exam.
 These 14.4 hour courses are offered a number of times each year in locations throughout the country. Enrolling in one of these courses isn't mandatory, but it can make studying the material much easier than self-study.
 You'll need to make sure you can recall the specific information, apply it to new or changing situations, and analyze and synthesize it to determine solutions or evaluate the usefulness of solutions.
 This will help you assess your level of knowledge. You can also register for a self-assessment examination, which consists of 75 test questions modeled on the questions in the official examination.
 You can do this online through the National Asthma Educator Certification Board website, or by mail. If you choose to do it by mail, you'll need to send in the application in the candidate handbook.
 If you apply for the examination online, you will be required to pay by credit card. Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover are all accepted. If you submit a paper application, you'll need to give your credit card number, or include a cashier's check or money order for the full amount.
 There are over 110 assessment centers throughout the United States and Puerto Rico. The exam will be administered on the computer, by appointment only, on weekdays either at 9 a.m. or 1:30 p.m. You will be required to complete the examination within 3.5 hours.

