 If you are worried about making mistakes, you can sketch your design out lightly in pencil first. You can use all one color, such as black, or many colors. If you are using multiple colors, put the lighter colors down first, then the darker ones, and finally your outlines. Here are some ideas on what you can doodle:


Write your name, nickname, or initials
Swirls, spirals, squiggles, and zigzags
Lightning bolts, hearts, or stars
Fake studs or gemstones
Smiley faces or skulls
Flowers, birds, or butterflies
Polka dots, checkered, chevron, etc;
, Use super glue or an industrial-strength glue (such as E6000) to attach a pendant or brooch to the front part of a fancy dress shoe. If you want a non-permanent option, use some large, fancy clip-on earrings or shoe clips. Simply slip them over the front of the shoe so that the design rests right over the toe area. Whatever you choose to use, just make sure that they match.

You can also make your own shoe clips by purchasing some blank clip-on earrings, and then hot gluing some fancy brooches or pendants to them.
 Take out the old laces and use them to measure out some ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeter) wide satin ribbon. Cut both ends of the ribbon at an angle. Seal the edges with fabric glue or super glue so that they do not fray. Use the ribbon to lace up your shoes instead of regular shoe laces. You can use any color of ribbon you want, but a matching color or a contrasting color might look the best. For example:

If your shoes are white, consider getting a teal or black ribbon.
If your shoes are light blue, they might look good with a light blue, dark blue, or white ribbon.
 Use super glue or E6000 to attach the rhinestones. The stones should not be wider than the strap. You can use varying sizes, shapes, and colors, but try to arrange them in a pattern instead of randomly. This will make them look more professional.

You can also glue rhinestones to other areas of the shoe as well. If this is a pair of fancy dress shoes or wedding shoes, consider using Swarovski crystals. They will make your shoes look fancier and more expensive.
 Super glue the end of a long piece of ribbon to the base of a flip flop strap. Wrap ribbon around the strap, like a candy cane. Try to overlap the ribbon a little bit as you wind it around the strap. When you get to the other end of the flip flop, cut off any excess ribbon and glue the end down to the base of the strap.

You can also use thin strips of fabric.
Consider starting with two pieces of ribbon. Glue the end of each ribbon to the base of each strap, and wrap them towards each other. Tie them together into a pretty bow when they meet in the middle, right above the toe thong.

