 Introverts can sometimes forget that not everyone feels “recharged” from being alone. Remember to check in with friends and loved ones, even if just to say “hello.” Being the person to initiate that contact is a more extroverted trait, but it’s not so hard to do with a little practice.


Social media can be a good way to practice making the first move in your relationships. Send a friend a friendly Tweet. Post a funny cat picture on your sibling’s Facebook wall. Initiating contact with other people, even in small ways, will help you embrace your extroverted side.
 If you’re in a relationship with someone who is more extroverted than you are, you can ask them to help you embrace your extroverted traits. However, you will benefit from discussing what you like and don’t like about socializing. Set guidelines for how you will manage your different needs.For example, an extrovert may really need to frequently socialize with others to feel fulfilled. Even though you’re trying to be more open and outgoing, you still may not want to socialize as much as your partner. Allowing your partner or to go out on his or her own sometimes will let you stay home and recharge, so you’ll both be happy.
You can ask your partner to invite you to social occasions. Even if you don’t necessarily feel thrilled to go, try to go out occasionally. Having someone you know and trust with you will help you feel more at ease.
 Because they can be very inner-focused, introverts may not always remember to express their feelings to others. It can be hard for other people, especially those who are very extroverted, to tell if you’re enjoying yourself or if you’re desperate to hide.Tell other people how you’re feeling before they have to ask.


For example, if you’re at a party with a friend, tell him or her “I’m having a great time!” You may naturally be more reserved or quiet, but that doesn’t mean you have to be a complete mystery.
Similarly, if you run out of gas at a social gathering before others -- and you might -- be clear about that too. You can say something like, “I really enjoyed myself, but I’m getting tired now. I’m going to head home. Thanks for a great time!” This way, others will know you had a good experience, but you can also stand up for your need to go home and recharge.
 Introversion and extroversion are just different ways of being. One isn’t superior to the other. Don’t put yourself down for responding to situations in a different way than your friends or loved ones do. Similarly, don’t judge others for how they respond to situations.It’s unfortunately common for extroverts to stereotype introverts as “people haters” or “boring.” It’s equally common for introverts to generalize all extroverts as “shallow” or “chaotic.” Don’t feel as though you have to put down the “other side” to appreciate who you are. Each type of person has strengths and challenges.