 Making word art with a computer program like Microsoft Word, Excel, and PowerPoint can be done in a few easy steps. Start by locating the Insert tab in the computer program. The Insert tab should appear on the main toolbar in the computer program. Once you open the Insert tab, you should see the word art section.If you are using a newer version of a computer program like Microsoft Word, you can find the word art option in the Document Elements tab.
Depending on the version you are using, word art may be called "Smartart" in Microsoft Word.
 Click on the word art section and scroll through the styles. There should be a gallery of different word art styles, from different font colors to different font styles like bold, outline, or highlight. Look through them until you find a style you like for the text., If you do not see any word art styles that you like in the gallery or want to adjust an existing style, you can make your own word art style. Use the text options in the word art styles section to customize the text as you see fit. You can also add elements like Text Fill, Text Outline, and Text Effects to the text. This will allow you to add shadows, curves, outline, and fill in the text with specific colors.To add a color to fill in the text, use the Text Fill option.
To add a colored outline to the text, use the Text Outline option.
To add a curve or shadow to the text, use the Text Effects option.
 Click on a word art style and then start typing your desired text to see how it looks on the page. A placeholder text box may appear on the page where you can then type in your text to apply the word art style.You can also type out the text first, such as “Congratulations!”, then choose a word art style and highlight the text to apply the style.
You can include symbols in the word art as well by clicking the Insert tab and then choosing a symbol to include in the word art.
 If you’d like to rotate the word art so it appears slanted across the page, select it by clicking on it. Then, drag the circular rotation handle at the top of the box to rotate the text as desired.You can also flip the word art or rotate it 90 degrees by clicking on the Drawing Tools Format tab. Then, click Rotate in the Arrange group and select an option. You can rotate the text right 90 degrees, rotate the text left 90 degrees, flip it vertically, flip is horizontally, as well as other options.

