 Breathing can be very calming and therapeutic. You take so many breaths each day without ever thinking about it, but most of that breathing is shallow and only reaches the chest. Deep breathing requires you to measure your breathing patterns and take long, slow breaths that extend all the way down into your belly.Breathe in slowly through your nostrils to the count of four.
Hold in your breath to the count of four.
Exhale slowly to a count of four, either through your nostrils or though pursed lips.
Rest for a count of four without taking any breaths until you've hit the four count.
Take two normal breaths.
Repeat the whole process. You should start to feel calmer fairly quickly.;
, Meditation is an excellent way to relieve stress and fatigue, alleviate the symptoms of mental/emotional conditions like anxiety and depression, and even reduce the symptoms of physical pain/discomfort.It doesn't matter how you meditate; if you sit in silent meditation, you will quickly feel the calming effects.Find a quiet, calm place free from distractions. Turn off your television and silence your cellphone.
Get into a comfortable position. You can sit on a cushion or the floor with your legs folded, sit upright in a chair, or even lie down.
Take slow, deep breaths down into your diaphragm (below your ribcage). Aim for an even, steady breathing pace.
Focus your attention on your breathing. Notice the sensations of breath: the way air feels as it passes through your nostrils, the feeling of your belly rising and falling, and so on.
Any time your mind gets distracted and you start thinking outside thoughts, simply return your focus to your breathing.
You can sit in meditation for as brief or as long a period of time as you would like. The important thing is to set aside some uninterrupted time to practice breathing and meditating.
 Mindfulness is a form of meditation that can help you lower your stress levels, reduce unpleasant distractions, and improve your overall mood.Mindfulness can be practiced any time throughout the day, but may be particularly helpful for when you need to disengage from a stressful day.Focus on your breathing. Take slow, deep breaths through your nostrils and down into your diaphragm.
Pay close attention to everything around you. Notice your immediate environment and all of the sensory details (sight, smell, sound, feel) present in that space.
Dive into your senses. If you eat something, notice the way it looks, the way it smells, the way it feels in your hands, the way it tastes, and the texture of the food as you slowly and mindfully chew it.
 Reading is a great way to unwind after a long day. It can also help your body and mind relax and get ready for bed.


Try avoiding books/magazines about stressful topics like war, crime, or terrorism.
Choose a book that lets you delve into the fictional world within its pages.
 Music is often used as a tool to help manage stress, anxiety, and depression. If you're trying to calm down after a long day, try listening to music that soothes you. You can do this at home as well as in the car on your commute home from work/school.Choose something relaxing. It doesn't have to be classical music, though it can be if you enjoy it. The goal is to spend time listening to music that takes you out of a stressful moment.
If you don't have any relaxing music of your own, try listening to jazz. It can be very soothing while still being upbeat, and the fact that it's often all instrumental may help your mind disengage from your stressful day.
 Exercising is a great way to get outdoors, but you don't have to be active to sit outside and enjoy the fresh air. Sometimes simply being outside the house - especially if you live near nature - can calm your anxious mind and reduce your stress levels.Try sitting outside. You can watch the sunset, or simply set aside a half hour before or after dinner to enjoy a cup of decaffeinated tea outdoors.
If you have a porch or patio you can sit there. If not, you can simply sit in the grass, or set up a lawn chair in your yard.
 If you're feeling tense after a long day, a hot shower or bath can help relieve sore muscles and reduce your stress levels.Just make sure you don't make the water too hot so that you don't burn yourself.
 Though it may not always be possible, it's best to disengage from your work life when you come home. Some individuals may be required to read and respond to emails at home, be on call in case of a situation, or take tasks home to complete. These individuals won't have much choice, as failing to do these things could lead to discipline or even dismissal. However, if you're allowed to leave your work at your place of employment when you clock out, it's best to do so.


Unless you're required to, resist the urge to check or respond to work emails. They'll still be there in the morning, and dealing with them at home after a long day could make you more stressed out.
Try not to think about work. It may be difficult, especially if something at work is stressing you out or you have a deadline looming, but if you can distance your home life from your work stress you'll be much better off.
 Depending on your personality, you may want to choose a sport or form of exercise that won't cause you any further stress. The last thing you want to do is come home from a long day and feel angry or frustrated with yourself or others.If you want to run, try running alone. Or, if you want to run with others, train yourself to stop seeing it as a race or competition.
Bicycling is a great form of exercise that can be done on your own. You can even incorporate biking into your day by riding to and from work/school instead of driving.
If you're prone to having a competitive mindset, consider a less intense form of exercise like Pilates or yoga. These are workouts that you can do alone or in groups and there's no element of competition.
Ultimately, the form of exercise you choose should be something you enjoy doing.
 Exercise should be a regular part of every healthy lifestyle. However, it's important that you don't try to push yourself too hard without the proper training or muscle development.You may end up injuring yourself if you attempt to do too much too soon.
Start small and work your way up. For example, try going for long walks before you take up running.
 It may feel daunting to think about when you can find time to work out. After work you'll have the commute home, then you'll need to make dinner and tend to any domestic responsibilities. However, exercise doesn't have to be done all at once in a long, exhausting block. You can cater your workout schedule to meet your needs by working around other obligations.If you can't make time for a long block of exercise or if you're not yet physically capable of longer workouts, try breaking it up into chunks that can be incorporated throughout your day.
For example, if 30 minutes is too much, try spacing out three 10-minute workout sessions.
You might also try interval training, which alternates between short bursts of high-intensity exercise lasting around 60 to 90 seconds with periods of lower-intensity walking/jogging.
 If you're stressed out after a long day, working out may be the last thing on your mind. But studies show that exercise can help relieve stress by releasing endorphins and improving your overall mood.Exercise can actually work similar to meditation. It takes your mind off of your problems and forces you to focus on the task at hand.
Exercise should be part of an overall healthy lifestyle, including lifestyle changes that you make to reduce or manage stress.
Talk to your doctor before beginning any new exercise regimen to be sure that you are physically healthy enough to participate.
 An overall healthy lifestyle, including a healthy and balanced diet, can help you better manage stress and make you feel better in general.Part of eating a balanced diet requires you to make good choices about what kinds of foods you eat and how much you eat in each meal.For each meal, approximately half of your plate should consist of fruits and vegetables.
Most adults should be eating six to eight ounces of grains each day. When you eat grains, choose whole grains instead of refined grains.Make sure you eat five to six-and-a-half ounces of lean protein each day, depending on your age and sex. That can include tofu, beans, eggs, nuts/seeds, poultry, fish, or lean meat.Try to limit yourself to five or six teaspoons of oil (or the equivalent) each day. When you do use oils, opt for plant-based oils (like coconut, palm oil, and olive oil), as these have very little if any cholesterol.Opt for low-fat or fat-free dairy products, and aim to get about three cups of dairy (or non-dairy substitutes) per day., Your quantity and quality of sleep can affect your ability to cope with stress throughout the day.Make sure you're getting enough sleep each night, and take steps to ensure that the sleep that you get is restful.Most adults need between seven and nine hours of sleep, though some individuals may need even more sleep to feel fully rested.
Follow a sleep schedule, even on weekends and before days off.Find something to do before bed that relaxes you. Try to make it a nightly ritual.
Block light out of your room using thick curtains or blinds.
Avoid caffeine in the afternoon and evening, as it can easily interrupt your normal sleep schedule.
Alcohol can also affect your sleep. It's best to avoid drinking in order to protect your quality of sleep.
Turn off or avoid all electronic products at least 30 minutes before bed. The glare of a cellphone, computer, tablet, or television screen can suppress your body's melatonin production and upset your circadian rhythm.Keep your room on the cool side, but not so cold that you're uncomfortable. Experts generally recommend keeping your bedroom between 60 and 67 degrees Fahrenheit (15.5 to 19.5 degrees Celsius), but if you need it slightly warmer go with what's most comfortable., Many people believe that indulging in drugs or alcohol will help relieve stress. While the temporary euphoria associated with intoxication may feel relaxing in the moment, it can actually create far more problems than it's worth.Getting intoxicated instead of working through stressful situations can cause you to have trouble dealing with stress in the future. Over time it reduces your ability to successfully cope with your day-to-day stress.
Drinking or doing drugs to cope with stress can quickly lead to addiction and dependency.
In addition to addiction, drug and alcohol abuse can also lead to other health problems.
Rather than seeking a quick "solution," it's best to learn how to cope with stress and find healthier ways to relax and calm down.
 One of the best lifestyle changes you can make to reduce stress and feel happier in general is to practice gratitude. Practicing gratitude does not mean ignoring your problems or pretending they don't exist. Instead, you work to change the way you approach day-to-day stress.Any time you find yourself feeling stressed, think about all the things in your life that you have to be grateful for.
Think about your family and friends, your health, the beauty of nature, and the personal experiences that helped you become the strong and talented individual you are today.
 In stressful situations, it may feel like the pressures of work will never let up. You may feel exhausted, anxious, or even angry, and in the moment it may seem like the problems you experienced that day are the most important thing in the world. However, it's important to step back and remember that most of the problems you experience on a day-to-day basis will be quickly forgotten about and won't have any lasting impact on your life.Ask yourself how important a given problem really is.
Consider whether that problem will matter in a day, a week, a month, or a year.
Any problems that won't impact your life beyond the short term are generally not worth worrying about. It's a waste of time and energy that could have been spent doing something calming and enjoyable.

