 You might need to kill the locust and will need to cut it open. You might see some things you don’t expect. Some of it might be uncomfortable if you don’t like insects or gore. But to get the most of the experience, you should put aside these concerns.


Remember insects are among the most numerous animals on the earth. You are not threatening the species.;
, It would be cruel (and difficult) to dissect a live animal. Although it may seem easy to kill insects, many methods take a long time, and in some cases the insect may be alive even after it has stopped moving. There are several ways to prepare a humane "killing jar" for insects:


Start with a glass jar about 15 cm (6 in) tall with a removable, airtight lid.Mix enough plaster of Paris to cover the bottom 1 inch (2.5 cm) of the jar, along with a little water and 1 tsp (5 mL) potassium cyanide, sodium cyanide, or ethyl acetate. Let the plaster harden, then drop the locust in and seal the lid. The insect usually becomes comatose after a few minutes, but wait three hours to ensure death.Alternatively, use the natural source of cyanide found in Prunus laurocerasus (cherry laurel). Bruise the leaves well and drop them in a glass jar to a depth of 2 cm (¾ in). Leave the jar closed for at least two or three days before use, and change the leaves once a month.Always read and follow safety procedures when handling potentially dangerous chemicals. Many poisons used to kill insects can also cause harm to humans.
 You will need scissors, forceps, and needles to pin the locust. You will need a tray with a layer of a soft permeable substance, like wax, cork, or soft wood. You will place the pins through this surface to secure the grasshopper to the tray., Stab pins through the large back legs of the locust into the soft surface of the tray. Try to place the pins through the upper parts of the legs (the femur), where there is more mass to keep the pin in place. This will hold secure the locust in place as you begin to dissect it.Pin down the locust so that its antennae are facing upward. You will want to cut along the back of the locust.
If you find that the wings get in the way, cut them off with your scissors. Consider securing the locust first.You can also pull gently on the bottom of the locust and put a pin through its abdomen to keep it stretched out during the procedure.
 Starting at the the top of the abdominal segment, cut down to the bottom of the locust's abdomen and back around in a circle to where you began the incision. To avoid damage to internal organs, try to pull up, away from the body with the scissors, as if you are lifting up the skin. When you are done, there should be a oval-shaped incision that you can pull on to remove a section of the exoskeleton.The incision should begin near the top of the abdomen, and continue on through the abdomen, up to the head., Once you have cut an oval-shaped incision, use tweezers to remove the “shield,” or exoskeleton. The heart should come off with the exoskeleton. Muscle should also be attached to the section of the exoskeleton that you remove; this will be necessary to reveal the internal organs.If you want to inspect the heart, set the exoskeleton aside and look at it later., To better inspect the body, pin the left and right side of the body to the tray. Open up the the incision as far as is possible and insert pins through the exoskeleton on each side of the body and into the tray underneath. This will keep the incision open and easy to inspect., You will need some sort of assistance to better see the insides of the body. You might be surprised by some of the strange organs that a locust sports.If you are a teacher, give your students a list of organs to find and identify. Try to explain what each of the organs do.
Some structures you could ask your students to identify are salivary glands, the gizzard, the midgut, the colon, and the rectum.
Consider removing a small piece of the midgut and inspecting it under a microscope
Allow students to compare their locusts. Some features, like air sacs, will vary considerably in size. Students might find that their insects look rather different.
 The locust's body is composed of three parts: the head, the thorax, and the abdomen. Understanding the difference is essential to locating many parts of the grasshopper's anatomy.

The head includes the eyes and the antennae. The body narrows a bit at what looks like a neck, at which point the thorax begins.
The thorax is the part of body that the wings and legs attach to.
The thorax ends at about the point where the wings attach to to the body. From that point, the rest of the body is the abdomen., Most of the head is visible before dissection. These include the eyes, which are located along the sides of the head. The antennae are two thin structures extending out of the top of the grasshopper's head. The labrum is located at the mouth of the grasshopper and acts as the upper lip, keeping food in the locust's mouth as it eats., To determine the sex of your locust, inspect the end of the abdomen. The end of a female abdomen will narrow to a point that is used to lay eggs. The end of male abdomen's will be rounded and point upward., The digestive system runs from the mouth of the grasshopper to its anus. The digestive system is responsible for processing food that the grasshopper consumes. It will run through the center of the grasshopper and constitutes its largest organ system.

The first large structure in the digestive system is the crop. It is one of the largest organs and is a big, oval-shaped structure close to the mouth. Its function is to store food before it is digested.
After the crop, the stomach is the next large structure in the digestive system. It is the second of four oval-shaped organs in the system. Between the stomach and the crop are the gastric caeca, which are shaped somewhat like the petals of the flower. These contain bacteria that are used in the process of digestion.The third, smaller oval structure in the digestive system is the intestine. Between it and the stomach are thin vein like structures known as the Malpighian tubule. This is used to process liquid into urine.After the intestine, the digestive system narrows into a small tube, then opens back up again to a small, oval structure, connecting to the anus. That is the rectum. This is where digested food is released from the body as feces.
 The reproductive system will be above the large intestine, between it and the stomach. Ovaries will contain yellow, oval-shaped eggs. In contrast, if your locust is a male, you should be looking for testes, which are white.

Both of these structures are small and can be difficult to see, especially the male testes., The heart was likely removed with the exoskeleton during the dissection. The heart is composed of several small chambers that run along the length of the grasshopper's body. Each of these heart chambers will be connected by ostia, openings that allow blood to circulate between the heart chambers.