 The two most popular public insurance programs are Medicaid and Medicare. Each of these plans is different and is geared to different populations.



Medicaid. Historically, Medicaid has been a public insurance plan for certain groups of people, such as the disabled who do not work and low-income people with dependent children. With the passage of the ACA, states were given the option of expanding Medicaid to cover all people with incomes up to 138% of the federal poverty level, regardless of whether they have a disability or children.Not every state, however, has chosen to expand its Medicaid program. You should check with your state’s Department of Human Services.

Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). A health program for children that is provided through Medicaid and separate CHIP programs. The program is jointly funded by the federal and state governments.Medicare. Medicare is health insurance available for people who have paid into the Medicare system through payroll taxes. You will qualify for Medicare if you are age 65 or older.Generally, you must work for at least 10 years, paying into the system during that time., If your state expanded Medicaid and you meet the income eligibility limits, then your name will be forwarded to your state’s Medicaid office when you apply for health insurance on the ACA exchanges. To apply for Medicare, you can do the following:


Go through the checklist available at http://www.socialsecurity.gov/hlp/isba/10/isba-checklist.pdf to make sure that you have all the information that you will need.
Apply online. It takes 10 minutes to apply online. Visit the Social Security Administration at https://secure.ssa.gov/iClaim/rib and answer the questions when prompted.
 Enrollment for CHIP is year-round. To apply, you should visit your state’s Medicaid agency or call 1-877-543-7669.You can find the state agency to contact by looking at this list of states provided by the Insured Kids Now website at https://www.insurekidsnow.gov/coverage/index.html.
 Medicare has many different parts, some of which you must pay a premium for and others for which you don’t. Additionally, you may need to shop for policies to supplement Medicaid.


Medicare Part A generally covers hospital or nursing-facility care, hospice, and home health care. There is no premium.Medicare Part B covers medically necessary services that diagnose or treat a medical condition and preventive services.Most people have to pay a monthly premium, which averages around $100.Prescription Drug coverage. If you want prescription drug coverage under Medicare, then you must purchase a separate plan. You can do so either through a private insurer or a Medicare-approved private company.
 If you want to purchase a prescription drug policy, then you will need to research different plans. Plans tend to differ according to the medications they provide; not all prescription plans will pay for any prescription. Accordingly, you should gather your medications and write them all down. Then, you will search for a prescription drug plan that covers these drugs.


To find a prescription drug plan, you can visit the Medicare Plan Finder at https://www.medicare.gov/find-a-plan/questions/home.aspx. You will be prompted to enter your zip code.
You must then answer a variety of questions about the Medicare coverage you currently have, including any prescription plan. Then you will be prompted to enter in a list of all of your drugs.
 If you have a large number of medical expenses, then Medicare alone can leave you with substantial out-of-pocket costs. Therefore, Medicare allows you to purchase a supplemental insurance plan. These plans can help reduce copayments, coinsurance, and deductibles. In order to buy a supplemental insurance plan (also called a “Medigap” policy), you must also have Medicare Parts A and B.To find a supplemental policy, visit the Medicare website at https://www.medicare.gov/find-a-plan/questions/medigap-home.aspx. You must enter your zip code, your health status (excellent, good, poor), and whether you have a Medigap policy currently.
You will then be able to browse a list of policies: Medigap Policy A, Medigap Policy B, etc. The information includes the monthly premium range, estimated annual cost, and benefits offered.You can then click on “View companies” to see a list of companies offering each type of policy. You will then be provided phone numbers and websites for the companies so that you can contact them.

