 Exercise and a positive impact for both men and women and for all ages, which helps build the body limber and aware and conscious mind and spirit balanced.;
,, Solid such as sword and Alzanhh, and molluscs such as nunchaku rope and chains triple and nunchaku. And second methods of kicking and punching

,, It is the foundation or spine, which built upon player kung fu.
 It blows lead and conditions in an orderly and fitness, flexibility and strength and high concentration group, to give a beautiful shape. It's the benefit of these methods help to raise the player and his fitness and flexibility of his body and allowing free level, and develop the capacity of intelligence to save strikes and whatever conditions there are. These methods include southern and northern style and Taiji and Snake and Eagle and many other methods give a beautiful shape in this game.
 The belt test as a test of the player and his review of what he learned and practiced in this game in order to activate and maintain his mind not to forget what he learned.
, To succeed in the test requires that the player gets 65% at least of the final grade. The order of belts is as follows:

,,,,,,,,, Doing stretching exercises at least two times each day will gradually improve your flexibility., By making a small commitment, you will be more easy to stick to your exercises habitually.
 You have about 15 target areas that need to be stretched for Chinese Kung Fu training.


Spend no more than 20 minutes a day exercising. Everyone can afford 20 minutes each day to practice stretch, and it's plenty of time for a beginner to cover the major muscle groups.
 If you don’t enjoy it as a relaxing activity itself, reward yourself at the end of each training session. This motivation will help you persevere, and you may even develop a new interest with your regimen.
 Short term goals are easy to achieve and will make you feel that you are progressing right from the start. If you need help seeing goals as you progress, just start with short term goal first, then do long term goals.
 Sometimes, flexibility training can be frustrating because the results are hard to measure. As you progress, gauging your progress within the context of your China Kung Fu training will be more important to you.

