 The best number of members to have in your band is around three to five. The least you can have is 2. You will need (at least) a guitarist, singer, bassist and a drummer. If you can't find a drummer, check your school's band. They might have someone who can play a drum set.;
, Band names are one of the most important parts of the band. It has to entice people when they hear it so they will come to your shows. Think of things you like to do like skateboard or play computer games. Then add feeling words like pain, agony, or happiness. Something like "Computing Joy," or "Agonized Boarding" are good examples, but this isn't the only method. If you can't find a good name then find something that is a favorite of every member of the band, then mix up the words, such as adding blue and green. 'Breen', then add another word. If you did mix two or more words together like 'Breen', try having the next word begin with the same letter. In this case, it's 'B', so maybe your end product would be 'The Breen Band'. Some band names may just be interesting.Try to be as creative as possible.
 You can try to get help from your parents, or from local instrument stores or clubs which are willing to support you.
 Start by covering your favorite songs by your favorite bands, so you will get used to playing together. Don't worry that your instruments don't match up with what you usually see. The piano can also provide both the bass and guitar parts. Drum parts and guitar tabs for nearly any popular or semi-popular song can be found on the Internet.
 Once people know that you have a band they will want you to play birthday parties and the like. You can also invite some people to your practice sessions, if everybody in the band agrees on it.
 Record a demo tape to send to some venues in your area, or look for some open-mic nights. These will help popularize your band outside of your school. You will attract popular high school and even college kids to your shows and they will enjoy your music. If you can't find a location, ask your school if you can use the gym, cafeteria, or parking lot.
 Just because you now have a huge fan base, you cannot slack off. Do bands like Fall Out Boy or Panic! At The Disco practice? Of course they do! Your skills will diminish if you do not keep practicing, and you will lose touch with your band members. Remember that they might have other offers, so you'll have to keep them interested.
 Finding the right practice area is hard. Not everyone has that kind of space. You also want to find a place close to all of the band members' houses so that it's easily accessible. Warehouses are open many times. If you DO have a garage and are not a part of a band, you could open it to someone who wants to use it, always be considerate. You and your band should agree with everything as far as where to play.
 Don't forget to have fun when you play music. If you're enjoying it, your audience will enjoy it. Have a good attitude when you play and don't expect things to always go your way. If someone quits your band, chances are they won't come back so just let it go. Host auditions at your school or neighborhood for a new musician. This gives your fans a chance to participate and getting a new musician is a big popularity boost for your band. Just remember to have fun and don't give up!


By 'bassist', it is generally an electric guitar bass. A stand-up bass works well for jazz and orchestral music, although it can be used in place of an electric if the musician is good enough and it is absolutely necessary. The fingerings for electric and acoustic basses are basically the same, so it is also very possible that a classic bassist can interchange between electric and classic.

