 If you want to cook low-carbohydrate sauces, you should make sure you have the right ingredients in your kitchen. Although some of these ingredients can be hard to find, you should be able to pick most of them up at your local health food or bulk goods store. Common low-carbohydrate thickening agents include coconut flour, agar agar, and psyillium husk.;
, Coconut flour is a tasty vegan thickener that tastes a bit like cake and is much healthier than conventional flour. It has lots of fiber and protein but very few carbohydrates, which makes it a wonderful low-carbohydrate thickener. It is used in all kinds of baking such as pies, puddings, cookies, smoothies, and truffles., Agar agar is a seaweed that is very low in calories and does not have any sugar or fat, while containing some nice fiber. It comes in powdered flakes and ends up having a gelatinous texture in sauces. It is also used in many vegan dessert recipes., Psyllium husk is almost free of calories and contains mostly fiber. It can be used in all kinds of sauces, smoothies, baking, and soups.


Psyllium husk is great for replacing the fiber that is hard to get in low carbohydrate diets. It will reduce your appetite and improve your digestion., This flour tastes great in a wide variety of baking recipes. Chickpea flour is almost free of gluten and has lots of protein as well as iron and fiber.Chickpea flour can be used in both savory and sweet recipes., This gum is a gluten-free thickener that can be used in smoothies, muffins, and other baked goods.


Avoid using xanthum gum if you are experiencing hard stools, nausea, appendicitis or other abdominal troubles. It could cause intestinal gas and bloating.It is safe to consume up to fifteen grams of xanthum gum a day., Oat flour has complex carbohydrates with lots of vitamins, which is preferable to simple carbohydrates. Oats also make you feel full quickly, so adding just a bit of oat fiber as a sauce thickener goes a long way.Oats are great for lowering cholesterol and maintaining a healthy heart. They may also reduce the risk of colorectal cancer.