 Start off your seminar by going to the podium, or just the front of the room, and providing a full introduction. Tell the audience a bit about your professional background. Briefly explain why you are interested in the project that you will be discussing today. This is intended to make the audience comfortable listening to you and to start building the speaker-audience trust.If someone else introduced you, then you might say a few quick words about your passion for this project and offer your thanks to the organizers for the opportunity to speak with your audience today.
 Your talk should move from one logical point to another. Even if you have the entire talk memorized, it might be useful to have a paper with talking points or notecards in front of you. This may also help with your pacing. A good rule of thumb when giving a seminar is to, “Tell them what you will tell them, tell them, tell them what you told them.”


For example, if you are giving a seminar focusing on a chronological topic, such as the development of the U.S. Civil War, make sure to give your audience plenty of warning before you jump time periods.
 It can be very tempting to read directly from your slides, but resist that urge. Instead, gesture to your slides as support for the larger points that you are making. If you’ve practiced enough, your progress with the slides will also let you know if you are making good time.For example, if you have a slide with a photo of Lincoln, then you could build upon that by discussing his time in office or his personal background. This information doesn’t need to be spelled out alongside the image.
 As soon as you agree to do the seminar, find out what your time restrictions will be and design your presentation around these. Aim for a presentation that falls at the exact time or a maximum of five minutes over. Do not go over time. If you find yourself at the time limit, then find a quick way to wrap up and offer to explain more during the question session.For example, you might say, “Well, I’ve reached the end of my time, but I would love to talk about any of these issues in response to any questions that you have.”

, Start by repeating the question to ensure that the entire audience can hear what is being discussed. Then, take a moment to compose your response before jumping in, if necessary. Try to link your answer back to your overall presentation whenever possible, perhaps adding information that you were unable to include due to time or format restrictions.Try to thank each person for their question after answering it. If a particular person tries to dominate the question session, you can offer to speak with them after.
If you don’t know the answer to a particular question, it is okay to say, “That is an excellent question, but I do not have that exact information.”