 This will make Runescape less complicated and more easy to navigate.;
,

At some point you will get bored and want someone to talk to.
 Here is a quick guide to making money:

Members: Buy Water-filled vials. You want to buy them from the Ardougne general store. The go onto the forums and sell them for 250 gold each no more, no less






Members: Once you have around 1 million gold, you may want to start merchanting (What people in RuneScape call the practice of buying low and selling high) Rune or Dragon Items, or perhaps something else you believe can be made into profit. It is best to sell items in World 2 for Members.






Free-Players: Kill cows for cow hides, bank and continue until you have 100 (about 3.7 runs). Sell this 100 for 10k at Al-Kharid bank.






Free-Players: Kill chickens and sell the feathers approximately 12 each, or buy feathers 6 each at fishing stores and then sell them approximately 12 gold each at GE.






Free-players and members: Air Run See the Air Running guide on wikiHow here. Once you have 60k from that, buy bronze arrows from the Varrock Archery Shop, they cost 6gp each and sell for 20gp each. Now you have 200k! =)

Kill hill giants for drops containing law runes, death runes, uncut gems, and limpwurt roots. All these sell on the G.E. for a good amount of money. Level 20 dungeoneering is recommended for the resource dungeon which contains 11 hill giants & 4 limpwurt root spawn points







, Remember to be firm with your price when re-selling for 240+.
 They look like boulders but when you approach them they pop up and attack your player. They have 50 hp, they give 200 experience points per kill, and they're only level 13!






Free players: When you start, goblins are best. When you're about level 10, start experimenting up to level 20.






Level 20- Guards at Falador or Varrok until level 30.






Level 30- Hill giants. You will need to buy a Brass Key in order to get into the shack just west/north west of Varrock, or you can walk to Edgeville and go down the ladder, although there are stronger monsters on the way, there is a brass key near the ladder out so you can get in quicker later. Level 20 dungeoneering is recommended for the resource dungeon containing 11 hill giants






Level 40- Anything (Except Lesser Demons, and Elvarg), but you may want to try start your luck killing other players in the Wilderness area (Commonly called PKing, for Player-Killing) attack white knights at falador as well
Level 60- If you haven't already, try your luck killing Elvarg, the Dragon from the Dragon Slayer quest. Of course, be sure to bring food and armor, and the Anti-dragon Shield! Bring strength potions as well






Level 70+ - Kill Lesser Demons, Rock Crabs, Ogres, and any other monster that you feel are safe to kill. Generally, try not too go too overboard and fight things over 60 levels higher than you.
,, This can give you a bad reputation! Just check the RuneScape Official Forums, or ask a more experienced friend.
, Don't focus on just one skill.,, Try to stick to more well known sites, however, as some RuneScape Fansites do contain keyloggers or other malware.

