 Applying professional looking blue eyeshadow may seem like a challenge, but it is actually quite easy with the right tools and makeup. To create a blue eyeshadow look, you will need:








eyeshadows in white or nude, champagne, light brown, light turquoise blue, and dark turquoise blue
black eyeliner
a liner brush
a blending brush
a medium fluffy eyeshadow brush
black mascara
false eyelashes (optional);
, Applying a base layer of eyeshadow will help to ensure that your color looks even and stays on longer. Use a medium sized fluffy brush to apply an even layer of nude or white eyeshadow onto your eyelids. Start at your lash line and extend the eyeshadow all the way up to your eyebrows.








If you prefer, you can also apply primer before applying the base color. Applying primer to your eyelids before you begin will make your look last even longer and it can also prevent the colors from running., Use a liner brush with a bit of turquoise eyeshadow on it to line your lower lash lines. Start the line a few centimeters away from the inner edges of your eyes, around where your irises begin.








Sweep the brush across your lower lash line keeping the line as close to your lashes as possible.
Then, extend the line out slightly from the corners of your eyes.
 Next, switch to a blending brush and use it to apply some turquoise eyeshadow onto your creases. Make sure that you blend the color into your creases and extend it out past the corners of your eyes.
 After you have finished applying the turquoise eyeshadow, you will need to blend with some light brown eyeshadow. Use a blending brush with some light brown eyeshadow to blend the outer edges of the turquoise eyeshadow.








Blending the edges will help to prevent the turquoise from looking too stark against your skin. It will also add a little more complexity to the look.
 After you have finished blending, you will need to deepen the turquoise eyeshadow by applying a darker shade of turquoise over the light turquoise areas.








Make sure that you follow the lines on your lower lash lines and creases to guide you as you apply the darker turquoise color.
 To brighten up your eyelids and clean up any turquoise shadow that got onto these areas, you will need to apply another layer of white eyeshadow over your eyelids. Use a medium fluffy brush to apply the white eyeshadow to your eyelids and only your eyelids.








Be careful not to cover up the turquoise areas of your crease and outer corners.
 Adding a bit of black eyeliner will help to define your eyes and make this look a bit more dramatic. Apply a thin line of black eyeliner to your upper lash line and extend it out past the outer corners of your eyes. Continue to draw the line downwards and add a slight upturn to the line at the end.








You may want to use waterproof eyeliner to ensure that the eyeliner does not run.
 Next, use a champagne colored eyeshadow to highlight the inner corners of your eyes. You can apply this eyeshadow with a small highlighter brush. Use short, quick strokes to highlight this area.








After you finish with your inner corners, you can apply a little more white eyeshadow to your brow bones.
 To complete your look, apply some mascara to your upper and lower lashes. Use black mascara for the most dramatic effects. Brown may not look as striking.If you have some blue or turquoise mascara, you can experiment with those colors on your upper and/or lower lashes to see how they look.
Curl your eyelashes before you apply mascara. Curling your lashes with an eyelash curler adds volume and definition.For even more dramatic lashes, you can apply some false eyelashes.
 You can use lipstick to enhance your look even more. Just make sure that you choose a lipstick color that will not clash with the blue.









For example, red or orange lipstick might clash with the turquoise blue eyeshadow. However, a pale pink, peachy pink, or nude color will go well with the turquoise blue and white eyeshadows.