 Your first step in figuring out if a girl doesn’t love you is to think about the relationship itself. By reviewing the history of your relationship, you’ll get a good idea of its problems and strengths, and be better positioned to walk away from it.


Was the relationship ever different? For example, was there a time you thought the girl loved you?
Make a list of the things you thought you shared. Reflect to see if these were more things you wanted to share, or things you actually connected over.
Have you ever been romantically involved with her? If you’re not and never have been, she might view the relationship differently than you do., After reflecting on the history of the relationship, you should think about whether it is somehow abusive. Some questions to ask yourself include:


Does she verbally or physically abuse you?
Does she consistently make you feel bad about yourself?
Does she accept affection and compliments but never return them? Did she take advantage of your interest or affection?, Reflect a little on whether the girl in question has ulterior motives for being with you, being around you, or interacting with you. Once you think about this, you’ll have a better idea of whether she really doesn’t share your feelings. Consider if:


You hang out in a friend group that is very popular (and she does not).
She asks, or even expects, you to buy things for her.
You have a friend she is really into., Spend some time watching your interactions with her and determining if she doesn’t return your affections. If she doesn’t, you’re likely in an unhealthy relationship of some sort.


Watch to see if she hugs back when you hug her.
Ask yourself whether she enjoys physical contact with you. For example, does she like holding hands with you? Does she ever initiate any physical contact?
Listen to see how she responds when you tell her you love her. For example, does she respond “I love you, too” or does she remain silent or even say something like “thanks.”, The best way to find out how she feels about you is to engage her in a truthful conversation about both of your feelings. Without an honest conversation, you won't know for sure how she feels.


Ask her to talk about your relationship.
Make your feelings clear.
Inquire about her feelings.
Tell her not to spare your feelings. While it may hurt a little at first,

