 Although there’s nothing like personal interaction, speaking on the phone to an elderly loved one regularly can prevent feelings of isolation and depression. Seniors often feel comfortable using the telephone as a form of communication as they have likely regularly used it throughout their lifetime.


You may have to do the majority of the calling, but putting in this effort and staying in touch often can have huge benefits on the senior.
If your elderly loved one has trouble hearing, look into phone options for the hearing impaired, such as amplified speakers. Additionally, phones that feature larger buttons and screens can help those who have vision problems.Headphones can also be quite helpful because your loved one can wear them and turn up the sound as high as they need to.
 Most elderly individuals will be relatively familiar with technological devices like computers or smart phones. If your elderly loved one has trouble using these devices, you can instruct them on their use.


Your local library or senior center may offer classes on using computers and the internet. Taking your loved one to these types of sessions not only helps them learn how to stay connected, but also gives them a chance to interact with other seniors., Cell phones offer a few ways to interact via talking and texting. Seniors can also carry the phone around with them, which can help if they become injured and need help. Having a piece of technology and knowing how to operate it can also help them to feel empowered and improve their self-esteem. Being able to talk and text where and when they want to makes it easy to stay in touch.


Look for cell phones that are targeted towards seniors. These types of phones offer a variety of special features, such as GPS technology that is linked to 911 calls which can help emergency personnel find the senior who is in need.
Additionally, senior cell phones can offer 24/7 access to nurses and doctors, medical alert features, heart monitors, and a speaking keyboard., The internet is a simple way for seniors to stay in touch with their friends and families. Chat rooms and email allow them to communicate with friends and family. Having access to the internet can also prevent boredom, as they will be able to play games, which can stop depression from setting in.


Be careful about introducing your loved one to alternatives to in-person socialization. This may lead to increased isolation and communicating online is not an adequate substitute for in-person communication. Make sure they get a mix of in-person and online communication.
 The internet and smart devices offer a range of ways to help seniors stay connected. If your elderly loved one has a web-cam-enabled computer, a smart phone, or a tablet, they can see and talk to friends and family as often as they'd like.Try out popular free services such as Skype or Google Hangouts.
 Social networks feature tons of interesting ways to get connected with people all around the world. Your elderly loved one might get a kick out of catching up with old school friends or following the lives of family who live far away.


Spend an afternoon helping your elderly friend create social media profiles by uploading appropriate photos, finding friends or followers, and setting a status. Be sure that your elderly loved one is familiar with appropriate etiquette and best practices for each platform as well.