 If you want to start turning a guy on, then give him a hug from behind. Stand behind him and wrap your arms around his stomach, bringing your bodies closer. You can rest your chin on his shoulder or press your forehead to his back, depending on your height. Let him feel your breath on the back of his neck. It won't take long for him to turn around and start kissing you.
 Kissing the back of a guy's neck is another great way to turn him on. To do this, just move up behind him and wrap your arms around him or just squeeze his shoulders, and start gently kissing the back of his neck, working your way over to the sides of his neck below his ears.


You can also turn around and start kissing the front of his neck, or try kissing the front of his neck when you're kissing in bed and you're both reclined.
 Placing your hand on the small of the guy's back, just above his waistline, is another great way to let him know that you want something more. As you move toward him, place your hand on the small of his back and turn to face him, using your hand to draw him closer to you.
 The back of a guy's head, just above his neck, is another great spot to turn the guy on. Touch the back of his head when you're kissing or just having an intimate conversation where you're leaning in close to each other and talking. You can also massage his scalp a bit or run your fingers through the hair on the back of his head.
 The area behind a guy's ear is another erogenous zone and touching a guy there, whether it's with the tips of your fingers or the tips of your lips, is a great way to send a tingling sensation up and down his spine. You can stroke the area behind his ear with your hands and even move on to gently touch his ear and earlobes.
 This is an intimate move that is guaranteed to drive any guy wild. Touch the inside of the guy's ear with the very tip of your tongue. After you do that, you can gently blow in the guy's ear to drive him crazy. If you're not comfortable with putting your tongue in there, then just blowing on the ear will suffice. You can also just graze the inside of his ear with your lips when you're leaning close to whisper something in his ear., Touching a guy's feet is another guaranteed way to turn him on. Just gently stroke his toes, run your fingers along the pad of his foot to tickle him slightly, and give him a light foot massage by running your hands along the joints in his toes in a circular fashion to make him go wild.Don't do this if he's wearing sneakers and socks -- his feet may be a bit dirty or sweaty at that point. But if you're both in bed with bare feet, go for it.
 Any skin-to-skin contact will turn a guy on. Touch his cheeks, his forearms, the back of his wrists, his forehead, his bare knees, or even graze his lips with your hands.

