 Imagine that the horse suddenly winks out of existence from underneath you. Ride so that you would immediately land on your feet in a standing position if this were to happen. Ask a spotter to watch you ride and correct your posture as you go. Aim to maintain an unbroken line from your ear, through your shoulder and hip, and all the way down to your heel when viewed from the side.Although this form is considered ideal, the exception would be if you need to adjust your stirrups to alleviate strain in your knees.
 Although the horse’s body will force your upper legs to stick out to your sides, resist the urge to follow through with your lower legs. Don’t stick your whole leg out to the side. Keep your lower legs close enough to the horse’s body to maintain contact.Ask a spotter to watch you as you ride straight toward them. Have them alert you whenever you start to straighten your legs to the side.
Exerting pressure downward into the stirrups and out to your sides can lead to ankle and knee pain.
 Sit up straight to keep a straight line running from ear to shoulder to hip. However, be careful not to overdo it by arching backward. Stay seated on the seat-bones on your butt.Arching your back causes your weight to shift forward, which means you’ll be landing on your tender bits instead of the bones in your butt as you bounce in the saddle.
Being able to sit up straight without having to think about it is an important reason to strengthen your core both on and off the horse. This will prevent you from tensing up as you try to maintain posture.
In the meantime, focus on drawing your bellybutton in toward your spine. Concentrate only on the muscles required for this. This will help keep your back relaxed as you ride.
 Disregard outdated instructions about pointing your toes straight ahead of you. Avoid the unnecessary stress that this places on your joints. Instead, angle your feet so that each is pointing away from the horse by just a smidge. As you do, keep the balls of your feet in the stirrup. Stop when the weight of each foot feels evenly distributed across the entire stirrup.


This may be referred to as “pronating” by instructors.

