 Your paralyzed cat will probably have a difficult time with grooming. Many paralyzed cats have problems with incontinence, so your cat may need extra help if they are prone to soiling themselves. You will need to clean your cat every few days (or more often, as needed) to keep their skin and fur healthy and clean.Ask your vet to suggest a healthy cleanser for your cat. A moisturizing cleanser or dry shampoo may be a good option.
 Some paralyzed cats need extra help going to the bathroom. Talk to your vet about the best way to help your cat. You may need to simply place your cat in the litter box from time to time to encourage them to go, or you may have to actually help your cat pee by expressing their bladder., You may be able to outfit your cat with a wheelchair, or cart, to help them get around. Cat wheelchairs typically consist of a pair of wheels positioned on either side of the cat’s hind legs, along with a pair of harnesses that support the cat’s hips and shoulders. If you have a cat with paralyzed hind limbs, a wheelchair or cart can help restore much of your feline companion’s mobility., Paralyzed animals are prone to a variety of injuries and abrasions, which can result from spending too much time in the same position (bed sores), dragging their paralyzed limbs, or simply as a result of lack of coordination when trying to get around. Keep a close eye on your cat and look for any signs of sores, scrapes, and other injuries.Injuries often occur around joints, especially the elbows, ankles, and hips.
Your vet may be able to provide bandages or pads to protect vulnerable areas.
If your cat is unable to turn over or change positions easily, help your cat turn over every few hours to prevent bed sores.
If you notice any injuries, take your cat to the vet right away.
 Ask your vet what sorts of trouble signs to watch out for. If your cat’s paralysis seems to be getting worse, or if you notice new symptoms developing, call your vet immediately, or take your cat to an emergency vet.