 Early pregnancy tests can also be taken up to five days prior to your period, but results are not as accurate. Missing a period is usually considered a sign that you might be pregnant. Ovulation usually occurs about halfway between the start dates of two consecutive periods.
Most women ovulate between 11 and 21 days into their menstrual cycle.
During this fertile period, pregnancy can result from having unprotected intercourse or a failure in birth control methods.
Usually a late or missed period is an indicator of pregnancy, though you can miss your period for other reasons (such as stress, hormonal changes, illness, etc.).
When taken the day of your expected period, EPT pregnancy tests are 99% accurate.;
, Using one of these tests too early can give a false negative result. This is because the test works by measuring the levels of a certain hormone (HcG) in your urine.
This hormone is present only when the egg has been fertilized and it has become implanted in the lining of the uterus.
HcG is present in your urine after conception, but at very low levels at first.
If the test is taken too early, the hormone level might not have reached the level at which the test can detect a pregnancy.
Try to avoid taking the test before the first day of your expected period if possible.
 The time of day can make a difference when using a pregnancy test. Most pregnancy tests suggest that you use the test when you first urinate in the morning.
This is because your urine is more concentrated in the morning and may contain more HcG.
Doing this decreases the possibility of a false negative result that could occur later in the day.
False negatives can occur if you drink a lot of fluid during the day and your urine becomes diluted.
 There are two types of EPT Pregnancy Tests available. One uses simple lines to indicate pregnancy, while the other actually displays the word “pregnant” or “not pregnant.” Both have the same accuracy rating, so choosing between them is just a personal choice.
While easier to read, the digital tests are more expensive.
Each box usually contains two tests.
 Each box contains two separate tests, so purchasing one box is sufficient for most women. It is important to be sure that the box is sealed and that there are no signs of damage that could lead to false test results
You should also check the expiration date on the box to be sure that the pregnancy test has not been sitting on the store shelf too long and lost its ability to function properly.
If your box is damaged or the tests are expired, purchase a new test.
 When you are ready to take the EPT pregnancy test, open the box and remove one of the test sticks, which are wrapped separately. The wrapper should be removed from the test stick before use.
Many women open the wrapper all the way and set it nearby so that they can place the used test on it while waiting for the results to appear.
Otherwise, discard the wrapper.
 The test will have a cap on one end. It should be removed after you are sitting on the toilet so that you do not need to lay the opened test stick down anywhere and risk contamination.
Once you remove the cap, make sure you don't set the test stick down. If it becomes dirty, you may contaminate the test and get an incorrect result.
Save the cap for later use. If you are going to show the test to a partner, you will want to re-cap it for sanitary reasons.
 This end will absorb the urine. The end of the test stick that was under the cap needs to be held in your stream of urine for at least five seconds in order for the test to work properly.
An alternative to holding the test stick in the stream of urine is to catch some of the urine in a disposable cup and hold the end of the test in the urine.
Usually when a container of urine is used, the test stick needs to remain in the urine for about 20 seconds.
If a cup is used, it is important to properly dispose of it.
 Without touching the end that was in the urine to anything, you should lay the test stick down on the wrapper or a flat surface. The test stick is designed so that when it is placed flat, the testing end is not in contact with the surface.
Placing the test stick on the wrapper can help you to prevent the absorbent end from touching anything.
Alternatively, you can now place the cap back onto the test.
 These next few moments may be nerve racking. Take a deep breath and try to relax. It can take two to ten minutes for the results to appear.
Some women find it emotionally easier to set a timer and walk away from the test stick.
When the results appear, you will need to interpret them. This is especially important if you use the non-digital test.
 The words "Pregnant" or "Not Pregnant" will appear in the window.The results of this test usually appear within three minutes.
The EPT tests with the results given in word form are easy to interpret, but are more expensive than standard line tests.
While you wait for the results, an hourglass may appear in the window.
The hourglass symbol will flash to show the test is working.
When it stops flashing, your results should appear.
 The tests that use the line indicator can be a bit more challenging to understand. For these, there are two small windows on the side of the test stick.
The square one will show a single line within 10 minutes after taking the test. This line simply indicates that the test stick was properly used.
The other window is round and it is the one that indicates if the test was positive or negative.
If you are not pregnant, the round window will have a single line.
If the test is positive and you are pregnant, it will show two lines that are crossed to form a plus sign.
It is irrelevant if one line is darker than the other as long as the plus sign is visible.
 It is important to remember that a negative test result could be false if the test was taken too early. If you want to confirm the negative result, wait a few days and then use the second test stick from the box.
Instead of using the second test, you can also wait to see if you have your next period.
If you re-test after missing a second period and get a negative result, contact your medical provider.
 If there is nothing displayed in the test windows after 10 minutes, you should check the instructions in the box to make sure you did everything correctly. If you think that you did something incorrectly, you can use the second test from the box to take another test while following the instructions more closely.
If there are no results with the second test, you should contact the company because the product may be faulty.
If you experience this, you can call the company and they may send you another test.
 Once you have found your results, put the cap back on the test so that anyone else who looks at the test stick will not come into contact with your urine.


The cap will not cover the results window.
The results will remain in the window on the line test.
The results on a digital test may disappear after a few days.

