 Before you write your letter, you need to have a handle on exactly how the agreement was breached, including any evidence you can find to back up those facts.Avoid basing your letter solely on rumor or conjecture. If you can't find any solid evidence to back up the allegations that the contract has been breached, you may want to consider simply calling the other party and finding out what's going on.
Pull out your copy of the advertising agency agreement and check its requirements for notifying the other party of a breach. Typically you're required to send written notice in advance of taking any other action.
Your contract also may specify information that must be required in your notice and demand letter. If so, make a list so you can be sure everything is there that needs to be.
Think about what you want out of the situation. For example, if the advertising agency hasn't completed the requisite number of commercials by the deadline in the contract, maybe you simply want the work to be completed as soon as possible – or maybe you want the materials released to you so that you can contract with another agency.
If the agency has completed work that is unsatisfactory, you may want out of the contract entirely. If so, you need to be able to prove that the work provided by the agency didn't meet the minimum requirements laid out in the contract – otherwise the agency can sue you for breach if you start shopping your contract to other firms.;
, A demand letter can be more intimidating if sent from an attorney's office, and the other party may take it more seriously – particularly if you are threatening to sue for breach of contract if the situation isn't resolved.You also may want to consult an attorney if the contract is unclear, or if you're unsure if the other party's actions constitute a breach.
Keep in mind you also need to think about how you want to resolve the situation. An attorney can advise you on the best options to resolve the situation to the benefit of your business.
 Your demand letter should be brief and fact-based, written in a cordial, professional tone. Draw attention to the clause in the agreement that you believe was violated, then present the facts you believe constitute a violation of the agreement.If your advertising agency agreement specified particular notice of breach of contract, you must state clearly that this letter is intended to satisfy that notice requirement.
Summarize what you want to happen, and give the agency a firm deadline to respond. If you know what your next step will be if the agency doesn't fall in line with your demands, go ahead and mention it – but don't threaten a lawsuit or other action unless you intend to follow up on that threat immediately. Empty threats or attempts at intimidation will weaken your position.
 Once you've completed your letter, sign it and send it to the other party using certified mail with returned receipt requested. You will get a green card back in the mail when the letter has been successfully delivered.Make a copy of your signed letter before you mail it, so you have it for your records. Keep your copy in a safe place along with your copy of the advertising agency agreement and any other information related to your advertising contract.
When you get the green card back, file it along with your copy of the letter and mark the deadline you gave the agency to respond on your calendar.
 The best case scenario would be that the whole incident was a huge misunderstanding, and you can clear it up with a brief phone call. However, if the other party legitimately breached the contract, they may not respond favorably to your letter.If you come to any agreement with the agency to resolve the problem, make sure you get it in writing.
Even if the solution turns out to be relatively simple and is reached through a phone call, send a letter confirming the agreement that was reached. Make a copy of this letter before you send it and keep it with your contract and copies of other correspondence.
If the agency denies that their actions constitute breach of the agreement, or asserts various defenses or other reasons for their conduct, you must take additional action to resolve the situation.
Look into the statements the agency makes in response and consult with an attorney regarding what your next steps should be.
 Many contracts provide for a specific method of alternate dispute resolution (ADR) to be used to resolve contract disputes. If your contract includes such a clause, it will outline the procedures you should follow.Your contract may provide that disputes are to be resolved using binding arbitration. This method involves a court-like process in which each side presents its case to an arbitrator or panel of arbitrators who will decide the outcome.
The outcome of arbitration may be binding or non-binding. Binding arbitration typically precludes any lawsuit.
Mediation, on the other hand, is a voluntary process in which you and the agency sit down with a neutral third party who facilitates a resolution to the issue.
While mediation is non-binding, you can create a written contract outlining the terms to which you agreed that will be legally enforceable once signed by both parties.
 Typically if you want to avail yourself of ADR, you must first notify the other party – particularly if you plan to use mediation, which is a voluntary process. Even if the agreement doesn't require a specific period of notice, let the other party know at least a week in advance.This notice provision may be collapsed within the requirement for notice of breach, which means if you've sent the demand letter you don't have to do anything else before proceeding to ADR.
If you received a negative or uncooperative response to your demand letter, you can notify the agency that you've decided to pursue ADR by sending a brief letter using the same procedure as you used for your demand letter.
Keep in mind that you're typically free to pursue ADR even if your advertising agency agreement does not specifically require or provide for it. In this case, send a letter to the agency outlining the procedure you've chosen and the steps you plan to take to have your dispute heard.
 Your contract may provide the names of specific groups or ADR companies that must be used. If it doesn't, you'll have to choose an appropriate service to hear the dispute, usually with the assistance of the other party.Some contracts require input from both parties to choose arbitrators or mediators, in which case you typically must notify the agency of the service you plan to use.
If you can't find guidance in your advertising agency agreement, look for an ADR provider that is certified or approved by your state or local bar association.
You typically can find an appropriate service by searching on your state or local bar association's website, or by calling the clerk of the local county court.
Many cities have community mediation programs that are efficient and relatively cost-effective.
 How you prepare for your ADR appointment will be different depending on whether you're using arbitration or mediation. However, the basic information you'll have to take with you are generally the same.When you contact the ADR provider and schedule your appointment, they typically will give you some forms to fill out as well as some basic information on the process and the information you'll need to bring with you.
Since you're dealing with a contract dispute, you typically must submit a copy of your contract along with your application forms when you schedule your hearing or meeting.
Arbitration is similar to a trial, and uses many of the same rules of evidence and procedure, which may limit the types of documents and information that you can present. Consider hiring an attorney to represent you at the arbitration if you are at all unsure or feel uncomfortable with the proceeding.
Mediation is a more casual process, and the rules regarding the types of documents and information you can bring to the table are considerably looser than in an arbitration proceeding.
 On the day of your ADR session, show up to the location a few minutes early so you have time to get where you need to be and get settled before the session begins.Expect an arbitration hearing to proceed much like a trial in court. Each side will have a chance to explain its case and produce evidence to support its arguments, and then the arbitrator or panel will make a decision.
Mediation typically begins with everyone together, and then you and the people representing the agency will be sent to separate rooms. The mediator will move back and forth between you to facilitate negotiations.
A decision from an arbitrator typically is final and you may have little to no means to dispute or appeal it. On the other hand, since mediation is voluntary, there is no requirement that the two of your resolve the dispute, and you may reach an impasse – or the mediator may recommend you come back for a second session.
If you are able to resolve the dispute through mediation, make sure the settlement is put into a written agreement that both of you can sign so it will be legally binding and enforceable.
 Breach of contract lawsuits can be filed in state or federal court and, depending on the amount of money at issue, even in small claims. Which court you choose depends on jurisdictional issues.Here you want to check your advertising agency agreement, which may have a choice of forum clause that dictates where lawsuits involving breach of the contract must be filed.
Small claims courts typically only hear cases involving monetary damages below a certain amount – as much as $10,000 in some states, but considerably less in others.
If you plan to ask the court for injunctive relief, which includes a court order for the other party to do something or to stop doing something, you typically can't use small claims court.
Absent a choice of forum clause in the contract, you generally must file your lawsuit in a court that has jurisdiction over the advertising agency.
Personal jurisdiction typically can be found in the court nearest to the agency's principal place of business, or the court nearest the place where the advertising agency agreement was signed.
 The complaint identifies the parties in the lawsuit and provides the court with information about the agreement you had and the actions made by the other party to breach that agreement.If you're drafting your complaint yourself, contact the clerk of the court where you plan to file your lawsuit and ask for templates or samples that you can use to format your document correctly.
The clerk also can give you information regarding filing fees and any other documents, including a summons or a cover sheet, that must be included with your complaint.
Make sure you have a factual allegation for each and every element of a breach of contract claim. You must establish that you and the advertising agency entered into a valid contract, and that the agency breached that contract, and that you are entitled to the damages you claim as a result of that breach.
Check your advertising agency agreement to find out if it limits the damages for breach of contract in any way.
You must not only state specifically in your complaint what damages you are seeking, but also provide a specific dollar amount for any monetary damages you're claiming.
 To initiate your lawsuit, you must take your complaint and any other required documents to the clerk of the court you've chosen to hear your lawsuit. Bring your original documents along with at least two copies.You must pay a filing fee, typically of several hundred dollars. Contact the clerk to find out exactly how much the fees are and what forms of payment are accepted.
The clerk will stamp your originals and copies "filed" with the date. He or she will keep the originals for the court's records and return the copies for you. One of these copies is for your records; the other must be served on the advertising agency you're suing.
Service typically is accomplished by having a sheriff's deputy hand-deliver the documents. You also may be able to complete service using certified mail with returned receipt requested. Once you get the green card back showing the documents have been delivered, you'll have to take it to the clerk and complete a proof of service form.
 After the other party is served, they have a limited period of time – typically less than 30 days – to file a written answer or other response to your complaint. If nothing is filed, you may have the opportunity to file a motion and win your case by default.Keep in mind that even if you file a motion for default, you still must prove to the judge's satisfaction that you are entitled to the damages you've claimed.
More likely than not, however, the advertising agency will respond to your lawsuit. If they file a written answer, it will be served on you (or your attorney) just as you served your complaint on them.
If the agency's answer includes any counterclaims, you have the same brief period of time to answer those counterclaims as they had to respond to your original complaint.
Any defenses raised by the agency, on the other hand, typically are things they must prove at trial. Keep in mind that just because the agency raises a defense in the answer doesn't mean it will be argued later on.
Some defenses must be included in an answer or they lose the ability to use them at trial. However, once all the evidence is in they may decide certain defenses are weaker than others and not worth pursuing.
 Once the complaint and answer – called "pleadings" in court – are filed, you and the other party will begin the process of discovery in most courts. If you filed your lawsuit in small claims court, there will be a far more limited litigation period with little to no discovery.Discovery offers an opportunity for you and the agency to exchange information related to the lawsuit, both through written documents and through depositions, which are interviews conducted under oath.
At any time during discovery and other pre-trial litigation, settlement offers may come through or negotiations may take place.
Pre-trial litigation can take many months to complete. Unless you've filed your lawsuit in small claims court, it could be up to a year or even longer before you get to trial.
Keep this timing and the effect it will have on your business in mind when you consider any settlement offers.

