 To get the attractive appearance of your calligraphy strokes appearing thick and thin, you'll need to make sure that you have the proper pens, paper and ink.


The best writing utensils for calligraphy are broad-edged ones like markers, fountain pens, brushes, quills, reeds, or staff with inserted tips (called nibs).
Make sure that you have paper that ink won't bleed through. Practicing on plain, standard notebook paper is fine, but you'll need to test that the ink won't bleed through. Most stationery stores sell paper that is made for calligraphy.
If you're going to use inks, avoid India drawing inks because the lacquer in them has a tendency to clog the pen and rust the nib. You’re better off using a water soluble ink.
 This means understanding where the lines go so that your calligraphy has uniformity of appearance.


You definitely want to choose lined paper for practice. Either use pre-lined paper, place paper with dark lines under your practice sheet, or use a pencil and ruler to draw parallel lines on your practice sheet.
You'll need to set a nib height -- that is, the space between guide lines as measured by the width of your pen nib. (The width of the widest part of your pen tip equals 1 “nib” in this equation). A common standard is 5 nibs between guidelines.The guidelines include the baseline, the waistline, and the ascending and descending lines.
The baseline is the writing line that all letters rest on.
The waistline is the line above the baseline, which changes according to the x-height of the letter (in this case, 5 nibs above baseline).
The ascending line marks the height that all ascending letters (such as a lowercase “h” or “l”) hit. It will be 5 nibs above the waistline (or whichever nib height you're using).
The descending line is where descending letters (such as lowercase “g” or “p”) hit below the baseline. It will be in this example 5 nibs below the baseline.
 As advised to improve any style of writing, sit with your feet on the floor and your back straight (but not uncomfortably rigid). Likewise, hold the pen so that it is under control but not in a vise grip, or your hand may cramp.Calligraphy requires you to hold your pen nib at a 45 degree angle. To make sure that you're holding your pen at a 45 degree angle, draw a right angle (90 degrees) with a pencil. Draw a line upward from the corner of the angle that cuts the right angle in half. If it's a thin line, then you're holding your pen properly., In calligraphy, these include the vertical downstroke, push/pull strokes, and branching strokes.For the vertical downstroke, practice drawing thick, straight lines down from the ascending line to the baseline and the waistline to the baseline. Slightly lean the line forward after some practice. Eventually you will add “tails” (short thin-line strokes) to the beginning and end of your downstrokes, but save that for later practice.
For push-pull strokes, make short, thick horizontal lines along the waistline. This stroke will make the tops of a lowercase “a,” “g”, the cross of a “t,” and others. You may eventually add a slight wave and/or tails to this stroke, but stick to a straight line at first.
For branching strokes, make a curved line, slightly leaned forward, from the baseline to the ascending line and waistline to baseline. You will use this motion to make lowercase “n” and “v,” for example. Practice starting the line thick and ending thin and vice versa -- you will need to be able to do both.
As you improve with these motions, make shapes like boxes, triangles, and ovals before moving on to the actual letter forms. Pay special attention to keeping the 45 degree angle.
 Unlike cursive, in calligraphy each letter requires one or more pen lifts. As you move into practicing letters, focus on each stroke used to make a letter. Get each piece of the puzzle in place, then assemble that letter.
 If you are serious about learning calligraphy, you may want to consider seeking out a calligraphy class at an art school or perhaps even a community center. Calligraphy is truly an art form, and proper, guided instruction can prove very helpful to many aspiring calligraphers. But even self-taught calligraphy can be beautiful and improve your writing form in general.

