 Sometimes people become hyper aware of themselves and worry they're coming across the wrong way which can make other people think poorly of them. Everyone feels fearful and nervous from time to time, and this is normal. But, if you are feeling fearful to the point that it affects your daily life and interactions, it may be time to address some of these fears., What is your body telling you? Is your heart racing? Are you sweating? These are all autonomic, or involuntary, bodily responses that are meant to ready us for action (like fight or flight), but sometimes these bodily sensation can create more fear and worry. How is your body feeling?


Ask yourself, “What about this situation is making me nervous and fearful?” Maybe you are worried about sitting in the wrong seat at a nice dinner or you will say the wrong thing and you will be embarrassed.
 Determine if this fear is helping you in some way or if it's keeping you from doing things or living your life. Some other things you can ask are:


What am I afraid of happening?
Am I sure it will happen? How sure?
Has it happened before? What was the end result of it happening before?
What is the worst that could happen?
What is the best thing that could happen (that I may miss out on if I don’t try)?
Will this moment affect the rest of my life?
Am I being realistic with my expectations and beliefs?
If my friend were in my shoes, what advice would I give her?

, Taking a few deep breaths can be powerful and help you keep your anxiety in check. Deep breathing slows your heart rate. If you can, try placing your hand on your belly and taking deep breaths so that only your hand on your belly moves, but not your chest.


This is called, “Diaphragmatic Breathing.” Deep breathing can help you relax and reduce your anxiety., Many times we feel nervous and anxious when we feel we are not in control. If you are going into an anxiety producing situation, take a few minutes beforehand to do a few minutes of meditation or journaling before going into the situation. This way, you will be in a calmer state to start.If you have persistent, nagging thoughts that are leading to anxiety, you may feel like you have no control. Meditating and mindfulness lets you acknowledge a persistent, nagging thought then let it go.
 Write down the thought that causes fear or anxiety. Ask yourself questions to evaluate where the fear comes from. Doing this will let you keep track of your thoughts and fears, identify patterns, think about the fear in a different way, and help remove it from your mind.Though you may not be able to in the moment, write it down later. The point is that you do it and get to the source of your fear.

