 Go through your paperwork and find out which agency granted you permission to use your business name. In the United States, you probably applied for a “DBA,” which stands for “doing business as.” This is the fictitious business name you use instead of your name in your articles of incorporation.


In the United States, you probably contacted a state or local governmental office to register the business name. You should contact the same office to cancel.In Australia, you can cancel your business name by visiting the Australian Securities and Investments Commission website.;
, You should find the contact information for the office that granted you permission to use your business name. You should call them and ask how to cancel the name. The process will vary, depending on which country or state you live in.


Ask the office for any form that you might need to fill out. Give the office your mailing address, or ask if you can download the form.
In some states you can simply let your dba lapse. For example, in Florida, you must renew your dba every five years in order to keep the name active. If you fail to renew your dba, the name will expire., You should gather all required information before sitting down to cancel your business name. The information requested will vary depending on the form that you use. However, you generally will need the following:the name of the business owner on file
the current business name
the business address
any business identification number
the name and address of the registered agent, if any

, You should write legibly in black ink or type information. Some offices may request that you type out a letter.They should tell you what information is required for the letter.


Make a copy of the completed form or letter for your records and mail it to the address provided. If you submitted information through a website, then print and preserve any confirmation page or email response.
 In some jurisdictions, you might have to publish a notification of abandonment.This is similar to the notice you may have published in a newspaper when you first registered your business name. The office should tell you which newspapers to contact and how long the notice must run for.
 You may have to pay a fee to abandon a business name. In Texas, for example, you must pay $10., Once you change your name—or cancel it altogether—you should notify your clients and suppliers of that fact. If you are closing your business entirely, also include that information. You do not want clients and suppliers to see someone using your business name and assume that it is you.


Send notification in writing and keep a copy of the letter for your records.
Send letters even if you have to publish a notice of abandonment in the newspaper. Many people no longer read the newspaper and might not find out that you have canceled your business name unless you notify them directly.
 Some states allow you to cancel your dba online. Check with your state to ensure you have this option. For example, in New Jersey, you can cancel your business, which in turn will cancel your dba, by entering your entity's number, your business type, and your initial filing date.In West Virginia you will fill out Form NR-4 and file it using their online system.