 If you want an instant fix, changing the way you dress can make your hips look bigger. Find clothing and patterns that slim down your waist. This will draw more attention to your hips.Try tying a belt around your waist if you already have a small waist. This can highlight your curves, giving you more of an hourglass shape. This can be particularly helpful if you're wearing a dress that lacks shape. If your waist is not small, then go for a dress with lighter colors on top and darker colors on bottom.
High-waisted clothing, like high-waisted jeans and skirts, can make your hips look bigger by slimming down your waist.
In the winter, choose flattering sweaters that call attention to your figure. Avoid hiding your shape in bulky layers.
You can also try wearing shapewear, such as Spanx, underneath your clothing to make your waist look smaller.
 Go for clothing with vertical stripes, especially clothing that's going over your waist. Stripes are slimming, and can create a slimmed down look that makes your hips look wider, and your figure more flattering overall.Vertical stripes will not work with all body types. For example, if you have a carrot shaped body, then this may have the opposite effect and make your hips seem even narrower.
Wear pastels on places you want to emphasize, such as your hips, and wear black in places you want to slim down, such as your waist. For example, a light blue skirt with a black top will emphasize your hips and slim your waist.
 If you want to make your hips look bigger, go for tighter jeans and pants. Skinny jeans and leggings will call attention to your figure more than baggier pants. Low-rise jeans can also help highlight your figure.Try wearing pale color pants and jeans. These will draw attention to your hips and make them seem wider.
 Pencil skirts are skirts that wrap around the hips, making them look bigger. Try wearing a pencil skirt and see if it enhances your hips. Make sure to find a skirt that flatters your body type.


If you are petite, go for a size cut specifically for people with a petite body frame. A higher waisted style can also be nice, as it will stretch out your frame.
If you have a narrow build, find a pencil skirt that falls naturally on your waist line. Details like zippers and pockets at the hips can also help flatter your body.
If you have a natural hourglass figure, most pencil skirts will flatter your body type.

