 Most U.S. school baseball seasons end around June. This gives you about nine months until tryouts in March. During this time, objectively evaluate your strengths and weaknesses. Asking your current coaches how you can improve is a good start, and will leave a good impression.Try to get on a fall team in order to keep your skills sharp. Fall is a time to improve your game and work on things for the spring such as throwing a new pitch, bunting, hitting to the opposite field, etc.
In the winter, if possible, work with a coach specifically to get better at fielding, hitting, and/or pitching.;
, Talk to the coach or another person whose opinion you trust about what areas need work. Focus your energies on improving those aspects of your game, while at the same time not ignoring your overall skill-building and conditioning regimen.Becoming a better defender can help separate you from the pack. Work on positioning yourself properly, catching fly balls, scooping up grounders, and throwing on target.
No matter how fast you are, working on your base running skills — like sliding and rounding the bases properly — will also pay dividends., For pitchers, control is more important than velocity. Work on the hitting the strike zone first, then work on velocity. Remember that velocity is enhanced by proper mechanics, which also benefit control.During the offseason, focus on developing a smooth, repeatable delivery and accuracy in your pitches. Don’t wear out your arm by trying to hurt your catcher’s hand.
 Bat speed is essential to making the ball go far. Sensible strength training can help increase bat speed, but proper form and technique are at least as important. Work with a hitting coach or look on the internet for drills to improve your swing.Take batting practice regularly, from a machine or — even better — a live pitcher. Work on your plate discipline, so you can quickly differentiate a good pitch to hit from a ball off the plate.
 School baseball teams often have limited rosters, so you’ll better your odds of making the team if you can play multiple positions and fill multiple roles. Even if you prefer the infield, work on your outfield skills as well. Practice bunting and base-stealing so you can be used as a pinch hitter or pinch runner. And teams can almost always use another catcher, since many players shy away from this physically and mentally demanding position.