 Oftentimes, one person inadvertently becomes the leader of a group of people. You may be the one making plans and calling the shots for the group. This may mean your friends don't contact you as much. This is not necessarily because they dislike you, but because you're usually the one responsible for organizing get-togethers.Think about the last few times you've gotten together with your friends. Were you the one who picked the place, made reservations, and sent out Facebook invitations? Are you consistently the one hosting or organizing? If so, your friends may not feel the need to contact you. They assume you'll contact them if something is going on.
There's nothing inherently wrong with a group dynamic in which one person is the leader. However, if you feel constantly planning things is taxing, ask your friends if they'll take the reins sometimes. Try not to be rude about it, but simply say you'd like to take a break from hosting and planning once in awhile.
 You may not be on the receiving end of a lot of contact if you fly under the radar in a group. If you're part of a social circle, but feel like a peripheral member, people may simply not think to include you. While this is not personal, it can feel frustrating. There are steps you can take to put yourself out there more if you feel like you go unnoticed.How often do you talk in large social settings? If you tend to be more shy or introverted, you may find yourself remaining quiet a lot of the time and simply listening. You may also only be really close to one or two members of the group. Other group members may think of you as "Lisa's friend" or "Andy's roommate" rather than a full-fledged group member.
If you don't want to go unnoticed, take measures to assert yourself more. Try to participate in conversations when you're out with people. If you're shy and have a hard time in big group conversations, feel free to start side conversations of your own.
If you're new to a group, it can take a while for people to notice you. Try to give it time. Eventually, people will get to know you and begin contacting you more frequently.
 If you're always the one making contact, you may be in a one-sided friendship. These kinds of relationships are often not sustainable long-term. Learn the signs of a one-sided friendship. If you believe your friendship is far more give than take, consider finding different friends.All friendships have a natural ebb and flow. At certain times, one person may be more needy or clingy due to difficult circumstances. However, if your friend is constantly focused on his or her own needs, and tends to only contact you when he or she needs something, this may be a sign the friendship is one-sided.
Honestly evaluate the friendship. Has this person ever checked in with you when you've been going through a difficult time? Do you feel like this person would be there if you were in need? If not, the friendship may be one-sided, which is not fair to you and your needs.
If you're not invested in saving the friendship, work on simply severing contact with this person. However, if you're interested in salvaging things, have a frank talk with your friend about how you feel. If someone is worth keeping around as a friend, he or she will make an effort to change to avoid hurting your feelings in the future.
 If you don't get contacted all that often, you may be giving people the wrong impression of yourself. Consider how you act in groups. If you're more shy or reserved than others, you can come off as being disinterested or unfriendly. People may think you don't want to be contacted.If you're worried you come off the wrong way, work on ways to compensate for shyness. Force yourself to talk to others, even if it's difficult. If you're worried about face-to-face interactions, try breaking the ice via social media. Comment on posts of friends. If you establish a solid connection via Facebook, this may make it easier for you to open up and talk in person. This can result in people contacting you more.
 If you feel like you're not contacted enough, some of this may be in your head. You may be making assumptions about people's behavior that are not entirely accurate. Try to explore some of your own insecurities to see if there's really a problem between you and your friends.Consider your past. If you had trouble making friends as a kid, you may be more insecure about your friendships as an adult. If you had an unstable relationship at some point, this may drive abandonment issues that can seep into friendship.
Try to assess the situation honestly. Do your friends really not contact you that often? Go through your phone, Facebook account, and e-mail. You may find you've been contacted far more than you realized.

