 Carbohydrates (aka carbs or starchy foods) should make about a third of your diet while you are breastfeeding. Starchy foods give your body energy that helps to keep both you and your baby healthy. Carbs also help your baby develop a good metabolism that will help her/him grow.Carbs that are vegan-friendly include:


Whole-wheat bread.
Cereals like corn or bran flakes.
Brown rice.
Rolled oats.
Potatoes.
Whole barley.
 While the previous step talked about carbs in general, you should make sure that you are getting specific carbs that boost your fiber intake. Fiber helps to keep your digestive system operating smoothly.High fiber carbs include:


Potatoes without the skin.
Bran flakes.
Whole-wheat pasta.
Pearled barley.
Oatmeal.
 A vegan diet is sometimes low in complete proteins, as animal products such as meat, poultry, eggs, and fish are the richest protein sources but are banned from a vegan diet. Complete proteins are protein sources that contain all the 9 types of amino acids. While most foods that have all nine amino acids are meat products, beans are also an excellent source of all nine amino acids.You do not necessarily need to get all of your amino acids at once.. Vegan foods that are high in protein include:


Beans such as Lentils, cannellini or white beans, soya beans and soy products, black eye peas, kidney beans, mung beans, lima beans, and black beans.
Whole grains such as millet, amaranth, oats, quinoa, and barley.
Seeds such as chia, hemp, sunflower, sesame seeds, pumpkin seeds, and flaxseeds.
Nuts such as almonds, walnuts, pine nuts and Brazil nuts.
 If you are concerned that you are not getting all nine essential amino acids because you don’t eat meat, you can try combinations of protein-rich foods. Listed below are several different combinations of food that will give you all nine amino acids in one serving:


Combine soy beans and rice.
Corn and any type of bean.
364 grams of pinto beans and 12 grams of Brazil nuts.
1-1/2 cups of tofu or lentils and 3-1/2 cups of soy milk add 25 grams of protein to your diet.

