 Do your best not to lie to anyone, whether they’re strangers or your loved ones. Someone you’ve just met could turn out to be a close friend or romantic partner in the future. You wouldn’t want to misrepresent yourself, then pursue a relationship on the basis of a lie.Suppose you meet someone at a party, and the two of you start talking about cars. You pretend to love cars because you want them to like you, but you actually hate cars and don’t even have a license. You become friends and eventually start dating, but they still have no idea that you misrepresented yourself. Even if it was a little white lie, it was still an inauthentic way to pursue a relationship.
 Try not to settle for small talk, especially with those closest to you. Talk about your dreams, beliefs, fears, the world, and other complex subjects to deepen your relationships.Having a meaningful conversation doesn’t mean you have to be overly intellectual. You could talk about childhood, your cultural traditions, or what you hope to do with your life.    
Pay attention to how you feel when you have these conversations. If you begin to feel a little uncomfortable (perhaps you notice that the person you're talking to disagrees or disapproves of what you're saying), try to push through and continue the conversation. This is good practice for you to learn to be your authentic self, even when challenged. This doesn't mean you have to be rude or defiant, just don't veer away from a disagreement or change your opinion because someone disagrees.
You should still be open to other points of view and ideas. The person disagreeing with you may have great points and ultimately change your mind — there's nothing wrong with this, as long as you are not just coming around to their view point because you are uncomfortable being in disagreement.  
You may find that the more you get used to being open, honest, and authentic, the more others are willing to be authentic with you.
 As you become more comfortable being your authentic self, you can use your new skills to lead and inspire others. You and your friends can each other to pursue authenticity and live thoughtful, examined lives. Know the difference between having a friend who accepts your authentic self and one who’s just a “yes person.”A "yes person" would just agree with everything you do or say, but wouldn't share how they really feel. An authentic friend tells you the truth, even when they disagree with you.
If your friend, family member, or partner tells you that you haven’t been yourself lately, listen to what they have to say. Remember that the relationships you pursue help you stay authentic. Our loved ones help us see our blind spots and challenge us to stay true to ourselves.

