

Pay attention to how you're sitting and interacting when you share a meal with your partner. Your partner will probably lean in, face you, and make eye contact with you if he or she is interested in talking or being with you.Pay attention to these signs of disconnection or inattention from your partner:

Your partner does not look up at you occasionally or acknowledge your presence.
Your partner is already finished with his food and moving on to something else while you’re only halfway through eating.
Your partner's back is turned toward you while you eat.


Partners in happier relationships show different body language during arguments than partners in unhappy relationships. Try to show you’re listening and keep your partner calm during an argument. Watch out for signs of aggression, disapproval, or inattention including:

Bared teeth.
Tightly crossed arms.
Flared nostrils.
Finger jabbing at your chest.
Body turned away from you.
Eyes darting around the room.
Crinkled nose.
 While you’re sitting down at night to watch television together, pay attention to your partner’s body, even if he or she is on the other side of the couch or in a different chair. Couples who are better connected and happier tend to be angled toward each other and glance at each other to check in.


If your partner is feeling upset or like he or she does not want to talk, he or she may turn away from you and refuse to look at or acknowledge you.
Holding hands can also be a good indication that your partner is expressing love and wants to be with you. For example, if your partner reaches out to hold your hand, then this indicates that he or she is seeking love or comfort from you., If your partner’s pupils are open, then look at them to see if his or her pupils are dilated. Your partner’s pupils will dilate if he or she is excited, so this can offer a clue about how he or she is feeling.If you notice that your partner has his/her eyes closed tightly shut for most of sex and seems tense, especially in the neck and shoulders area, then it could mean that your partner is anxious or not wanting to be intimate.
Keep in mind it’s okay if the eyes close naturally sometimes during sex, but notice if your partner takes time to look into your eyes.
 Exercising together can have many benefits and it can also make you feel closer to your partner.Couples that are well connected and happy together tend to keep a similar pace. Notice if your partner walks ahead of you and faster than you often. Also notice if your partner fails to let you know if he/she’s about to turn or change direction.


Try to hold hands with your partner when you walk. This will help keep you connected.
If your partner is deliberately not matching his or her pace with yours or refusing to hold your hand, then it could mean that something is up.

