 Tea tree oil has been used as an antiseptic and fungicide for centuries. Dab a few drops directly on the site or soak a cotton ball in tea tree oil and rub it on the affected area.


Use a toothbrush to gently scrub your nail. Be sure to throw the toothbrush away after using it for this purpose.
Try making a mixture of tea tree oil and olive oil and rubbing in on your nail. You can reapply this mixture or pure tea tree oil as often as you like. Twice per day is usually sufficient for helping mild cases.;
, Combine four cups hot water, 1/4 cup hydrogen peroxide, and 1/2 cup Epsom salts. Then add 1/4 cup white vinegar. All of these ingredients can be found at your local drugstore. Soak your nail directly in the mixture or drench a cotton ball and hold in on your nail for about 10 minutes. Repeat twice daily.
 Like tea tree oil, orange oil is used as a fungicide and can help eliminate nail fungus. Be sure to get the oil under the toenail as well as on top on it. Be sure you are not allergic to orange oil by testing it on a small patch of skin before applying.
 When used in its raw state, garlic has antifungal properties. Make sure to crush the garlic well to release all of the allicin, the compound that contains antifungal properties. Soak your toe in the mixture for as long as is comfortable. Consuming raw garlic can also help fend off fungus.
 The acidity of apple cider vinegar stops the fungus from spreading while simultaneously killing bacteria. Dilute the vinegar in an equal amount of water and allow your nail to soak in the solution for up to 30 minutes. Repeat this process daily and make sure to thoroughly dry your nail after soaking.
 The alcohol in mouth wash acts as an antiseptic, while germ-fighting compounds help to remove the fungus. Submerge the nail in mouth wash for about 15 minutes daily.
 Administer a small amount of the decongestant rub to the nail and cover your feet with socks or your hands with cloth gloves before going to bed. Make sure to remove all moisture from the nail before applying Vick's., Lavender oil has antiseptic properties and helps to relieve irritated skin. Heat up lavender oil just to a comfortably warm temperature in a microwave. Soak a cotton ball in the oil and hold on the affected area for a few minutes several times per day.
 Oregano oil can work wonders for your nail fungus. Drop a few drops of the oil onto the affected area a few times per day.
 Lemon's citric acid prevents the fungus from spreading to other nails or other regions of your body. Let it sit on the affected area for 15 minutes and then rinse thoroughly with water.