 Your leader may be able to either help change your experience, or provide you with tools and advice to stay on track losing or maintaining weight outside of regular meetings.


If you find that the program is working for you, but not on your schedule or within your budget, you may not need to cancel completely. Talk to your meeting leader about the OnlinePlus plan, or Personal Coaching as they may cost less.
If you want to cancel because you are not succeeding with your weight loss, your leader can try to pinpoint the problem. However, if you know that you want to cancel your Weight Watchers membership, stay firm with your meeting leader and calmly tell her you don’t wish for any other options, you just want to cancel.
Note that if you are a Monthly Pass or eTools subscriber, you won’t be able to cancel in person through your leader or meeting staff, and will have to cancel your membership online, via email, or postal mail.
 If the membership fee doesn’t fit within your budget tell your leader you wish to cancel, and be upfront and firm with her that you don’t wish to discuss other plans or options.


If you can no longer afford to be a member of Weight Watchers, your leader might suggest payment plans that can fit into your budget, or other program options. But remember, this is your money and your body; you have no obligation to pay for something you no longer wish, or are able to participate in.



If you are a member who pays weekly as you attend meetings, and are not enrolled in any online services, all you have to do is let your leader know you are discontinuing your program and stop attending meetings.
If you’re a lifetime member who has met your weight goal, you do not pay to attend meetings as long as you maintain your lower weight. However, you still have to attend a monthly weigh-in. During your weigh-in, you can tell your leader that you wish to cancel and that you won’t be attending further weigh-ins.
 You will login into your account and go to the cancellation page. From there follow the prompts to cancel via postal mail.


Cancelling in this method will require you to print out a form that you will have to fill out and mail it to the address listed on the cancellation page.
This method will typically take up to two or more weeks to go into effect, and is not the fastest way to cancel your membership.

