 The first step to goal setting is to have total belief and faith that you can succeed. If you don't believe you can absolutely transform your life and get what you want, then you might as well forget about goal setting and do something else. If you are in doubt, look around at your world. Everything started with a single thought! Eliminate negative self chatter such as "am I good enough?" You are good enough., If you are feeling like your commitment is wavering, get your goals out and read them. Also, write a few pages about how and why you are committing to each goal; why it is important to you, what it means to you, why the outcome is necessary and what you are going to do to make it happen. Without strong commitment, you are unlikely to follow through. As you go through the process of achieving your goals, you may want to check your commitment level.


Ask yourself if you are giving it your best effort.
Check to make sure you are following through with each goal.
If you stumble, make sure you are willing to recommit and move forward.
Choose to learn from your experiences, win or lose., Some experts believe that taking a few minutes every day to visualize specific goals may have a significant impact on the degree of success you experience. In some cases research has revealed that mental practices are almost as effective as true physical practice. Before you go to sleep at night, try closing your eyes and visualizing your success., Telling your support system, like your family and friends about your personal goals will inspire you to complete your goals and help cement the commitment you have made to follow them through. Your friends or family members may ask you on occasion how you are proceeding, which will keep you focused on what you set out to do. Without telling anyone about your goal, it would be easier to give up and not feel any guilt over failing.
 All great achievers had dreams that seemed totally impossible at the start, but instead of letting the difficulties stop them, they decided to go ahead. Keep your mind positive, as the biggest obstacle to your success is your thoughts. While you are driving in your car, or at home, pop in a motivational CD that inspires and encourages you and keeps you on track. Remember to keep things in perspective.


Don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
Don't let your vague fears hold you back from doing what you want to do.
Find the optimistic viewpoint in a negative situation.
Cultivate and live in a positive environment as best you can.
Add value and positivity to someone else's life.

