 Purchase or find a salad spinner with a hand crank, then disassemble it and take out the inner tray that usually holds the lettuce of the salad.Try to use an old salad spinner or one that you won’t use for making food, since you will be using it to mix paint.;
, Lay a paper plate or a piece of cardstock under the inner tray of the salad spinner. Use a pencil to trace all around the outside of the tray to make a circle on the piece of paper.This is the paper that you will create the painting on, so to support the paint you will need to use a thick, durable piece of paper that is thicker than the average piece of computer paper.
 Freehand a circle that is about ½ inch (1.27 cm) inside from the original circle on all sides. You want the paper to sit comfortably within the spinner, so it’s a good idea to make it slightly smaller than the diameter of the salad spinner.
 Use a pair of scissors to cut around the second circle that you made. If you want a square piece of paper as opposed to a circular one, first draw a square inside the inner circle whose four corners all touch the circle, then cut it out.
 Put the salad spinner back together, keeping the lid off. Then place the piece of paper you cut in the center of the inner tray of the spinner., To make a fun and randomized pattern on the paper, squirt lines, shapes, or spots of paint onto the paper. Try to use different colors and spread out your dollops of paint, as this will make your artwork more visually interesting.You need to use large dollops of paint squeezed directly onto the paper, because the excess paint that comes from squeezing the paint is what will fly around and create streaks when you spin the salad spinner.
Make the dollops of paint completely random. For instance, you could add several drops of red paint to the top and bottom corners, then a circle of blue paint in the middle and four large dollops of pink paint spread around.
 If you want your artwork to have a more symmetrical look, use different colors to create a bulls-eye pattern. Start with a small circle in the center, then use a different color to make a circle around that circle, and then do two or so more circles of different colors.This type of design is great for using rainbow colors. You can start with a red circle, then do an orange or yellow circle, then a green and a blue circle.
 Instead of dabbing paint directly to the paper, first paint the paper black with a paintbrush, wait for it to dry, then place it inside the salad spinner. Add dollops of silver and gold glitter paint along with any other colors you want.This method of applying paint will give you a striking effect, with the glitter paint shining brightly on the black background.
You can also start with black paper if you have any.
 Make sure that the paper is centered inside the salad spinner, then place the lid on the top of the salad spinner. Place the salad spinner on a table, counter, or even surface., Hold onto the side of the salad spinner with one hand and use the other to vigorously turn the crank. Spin the salad spinner for about 10 seconds., Open up the salad spinner so that you can see your art inside. If you aren’t satisfied with your piece and want to make it more interesting, add more dollops of color and repeat the process of turning the crank and spinning your art., When you are happy with how your art looks, reach into the salad spinner and take out your artwork by the corners, trying not to touch the piece where it still may be wet., Leave your artwork out untouched for about an hour to let it dry. You can move it in front of a fan or dehumidifier if you want to speed up the drying process., Before the paint has time to dry, wash the salad spinner in the sink with warm water and dish soap to clean it. Disassemble the salad spinner and wash each individual element separately.


You can still wash the salad spinner once the paint has dried, but it is more difficult. Soak the spinner in warm water before scrubbing if you are trying to dislodge dried paint.

