 The method of scrunching your hair is similar to crumpling up a piece of paper. Pick up individual sections of hair, squeeze the strands between your fingers, and crumple the ends of the strand up toward your roots. This crunching method will create curls, bends, and volume in your hair. Use this method when applying your styling products.


Flip your head upside while scrunching your hair to create more volume. You'll still scrunch your hair upwards, from ends to roots.;
, Volumizing mousse is an ideal styling product for scrunching your hair, as it is lightweight, provides hold, is easy to control, and gives your hair tons of volume. Spray a golf ball sized amount of mousse onto your palm, rub your hands together, apply the mousse from ends to the roots or your hair, and scrunch your hair upwards towards your roots., If your hair tends to get frizzy as it dries, you may want to add some curl cream or serum to your hair. You'll want apply to product to evenly damp hair. Pour a quarter sized amount of curl cream or serum onto your palm, rub your hands together, and gently scrunch the hair from ends to roots.


If you do not have frizzy hair, avoid adding curl creams or serums, as they might weigh your hair down., Some hair types do not hold curl very well. Using a hairspray or gel to provide extra hold is recommended if you fall into this category. Apply all other hair products before your final layer of hairspray or gel.Hairspray should be sprayed on your hair right before you scrunch it into your overnight undo.
Gel should be scrunched into your hair after you've applied all other styling products. Pour a quarter sized amount of gel onto your palm, rub your hands together, and scrunch it into your hair.
Keep in mind, it is okay to add a variety of styling products to your hair. Layering products is alright as long as you use them in small amounts. Using large amounts of multiple products can weight down your hair, not giving you the desired look., This is the easiest method of scrunching your hair overnight, as it only requires a hair tie (or a few hair ties if you have thick hair or layers). Scrunching your hair into a bun overnight will allow it to develop curl and volume.


If you choose to do one bun, pull your hair back as if you were putting your hair in a ponytail, or flip your hair upside down and scrunch your hair into a bun. The messier the bun, the more volume and curl, so don't smooth out any bumps. Scrunch your hair together so that it can be tied into a messy bun with your hair tie.
If you choose to do multiple buns, start by dividing your hair into sections. Take each section, and scrunch them into individual buns. Don't worry about even parts or sections, just be sure to get all of your hair into one of the sectioned buns.
Do not leave any pieces of hair out of your bun(s). If you have bangs, loosely pin them back to give them some volume.
 Plopping your hair is basically scrunching all of your hair against your head and holding it in place with a shirt or scarf. If you do not know how to plop your hair, see How to Plop Your Hair. With this method, your hair will be scrunching in place all night long.
 Using hair clips to hold your scrunched hair in place creates a very natural look. Scrunch your hair against the top of your head, and use large hair clips to keep it in place. Depending on how much hair you have, this may take 1-4 hair clips.


It might be uncomfortable to sleep with your hair in hair clips, so keep that in mind when you're putting your hair up. Try to get your all of your hair scrunched to the top of your head so that the hair clips don't hurt your head when you lay down., After letting your hair scrunch overnight, it's time to take it down. Gently remove your bun(s) or plop and let it fall naturally into place. It'll most likely look messy, so you'll have to do some styling to get your desired look.
 Gently use your fingers to comb through any big knots or messy areas, but try to avoid combing completely. Be careful not to pull too hard on your hair, as you don't want it to lose curl or volume.
 Finish your hair with hairspray, anti-frizz products, or a shine spray. Do not use any heavy products, such as creams or pomades, as they will weight down your hair.


The best way to do this is by flipping over your head upside-down, putting your chosen product in your palms, and scrunching your hair upward, from the ends to the scalp.
If you are using a hairspray, flip your head upside-down, and then spray.
 Find a shampoo and conditioner that work best for your hair type. For the best results with hair scrunching, use volumizing shampoo and conditioner.


As you condition, do not apply the product heavily to your roots. Putting conditioner on your roots can weight your hair down, resulting in less volume. Apply conditioner to the ends of your hair to keep it healthy and moisturized.
Rinse the conditioner out of your hair with cool water. After you washed your hair in warm water, it's beneficial to rinse with cold water before getting out of the shower. Rinsing with cold water will give your hair more shine, lock in moisture, and help define curls., It's best to not wash your hair everyday. Washing your hair every day can strip away natural oils that keep your hair and scalp healthy. It's recommend to wash your hair no more than every other day.


Some hair types need to be washed more than others. If you have very thin and oily hair, you may need to wash your hair more. Try using only shampoo with some washes, and save conditioning for every other hair wash.
If you have dry hair, wash your hair less. This will allow your natural oils to moisturize your hair. Try conditioning your hair every time you wash, and only using shampoo every other time.
 Us a cotton T-shirt or microfiber towel to dry your wet hair. Instead of rigorously rubbing your hair, use a blotting technique. To blot your hair dry, take one small section of your hair at a time and press firmly to absorb the excess water. Using a towel to dry your hair can create frizz and knots, which is why it's best to use a softer, less textured material. When scrunching your hair, you'll want it to be damp, not dripping wet., If you brush your hair while it is wet, the waves you're looking for will not be defined. Instead, use your fingers or a wide tooth comb to detangle your hair. It's perfectly fine if there are a few tangles or loose knots left in your hair; this will add to the texture you're trying to create by scrunching your hair.


Using a hairbrush on wet hair can result in hair breakage. Your hair is most fragile when wet, and brushing it can potentially stretch it and cause it to break. Always use your fingers or a comb on wet hair, even when you're not scrunching your hair., This step is not always necessary, but is recommended if your hair takes a long time to dry. If you typically have thin or fine hair, you won't need to blow dry your hair at all. If you have thicker hair, you may need to blow dry your hair to speed up the drying process. Do not completely dry your hair, but do not leave it dripping wet. You'll want your hair to be nice and damp when you apply product and put your hair up overnight.