 This app resembles a blue, open box.

If you aren't signed into Dropbox, tap Sign in, enter your email address and password, and tap Sign In before continuing.;
, It's at the bottom of the screen. Doing so will bring up a pop-up menu with three options:

Scan Document
Upload Photos
Create or Upload File
If Dropbox opens to a file, first tap the "Back" button in the top-left corner of the screen.
 Depending on your chosen upload type, your process will vary:

To scan, point your phone's camera at the document and press the "Capture" button at the bottom of the screen. Tap Next in the top-right corner, then tap Save to upload the item.
To upload a photo, tap each photo you wish to upload, tap Next in the top-right corner of the screen, and then tap Upload.
To create a file, tap an app (e.g., Microsoft Word) and then proceed with creating the file.
 Once this process is complete, you can open Dropbox on your computer to view and print your files., If you have the Dropbox app installed on your computer, you can simply open the Dropbox folder.

If you don't have Dropbox on your computer, go to Dropbox's website at https://www.dropbox.com/ and sign in with your email address and password.
To locate Dropbox on your computer, type dropbox into Spotlight (Mac) or the Start menu's search bar (Windows), then click the appropriately named folder.
 To do this, you may either hold down ⌘ Command (or Ctrl on PC) while clicking individual files, or you can click and drag your mouse cursor across files to select them.

If you're on the Dropbox website, you'll first download files by clicking the box on the left side of each item's bar to select your files and then clicking Download on the right side of the page, then view those files by double-clicking the downloaded folder on your computer's desktop or in your computer's "Downloads" folder.
 Doing so will invoke a drop-down menu.

If you downloaded files from the Dropbox website on a PC, you'll first need to drag your selected files out of the downloaded folder since the folder's compression won't allow you to print them from within it.
 Doing this will bring up your computer's "Print" window, wherein you can select a printer and then proceed with printing your documents.

If you don't see this option, try two-finger clicking (or right-clicking) a different selected file.
 In the "Printer" box, you should see the name of a printer to which your computer is connected. You can click this box to view all available printers and, if necessary, select a new one.

If you need to attach your computer to your printer manually via cable, first do so.
 Things like color printing versus black-and-white, photos' sizes, and orientation (e.g., vertical or horizontal) will change the way your files appear when you print them, so making sure that all of your settings on this page are ideal will ensure that you don't end up wasting paper.

For example, if you want to print your files double-sided, check the appropriate box.
 You'll see this option at the bottom of the page. Your Dropbox files should begin printing in your desired format.