 Diwali is also known as Deepavali, the "deep" meaning "light" or "lamp", and "avali" meaning "row" This "row of lights" is represented by lighting lamps everywhere during Diwali. The reasons behind celebrating Diwali differ and are outlined under "Tips". Diwali consists of three to five days of celebrations (the duration depends on where you come from or derive the celebratory traditions from):


The thirteenth day from Poornima (Full Moon) (Dhantrayodashi or Dhanteras). This is the first day of Diwali. "Dhan" means "wealth" and teras means thirteenth day. This is the day for celebrating the goddess Lakshmi, the Goddess of Wealth. For some places in India, the lamps are kept burning for Lord Yamaraj, the God of Death.
The fourteenth day (Chhoti Diwali or Narak chaturdashi). Hindus believe that this is the day that Lord Krishna destroyed the demon Narakasur, freeing the world from fear. Firecrackers are often let off from this day.
The new moon day (Diwali / Lakshmi puja / Lakshmipujan) of the dark fortnight of Ashwin. This is the actual day of Diwali, and the most significant day. If the house has not already been cleaned, it must be done early this day to welcome the Goddess Lakshmi. Gifts and sweets are exchanged on this day to strengthen bonds of love between family and friends. Firecrackers are let off after dinner.
The first day of the bright fortnight of Kartik (Balipratipada / Padiwa / Govardhan puja / Varshapratipada). This is the day that Lord Krishna lifted the Govardhan Parvat to protect the Gokul people from Indra's wrath and King Vikramaditya was crowned.
The fifth and final day of the Diwali Festival (Bhai Dooj / Bhaiya Dooj). On the final day of Diwali, brothers and sisters renew sibling love, with sisters applying the sacred red tilak on the forehead of their brothers and praying for their long life, while brothers bless their sisters and provide gifts of love.
Not everyone includes the thirteenth day, and the separate holy festivals of Vasubaras and Bhaubij precede Diwali, and follow the Diwali Festival respectively.;
, It is customary to buy utensils and ornaments on the first day of Diwali.
 It's like a spring cleaning of sorts, a "cleansing" ritual to rid yourself of any unnecessary elements in your environment.


Draw small footprints using rice flour and vermillion powder over your house; this is a way of indicating that you're awaiting the arrival of the Goddess.
 These include bells, flower garlands, wall hangings, mirrors, LED lights, etc. This is a joyful way to welcome the Goddess of Wealth and Prosperity. Rangoli designs can be found across the internet, or you can be inspired by the one suggested here.
 There are also ready-made wooden Rangolis available. These are beautifully hand crafted and painted on light pieces of wood. There are innumerable ways to arrange them. So, just go wild with your creativity and create your own design (or you can be inspired by the one provided here).
 In the evening, light small oil lamps (called "diyas") and place them around the home. Turn all the lights on and light some candles. The lamps symbolize knowledge or one's inner light, which brings about inner peace and fights off any traces of darkness and ignorance.
 These are a common part of Diwali, used to symbolize warding off evil from your surroundings. They are usually set off in greatest numbers on the actual day of Diwali (the third day).


If you're setting off your own firecrackers, be careful and follow all safety precautions associated with using firecrackers.
Be careful of noisy crackers.
Take care to keep pets and small children indoors and away from the excitement and frightening noises. See this article for more information.
 If you are a woman, try to obtain a sari, the traditional Indian dress for women which is 9 yards (8.2 m) of fabric draped elegantly at the waist and across the left shoulder. Women may also wear a salwar-kurta (Indian flowing tunic with matching pants/leggings and long shawl/scarf).


Men normally wear kurtas, the national clothes for Indian men. This is a knee-length (usually embroidered) silk or cotton tunic and matching pants.
 These are traditional offerings for Diwali and are given as gifts.Some ideas include:


Make rangoli
Make 7 cup burfi
Make kulfi
Make pongal
Make rasgullas
Make jalebi
Make Gajar Ka halvah
For more ideas, see Indian Sweets and Desserts.
 For many Indians, Diwali is a meatless holiday. There aren't any set dishes, so the choices can be varied but it is important to include sweets, as Diwali is about sweets. Some suggestions for meals to make during Diwali can be found in Vegetarian Indian Dishes.
 This is a ritual performed on Diwali day (the third day) in order to seek divine blessings from the Goddess of Wealth, Lakshmi, who helps those who strive to achieve wealth. It consists of an elaborate ritual using grains, leaves, coins, and idols to prepare a ceremony. During this ritual, you can invoke the Goddess by reciting the Vedic mantras or by thinking of her being showered with gold coins with two elephants standing one each side of her as you chant her name. Offerings are made and at the end, the aarti is performed quietly and a peaceful atmosphere should accompany the entire ritual., Games are a part of the Diwali Festival, including card games, Rummy, charades, pass the parcel, musical chairs, scavenger hunt, hide and seek, etc. It's not just for kids but for everyone!It's okay to play for money in card games but don't wager too much.
 Brothers and sisters affirm sibling love and look after one another on the final day of Diwali.Cook for your sibling, give your sister presents, and tell your brother you love him and wish him a long life.
 Even if you don't practice Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism, or Sikhism, you can still join in the Diwali celebrations that are held in many public spaces. For example, in New Zealand both the capital Wellington and the city of Auckland, and various towns, hold public Diwali Festivals that welcome all comers.Go and see what is happening, join in the fun, and celebrate with everyone else.


Attend public concerts, parties, celebratory events, and feasts for Diwali.
Wish everyone a Happy and Prosperous Diwali.

