 Vehicles which can be boarded in Halo 3 are Mongooses, Choppers, Ghosts, Warthogs, Wraiths, Scorpions, Banshees, Hornets, Prowlers and in some campaign occasions, Anti-Air Wraiths. In the Halo 3 campaign, Scarabs can also be boarded, but can be accessed like any other terrain feature rather than selecting a certain option to board it, and the same goes for Elephants in multiplayer. If any of these vehicles have enemy players in them, then they can be boarded if you have enough skill and timing.;
, If you need a ghost and a player is tormenting your team in one, then you may consider boarding it. However, attempting to board a Scorpion tank in the middle of a field when they know you're there may be a bit tricky and not worth your efforts. Whatever you decide, do it before the vehicle causes too much damage. In most cases, it may be more fruitful to simply destroy the vehicle instead of capturing it.
 If you have time, view where the player drives the vehicle, where would be a good spot to attack and what you will need to use to complete the task. However, it is more likely you will have very little time to act, so seize opportunities when they arise if you haven't got time to create a plan.
 Do it fast before you lose your window of opportunity.
 Others, such as the Mongoose or the passenger and gunner seats in the Warthogs, you can only enter the vehicle without harm to the driver, although you may then proceed to attack him from then on.
 Nothing can ruin your chance of boarding a vehicle more than if you get killed by the enemy or you arouse suspicions. Find a place where the vehicle frequents, such as a confined driveway or path, and wait. Carry a shotgun or power-weapon for safety to ensure you don't die before boarding.
 It may be a while before the vehicle returns so just be patient and remember it's for a good cause. However, if it looks unlikely that the vehicle will return to the spot or if your absence if costing your team too dearly, be prepared to abandon your plan. Consider trying to attract the vehicle to the area if you are desperate.
 Whatever it is, you've got to move fast. You'll know it when you see it.
 Run as fast as you can to the vehicle, making sure the coast is clear and trying to stay in the vehicle's blind spots until the last possible moment. If you are seen, then you risk getting splattered, shot or lose your chance so be careful.
 A message will appear in the top right-hand corner of your screen prompting you to board the vehicle. Holding the Right Bumper constantly can save you missing the opportunity to board, since sometimes the prompt will only be available for a split-second.
 When you board a vehicle such as a Ghost and Warthog, or flying vehicle, the driver will be ejected but dazed (meaning he cannot move fast or jump), so it will be best to eliminate him while he is vulnerable so he cannot re-board you. However, when boarding a tank or wraith, you can only board the vehicle to plant a grenade, but the driver will not be ejected. If the tank or wraith isn't too damaged, it may still be able to be driven. If the vehicle has passengers, you will have to deal with them too, but it will probably result in failure or the vehicle being destroyed.
 If you've managed to capture the vehicle and eject all its previous occupants without dying you can now use the vehicle to simply drive off (or fly off in some cases) and use it for your own uses. Make sure the enemy cannot re-board you as you will have wasted all that time.
 It may be hard since you've spent all the work, but if you can't have it, then what's the point of letting them keep it?

