 Get an 8 ½”x 11” sheet of paper to cut into a square.


Use a ruler to measure 8 ½ inches down the 11 inch side and make a mark at that point.
Use the ruler to draw a straight line across the paper at the mark you made.
Cut the paper on this line to end up with a piece of paper that is 8 ½ x 8 ½ inch square.
 Fold the left side of the paper over to the right side to make a crease in the middle of the paper. Then, unfold the piece of paper.


Align the edges of the paper exactly to make sure your fold is directly in the center of the paper.
The accuracy of your angles depends on your folds being crisp and exact.
 Take the upper right corner and fold it down towards a low point on the crease you made in the middle of the paper. Fold the corner down so that it meets the crease in the middle of the paper.


The corner will be approximately ⅔ of the way down the center crease you made when you folded the paper in half
This will form a triangle on the paper that has a 30° angle, a 60° angle, and a 90° angle.
You will fold the entire top edge of the paper down to create a new tip in the upper left hand of the paper.
 Take the bottom right corner up towards the top edge of the first triangle. Fold until the right edge of the paper lines up with the creased edge of the first triangle.


You will end up with a second 30°,60°,90° triangle.
 Take the bottom left corner and fold it up until the left side of the paper meets the edge of the first triangle the was originally the top edge of the paper. The two edges should line up together.


Tuck the corner under the second 30°, 60°, 90° triangle you folded.
 The side of each different triangle makes a different angle that you should label. Put your paper down with the longest side pointing up.There are two angles at the top of your protractor. The left side is a 15° angle, and the right side is a 30° angle.
The left corner of your protractor has two angles. The angle on top is a 45° angle, and the angle on the bottom is a 30° angle.
The right corner of your protractor is a 60° angle.
The angle made on the right side of your protractor where a line goes through the protractor is a 90° angle.
The bottom left corner contains a 45° angle on the right and a 30° angle on the left

, You can use your pocket protractor to measure angles on different shapes by matching the angles on the shape to the angles on your protractor.


Estimate the degrees of angles that fall between the measurements for your protractor.
You can divide the angles further into smaller triangles by folding the triangles in half.
 Rotate the protractor to align the angles of the triangles on your paper with the angle you are measuring.


Determine the angle you are measuring by matching it to the angles on the paper protractor.

