 Sometimes chalkboards need tougher cleaning action. This is especially true if your chalkboard is marred with ink, fingerprint, or crayon stains.


Apply a mild cleaner to water, such as a few drops of dish soap, and use it to remove the stains with a cloth. Choose a non-oily cleaner that is not abrasive. You could try to clean the chalkboard with only water and a rag, but when it dries it may have gray residue on it from the lingering chalk.Applying water to a chalkboard will cause a phenomenon known as ghosting. This means that, even though you’ve wiped away the chalk dust, there’s an outline left. Applying cleaner to the water should reduce the chances this will happen.
You could use a squeegee to remove the water solution from the chalkboard after wiping the chalkboard with it.
 There are special commercial chalkboard cleaner specifically designed for this purpose. It can be found in many teacher and office supply stores, as well as some big box stores.


Some of the commercial cleaners are water-based and premixed. They come in spray bottles with applicators on the bottle’s top.
Spray some of the cleaner on a towel, and use it to wipe the chalkboard clean. Other commercial cleaners are foam-based. Some cleaners can damage the chalkboard’s surface if you use them repeatedly.
Commercial cleaners come in difference scents, such as mint. Foam cleaners can prevent streaking because the foam is less likely to drip down the board.
 You will want to let the chalkboard air dry, rather than speeding the process along.


Make sure that you leave enough time for the chalkboard to thoroughly dry before you really need to use it again.
If you write with chalk on a wet chalkboard, it can cause stubborn stains that can be very difficult to remove.
After you’ve cleaned the chalkboard, you can speed up the drying process by wiping down the whole board with a soft, dry cloth.
 Some people have chalkboard walls in their homes that can be pretty unsightly if they aren’t properly cleaned.

Try adding a drop of dish soap to a bucket of water. Using a soft cloth, wipe down the chalkboard.
Remove chalkboard paint with a regular eraser or damp cloth. Chalkboard paint can be removed the same way as chalk on a chalkboard.However, it’s possible that it will be harder to clean. Try wiping the area with a dampened cloth. After it dries, apply more chalkboard paint.

