 Doing so will give you audio/visual once the device is turned on.The HDMI cord will be about 3 or 6 feet long and has 2 plugins on each end that are pentagon shaped.
You can typically find your HDMI input behind the TV on its right side, and some TVs will have more than one input.
Older TV's will have a component or composite connection instead of HDMI.
You will need to purchase an HDMI cord separately since the device doesn't come with one.
A component connection consists of green, blue, and red circular outlets..
A composite connection will have yellow, white, and red circular outlets instead.;
, This is done by opening the back of the remote and installing 2 AAA batteries.


These should be packaged with the Roku player, but any standard AAA batteries work fine.
Open up the battery compartment by pressing the latch at the top of the cover down.
 It will be the end with a large rectangle that has two prongs on it.
 The device should start up on its own.


Note that the Roku player does not have a Power button.
Make sure that your TV is off as you connect the Roku player.
 After plugging in Roku, a message will appear that states:


Roku - Starting, please wait
Roku - Launching home screen
Welcome to the Roku player

,, This is done by clicking on your network that you use for other wireless devices and entering your password:


Some models support an ethernet cable where you can connect it to a port that looks like a phone jack on the backside of the Roku.
The Roku player automatically detects nearby wireless networks.
 It will automatically download and install the latest version.


After the software updates, the player will automatically reboot.
 This is done once the Roku reboots after installing its software.
 Doing so will prompt a code that you can enter at www.roku.com/link to sync your account with device.


You can Log into an existing account or set up a new one.
You will need to provide a valid credit card number while setting up your account, but Roku is free, and the only time this credit card will be charged is if your purchase an app or subscription.

