 You'll need to find a convenient dry place to store your vodka if you'll be using it frequently. If you're considering long-term storage, the place you choose doesn't necessarily need to be convenient. Decide if you want to store the vodka along with other liquors or if you only need space to store a bottle or two. Popular ways to store vodka include:A shelf or cupboard in your kitchen
A liquor cabinet
A small or full bar;
, When you've decided where to put the vodka, check to see if you can store the bottle so that it stands upright. If you have to store the vodka bottle on its side, it's more likely to leak so think about storing it somewhere else.If your bottle of vodka is stopped with a cork, it's even more important to store it upright. If the vodka is on its side and comes into contact with the cork for a long time, the alcohol can slowly eat away at the cork and cause your bottle to leak.
 Regardless of if you're storing the vodka for short-term or long-term use, you should store it at a consistent temperature. The temperature shouldn't fluctuate throughout the day from hot to cold. Instead, aim for a constant temperature of 60 to 65°F unless you want to store it in the freezer.If you want to store the vodka for the long term, the basement is a good choice (unless it's right next to a boiler). Avoid storing in extremely hot areas like attics.
 Although alcohol will actually freeze at very low temperatures, your home freezer won't be able to get that cold. You can store vodka in your freezer if you'd like chilled vodka for drinks. Just realize that it will cause the vodka to seem thicker and may mute some of the flavor.Vodka that's been chilled and slightly thickens may actually be better for drinking since it fully coats your mouth., Avoid storing your vodka in direct sunlight, especially if it's in a clear bottle. Not only will sunlight speed up evaporation once the bottle is opened, but it can change the taste of the vodka if it's stored in sunlight for a very long time. For the best storage, keep your vodka in a dark place.If you're storing your vodka (and any other liquors or wine) in a dark place, make sure you have good lighting when you need it. This way, you'll be able to turn on the light and see your collection.
If you have to store the bottle in some sunlight, wrap the bottle in black cloth. This will minimize the amount of light reaching the vodka.

