 A general POA will drastically affect your legal rights and will allow someone else to make important decisions for you. Before you execute a general POA, talk with your family and friends about your thoughts on the issue. Discuss with them the reasons why you are considering it; the importance of doing it at this time in your life; and whether they have any concerns about a general POA.;
, A general POA gives your agent the ability to transact any legal business on your behalf.When you choose to obtain a general POA, you can choose to make it "regular" or "durable." A general regular POA has a beginning (effective) date and will end on the end date stated in the document or when you revoke it. A general regular POA is also only effective so long as you (the principal) have the legal capacity to act. As soon as you become incapacitated or disabled, the regular general POA will cease to be effective. A general durable POA, on the other hand, has no specified end date and will remain effective even if you become incapacitated or disabled.If you do not want to give your agent the power to transact any legal business on your behalf, you will need to draft a limited or special POA. This type of POA will authorize your agent to act only on specific transactions that will be laid out within the POA document., If you or someone else is already incapacitated or disabled, a general POA will not be feasible. In order to execute a valid general POA, the principal must be of sound mind and body. If you or someone else is already incapacitated or disabled, a court will have to appoint a guardian or conservator.


A guardian is appointed by a court and will be responsible for all the principal's personal affairs (e.g., support, health, care, rehabilitation, treatment, and residency).
In contrast, a conservator is limited to to the management of the financial and property affairs of the principal., You should try to hire an attorney to help you as soon as you know you want to execute a general POA. Because a general POA will drastically affect your legal rights, you should find a trusts and estates attorney with experience drafting and executing general POAs. Ask your family and friends if they know any qualified attorneys that may be able to help. Almost everyone knows someone who has hired a trusts and estates attorney to handle their personal affairs. You may have even hired one before to help with trusts or wills.


Ask your friends and family how they know the attorney and, if they have personally interacted with the attorney, how that interaction felt. Was the attorney friendly; smart; and affordable?

, If your friends and family cannot help you find an attorney, visit your state's bar website. Almost every state will offer lawyer referral services for free. For example, in California, you can call a hotline and speak with a qualified individual about your legal question. That individual will then get you in touch with a local qualified attorney who can help you. Every attorney they refer you to will have malpractice insurance and will be experts in your specific area of the law., Once you have a short list of candidates, search online and read any reviews you find. A lot of websites now will offer clients a chance to rate and review attorneys they have worked with. Be aware that these reviews can be biased and do not necessarily tell the whole story. Clients who lost cases may submit bad reviews even though the lawyer did an outstanding job. Friends of an attorney may submit an outstanding review even though they did not utilize the lawyer's services.


One thing you should always do is check for a lawyer's history of misconduct. You can usually visit a state bar's website and type in the lawyer's name or bar number to check their professional history. Be wary of any lawyer that has been reprimanded or suspended for misconduct.
 When you have a small list of qualified lawyers, call each one of them and set up an initial consultation. An initial consultation gives you an opportunity to meet with the lawyer face-to-face in order to ask about your case as well as other administrative matters. Before you set up an initial consultation, make sure you ask if the meeting will be charged or free. During your initial consultation, ask some of the following questions:


How long have you been practicing trusts and estates law?
How many general POAs have you drafted and executed?
How many of your POAs have been challenged in court?
How complex do you think my POA will be?
What would you recommend doing?
What sort of difficulties do you see, if any, with this POA?

, Either before, during, or after your initial consultation, but before you hire an attorney, ask about fees. For this type of work, a lawyer may charge you an hourly fee, a flat fee, or may take property in lieu of a fee.


If a lawyer works on an hourly basis, they will charge you for the amount of time they spend working on your general POA. Hourly fees range greatly and can be anywhere from $100/hr to $500/hr. You may be able to find a lawyer that works on a sliding scale, which means they will determine the hourly fee you will pay based on your income and ability to pay.
If a lawyer charges you a flat fee, you will be charged certain fees for certain tasks. For example, you may be charged $300 for the drafting of a general POA. The lawyer may also charge you $250 if you need to have a revocation form drafted or some other extra attachment added to your document. In addition, if the lawyer needs to defend their work in court, they may charge fees for that as well.
If you do not have enough money to pay for a lawyer, some will accept property instead of cash.
 After researching and talking with all of your prospective lawyers, choose the one that makes you feel most comfortable. The lawyer you choose will work with you over an extended period of time and you will be telling them things you may not tell other people. While the lawyer's cost should not be your only concern, make sure the lawyer is charging you a reasonable fee.
 Your agent will be the person tasked with handling all of your legal affairs within the general POA. Because this person will have access to your most sensitive information and will be able to make decisions that will affect your financial and personal well-being, you should only consider appointing an agent if you fully trust them.


Choose a family member if possible. Try talking to your children, parents, or siblings. These people will usually have your best interests in mind and you can usually trust them.
This is particularly important when you are creating a general durable POA that will remain in effect even if you become incapacitated or disabled.
 Your agent should be relatively young and healthy, if you can help it. Your agent will be responsible for your affairs for a long period of time, potentially indefinitely, and you want them to be around and able to make decisions when you need them to.
 When you are considering an agent, find someone that thinks the way you do, believes in what you do, and conducts themselves similarly to you. Your agent will have the ability to make a number of important decisions on your behalf and it helps when your agent can make the same decisions you would make on your own.


For example, if you are a conservative investor and your agent has access to your investment accounts, you want your agent to be conservative as well so they invest your money in a similar manner as you.
 As a precaution, you should find someone willing to be an alternate agent. An alternate agent will become your primary agent if something happens to the first agent. While you want your initial agent to succeed and complete the tasks you are asking of them, things do happen and you want to make sure you have a backup plan.
 A lot of states and localities will offer forms you can use for general POAs. If you use a form, make sure it is valid in your state and make sure it does not include any detrimental information. Even if you do not fill out the form, you may be able to use it as a template to help you create your own general POA document.


For example, Maricopa County offers a form you can use that complies with Arizona law., At the beginning of your general POA, you need to name the principal and the agent. You should include their names, addresses, and dates of birth.You can also add other identifying information if you choose. Stay away from the use of Social Security numbers because the finished document may be seen by a lot of individuals.
 Right below the section identifying your initial agent, you should designate an alternate agent. Be sure to include the alternate agent's name, address, and date of birth. This section should also explain when and how the alternate agent will become the acting agent.


For example, you may want the alternate agent to gain their power if the initial agent dies or becomes incapacitated; if the initial agent refuses to be the agent; or if the initial agent fails to act in accordance with their fiduciary duties (e.g., does not act in the best interests of the principal).
 This section will set forth the responsibilities of the agent. At the end of the acknowledgement section you should provide a line for the agent to sign on. In general, the agent should acknowledge they:


Have read the general POA;
Will act for the benefit of the principal;
Will keep assets separate;
Will exercise prudence and caution; and
Will keep accurate and up-to-date records., The main body of your general POA will include a non-exhaustive list of specific powers your agent will have. Because this is a general POA, your agent will have the power to perform any and all acts required to carry out your wishes. However, it is always helpful to provide some examples of powers your agent will hold. Some possible inclusions might concern:


Personal finances;
Real property;
Personal property; and
Business transactions., If your general POA is going to be durable, you will need to include specific language, which can be found in your state's statutory code. For example, in California, you must include any of the following statements:


"This power of attorney shall not be affected by subsequent incapacity of the principal";
"This power of attorney shall become effective upon the incapacity of the principal"; or
Any other similar statement showing the intent of the principal to make the power of attorney effective despite incapacity., You should include a statement describing the ways in which your general POA can be terminated.


If you have a general regular POA, you will include an expiration date and you can also allow for revocation earlier by the principal to submit a writing to that effect.
If you have a general durable POA, you can allow for revocation by requiring the principal to submit a writing to that effect., You can choose when the document will become effective. If you are creating a general durable POA, you can make it effective immediately, at some future date, or upon the principal's incapacitation. With a general regular POA, you can choose to make the document effective immediately or at some future date., Include areas for the principal to sign, witnesses to sign, and a notary to sign. Next to the signature lines should be lines where each party can date their signature., If you have already hired an attorney to help you with the drafting of your general POA, that attorney will have reviewed the document for you. However, if you drafted and executed the general POA on your own, you may want to hire a lawyer for document review. A lot of lawyers will offer this service for a relatively small flat fee.


The lawyer will look at your document to ensure it meets the minimum requirements of your state.
The lawyer may also briefly look to see if there are any glaring errors or omissions in your document. However, without paying the attorney more, they are unlikely to dig deep into the document on your behalf.
 Some states require you to execute your general POA in the presence of a notary. A notary will witness every party signing the document and they will sign and stamp the document themselves. You can usually find a notary at any bank or by searching online.


For example, in Arizona, a general POA must be notarized in order to be valid.In California, a general POA must be notarized if it is not signed by two valid witnesses., When it comes time, sign your general POA in all the designated places. In most states, you (the principal) will need to personally sign the document or someone else will have to sign the document at your direction and in your presence.Apart from your signature, your witnesses will need to sign the general POA and the notary will need to sign the document as well.
 In some states, for example California, if you do not have a notary acknowledge your signature you will have to sign the document in the presence of at least two witnesses. In California, the witnesses must be adults, your agent cannot act as a witness, and the witnesses must see you sign the document or see you acknowledge the signature of the document., Once your general POA has been validly executed, you and your agent should keep originals in a safe place. If you have a safe deposit box, you should consider keeping it there. Otherwise, buy a safe for your home or ask your lawyer to keep the document secure for you.


You and your agent will need this document at various times and without it you may not be able to accomplish tasks intended to be accomplished by the general POA.For example, if you lose the general POA, various entities (e.g., banks or courts) may refuse to allow your agent to act on your behalf.
 Your agent will need to access, show, and copy the general POA in certain instances in order to act on your behalf. For example, a lot of financial institutions will require your agent to bring in an original general POA before they will allow that person to access your accounts and personal information.


In addition, if your agent will be making real estate transactions on your behalf, the general POA will have to be recorded with your county's recorder's office where the property in question is located., Your agent will need to keep their personal assets separate from yours. So long as you are not incapacitated or disabled, you will be able to ensure this is happening. All of your bank accounts and finances should be separate from your agent's, all of your real estate should remain in your name, and all of your insurance policies should remain in your name as well.


Just because your agent is acting on your behalf does not mean the property is theirs., When your agent is managing your affairs, they must make sure they do not act in a way that benefits them at your expense. For example, if your agent used your money to buy a car that they use for their own personal needs, they may be acting improperly. Even though the car may be registered in your name, it may still be a conflict of interest.Be aware of potential abuses and never be afraid to speak up and ask about questionable transactions.
 When you revoke your general POA you are cancelling it. When you do this, your agent will no longer be able to act on your behalf. In general, you can revoke your general POA at any time and for whatever reason you wish.


If you do revoke your general POA, do so in writing and give a copy of your revocation to all interested parties (e.g., your agent, banks, and the recorder's office).