 Choose a human or an animal. Start with the fabric color. Any plain fabric will do, but you might want to choose something approximately skin-colored. Decide on the color of the hair and eyes. If you’re making an animal, you should also decide on whisker color.


Traditionally, rag dolls were made from scraps of fabric (rags). Try to find enough fabric to recycle from a pillowcase, an old shirt, or clothes that don't fit.;
, To make things easier, download free templates from websites like AllFreeSewing.com, Pinterest, or AllCrafts.net. Then, trace the outline onto the fabric. Add some extra width (half an inch to 5/8") all around the outside of your outline for a seam allowance.


Use tailor's chalk or washable pencil to mark the fabric if you don't want leftover marks showing through.
 Place the right sides of the fabric together. Cut out the pattern on the outermost line. Make sure you’re cutting both pieces of fabric at the same time.


This is step will be easier if you keep the template on the fabric.
 Pin the fabric. Stitch around most of the outline. Leave an opening for the stuffing.
 Position your scissors between the doll’s legs. Cut triangular notches in the seam allowance. Be careful to not cut into the seam itself.
 Do this by working the fabric through the opening. Use the eraser side of a pencil for smaller widths on the doll’s body.
 Feel free to use whatever kind of stuffing you want. Buy polyester fiberfill at any craft store. For a more natural approach, use cotton balls. If you really want to go green, use yarn or fabric scraps left over from your old projects.
 Stitch it closed. You may do this by hand or with a sewing machine.
 Use your marker or chalk to mark the point where the arms and legs meet the doll’s body. Stitch into these marks at all four points. Draw your needle through to the other side. When you’re finished, there should be a small dip between the body and the limbs.
 Sew on buttons for the eyes and nose. If you’re making the doll for a baby or young toddler, use embroidery floss to prevent a choking hazard. Use red yarn or embroidery floss for the mouth., Use yarn or string for this step. Choose black, brown, yellow, or red for natural hair colors. If you want to make a punk rocker doll, go for pink, purple, or other funky hair color. To complete the hairstyle:


Decide how long you want the doll’s hair to be. Cut the yarn to twice that length.
Place the middle of the yarn at the center of the head. Pin it in place.
Sew the middle of the hair to the head. This should form a part in the center of the hair.Glue or sew the rest of the hair to about where the ears would be.
Glue or sew additional hair to the back of the doll’s head, if desired.
For long-haired dolls, braid or tie the sides of the hair into pigtails.
 Download free templates from crafting websites or design your own template by sketching the outlines on newspaper. Trace the template on your choice of fabric. Cut out the design, and stitch everything together.You can also make an easy no-sew outfit for your doll using fabric glue.
 Give the doll to a child in your life. Add it to the décor of your living room or kitchen. Depending on the doll’s color scheme and clothing, you can also use it as part of our holiday decorating.

