 Before you make changes to your diet, you should document the frequency and intensity of your gas and bloating. Note which foods seem to trigger your symptoms. Also be observant when you add new food or drinks to your diet.Knowing which foods cause problems will help you determine the best solution.
 It is estimated that 65 percent of the human population are lactose intolerant.If you suffer from lactose intolerance, eating dairy products can cause gas and bloating.Lactose is sugar found in milk and milk products. The small intestine produces an enzyme called lactase that breaks the lactose into simpler forms of sugar; however, if your digestive tract produces low levels of lactase your body cannot adequately digest lactose, leaving you feeling bloated and gassy. Limit your dairy intake to items such as yogurt and hard cheeses (cheddar and provolone) as these are less likely to cause problems.
Avoid eating a lot of dairy in one sitting. Disperse your consumption throughout the day.
Switch to lactose-free or lactose-reduced dairy products or take an over-the-counter remedy such as Lactaid or Dairy Ease to help digest lactose-heavy foods.Add dairy alternatives such as soy or almond milk to your diet. Soy milk is made from soybeans that have been ground with water and are completely lactose free. Almond milk is also naturally made with water and once strained, it is lactose free. Other options include oat milk, rice milk, or coconut milk.
 Cruciferous vegetables, like broccoli, cabbage, Brussels sprouts, and cauliflower naturally contain indigestible natural sugars that are rich in vitamins and fiber; however, our bodies cannot break down this fiber effectively and thus, eating large amounts of these vegetables at one sitting can cause excess gas.Do not cut these healthy veggies from your diet completely as they are important. Instead, try balancing your intake of these veggies with protein (meat, poultry, fish, eggs) and healthy fats (avocado, olive oil) to prevent overloading your digestive system with the offending nutrient.
Cook your cruciferous vegetable dishes with herbs, such as rosemary, bay leaf and ginger that may help break down the gas-causing sugars.
 Beer and soda are both examples of carbonated beverages — drinks that have been combined with carbon dioxide gas in order to produce bubbles.Consuming carbon dioxide finds a way back out again in the form of burping and flatulence.
Try to cut back on these drinks as much as possible (they are unhealthy in other ways also) and switch to water or natural fruit juices. If you want an alcoholic beverage, try drinking a small glass of red wine.
 Legumes, such as beans, peas and lentils, are some of the most common culprits behind gas and bloating due to the same indigestible sugars and fiber found in cruciferous vegetables.Cut back on your intake of legumes if you suspect that they might be causing your excess gas. As with cruciferous veggies, you should also balance your consumption of legumes with other healthy foods to avoid overloading your digestive system.
Break down the offending sugars by soaking dried beans overnight (or for a minimum of 10 hours) before cooking and by rinsing canned legumes before cooking., Although fiber-rich foods are normally recommended due to their healthy properties, certain types of fiber can actually lead to increased gas and bloating.Eating a high-fiber diet can cause flatulence because the natural flora of bacteria in the colon can only digest small amounts of fiber at a time.Try to get most of your fiber intake from whole foods such as fruit, veggies, and whole-grain carbs like rice, pasta and bread.
Check the labels of packaged foods, such as granola bars, cookies and breakfast cereals, which claim to have added fiber. This fiber is usually in the form of chicory root or inulin. Fiber is often extracted from other sources and added to the packaged food.
 Processed foods (such as fast food and microwave meals) tend to sit in your stomach, leaving you feeling bloated and uncomfortable. These foods contain chemicals that are not easy for your body to digest — meals high in fat slow gastric emptying.You should also avoid diet or sugar-free foods that contain a high amount of artificial sweeteners such as sorbitol, mannitol and xylitol. These are a common cause of digestive issues such as gas and bloating.

