 Help your puppy learn its name by making positive associations with it. Call your puppy’s name and give it a treat when it responds; if it doesn’t respond, toss a treat its way every time you say its name regardless. Similarly, call your puppy’s name before giving your puppy its dinner, or petting it– it will start responding to its name very quickly., All dogs respond differently to games, teasing, and roughhousing – some enjoy it tremendously, while others get scared or bothered. To test this, try playing a particular game then stop, back up, and call your puppy to come sit with you. If it comes over happily, with its head high and tail wagging, it is likely enjoying the game; if it comes over with its head and tail lowered, walking uncertainly and not sitting when prompted, it is likely unhappy with the game and losing trust in you. Be sure to respect you puppy’s limits and play the games it prefers.To regain your puppy’s trust, continue prompting it to come and sit, and feed it treats and it complies.
 Training your puppy can be an excellent way to bond with it, in small, regular doses. At around 12-16 weeks old, puppies can be trained to respond to basic commands (i.e. “Sit”, “Stay”, “Come”, “Heel”, “Lie down”) in short session lasting 10-15 minutes each. For guidelines on how to train your puppy, visit the American Kennel Club’s website at http://www.akc.org/content/dog-training/articles/teach-your-puppy-these-5-basic-commands .
 Puppies are groomed regularly by their mothers during the first couple of weeks of their lives, so they associate gentle grooming with being cared for.It is also important to start grooming your new pet young so that it gets used to be handled by its owner, groomers, and veterinarians in the future. To start, use a gentle brush, and lightly stroke its back, giving it a treat every few strokes.If your puppy resists, try brushing it when it is sleepy and less likely to wiggle away or attack the brush.
 Puppies in a litter naturally cuddle together to keep warm, as huddling close prevents heat loss. Away from its litter, you puppy will be inclined to huddle up to you, other family members or pets to stay warm. Indulge your new pet and make time to cuddle it, which will heighten your bond.