 Although vomiting and diarrhea are not necessarily cause for concern, you should take immediate action if they happen together or chronically. Take note if it is just a reaction to an upset stomach or a sign of something more serious such as poison:If your dog eats too much grass at the local park and gets diarrhea, you probably don’t need to worry.
If your dog starts vomiting and gets diarrhea at the same time, they may have ingested a poison.
If it looks serious, see your veterinarian.
 Puppies typically love eating. If your puppy is not eating and showing signs of enjoying food, they may be ill. You should take them to the veterinarian.If you notice your dog has not eaten for days, take the to the vet.
 Excessive water consumption is an early symptom of thyroid disease, kidney disease, and diabetes. If it is not a short term symptom caused by exercise, you should see your veterinarian., If their eyes are oozing or have a strange discharge, they may have been injured. You should definitely see the veterinarian to get treatment.Observe the quality of the discharge:If the discharge is clear, it is probably a symptom of allergies.
If the discharge is watery, it may be caused by an eyelash or other foreign body.
If the discharge is yellowish, green or pus-like, your dog may have a bad infection.
 If your puppy is going out to pee a lot but only dribbles a small amount each time, they may have a urinary tract infection. Take them to the veterinarian to get diagnosed and treated.It may be a sign of a urinary tract infection or something more serious like bladder stones., If your new puppy is always in a bad mood, it is a sign they may be experiencing some kind of pain. Take them to the veterinarian for a diagnosis and treatment.Take note of constant crying. If your new puppy is crying a lot, they may be in pain. You should listen to them and see a veterinarian., If your puppy is not gaining weight, there may be something wrong and you should see your veterinarian.If your dog is eating but not gaining much weight, try changing dog food.
If your dog is losing more than ten percent of their regular body weight, you should see a veterinarian.Weight loss can be caused by any number of diseases such as Addison’s disease, diabetes and hyperthyroidism., If they have nasal discharge or breath in a strange manner, it could be a symptom of an allergy or something more serious. Wheezing or difficulty breathing could be a sign of asthma or other illnesses. You should see your veterinarian.If their nose is discharging something yellow, green or smelly, you should see your doctor. It could be a sign of an infection, allergy or other illness.