 Use soap and water to wash your neck, and a soft, clean towel to pat it dry. Any oils or surface dirt could prevent the spirit gum and wax from sticking.
 Use the brush applicator that came with your bottle of spirit gum to apply a few streaks onto your neck, right where you want the gills to go. The spirit gum will allow the wax to adhere to your skin. The spirit gum will become tacky as you prepare the wax.You can apply the gills to the left side or the right side first. You will need to repeat this entire section for the other side.
 Use a metal spatula or palette knife to scoop out some scar wax or modeling wax. Knead it between your fingers until it softens, then roll it out into a thin coil. Curve the coil into a sausage shape.This will make one gill. How big you make it is up to you.
 You will be making several gills and applying them right above the other. This first gill will be the bottommost one. Place it right at the bottom of the spirit gum area, with the curved part pointing up to your jaw., Use your fingers to smooth the top, curved part of the coil down onto your skin. Next, smooth the side edges down. Keep smoothing until the wax blends with your skin. Do not smooth the bottom/inner part of the curve. This will create depth for a thick, fleshy gill., Once you are happy with your gill, scoop out some more wax and roll it into another sausage shape. Place it right above the first one. You can overlap the wax that's already there, or place it just above it. Smooth it down just like the first one.You can add another gill for a total of three.
At some point, the spirit gum will dry. If that happens, simply apply more, and let it become tacky.
 You can also use a theatrical-grade "wax sealer." Brush the product over the gills. Extend it just past the scar wax and onto the skin. Let the product dry before moving on.
 You can use theatrical-grade setting powder or regular setting powder. This will even out the texture and make it easier to apply foundation.
 Use a color that matches your skin tone and a foundation brush or foam applicator. This will blend the gills into your skin and make them more realistic. Don't worry about filling the area inside the gills. Focus instead on the gills themselves and the surrounding skin.


You don't have to paint your entire neck, but you do want to blend the foundation into your skin a little.
 Use a thin brush to add some eyeshadow or body paint into the gaps between the gills. Use colors like pinks, dark reds, browns, and plums.Some types of body paints need to be "activated" with water or rubbing alcohol.
 Neck gills aren't as detailed as face gills because of how fleshy they are. You can make them look more life-like by adding some warm tones, however. Use a small brush to tap some pink eyeshadow or blush onto the tops of the gills, where the light would hit them. This will make it look like blood is flowing through them. If you have dark skin, opt for a darker shadow of pink or your usual bronzer.
 Use a thin brush to apply some highlighter, eyeshadow, foundation, or body paint to the very edges of your gills, right next to the shadowy part. Choose a light color, such as ivory, cream, or white for skin toned gills.
 You can use setting powder, preferably theatrical-grade, or setting spray. Make sure that you get the setting product inside the gills as well. Use a thin eyeshadow brush if you need to.

