 For this version of tissue paper flower, you will need two colors/patterns of paper: one for the petals, and one for the middle. To create a traditional daisy, use white paper for the petals and yellow for the center.
 For the petals, you don’t need to do any cutting of your tissue paper; it will be used in the full package size. To create the center though, cut your paper  to be approximately ¼ the length of the original tissue paper. This does not need to be exact, but for a smaller center make the pieces shorter, or cut them a bit longer for a bigger center. You can use several pieces of paper for a more full center.
 Use your scissors to cut many tiny, parallel cuts lengthwise on the paper that will be in the middle of the flower. Cut inwards from both the top and the bottom about ⅓ of the way in. When you unfold the flower, this will stick out in a pretty textured fashion.
 Lay your paper out flat on a tabletop with the petal paper on the bottom and the center tissue on top.They should be the same width, and differ only in height. Put the shorter paper in very middle of the larger paper. You should have at least two pieces of the large paper representing the petals.
 Start at one end and begin creating an accordion fold across your paper. To create big, wide petals make your folds 2-3 inches (5-7.5 cm) across. For many small, dainty petals, fold your paper in sections 1 inch (2.5 cm) wide or less. Continue folding the paper back and forth until you run out of sections to fold.
 Wrap a piece of wire around the very center of your folded paper. Twist the two ends together so that the wire is secure, and then cut off any excess. Although you want the wire to be tight enough not to fall off, don’t compress or bend the paper too much.
 Use a pair of scissors to cut a rounded semi-circle off at the tops of the petal paper. When you unfold your paper, it will be in the traditional petal shape rather than in a squared-off top.
 Pull the edges of the paper out, away from the center both above and below the wire. As you pull them apart, the two sides will meet, creating a circular flower shape. Pull the center pieces of tissue outwards to create a poufy-middle section.
 Add a piece of thread to the wire in the center or put a bit of tape on the back to hang your flowers up. Show off your easy and lovely tissue creations at your next party or get-together!