 If a medical practitioner tells you that medication is the only treatment, realize that you have options and ultimately, you get to choose what treatment you want.You can start by consulting with a therapist, who may diagnose you and create a plan for treatment. This may include individual therapy, group or family therapy, support groups, medication, and lifestyle changes.


Specify any problems or concerns you have about how your mental illness is affecting your work, and track your improvements.
Many employers offer Employee Assistance Programs (EAPs) that offer short-term assessment and counseling. The services are often free and confidential to employees.;
, A therapist can be helpful in adjusting to a workplace and succeeding at your job. Therapy goes beyond symptoms relief and gives you tools to approach life in a more balanced, well-adjusted way. Commit to your treatment and and be honest in your therapy.Find a therapist you feel comfortable with and that seems invested in your health. For more information, check out How to Choose a Therapist.
 Medication can be a beneficial part of treatment for some people. For disorders such as bipolar, medication is highly recommended and should be continually monitored by a psychiatrist.For conditions such as depression or anxiety, medication may be indicated if necessary. Often, medication is beneficial on a short-term basis to help you cope and return to a level of “normalcy”, and may be discontinued within a few months.Medication alone is often not enough to treat mental health, and is often most beneficial in tandem with therapy and other treatment.Monitor medication effectiveness and side-effects regularly with a therapist or psychiatrist.
 Improve your ability to manage stress at work by practicing healthy living. Focus on exercising multiple days per week for 30 minutes or more, and do activities such as walking/jogging, dancing, or attending a gym or dance classes. Eat nutritious foods and avoid turning to drugs or alcohol to deal with stress. Get quality sleep and aim for 8 hours each night.Also, choose activities and hobbies that excite you and that you enjoy. Take a painting class, go for a hike, or learn a new skill such as knitting.
 If you tend to isolate yourself from others, this places you in a vulnerable position for experiencing stress. Have friends and family that you can turn to for support, either in everyday life or for job-related stressors. Even if the problem cannot be “solved”, taking about stressors can feel like a relief. Sometimes, it’s enough to be heard, even if it doesn’t solve a problem.Have people that you care about and that care about you close. You can choose to have a standing phone call with a friend, or meet with a friend for coffee each week. If you notice yourself isolating, make an effort to connect with someone.

