 You can use a rag, towel, shirt, or any other fabric you have handy. This will help clot the wound and stop bleeding. You can also raise the wound above your head to slow bleeding., It is important to make sure that the wound is clean before you apply the bandage, or else you are at risk of infection. Rinse the dirt from the injured area with clean water, but do not scrub. Dab the wound in a circular motion moving from the center of the wound out towards the edges. Remove any visible dirt or objects.


Water should be clean. Tap water, bottled water, or water that has been boiled and cooled are your best choices, but you can also use clear, running water, such as from a stream, if needed. Avoid cleaning the wound with stagnant or cloudy water.
Do not pull out any objects deeply penetrating the skin. These may be stopping the bleeding, and by removing them, you risk more damage. Similarly, if an object does not wash away easily from the wound, do not pick at it to remove it; simply leave it.Contrary to popular belief, urine is not sterile when it leaves the body. If you do not have access to water, you should not pee on the wound. Gently remove any dirt from the wound with your fingers and let it your natural clotting properties work. Your body’s white blood cells will be more effective at killing bacteria., If you do not have access to topical antibiotics, such as Bacitracin, there are a number of substitutes that work at killing bacteria around the wound and preventing germs from entering.


Petrolatum (also known as petroleum jelly) can be rubbed over the wound to prevent bacteria from entering the cut.Pine sap, honey, and sugar can help seal the wound.You can also try using a saltwater solution.
Use alcohols and strong antiseptics, such as rubbing alcohol (isopropyl alcohol), strong liquor (whiskey, bourbon, etc.), iodine, or hydrogen peroxide sparingly. There is conflicting evidence as to whether or not these hurt or help healing, but if you have a dirty wound, they may disinfect it initially.