 Getting your endorphins going together is a great way for you and your wife to maintain healthy bodies and to mingle your body chemistry. If you want to keep your wife happy, then take the time to work out with her or to just get some mild exercise together at least once a week.


Train for a race together. This is a great goal that will bring you closer together as a couple, whether you're training for a 5K or a marathon.
Take a dance class together. This will not only boost the romance factor, but you'll have a great time learning something new while shedding pounds.
Go to a circuit gym together. You can keep up a conversation while burning calories.
If you're both not workout-aholics, take a twenty-minute walk together a few days a week, whether it's in the morning before breakfast or after dinner.
 If you want to keep your wife happy, then you have to keep things fresh and exciting in the bedroom. You don't have to take a trip to the sex store to maintain and exciting and rewarding sex life.


Make sure that you're making love at least once a week, no matter how busy you are.
Try to make love at a different time each day. If you only have sex in the mornings or on Wednesday evenings, your sex will feel like just another part of your routine.
Be adventurous. Don't be afraid to make love in new positions or in new places.
Don't forget to cuddle with your wife after sex and to tell her how much you love her.
 Though chores are no fun, you can have more fun with your wife if you're active around the house together instead of taking turns doing what needs to be done. This will bring you even closer together.


If you need to fix the roof, make sure your wife is near you on the ground so you can talk while you get things done.
If you have a garden, try planting something together. Who says gardening is woman's work?
Spring-clean the house together. Don't let your wife do all the cleaning.
Paint a new room of the house together. This is a great way to have fun and improve your home's appearance.

