 One of the most basic math lessons you can use in your everyday life is counting. Count how many plates are needed for the table, how many signs are on the road to school, how many toys are on the floor, and so on. If you naturally incorporate counting into your speech, your child will start picking up on it and doing it themselves., Your child can't communicate math on paper until they know what numbers look like when written. As you notice numbers in the world, point them out to your child. You can also use things like number puzzles or hopscotch to work on number recognition., Most of the time, you use math on a day-to-day basis. Try thinking out loud when you find yourself using math to show your kids where math is relevant. For instance, you can talk about comparing prices at the grocery store or measuring for a recipe.Just like reading, it's important to get kids doing math every day.
 Shapes are important for understanding geometry. You can ask your child to name shapes as you run errands, as well as to name the shapes they play with. You can also do things like bake cookies with basic shapes, which combines learning and fun., While direct questions are helpful in learning the basics of math, estimation questions require kids to think through a problem, not just spout out a basic answer. This tip works for both younger and older kids, but you may need to adjust the question.For instance, an estimation question could be, "How much water do you think will fill up this pitcher?" Let your child try their hand at estimating, and then you can do an experiment to see how close the guess was. For younger kids, you might need to first show them how much a cup is.
For older kids, you can try more complex questions, such as "How long will it take to fill the bathtub with water?"

, If your child is recognizing numbers, it's not that much of a leap to work on writing numbers. You can have your child mimic how you write a number, for instance. You can also write out numbers and have your child trace them, then try writing the numbers on their own.You can try more tactile methods, such as drawing numbers in shaving foam or sand.
 The dot method involves your child drawing dots to help them solve addition and subtraction problems. For example, if the problem is three plus five, your child would draw three dots in one group and five in the next. Then the child would count all the dots to get the answer.Start with numbers less then ten at first. Once they have that down, you can introduce adding ten to a number.This method also works for multiplication and division. For instance, if the problem is 4 X 6, the child would draw 4 groups of 6 dots, then count to get the answer. You can challenge your child by asking questions like, "What if it had been four groups of seven?"
For basic math, you can teach your kids to use their fingers to add, similar to the dot method.
 Another way to help your child understand the concepts of math is to use number bonds. That is, start by working on all the pairs that add together to make five (0+5, 1+4, 2+3, 3+2, and so one) by having them solve these pairs with the dot method. Then you can work on bonded pairs for ten., While working on understanding the concepts themselves will help your child learn math, pairing it with some memorization can be beneficial. Memorization can make math go quicker, so that they don't need to think through every problem.You can work on memorizing times tables, for instance, by using flash cards.
One exercise that combines understanding and memorization is having your child count by 3s, 4s, 5s, and so on. Your child will need to think through the problem, and they will eventually realize that multiplying is just a form of adding. At the same time, repeatedly counting by these numbers will aid with memorization.
 If the same activities over and over are getting boring, supplement what you're teaching with new ideas. Educational websites are great place to pick up new ideas that you and your child will love.You'll likely be able to find fun worksheets and games to help your kids learn more math.
 Toys like interlocking blocks and ones with pipes and joints are a great way to get your child engaged in spatial relationships. In addition, these toys help your kid move from pieces to more complex, larger ideas.Sit down and play blocks with your kid. When your kid sees you building a rocket ship or a castle, they'll want to build their own structures.
 Another great way to engage your kids in some tactile geometry is to teach them origami. Stick to very simple designs for younger kids, who will find more complex designs frustrating., Kids who learn music generally do better in math. For one, basic counting skills are needed to do well in music. Plus, the abstract thinking your child does in making music has strong ties to the thinking needed for math.Kids of any age, including tweens and teens, will benefit from learning music.
 Board games will often get kids doing math without them even realizing it. For instance, classic games like Chutes and Ladders or Hi-Ho! Cherry-O require counting. Monopoly is a great way to incorporate math for older kids.You don't have to stick with the classics. Plenty of new games focus on helping kids learn math, too. Plus, you can find more advanced games for older kids that require math. For instance, bluffing games such as the Sheriff of Nottingham require your kid to think about the probability of certain outcomes.
 Spatial games, like "Mother, May I?" can help your child learn spatial words and concepts. Try playing the game with your kids or encourage them to play with each other. Certain songs can help with these concepts, as well, such as the Hokey Pokey., When you're not actively teaching your child math, they can still be working on those skills with apps built for computers and kids' tablets. Apps like Kids Math, Counting Caterpillar, Math Training for Kids, and Marble Math Junior are all great apps to encourage math skills.You can also find educational math apps for teens and tweens.
 One math skill that is important is independent thinking. You may be tempted to swoop in to show your kid how to solve a problem when they're struggling. However, encouraging your kid to work it out for themselves will help them learn to think independently.That doesn't mean they can't look up help for similar problems online. Having them look up how to do a problem themselves still teaches independence.
 Some tweens and teens may not find math all that exciting by itself. However, you can incorporate it into other disciplines to make it more interesting. For instance, you can do science experiments where kids need to measure out ingredients. You could also incorporate math into history, such as figuring out what percentage of the population was wiped out by a plague., Most of the time, there's more than one way to solve a problem. Teaching your kid to try different approaches will help them solve more complex problems. If they come at it from one direction and find it doesn't work, they can switch to another approach to find a solution, which helps them work independently., Kids may have heard that they're either a "math" person or they're not. If they've come to the conclusion they're not a math person, it makes math that much harder. Tell them anyone can get math down, but they might just have to work a little harder at it.For instance, you could say, "I know you find math hard, but that means you just have to work a little harder at it. Anyone can be a 'math' person. Plus, you'll feel so good when you work hard and finally figure it out!"

