 Asparagus can run $4.99 a bunch during winter months, but can be found for $1.99 a bunch during spring months. Take advantage of harvest seasons!

, Buying in bulk leads to healthier food choices (since many are whole foods), as well as offering you the freedom to choose exactly how much you need rather than conforming to prepackaged goods that can easily be forgotten and wasted. Items to buy in bulk can be rice, flours, cereal, honey, sugars, pasta, lentils, oats (instant, rolled, steel-cut), nuts, oils, dried fruits, spices, coffee, tea, and so much more! Similarly, you can also buy vegetables and fruits in bulk during their peak season and preserve them for later consumption.


If you bring your own containers to the store, remember to weigh them before filling them. You’ll find scales by the bulk section, or you can take the container up to the counter to have an attendant “tare out” the weight of the container for you.
 Flours, sugars, salts, nuts, grains, canned beans, and vegetables are often indistinguishable from name brands and cost far less. However, avoid generic yogurt because it often has extra sugar and additives that counteract the healthy benefits normally found in yogurt.
 When meat is on sale, by all means stock up! But make sure to freeze it correctly to avoid it being a wallet-drainer.


Grocery store packaging isn’t meant for long term freezing. You’ll want to re-wrap it one or two times. If it’s only going to be frozen for a couple of weeks, a freezer bag will be adequate. Anything longer than that requires tin foil, plastic wrap, and freezer bags. The goal is to make sure no air is touching the meat.
 It’s expensive and unhealthy. In processed food, nutrients are stripped away and most of what remains is only sugar, sodium, and chemicals.Getting rid of these foods is a great opportunity to bring healthier, more nutritious meals into your family menu.
 Compare the cost between sizes by the tag on the shelf. Buy larger sizes of staple (non-perishable) foods if you have the space and money., Getting in touch with how much money you are actually spending at the grocery store is the most important way of getting your budget under control. Don’t throw away or recycle your receipts. Keep them, so in the future, you can beat them!

