 Other people are the cause of many day-to-day annoyances. If you work on improving your communication skills, you can help yourself cope with irritating people. By setting boundaries and conveying those boundaries to others, you can limit irritating interactions.Make your feelings clear. For example, if you have a co-worker who regularly asks when you are going to have children and you feel that his questions are an annoying invasion of privacy, you could say "My husband and I are very happy with our lives." Then move on.
Say no. We are often irritable when we feel overwhelmed and worn down. This tends to happen when we are too busy. Try saying no when someone asks you to do something that you don't have time for. Say, "Actually, I'm not available to fill in for you at the client dinner this Thursday. I have a lot of my own projects that I need to focus on."

, When you are feeling irritable, there are several steps you can take to avoid taking it out on other people. One of the most effective methods is to take a break, or a time-out. If you're irritable during a meeting, excuse yourself for a minute. Grab a drink of water, take a few deep breaths, and give yourself a minute to process your emotions. This might avoid helping you snap at someone.Try using "I" statements. Instead of getting mad and exploding when you come home to a sink full of dirty dishes, phrase your annoyance productively. Say "I would appreciate having some help cleaning up," or "I feel overwhelmed when I come home to a messy house at the end of a busy day". This way, you are explaining your emotions without using a blame-placing statement.
Consider the other person's point of view. Before getting mad, take a minute to think. Did the other person have a hectic day? Is that why the household chores aren't done? Maybe take that into consideration before jumping immediately to irritability.
 Sometimes your view of a situation might not consider the whole picture. We have a tendency to assume that other people's actions are focused on us. In reality, they probably have their own reasons that might have nothing to do with you. Try asking some questions to figure out the situation. It can be irritating when your partner doesn't remember to take the trash out. Instead of immediately thinking, "Why doesn't he care about me?", try to assess the situation by saying, "What's the situation with the trash? Were you running late to work this morning?

