 There are dozens of different crochet stitches and techniques, but most of them are built on two basic stitches: the single crochet (sc) and double crochet (dc)

, A starting chain, also called a foundation chain, is literally the foundation of any crochet project. Every crochet pattern will tell you how many stitches you need in your starting chain. A chain is made with several chain stitches (ch). To make a starting chain, follow these steps.


Make a slip knot and loop it over the crochet hook. Leave at least a 6" tail on the end of the knot.
Hold the crochet hook in your right hand and the yarn in your left.
Pass the yarn over the hook from back to front (this is called yarn over or yo)
Pull the hook and the wrapped strand of yarn through the original loop on the hook.
You have now made one chain, and should have one loop remaining on the hook.
Continue this until you have the number of chains you wish, or as specified by the pattern.
 Single crochet is the simplest stitch, and creates a tightly woven fabric. To make a single crochet stitch:


Begin with a starting chain. For practice, make a chain of 17.
Make sure the front of the chain is facing up. The front of the chain looks like a row of nesting "V"s. The back of the chain looks like a row of bumps.
Insert the hook from front to back into the second chain from the hook.
Yarn over the hook.
Pull the hook and the wrapped strand of yarn through the stitch. You should now have two loops remaining on your hook.
Yarn over the hook again.
Pull the hook and the wrapped strand of yarn through both of the loops on your hook.
You should now have one loop remaining on your hook, and have made one single crochet.
Moving right to left, continue making single crochets until you reach the end of the chain. You have now made one row of single crochet.
 Double crochet is one of the most commonly used and versatile crochet stitches. It makes fabric that is solid, but more flexible and soft than fabric made with single crochet. To make a double crochet stitch:


Being with a starting chain. For practice, make a chain of 19.
Make sure the front of the chain is facing up. The front of the chain looks like a row of nesting "V"s. The back of the chain looks like a row of bumps.
Yarn over the hook.
Insert the hook from front to back into the fourth chain from the hook.
Pull the hook and the wrapped strand of yarn through the stitch. You should now have three loops on the hook.
Yarn over and draw the hook and wrapped strand of yarn through the first two loops. You should now have two loops on the hook.
Yarn over again, and draw the hook and wrapped strand of yarn through both loops.
You should now have one loop remaining on your hook, and have made one double crochet.
Moving right to left, continue making double crochets until you reach the end of the chain. You have now made one row of double crochet.

