 Walking is an extremely safe, effective form of exercise. Not only is this a light enough activity to get you gradually back into exercising after surgery, but it also allows you to bring your baby in a stroller. Use a walking routine as an excuse to get outside for fresh air, which can be a challenge during the first few weeks after birth.
 In general, activities that take place in the water tend to be low-impact. Try making a trip to your local pool and doing five to ten gentle laps or enrolling in a water aerobics class for a gentle, balanced, and (most importantly) low-risk cardio workout.


If you swim, use a gentle stroke like the crawl, back, or breast strokes. Don't use a difficult or high-intensity one like the butterfly stroke.
 As long as you don't go over any major bumps, cycling can be a great form of low-intensity exercise. Best of all, it's something you can do at the gym and at home, provided you own a bicycle. You can even add a baby carrier to your bike to bring your new baby along for a ride.


Try restricting your cycling to flat areas and gentle hills. Straining to pedal uphill or going over bumps can be problematic if your incision hasn't completely healed yet.
 While running is usually off-limits for women for a while after a c-section, elliptical exercise machines offer a low-impact alternative. If you use an elliptical machine, proceed at a moderate pace and use a level of resistance that you're comfortable with. Don't overtax yourself — it's harder, but it's still possible to hurt yourself on an elliptical.
 Once you have been working out for several weeks with no issues, you can start ramping up your cardio routine. Gradually reintroduce more difficult, higher-impact exercises like running, jogging, stair climbing, dancing, aerobics, and so on. Only increase the intensity of your exercise routine as quickly as is comfortable — if at any point your exercise starts to hurt you or causes you to become over-fatigued, decrease its intensity.

