 Ski cross (think motocross) is a timed skiing event with several competitors racing down a run at the same time. It is still considered a freestyle skiing event because of its liberal use of large jumps and high-banked turns. Since ski cross is a race at its core, practice skiing at high speed.


Do not ever overextend yourself and exceed your own comfort levels. Begin by timing yourself on a comfortable run at your normal pace and try to start improving your time over several runs down the course. Skiing at speed is about comfort and confidence, and you will not develop either without plenty of practice.
 While many freestyle skiing varieties use jumps to perform tricks, ski cross is about flying through the jump efficiently and maintaining speed. This means staying low in the air and propelling yourself forward rather than up.


Do not pop or jump off a ski cross jump like you would in slopestyle. Instead, crouch down and absorb the jump with your knees. By keeping your head low and knees bent, you maintain the maximum forward velocity off the lip of the jump as well as the least wind resistance through the air. Straighten out past the apex of the jump, so that you can land with the maximum balance.
 Ski cross courses regularly change direction with high-banked turns. As with turning anything at a high rate of speed, the angle at which you enter the turn has the biggest effect on the outcome. By starting with a slightly outside line and diving down into the turn, you create a wider turning radius, thus leading to less deceleration.


Half-pipes make great places to practice several high-banked turns. Instead of using your momentum to carry yourself off the lip of the half-pipe, simply drift up the side of the bank and use the wall to carve down and across the other side of the half-pipe.
 Since ski cross events always involve a field of skiers, you need to become comfortable skiing in a pack. The basic rules of skiing right of way do not change, but following them in closer quarters takes practice and mindfulness.


Do not practice this by encroaching upon the space of other skiers on normal runs. Look into ski cross clubs and events where you will find others interested in ski cross with whom you can practice these techniques.

