 Instead of water, drink milk! The fat and oil in dairy products will lessen the burn by dissolving the capsaicin.Grab a cup of whole milk, and down it all. Make sure you rinse your mouth well first.As another option, you could choose a dairy product like full-fat sour cream or yogurt.
Milk works almost like a soap by dissolving the capsaicin and reducing the burning sensation in your mouth. There's a protein found in milk called casein that acts like a detergent against capsaicin. The burning sensation in chili peppers comes from capsaicinoids, which are a family of molecules.Ice cream can also help. Anything with dairy in it could help ease the burning sensation you’re experiencing. Coconut milk works very well to cut the burn and modulate the heat level of a spicy recipe.;
, Believe it or not, but the heat is not going to go away if you drink water. In fact, it will actually spread the capsaicin around your mouth and make the burning feel worse.


Soda is largely made of water and also won’t work. Drinking coffee will make it worse, because of the heat in the coffee. Capsaicin has oil-like qualities, which is why it repels water.The burning sensation in your mouth from chili peppers probably won’t last as long as it does on your hands. It’s caused when the capsaicin bonds with the mouth’s pain receptors due to a chemical reaction.
The nerve cells notice when the temperature in your mouth gets above 108 degrees Fahrenheit, which capsaicin tricks the neurons into reacting to.
 Beer won’t work as well because it’s largely water, but some harder alcohols will remove the burning sensation from your mouth.


Take a few sips of vodka. In addition to reducing the burning sensation, it’s likely to make you feel pretty mellow as long as you don’t drink too much!
Alcohol will cool the burning sensation you get from touching chili peppers too. Many different types of spirits will work.
Always be cautious when drinking. Don't drink too much, don't drink if you're underage, and don't drink and drive.
 Ingesting olive oil or vegetable oil will help cool the burn in your mouth by coating your tongue.


These oils or peanut butter are high in fat and oil, so they make good choices for natural remedies.
The fat and oil in these ingredients disintegrate the heat in the chili peppers, alleviating the burning sensation you're feeling.
It might sound counter intuitive, but you need to combat chili oil with other oil, which is why guzzling water is not as effective as vegetable or olive oil.
 Eat starches if your mouth is burning from ingesting chili peppers. They should give you some relief.


Although starches like rice and bread aren’t going to be as effective at dissolving the capsaicin as fats, oils or alcohol, they will help cool the burn.
There is a reason that many cultures serve spicy food alongside white rice (or potatoes). This is common in many Asian and Indian cultures.
Eating a spoonful of sugar can also dull the burning sensation. Mix a tablespoon of sugar into a 9 ounce glass of water, and gargle with it. Alternatively, put a teaspoon of honey on your tongue.
 Many people say that different vegetables or food items are cures for chili pepper burns in the mouth.


Eat some cucumber. This is a common way to deal with too much heat in food served in Indonesia and Thailand. Eat a banana - the texture and sugar content may help soothe the burn as well.
Eat some chocolate. The high fat content in most chocolate bars will help remove some of the capsaicin from your mouth. Milk chocolate generally has a higher fat content and a higher casein content than dark chocolate and therefore should give better relief.
Touch the affected area with a soft corn tortilla (lips, mouth, etc.) Try eating a raw carrot. Just take a bite, and the burn will significantly diminish.
White toothpaste can significantly reduce the burning from habanero oils on the skin. It will likely work in the mouth and/or with other peppers. Eat a lemon wedge, juiced or whole (with all juice), and the acid will help breakdown the oily stuff.

