 Before you can submit your comic to a syndicate, you'll need to find one to work with. Comic syndicates will sell your comic to newspapers, allowing your comic to reach a large amount of readers. Syndicates look for comics that will engage a wide range of readers and have a long lifespan, similar to comics like Garfield or The Far Side. You'll want to find a syndicate that you think your comic would fit in well with. Try searching online for popular comic syndicates to get started. You can also try looking into some of the following major comic syndicates:Creators Syndicate
King Features Syndicate
Washington Post Writers Group
Tribune Media Services
United Media;
, Each syndicate will have their own guidelines for comic submissions. You will need to follow these guidelines exactly to get your comic published. Failure to follow these guidelines may result in your comic being rejected. Make sure you fully understand and adhere to a syndicate's submission guidelines when you are submitting your comic.For example, you may need to submit a certain amount of your comic strips.
You may need to print your comics out at a certain dimension or in a certain format.
The syndicate may require you to send your submission by mail.
You'll likely need to submit a cover letter or other documents that detail your comic.
 Every syndicate will have it's own unique qualities that they are looking for in a comic. You'll want to make sure that your comic and your skills match the requirements that are put out by the syndicate. You should feel that your comic meets the syndicate's needs before you consider submitting it.Your comic should be unique and represent your own sense of humor and style.
Some syndicates, such as King Features, will prefer good writing over art. However, having great art is still important.
The comic you submit should be high quality and should be capable of maintaining that quality over time.
 If you feel confident that your comic would be a good fit with a syndicate, it's time to submit it. Carefully follow the submission guidelines to ensure that your comic is reviewed. The length of time it takes for your comic to be reviewed will vary, depending on the syndicate you're working with. If the syndicate liked your comic, they will make contact with you and discuss syndicating it.If you don't hear back from the syndicate, it's likely your comic was rejected.
Generally, you will hear back within 2 to 3 months if the syndicate wants to work with you.

