 Based on experience, you have probably known about your gender identity since you were young: female, male, or maybe not within the gender binary at all. You know what your gender identity is better than anybody else. Don't let anybody tell you that you aren't transgender, or that it's just a phase.;
, No matter where you are, you can find other transgender people. Call an LGBT community center, advocacy organization or support group. If you can't find one, and it feels safe, ask around. Lots of different places might have ideas about where you can get support.
 Check out books from the library. Jamison Green, Kate Bornstein, Leslie Feinberg, Mattilda, and Louis Sullivan have written some great books that are really informative. Find out everything you can.


Learn from the internet too. Read personal anecdotes, informational websites, and tips from other transgender people.
 Don't hide it; it feels like a huge weight on your shoulders and it hurts. Come out to someone that you'd trust with your life. Write a speech, a letter, or notes beforehand unless your memory is very good. Go ahead and cry, if you need to.


Be prepared to field some basic questions about who you are and what this means for you. Reading up on other people's coming out experiences will help you feel ready.
It helps to prepare some responses to rude or nosy questions beforehand.Sometimes people act disbelieving, cold, or abrupt when they are surprised. If this happens, give them time to process it, and know that it may take a day or two for them to show you their true feelings. If you want to avoid this, consider writing a letter. Then the only reaction you'll see is one that has real thought behind it.
 Don't feel ashamed of being who you are. If transition is what you want to do, then do it. Your gender identity is valid, and there is no shame in pursuing your own mental health and happiness.
 If there's a transgender support center or group in your area, consider going to it - many have anonymous help lines you can call if you have questions and don't feel comfortable going in person. If you can, meeting somebody who's already spent time questioning their gender and is further along in the transitioning process than you are can be extremely helpful. If there's nothing in your area, there are online support groups who can provide help, advice, and a listening ear.
 Pour out your feelings into a journal, write music from the heart, poems, blog posts, and let out your difficult emotions.
 Discuss this with a physician who has has experience in this area. If the doctor does not believe you or take you seriously, go to another one. Don't let an ignorant health care professional question your identity.
 If you feel certain that you are ready, then don't hesitate—your journey to being yourself has just begun.

