 Healthy stools are primarily made up of water. Things like infrequent or unpredictable bowel movements and diarrhea can cause piles. Make an effort to stay hydrated throughout the day, as this can reduce your risk for piles.Have a water bottle on hand at all times. Take sips throughout the day.
Drink water with meals instead of soda and juices.
If you see a water fountain, always stop by and take a drink.
 A lack of fiber can cause bowel issues that lead to piles. A good way to prevent piles is to increase your overall fiber intake. Fiber is found in foods like fruits, vegetables, legumes, and whole wheats.Eat a lot of fruits and vegetables throughout the day. Have veggies as a side for every meal and snack on fruits when you're hungry.
Go for 100% whole wheat breads and other grains.
If you're concerned about your fiber intake, talk to your doctor about potentially taking a supplement.
 Regular exercise can help prevent bowel issues, such as constipation, that can cause hemorrhoids. Make sure to get in some physical activity each day to cut back on your risk for developing hemorrhoids.Strive for at least 150 minutes of aerobic activities, like brisk walking or running, each week. A good way to get the exercise in is to strive for 30 minutes, five days a week.You should also incorporate strength exercises, such as weight lifting, two or more days each week.
In addition to exercising regularly, try to spend less time sitting. This can reduce pressure and lessen piles.
 If you are overweight, this can increase your likelihood of developing piles. Talk to your doctor about a weight loss regimen so you can achieve a healthy weight.Diet and exercise are key to weight loss. You want to eat healthy low-calorie meals and get some physical activity in each day if you need to lose weight.Activities should be things you enjoy. If you like riding your bike, for example, go on a weekly bike ride. Even things like shopping, cleaning, and running errands can help with weight loss.

