 The needle will have a cap on it when you push it onto the end of the syringe, or should if it's a fresh, clean needle. Push the needle down on the syringe so the needle stays on and won't come off.
 Take the cap off the needle and have it ready to draw fluid into the syringe. You won't be able to get medication into the syringe if you have the cap still placed over the needle.
 The aluminum cap protects the rubber cap that is placed over the opening of the bottle and keeps the liquid from leaking out if the bottle is tipped on its side or upside down. Use your finger nails to remove the cap, never a knife or sharp object, because you will compromise the rubber cap and invite contamination.
 Before you do so, however, you should draw the same amount of air into the syringe as you want to draw from the bottle. This is so that it makes it easier for you to draw in the contents, because trying to draw in liquid when you have a vacuum formed by both the syringe and the bottle can make things very difficult. Then you can poke the needle into the rubber cap.


The rubber cap will act as a vacuum or not invite air into the bottle, and when the needle is pushed through, this vacuum will not be disrupted.
 After you have pushed the amount of air you have in your syringe into the bottle with the plunger, raise the bottle up so that it is almost vertically above the syringe, and slowly pull back on the plunger, drawing the fluid into the syringe up to the desired amount. It's important to raise the bottle above the syringe so that you allow gravity to help draw the fluid in, and so that you're not drawing in air instead.
 Lowering the bottle moves the liquid to the bottom (via gravity) and introduces the "air" component of the bottle. Removing the needle then ensures that liquid won't drip out.
 Store the bottle in a place where it's cool and dry and won't get damaged, like in a cooler or toolbox meant for storing your cattle medicating equipment.
 Flick your finger against the barrel for any bubbles that won't automatically float up. Slowly and carefully push the plunger to eject the air bubbles present. This especially important if you are going to administer IM or IV injections.

