 Older versions of baby walkers may not be designed to guarantee your baby's safety.


Buy a baby walker with a wide base. Walkers with wide bases will prevent your baby from fitting through doorways and entering dangerous areas such as kitchens or stairs.
Buy a stationary baby walker without wheels. Although your baby won't be able to "walk," it will allow your baby to stand up on their own and bounce.
Buy a baby walker with mechanisms and features that prevent your baby from falling down stairs. There are currently a variety of baby walkers with different mechanisms that can perform this task; such as wheels that lock into place, rubber grips, wheel lifts, or friction strips designed to sense when babies maneuver their walkers over uneven surfaces.;
, Some walkers will include trays or toy attachments that your baby can play with while they are in the walker.


Examine the walker's extra features to determine that there are no small, detachable parts that your baby can break off and insert into their mouths. Small, removable parts may present a choking hazard.
 This will allow your baby to enjoy the walker for several months as they continue to grow.
 If you choose a baby walker that is extremely heavy or presents too much friction on the floor, your baby may become discouraged, frustrated, or have a difficult time using the walker as intended.
 This will allow your baby to be comfortable for long periods of time when they are in the walker.
 This may help free up room in your home when your baby is not using the baby walker.
 This will help you determine the best baby walker for your baby and your home based on consumer feedback by other parents.


Perform an Internet search for reviews of baby walkers or visit major retail websites that feature consumer reviews and star ratings on baby walkers.
If you do not have Internet access, review magazines that feature various consumer product reports or seek recommendations from representatives in retail stores that specialize in baby equipment.

