 You've been through it and made it to the end, so now all that needs to be done is remember the things you learned and lean most toward the good things for remembering. Say goodbye to friends who are going separate ways and if you want to keep in touch with them, exchange contact details or stay in touch online. Then it's time to get excited about your new school and moving on up.;
, Go a little after the supplies are in stores, and you will get a first peek at everything! If you wait longer, there is a chance of many good binders being taken, which would stink.
 Familiarize yourself with the school and its surrounds. Get a map of the school so that you can study where everything is in your own time.


Meet your new teachers if this is possible.
 Get a good night's sleep by tiring yourself out during the day and going to bed nice and early.
 If you have a uniform, wear it as it should be worn. If you have casual attire, choose neat and comfortable over fashionable items that cause you to feel uncomfortable. Prepare your clothing the night before and keep this as a habit throughout school.


If you want to wear makeup, keep it natural and minimal. You don't need to wear makeup, so if you don't want to, simply don't.
 Compare schedules with friends. Now you know who your study buddies are, and who to share fries with at lunch. Talk about where you want to sit, which teachers seem nice, what the subjects are about, etc.
 If you don't have any existing friends at the new school, reach out to others and say hi. Offer to sit with people or to show them around the school. Strike up conversations about the subjects, timetable or teachers. Eventually you'll connect with a few people whom you like and wish to spend time hanging around with.
 Although it's early yet, getting into a good routine now makes a lot of sense. Set up a homework timetable, take good notes in class and be prepared to ask questions about things you don't yet understand. Remember that if you don't know it, it's likely that there are many others who don't know it either and will be grateful that you asked.


Make a suitable homework area at home for nightly and weekend studying. Add stationery, computer and anything else needed to help with the studies. Pin your homework schedule up for ease of reference.
Use a diary to help you keep track of assignments, homework and tests. Use it regularly to get into a good daily habit.
Know your learning style. This may help you to learn with more ease.
 It's important to be organized from this point on as you are more and more responsible for your own work and meeting your own needs. Teachers will not be as hands-on with directing you to be timely or ready anymore–-that's now down to you. As already suggested, use a diary and schedules to keep up with things and make use of binders, color coding and post-it notes to keep track of all the things you're learning.


Clean out your binders, locker and backpack regularly. This will ensure that you don't lose important notices, assignments and old lunches.
The sooner you complete homework and assignments, the sooner you're free to do other things. Also, this reduces last-minute stress and that awful moment when you realize you forgot to borrow the right book to help you with the assignment due in the morning!

, Don't gossip, spread rumors or provoke fights. School is about learning and socializing, not developing dramas. If you have a tendency to whine, complain or get your own way by throwing a tantrum, now is a good time to learn to stop these childish behaviors and to become a stronger, more assertive and independent individual. Middle school is your chance to grow up.


Be aware that there will always be people you like and don't like and people who like and don't like you. The trick is to not go around hating or feeling victimized. Instead, be friendly and polite to those you don't like and realize that the nasty things some people say to you are more about themselves than about you. Don't take it personally. If you need to talk to someone about it, do so––there is no shame in getting support to help you get through any rough patch.
Don't do anything to make someone not like you. There will be people who don't like you anyway, now is not a good time to provoke them.
Keep your passwords, locker/lunch codes, very personal information to yourself. Stay safe by not sharing information that others don't need to know. This includes friends. These types of information are best kept in your head alone. If you are having trouble knowing what to keep secret, ask a teacher, parent, older sibling, or guidance counselor.
 The more you do, the more fun you'll have. The more you do to take your mind off drama or challenging schoolwork, the happier you'll be. You'll also make new friends with the same interests as you.


Do other activities at home. Hang out with friends, go for walks, babysit, go for bike rides, play sport, see movies, etc.
 While it may not seem like now, the time will fly by and before you know it, you'll be off to high school. So make the most of this special time in your life because you're also transitioning from child to teen and many personal and physical changes are happening too. Learn all that you can about yourself, your fellow human beings and the world around you.

