 Any sort of paper will work, though you may want to start with something sturdier like printer paper. Then you can move on to more decorative paper which is more prone to rip.You can start with either a square-sized or letter-sized (8.5” x 11”) to make your star. The result will be the same.;
, If you’re using a square, fold along the middle so two opposite edges meet one another. For the letter-sized paper, fold it “hot dog,” or along the vertical axis so that the two longer edges meet one another.
 For your folded square piece of paper, make a mark (a dot, dash, or “x”) on the left side (one of the shorter sides) ⅓ of the way from the top edge. For the letter-sized paper, you’ll make a mark on the middle of the left edge (again one of the shorter edges). Regardless of which size of paper you’re using, you’ll use this mark to coordinate your folds.
 Crease the paper well once you’ve made the fold. This fold should create two smaller triangles within the figure, along the left edge, one above and below where the corner has met the mark.
 Take the bottom left corner and fold it over the diagonal edge of the lower triangle made by the previous fold. What you should have now is the same figure as you ended up with in the previous step, but with the lower left triangle flipped over its diagonal edge.
 The rightmost edge should now be running alongside the leftmost edge. What should left will look a bit like an ice cream cone; a long acute triangle with a right triangle on top (if using letter-sized paper). If you used a square piece, the long acute triangle will be topped by multiple figures.
 For those who started with a square, trim the long acute triangle to make it equilateral triangle (with equally sized edges). Those who began with a letter-sized piece of paper, cut from the midpoint of the right edge of the long triangle up to the top left corner or the triangle.
 The piece trimmed off in the previous step will form your star. Unfold it gently to avoid ripping the paper. Left should be a five-point star with a slight 3D effect from its folds.