 Instead of storing the Action Space cards in stacks ordered by their Stage (1-6), you can keep the Action Space cards on the game board, tucked into photo corners applied to the bottom of each Action Space. Adhesive-backed "photo corners" are used in scrapbooking and photo albums to mount pictures to scrapbook or album pages. Putting two corners each on the bottom of Agricola Action Spaces allows cards to be kept in place and still easily removable for randomization or during the game when the cards need to be flipped.
 If you don't already own some photo corners, buy some: they are available at most brick-and-mortar craft stores and online., Holding the two photo corners in place, put the card onto one of the game board action space areas, to position the corners., Then you can remove, randomize, or flip over the card in that space easily while the photo corners stay securely on the game board.,, The ones used to store embroidery floss can be repurposed as Agricola game piece organizers.


For the original Agricola game pieces, a 17-compartment, 7" x 10" x 1.5" plastic organizer works perfectly. The organizer used here is a Darice brand embroidery floss organizer, model number 10674, which is available from Walmart, Amazon, and similar outlets.
 The room/field tiles fit in the larger compartment, and the wooden components and cardboard markers (such as the "1 food" and "4x" markers) fit in the other 16 compartments.
 Trading card sheets or card display sheets can store the 3-, 4-, and 5-player Action Spaces and put in place simply by laying a cut-to-fit card sheet over the area of the game board where they are usually placed. Keeping them in their own cut sheet means that you don't have to keep them all in a single card stack, and that you can choose which page or set is needed when playing with that number of people, instead of having to separate the needed from the unneeded cards before each game., Card display sheets are regularly sold at game stores, and if you don't live near a game store, you can always buy them online. You only need three 3x3 card display "pages" for this Agricola modification.,, This will produce two 2-column x 3-row sheets, one for the 4-player and one for the 5-player cards.

If you keep a 1-row, 3-column cut-out from the 3x3 page used for the 3-player cards (the bottom row, for example, if the top two rows are used for the 2x2 "square"), you can use this left-over card-sleeve row as a sorter e.g. for "begging" cards, scoring cards, and Major Improvements.
,