 Whatever you're doing outdoors, having a plan will help cut down on unnecessary activity in the heat. By having a plan, you can set time limits on your exposure to the heat and plan ways to minimize the effects of the heat before you head into it each day. Always be sure to stick to your time limits by prioritizing and leaving less important things to be finished when it's cooler.


When hiking, study the map at the beginning of the day, and calculate the best route, especially one that makes the most of shade where possible.
While swimming, monitor your time in the pool. You may think there is minimal sun exposure because of the cooling effect of the water, but staying in too long without reapplying sunscreen or taking a break could lead to sunburn.
If you have to travel a lot during hot days in your vehicle, plan ahead by having your vehicle inspected and ensuring that your air-conditioning is in working order. When you notice the temps aren’t as frigid as you’d like, take it in for service. The car is likely low on Freon., As part of your planning, spend time watching the weather forecasts. In the USA, NOAA produces a heat alert based on Heat Index Values. The importance of this measure is that it tells you how hot it will feel outdoors when the relative humidity has been factored in with the actual air temperature. Be aware that heat index values are devised for shady areas and light wind conditions. If you're under full sunshine and in the presence of strong winds, the heat factor can increase by up to 15 °F (−9 °C)., Travelers often make the mistake of trying to maintain normal levels of activity when arriving in a country warmer than the one they've left. Acclimatization can take up to 10 days depending on the temperature difference.Rather than pushing yourself, give yourself time to acclimatize to the new warmer environment, which means minimizing physical activity until the heat feels more tolerable.


Once you feel more comfortable in the heat, gradually build up your physical activities until you're back to your normal level.
 Slow down, it's not worth pushing yourself strenuously when it's hot outside. Start and progress gradually, noting when the heat is really affecting you. Rest is an important way of coping with too much heat. Don't deny yourself the opportunity to rest when you feel fatigued during warm weather.Things that require a lot of physical effort can be done early in the morning or later in the day.

