 Have the same diapers that you use at home on your baby. Pack a diaper for every one to two hours you expect to be out. For example, if you are going to be out for six hours, you would pack three to four diapers in the bag.If you want to be on the safe side, you can pack eight to ten diapers at a time to ensure you have enough for the day. However, you may be limited in space if you have a smaller diaper bag.
 You can pack a small container of diaper wipes or put ten to twelve wipes in a plastic bag for the day. It’s always better to have more wipes than you need in the event of an emergency.A small tube of diaper cream will also be handy for when you change your baby.
 A changing pad is a must in your diaper bag, as it will make it easier for you to change your baby when you are out and about. Look for a changing pad that is slim and padded. It should fold in half or in sections so it can be stored easily., Clean baby blankets are good for when you are changing your baby. You can place blankets on the changing pad and over your baby while you pull out a fresh diaper. Make sure the blankets are clean.If you are still nursing your baby, you can also use a clean baby blanket as a nursing cover when you feed your baby in public.
You can also use the blanket as a burp cloth for after the baby has eaten.
 When you change your baby, you may need to also change their clothing. Pack a clean onesie or a shirt and pants for your baby. You can also pack socks or baby shoes, if you’d like.
 You can use a sealable Ziploc bag or a spare plastic bag that you can tie up. You can put used diaper wipes and other trash in the plastic bag., Babies tend to get fussy when you change their diaper, especially in public. Pack your baby’s favorite toy or book so they can look at it while you change them., Bring nonperishable snacks like Cheerios or nuts in a plastic bag. You can also cut up fruit and veggies to put in bags. A sippy cup with a spill proof lid may also come in handy. Fill the sippy cup with water or juice for the day.