 Traditional Greek recipes feature mouthwatering blends of seafood, breads and pastas, delicious cheeses and aromatic spices. Greek salads are especially tasty. Take advantage of world-famous Greek hospitality on display in restaurants large and small, as well as lively nightclubs and quiet bistros found throughout the country.;
, Greece is famous for its natural beauty, particularly along its many coastlines. Simple hikes can reveal marvelous vistas of white beaches and turquoise bays. Fishing boats and luxury liners take turns gliding in and out of quaint harbors on the country's numerous islands scattered throughout the Aegean Sea.
 You can enjoy Greece by simply relaxing in the sun on a pristine beach or by sailing and snorkeling in a quiet island lagoon. In addition, there are dozens of private tours available to museums, monasteries, wineries, and archaeological sites. Tour on foot, by bus, boat or bicycle. Tours can last anywhere from a few hours to several days. Athens offers many such tours, most notably a walking tour of the Acropolis. You can also sail to any of the most popular Greek islands. Of course you always have the option to ignore the tours and explore Greece on your own schedule. Watch for local events and celebrations.
 One of the oldest cities in the world, Athens is the capital of and largest city in Greece, with a history spanning more than 3400 years. The architecture reflects a perfect blend of days long since past and modern times. Traffic in Athens can be rough, so a walking tour of the shops, galleries, cafes, boutiques and mansions in the city can be very rewarding.
 They offer gorgeous ocean views from hotel windows and harbor jetties. Enjoy some time on foot, since island streets are sometimes too narrow for cars. In fact, some Greek islands prohibit most motorized vehicles. That doesn't mean that the islands are just sleepy outposts, however. You can expect an active nightlife on the better known islands.
 Summer is the most popular season for touring Greece. The days are sunny and hot, particularly inland from the sea. The weather will be mild the rest of the year.
 Don't wait to reserve hotel rooms until summer approaches, because the best rooms will be taken. The more popular islands are very crowded at this time of the year. Some try to avoid the crowds and save on room rates by visiting the lesser-known (and less expensive) islands.
 Such a driver can be invaluable to you as a guide and a source of pertinent information and suggestions. A mainland rental car can be a good idea if you don't want to take public transportation. However, the latter option can give you the chance to meet local residents and learn more about their lives. (Some locals speak a little English and a smattering of other European languages, particularly German.)

, Travel agents and travel websites are both good options in arranging your trip.

