 Perrie Edwards almost always has blonde hair. The shade varies sometimes. At times, she has somewhat darker roots with lighter blonde ends.


Sometimes, her hair is truly platinum blonde with no gradation to a darker color around her roots. Perrie has also played with her look by dying the ends of her hair light blue or red, though.
She’s also dyed her entire hair light purple and light blue. However, those are not the most common looks for Perrie, whose hair is more often long and light blonde.;
, Usually Perrie wears her hair down, but she’s also pulled it up, letting tendrils flow loosely around her face, and she sometimes wears braids or ponytails.Overall, though, her look is long, flowing, and natural. Think romantic.


She uses curling enhancer to create volumized curls and a diffuser. Try a volumizing mousse that you apply through damp hair. Then, blow your hair dry, and use a curling iron, starting with smaller sections for tighter curls and larger sections for wavier pieces.Use sea salt spray or a large-barreled curling iron to create Perrie’s natural waves. When she broke up with singer Zayn Malik, she briefly rocked a curlier look. But usually her waves are looser. Perrie usually wears her hair long, although sometimes she has been seen with shoulder length hair.
 Perrie doesn’t have bangs. She often wears her hair parted in the middle and stick straight.


To get the straighter look, use a straightening iron. Grow your bangs out so that your hair is entirely the same length.
She has occasionally swept her hair over to the right side, but she favors the flowing romantic look with a few waves threaded in.
 You will often see Perrie Edwards with bright red lips. However, this is not her only look. Occasionally, she downplays her lips with matte peach or taupe lipstick.


She tends to downplay her eyes with less eye shadow and liner when she plays up her lips and vice versa. If you’re going to dramatically play up the eyes, go with the more neutral look on the lips or you will look too made up.
Use lip liner, and fill in your lips with it before you apply lipstick. Perrie likes MAC makeup, especially Spice lip liner.
 One of Perrie’s most striking features is her crystal ice-blue eyes. She often highlights her eyes with fairly heavy makeup.


Take black eye shadow, and line the top and bottom lash lines with it. She has said she uses eye shadow in place of traditional liner. Fill in the waterline of the eyes, and apply the black shadow as liner.
She wears Rimmel Scandal Eyes mascara. She sometimes wears fake eyelashes. Perrie’s blue eyes are set off with very dark, thick black lashes. When Perrie has brighter red lipstick on, she often only puts black eyeliner on the top lash line, and applies heavy black mascara only to the top lashes. Don’t put eyeliner in the lash line in that instance., Perrie often applies it in the inside corners of her eyes, and then on the top eyelid.


She sometimes uses black eye shadow as eyeliner, drawing it along the line of scotch tape. She has worn MAC eye shadow in rusty red.
She then applies darker black or blue shadow to the upper eyelid up to the crease of her eye. She uses shadows by Laura Mercier and Anastasia Beverly Hills.
 Perrie has done her fans a favor; she created a makeup tutorial video in which she explains how she gets her look.She plays Aerosmith while putting her makeup on. She favors makeup from brands like MAC and Rimmel. She wears MAC bronzer.
First she takes a brush and applies foundation all over her face.. Then, she applies concealer under her eyes, rubbing it in with a smaller makeup brush. She applies eye shadow above her eyes.
In the video, she applies the blusher on her cheekbones and on either side of her forehead. She applies darker eye shadow in her eye creases. She applies mascara to her lower lash line.
 Perrie’s eyebrows are usually one or two shades darker than her hair. Because her hair is light blonde, this means that her eyebrows are not too dark.


She does not have black eyebrows. Her eyebrows are also not too thick. Rather, they are thick but shaped.
Use a light brown brow pencil or powder on the eyebrow. Get your brows waxed or threaded for extra precision. Perrie doesn’t have a very dramatic arch to her brows.
 Perrie likes to wear denim, jeans, jackets, and shorts. She likes wide leg jeans, a look she’s worn with a white crop top and floppy hat.


Wear denim shorts and jackets, cropped t-shirts and sweaters, ankle boots, and sneakers.She also likes skinny jeans.
Wear statement t-shirts. Perrie has been seen in a Rolling Stones t-shirt.
 Every now and then, Perrie reveals she has a bit of an edge. Dress to surprise now and then.


She once wore full body paint to transform into a cheetah for a Halloween photo shoot.She once wore a wedding gown inspired dress that got the Internet chatter going.She likes crocheted dresses, once wearing one in red with slits cut up the thighs, and black high heels with rhinestones and a silver belt., Perrie has said she likes 1990s clothing, the shapes of it. She likes high-waisted jeans, high-waisted denim skirts, and crop tops.


She dresses a bit in hipster and punk style.She likes baggy jeans and tops, being a little tomboyish at times. She suggests that fans be confident, experiment and wear what they are comfortable in. Don’t take it too seriously! She never looks uncomfortable.
 You will often see Perrie in white, gray, silver, and black. You won’t see her much in bright colors or pastels.


She doesn’t wear patterns a lot and, when she does, they are simple and understated. Her face stands out because her clothes aren’t the center point.
Her look is classic and elegant, but somewhat informal and young, with a bit of a bohemian look. You might see her in a fringed t-shirt, for example.
 Perrie’s individuality shows through in her choices of accessories. Wear more than one earring. Perrie has three earrings in each ear.Get a nose ring. Perrie is often seen wearing a small silver ring in her right nostril.
She’s also painted small flowers on her right cheek. She likes to wear accessories such as jeweled headband, a black floppy hat, a subtle silver necklace on a black chain, and small silver hoop earrings.

