 Before making a reservation on Amtrak, you will want to make sure they serve the city you are departing from, and the place you are traveling to. You can check the "Routes" section of their website, call their toll-free number (1-800-872-7245), or talk to a travel agent. Find out how long your trip will take, so you are able to choose departure times appropriately.;
, The price of your Amtrak ticket will depend on when you are traveling because certain days and times are in more demand than others. If you are able to have several options for when you depart, you will have an easier time reserving a seat at a lower ticket price.
 You may get a discount depending on your age or any groups you belong to. Kids between the ages of 2 and 15 get their tickets for half price, and infants under 2 ride for free. Discounts are also available for seniors, AAA members, military personnel, Student Advantage cardholders, and members of the National Association of Railroad Passengers. Those traveling in groups or for certain conventions may also qualify for a discount.
 You can research your options and reserve your ticket online at Amtrak's website, www.amtrak.com. The website will ask you to input your contact information and details about your trip, and then calculate your price. You can pay with a credit or debit card online, and print a confirmation page, which will also be emailed to you (along with your e-ticket, see below).
 Call the Amtrak customer service center at 1-800-872-7245, and an agent will help you make a reservation. They will ask you about your travel dates and destination, and provide you with some options. You can pay with a credit card over the phone and have your e-ticket emailed to you, or you can make the reservation by phone and then pay for and pickup the e-tickets at the station.
 If you live close to an Amtrak station, you can go there in person to make a reservation. There are kiosks, where you can make a reservation and pay with a credit card, or you can go to a ticket agent for help. With an agent, you can pay with credit cards or cash.
 Many travel agencies will help you make a reservation on an Amtrak train. Choose an agent who has experience booking Amtrak travel.
 The process is somewhat similar to purchasing e-tickets from an airline. Once your reservation is confirmed, you will receive a confirmation email with an e-ticket attached as a PDF. You can print this out at home, pick up your e-ticket at the station, or of course, if you're that type of person, load it on your smartphone. ONE e-ticket will be issued per reservation, no matter how many people are traveling in your party. Lost your e-ticket? No problem. Just reprint it, or go to a ticket agent and they can reprint it for you. Of course, if you purchased (paper) tickets prior to July 30, 2012, these can still be redeemed for travel without a problem.

