 Reflect on how you feel after each workout session. Keep track of each improvement you notice. Every lifted mood and every extra minute you can run without getting winded is something to celebrate. Read your entries at the end of the week. This will make you look forward to your next workout., Start out with moderate cardio for 30 minutes each day. Work up to three days of intense cardio and two days of moderate to intense strength training.When your current routine starts to feel too easy, increase your intensity to the point where you can just make it. Keep building to avoid plateaus in your progress.
 Cardio helps to build your endurance, burn fat, and make your heart stronger.If you go to the gym, you can choose from treadmills, exercise bikes, and a variety of ellipticals. Ellipticals typically let you burn more calories, let you work at a variety of intensities, and are gentler on your knees.If the gym isn’t for you, make time to power walk and run/jog in the park, the mall, or around your neighborhood., Keep your core muscles strong to support your posture and overall spinal health. This muscle group consists of your upper abs, lower abs, obliques, and back muscles. You could do sit-ups, oblique sit-ups, and reverse crunches, but if you’d like to try something different, you could go for:


Planks, which strengthen your back and lower abs. Start with 2-3 sets of 10 reps.Rotating planks, which work your abs and obliques. Start with 2-3 sets of 8-12 reps.Single leg resisted curls, which work your lower abs and obliques, as well as your legs and biceps (upper front arm). You’ll need a medicine ball for this exercise. Start with 2-3 sets of 8-12 reps., Strong legs allow you to walk and run longer and faster. Your major leg muscles are your quadriceps (front of your thighs), your hamstrings (back of the upper leg), and your calves. Many exercises that work the quads also work your gluteus maximus (butt). Try these moves as part of your makeover:


Squats work your quadriceps and your glutes. Start with 2-3 sets of 15. Add weights if you need a challenge.
Touchdown jacks strengthen your quads, as well as your obliques. Start with 2-3 sets of 20.
Squat thrusts strengthen your quads and hamstrings while throwing in a bit of cardio. Start with 2-3 sets of 10., Your arms consist of your deltoids (shoulders), biceps, and triceps (back of your arm). You need strong arms for everyday tasks like lifting and carrying objects. Common exercises include push-ups and curls. Additionally, you could try:

Tricep extensions, which help to tone the back of your arms. You could even mix it up a bit and throw in side lunges to work your outer thighs at the same time. Start with 2-3 sets of 10.
Overhead presses, which work your deltoids. Start with 2-3 sets of 10.