 In many newer models of the Prius, you cannot disable the reverse beep using the method listed above and must instead access the on board computer using an application on your phone and Bluetooth adapter. Purchase an OBDII Bluetooth adapter from an automotive or electronics specialty store.Some Bluetooth OBDII adapters are designed specifically for certain smart phones, so be sure to purchase one that works with yours.
Android phones may be better for this specific application.
 The OBDII port in your vehicle is located on the underside of the dashboard on the driver’s side. It may be difficult to spot, as it tends to be made of black plastic. There are multiple metal pins inside the port and there should be no others like it in the area.If you are having difficulty locating the OBDII port in your Prius, refer to the owner’s manual to assist you in locating it.
 Insert the new OBDII Bluetooth adapter into the OBDII port in your Prius. Because the adapter is wireless, it should not hang down very far. Some adapters will light up when plugged into a vehicle with the power on.Make sure the adapter is seated firmly in the port so it has a strong connection.
Press the start button without your foot on the brake to engage the car’s electrical system.
 There are a number of applications available for smart phones that can be used to read or adjust the settings in your vehicle when combined with an OBDII Bluetooth adapter. Carista, OBD Fusion and DashCommand are each options that may work for your specific smart phone.Open the application and create an account if need be.
Turn on Bluetooth on your smart phone.
 With the application of your choice running and Bluetooth enabled, the phone should automatically sync with the adapter. If it does not, try turning Bluetooth off and then on again. Ensure the vehicle has the power running, but not the engine.You may need to open settings and tell the phone to sync with the adapter.
If you have a Bluetooth password on your phone, you will need to enter it for the two to connect.
 Depending on the application and phone you are using, there will be a number of settings available that you can modify directly from your phone. One of these settings is for the reverse beep. Scroll through your options until you come across it.Some phones may be unable to access this menu. If that is the case, you will have to edit the code yourself.

After changing the setting, close the application and remove the adaptor from the OBDII port.
If you ever decide to turn the reverse alarm back on, simply change the setting back to "on."

