 Your complexion refers to the surface shade of your skin, such as fair, medium, olive, tan, or dark and is not necessarily fixed. So your complexion may be lighter in the winter and darker during the summer. By looking at the skin near your jawline, you should be able to determine your coloring.Make sure your skin is clean and free of any product, such as foundation, powder, or lotion.
If your skin can be described as very white, pale or translucent, you are fair skinned. You may have freckles or a little redness to your complexion. Your skin is very sensitive to the sun and burns easily.You may have cool or warm undertones.
If you have pale skin that burns in the sun but then deepens into a tan, you have light skin. You may have a little red coloring and your skin may be mildly sensitive.May have cool or warm undertones.
If you tan very easily and rarely burn, you have a medium skin tone. You likely have warm or golden undertones. This is a very common complexion.If your skin is olive or tan year-round (even in the winter), your complexion is likely tan. You almost never get a sunburn and your undertone is probably neutral or warm.If you have warm, brown skin and back or dark brown hair, you have a warm complexion. Your skin darkens very quickly in the sun and you rarely burn. Your undertones are almost always warm. Women of Indian or African descent often fall into this category.If you have very dark, even ebony skin and have black or dark brown hair, you have a deep complexion. You may have a warm or cool skin tone and your skin hardly ever burns., Remember, these are not rules, only suggestions. Matching your skin tone with a flattering color can help you look your best, but feel free to branch out and experiment with whatever shades really grab you.


Warm undertones should try neutrals, like beige, cream, orangey-coral, mustard, off-white, yellow, orange, brown, warm red, and yellow-greens.Cool undertones should try blue-red, blue, purple, pink, green, plumb, navy, magenta, and blue-green.Neutral undertones can draw from both groups. Most shades will flatter your skin.
 Start out with these guidelines and recommendations, but don't be afraid to branch out.


If you have fair or light skin, try light pink or coral, nude, beige, or dusty red. If you have cool undertones, look for raspberry or mocha or nudes, especially. Warm undertones may want to try red with blue undertones (this will make your teeth look very white, too), coral, pale pink or peachy nudes.If you have tan or medium skin, go for cherry red, rose, mauve, or berry. Deep pinks or corals will look good, too. If you have warm undertones, focus on tangerine, orange-red, copper, or bronze.If you have cool undertones, look for wine colored shades or cranberry.
If you have a dark or deep complexion, look for browns, purples, caramel, plumb, or wine colored lipsticks. If you have warm undertones, try copper, bronze, or even a blue-based red.If you have cool undertones, look for metallic shades in ruby red or a deep wine shade.