 You’ll need to speak with a louder voice if you want to be heard. You’ll need to let others know that you’d like to talk by physically moving closer to them than you might at a quieter party.Large parties are often more chaotic, with people interrupting one another, or talking quickly to make sure they get their point across.
One way to effectively join in a group conversation is to repeat the last phrase that another person said, and join it with your own thoughts. For example, if someone’s just shared a story about being in Paris in April, you might echo, “Yes, Paris in April is beautiful, and for my college graduation, I was able to go to Rome, which I thought was wonderfully diverse.”
Topics often change very quickly in a group conversation, so don’t worry too much about being exactly on topic. Being friendly is the main consideration.
 If you’re the kind of person who’d rather be at home with a book, you might have a hard time adapting to being in a large group of people. Each person has her own way of getting energized for a party. You might listen to the music, and try to get into the rhythm of it. Or, you can think of party scenes from some of your favorite movies, and imagine yourself in the role of the heroine.Even if you’re not totally at ease about being at the party, trying act as if you’re comfortable can help speed the process. (This is sometimes called, “Fake it until you make it!”)
If you find yourself getting drained, make an excuse to get away for a short time. Taking a break by yourself can be a way for an introvert to recharge her batteries and return to the party refreshed.
 If you really appreciate the kind of focused conversation that can happen between two people who know each other well, you’ll have to adjust to the fact that this isn’t likely to happen at the large party. Rather than becoming grumpy about what’s not going to happen, it’s a better idea to rescale your expectations.Conversations in groups tend to be very broad, about a wide range of rapidly shifting topics. The goal of party conversations tends to be less on exchange of information and ideas, than on sharing a common good feeling.
Good conversational choices for talking in groups include: short funny anecdotes, joking around, wordplay.
Topics to avoid include: detailed analysis of a topic, anything that might unintentionally offend others, including political discussion, or discussions of religious faith and practice.
 In a large group of people, you can sometimes find conversation easier by addressing one person, rather than the whole group. Little side conversations often break off of larger group conversations, either related to the topic the larger group is discussing or completely unrelated.It’s okay to talk while others are talking when you’re in a large group; it’s not rude to have a side conversation.
Sometimes the conversation might end abruptly if the group conversation shifts to something more interesting. It’s okay to move back and forth between the small side conversation and the larger group conversation.
 If you’re attentive, you may notice that there’s another person who can’t make his way into the conversational flow. See if you can signal your willingness to help him by making eye contact with him, nodding or smiling.Sometimes you can help support another person who’s trying to make a point. For example, by asking a clarifying question about the subject he’s brought up or restating what he’s said in a new way.
If you’re good at talking in groups, make sure that you’re not taking up too much of everyone’s attention. One way to do this is to use your skills to help others join in the discussion.

