 If you suspect your daughter may be pregnant, you should confront her. The only way to know for sure is to have your teen take a pregnancy test and see a doctor. Spend some time preparing to ask your teen about her potential pregnancy. How and when you have the conversation can make a huge different in whether your teen will be willing to open up to you.


Write down your feelings. With any emotional or difficult conversation, you want to make sure you think out what you want to express beforehand. You don't need to be reading off a script when you talk to your teen. However, you should have some idea of what to say and how to say it ahead of time. Spend a few minutes jotting down your thoughts and feelings prior to the conversation.Try to go into the conversation with empathy. If you could from a place of scorn or judgement, your teen may be unwilling to open up. Therefore, try to put yourself in your teen's shoes. Remember what you were like as a teenager. Try to understand how your teenage experience was both similar and different to your daughter's experiences. You likely remember the pressure and excitement of being a teen. Was there anything different about your daughter's experience? Have there been any specific pressures put on her that might have contributed to her becoming pregnant?Go into the conversation without expectations. Do not confront your daughter expecting her to be immediately open to your help. However, do not go in expecting an argument either. If you rev yourself up for a particular outcome, it can be hard to recalibrate if something different occurs. You do not know how your teen will react when you ask her about a potential pregnancy. Therefore, do not try to guess. Go into the conversation as prepared as possible with no particular expectations., Remember, you want to show your teen respect. Even if you're upset with the situation, coming from a place of judgement will only serve to alienate your teen. In the event your teen is pregnant, you want her to feel she can see you as a source of help and guidance throughout her pregnancy.


To start, do not assume anything. Go into the conversation assuming your teen had a good reason for making the decisions she made. Even if it does not seem like a good reason in your eyes, your teen probably saw it that way at the time. Do not pre-judge the situation or your teen's behavior. Even if you feel her becoming pregnant was reckless, try your best to leave this judgement behind. It will not help the situation in the present moment.Never assume you know what's wrong. Even if your teen is displaying signs of pregnancy, you cannot know for sure without confirmation. Therefore, do not enter the conversation by saying something like, "I know you're pregnant" or "It seems like you're pregnant." Instead, ask. Say something like, "I'm concerned about some of your behavior. Do you think you might be pregnant?", Teenagers are still very much children but are also old enough to crave some autonomy. Advice during a stressful time like pregnancy may not be taken well. Therefore, try your best to understand your daughter's feelings, actions, wants, and needs before offering any guidance.


Listen to what your teen tells you. Try to withhold judgement as she explains how she became pregnant. Ask nonjudgmental questions for clarification when necessary. Ask if she's made any decisions. Remind her she's very young and it's okay to take some time to make a decision about her pregnancy.It can help to practice active listening. This is a way of listening that promotes understanding and can be useful during difficult conversations. Give your daughter non-verbal cues, like nodding on occasion, to show you are listening. Briefly paraphrase her words back to her when she finishes talking to show you heard what she said. If you have any questions about what's being said, wait until she's finished her sentence to ask., Remember, guidance is better than outright advice. Pregnancy is extremely difficult for a teen and you want to make sure your daughter makes a good decision. However, you want to make sure your teen is able to think for herself in this situation. Help her process her own thoughts and emotions rather than telling her what you think she should do.


Discuss the potential implications of various options with your daughter. Walk her through the difficulties, financial and otherwise, or raising a child as a teen. Go over options like abortion and adoption, helping to weigh the pros and cons. If you're unfamiliar with such subjects yourself, you can look up information online with your teen to help her explore her options and make a decision.Ask her what she thinks throughout the conversation. For example, you can say something like, "I know when your Aunt Rose was in this same situation, she kept the baby. She thought it was the right thing to do for her. How do you feel about that?"Help your daughter consider all the factors. Pregnancy can be overwhelming. Gently walk your teen through some of the decisions she'll need to make down the road, such as choosing a doctor if she keeps the baby, informing other friends and family members of her pregnancy, and so on.Don't force your views. While you may feel strongly that your daughter should choose a particular option, you need to allow her to make her own decision. Forcing your teen's hand can cause tension between the two of you. It is very important your teen sees you as a source of support during her pregnancy.
 Finding out your teen is pregnant can be emotionally devastating. However, you should avoid criticism as much as you can. Even if you feel your teen has made a huge mistake, criticizing her can backfire. You do not want your teen to feel she cannot ask you for help as she makes a decision.


Your teen is probably already aware she's made a mistake. Nagging or criticizing her now will not help matters. Therefore, it's best to avoid telling what she should have done. Instead, try to be proactive and move forward in the present moment.Your teen may get mad during the conversation. Even if you're trying to be patient and understanding, your teen may lash out at you due to her own anger or fear. Try not to take this personally. Do not react to feelings of anger taken out on you. Simply remain calm and say something like, "I'm sorry you feel that way" and proceed with the conversation.Provide some reassurance. Tell your teen, while the situation is difficult, the two of you will work together to find a solution. It's very important your teen feels safe when discussing her pregnancy with you., You may experience a lot of feelings yourself if you find out your teen is pregnant. Your own hopes and dreams for her have dramatically changed. It's normal to feel sadness, anger, and pain when your teen reveals she's pregnant. However, during the initial conversation keep the focus on your teen's feelings over your own. You may need to occasionally take a deep breath and count to 10 in order to stay calm. Do so as necessary throughout the course of the conversation.