 Before you get started, you will want to gather enough materials to successfully complete the outfit. Acquire:


Brown, gray, and black fabric - enough to stretch from the finger on one hand to another. You want it wide enough to make a cape to attach feathers
Additional fabric to create enough feathers to attach to your wings
A circle template to make large enough hole for your head. A standard dinner plate is a good size
Hot glue
Ribbon or elastic
Sewing machine or needle and thread
A plain gray sweatshirt you do not mind cutting/gluing things to (cheap ones can be found in consignment shops or craft stores)
Gray sweatpants
A craft mask or a homemade cut-out mask from craft board, foam, or fabric

, Cut out a length of gray felt that is as wide as your arm span and as long as the distance between your neck and the back of your knees. From this, cut out a basic wing shape.Position a dinner plate face-down over the center top of the fabric. Trace around half the edge using chalk, then cut this portion out. This dip will be positioned around your neck when you wear the wing cape.
Place a straight edge at the corner of your neckline. Run it downward diagonally at a 20 degree angle (approximately) until you reach the edge of the cape. Trace this line and repeat on the other side. Cut along the two lines. This will be the top of your cape.
Create a zig-zag line all around the bottom of the cape. Sketch out a half circle extending from one end of your wing to the other. Draw alternating triangles and inverse triangles around this curve until you reach the other side. Cut along this line.
This completes the top wing of your wing cape.
 Place your first wing on top of a larger piece of black felt. Trace along the neckline and top edge of the wing using chalk, but extend the edge past that of your gray wing by the length of your triangular zig-zags. Cut along these lines, then make your zig-zag pattern on the bottom edge of the black wing.


When you make the zig-zag pattern for this wing, the triangles and inverted triangles should alternate in opposite order. In other words, when you line up the two wings, you should see a black triangle in the gap left by every inverted gray triangle., Line the two pieces up so that the neckline and top edges lie evenly with each other. Sew a straight stitch across the neckline only.


You can either use a sewing machine or sew the pieces together by hand.
 Measure out two lengths of black ribbon. Sew one end of each piece to either corner of the neckline, on the side of the black wing.


Each length of ribbon should be long enough to wrap around your neck once.
Instead of sewing, you could attach the ribbon using a hot glue gun.
This step completes your wing cape.
 Measure the distance from the sleeves to the bottom of the shirt. Also measure the width of the front. You will need to cut enough feathers from desired fabrics to completely cover this patch of material.Cut out a patch of almond-shaped material for each feather. Each feather should be about 3 inches (7.6 cm) long and 2 inches (5 cm) wide.
Divide the width of the shirt by 2 inches (5 cm). This number is the number of feathers you will need per row.
Multiply the row count by three for your total number of black feathers.
Multiply the row count by two for your total number of gray feathers.
 Apply each feather to the sweatshirt with a dab of hot glue. You will alternate back and forth between black rows and gray rows, and should start and end with black rows.


Start with the bottom row. The bottom of each feather should just barely extend below the bottom hem of the shirt.
Gradually work your way up, row by row. The feathers of each row should slightly overlap those of the row below it.
Line up each feather so that they lie side by side within each row.
 Sketch out the shape of a mask or trace a pre-made pattern onto soft black craft foam. Cut around the outline of this shape and cut out two holes for eyes. Glue the mask onto a pair of cheap sunglasses.If you do not feel comfortable freehand sketching the mask there are free patterns on many craft sites you can print.After cutting out the mask and the eye holes, cut out two rings made with gray craft foam. The inside of each ring should be large enough to fit around each eye hole. Glue these rings to outside perimeter of the eye holes.
Let everything dry after gluing the mask together.
 Put on your feathered sweatshirt and gray sweatpants. Tie on your wing cape, and finish off the outfit by slipping on your owl mask. With this, the costume is complete.

