 It is easier to work with wet hair. Once the roots dry, the hair will be set and difficult to style. You can style your hair just out of the shower, or wet your hair in the section of the cowlick using a spray bottle.;
, Start by drying your hair in the direction of the cowlick. After several seconds, switch to blowing your hair in the opposite direction. Drying your hair in multiple directions will confuse the hair roots in the area to assist in breaking down the stubborn directions held by the cowlick.For assistance in grabbing and holding the hair, pull it in each direction by pulling with a round brush.
If you have curly hair, use a diffuser and a low air setting.
 Use a round brush to grab sections of your hair and pull it in the direction you would like it styled. Starting at the root, apply heat with a hairdryer on medium heat. With the hair on top of the brush and the mouth of the hair dryer kept close to the hair, draw the brush from the root to the tip of the hair while keeping the hair dryer in line with the brush.


Don't rush. Move the brush slowly through your hair.
Repeat this process as many times as needed until you get the look you want.
For shorter hair, draw the brush repeatedly over the top of the cowlick.
Parting your hair in the direction of the cowlick will make it easier to style your hair in this direction. Styling opposite the direction of the cowlick, though, could give longer hair more body., You will want to maintain the style and direction of your hair until it has cooled entirely. Avoid moving the hair around your cowlick at all until it has cooled.


Using a hair clip, preferably one which will not leave a dent in your hair, clip the hair in place and let it cool.Men or women with shorter hair can use your hand or brush to hold the hair in place. Switch the heat setting on your hairdryer to cool. Blow cool air on the area until it is room temperature again. This should take 1-2 minutes.
For an extremely troublesome cowlick, consider securing your hair in place the night before and keeping the hair clip in place while you sleep.
 A flat iron will provide more extreme heat to a very specific area. Plug the iron in and heat it to a medium-high heat, which should only take a minute or two. Separate out the piece of hair you would like to touch up using a comb. Get the iron as close as you can to the root of the section of hair and press this between the two heated parts of the iron. Gently pull the iron down the length of the hair in the direction you want this section of hair to lie.Avoid touching the iron to your scalp, so you don’t burn your skin.
Opt for a thinner flat iron to be able to address smaller sections of hair.

