 The directions above call for a hot pan on the stove, but there's no reason you can't get a great sear on the barbecue. The same general principles apply: get the grill nice and hot, paint the bars with a little oil, and lay your steaks down to cook 1-2 minutes per side. It's easiest to control the heat of gas grills, but charcoal works just as well as long as you get a hot, steady cooking temperature.


See our grilling article for lots of specific instructions to get your meat just right.
 Once you've mastered cooking basic seared tuna recipes, try changing up the recipe by giving each steak a coat of solid or powdered seasonings. This is a little like applying a dry rub to other types of meat. To do this:


After you use a paper towel to remove the water from the steaks, paint both sides of each steak with a thin layer of cooking oil.
Toss your oil-coated steaks in a bowl with your favorite seasonings, herbs and spices. They will stick to the oil and form a crisp exterior when you sear the meat.
Good choices include minced garlic, minced parsley, ginger, paprika, rosemary, thyme, cayenne pepper, onion powder, and much more — it's up to you.
Finish by seasoning with salt and pepper. Sear as normal.
 If you've ever been to a sushi restaurant, you may have noticed that many tuna-containing dishes come with a small portion of sauce meant for dipping the fish in. You can replicate this by pouring a small amount of your favorite sauce into a small dish or bowl and serving this with the meal. Soy and teriyaki sauces are good all-purpose choices, but other can sauces can also work well.


See our soy dressing recipe for a simple sauce that goes well with most seared tuna dishes.
 What isn't better breaded and fried? Giving your steaks a coating of bread crumbs and frying in a little more oil than you would normally use can give them a deliciously crispy exterior. There are many ways to do this — you can find just one below:Combine equal parts panko bread crumbs and black sesame seeds in a bowl.
Roll the steaks in the breading mixture one by one until they are well-coated. If they aren't picking up the breading on their own, try coating them lightly with oil first.
Pan-sear, using extra oil to get a crisp, fried effect on the breading.

