 One of the keys to making the ends of your hair softer is to keep your hair healthy and strong. In order to do that, you need to choose products that will do the job most effectively. Each person has individual hair needs, so pay close attention to the shampoo and conditioner you use.


If your hair is dry, look for a shampoo that boasts extra hydration. Dryness can be a major factor in keeping your ends looking rough.
A lot of people color their hair, and the process of dyeing your hair can cause damage. If you color yours, look for products that offer color protection.
Look for a shampoo that lists vitamin H and silk protein in the ingredients.These will help boost shine and silkiness.
Try different shampoos and conditioners. Your hair will react differently to each brand, so don't be afraid to experiment and find the one you like best.;
, In order to get extra moisture into your hair, you might need some products that take some time to soak in. Instead of using traditional conditioner that you rinse out right away, use some leave-in products to help smooth out your ends. There are a lot of effective leave-in conditioners you can try.Look for a light weight spray. A spray conditioner makes it easy to target specific areas, such as the ends of your hair.
The benefit of a leave-in conditioner is that it keeps adding moisture to your hair. This makes it much harder for your hair to dry out or develop split ends.
If you have fine hair, look for a formula that does not contain oil. Otherwise, you risk weighing your hair down.
Leave-in conditioners are great for smoothing out thick out. Since they act as a natural de-tangler, you will do less damage to your hair when combing it out.
 The chemicals in beauty products can sometimes cause damage to your hair. Consider making your own hair products. There are many natural ingredients that can help you achieve smooth and shiny hair.Try giving yourself a hot oil treatment. You can use a variety of oils that you probably already have at your house. You can use coconut, olive, avocado, or almond oils.
Gently heat a small amount of your chosen oil. Start with about 1/4 cup and heat in the microwave or the stove until the oil is hot, but not too hot to comfortably touch.
Before starting the hot oil treatment, wash your hair but don't dry it. When hair is damp, gently massage hot oil into your hair.
Wrap your head with a warm towel. Cover that towel with another to help seal in the heat. After an hour, rinse the oil out of your silky hair.
 Split ends are often a major problem. Fortunately, there are many food items that can be very beneficial for your hair. Head to your kitchen and look for some ingredients to help you give yourself an at home treatment. Try different combinations until you find the ones that work best for your hair.For example, you can combine the flesh of one avocado with 2 tablespoons of egg whites, and 3 tablespoons of olive oil. Mash together with a fork or spoon until you get a creamy consistency.
Apply the mixture to your hair and cover with a shower cap. After 1 hour, rinse your hair and wash with a gentle shampoo.
Try using the above method with different ingredients. Another great combination is the flesh of one papaya and 1/2 cup of plain yogurt.
You can also use beer to help make your hair silky and smooth. The proteins and sugars provide a lot of beauty benefits. Put beer in a spray bottle and spritz on hair. Rinse thoroughly and then wash with shampoo.
 If your hair refuses to cooperate, you might need to seek professional help. A professional stylist will have access to products that can not only make your hair shiny and smooth, but the results will last for several weeks or even months. Ask the employees at your salon to recommend a process that is right for you.


One option is to have a chemical straightening treatment. This will give you smooth, shiny locks.
Ask your stylist about thermal reconditioning. This is another chemical treatment that is suitable for thicker, curly hair.
A Brazilian Keratin treatment is a popular option. It is less harsh than other chemical processes.
Chemical treatments can be expensive, so make sure to inquire about price before booking your appointment.

