 There are many pre-printed contracts available online and in office supply stores. The contractor may have his own standard contract. Review it carefully word for word and cross out and initial sections that do not apply to your job. You can use the contract as-is or as a template to write your own contract., The contract should list the name, address, and telephone numbers for both the contractor and the homeowner. On both sides, the agreement must identify who can approve of changes to the contract. You should make sure you have after-hours contact information in case of an emergency. A good example of this is if temporary valves start leaking after the contractor has left for the day.
 Don't use shorthand or abbreviations that could be confusing. For example, if your address is "406 S. First Ave. N, South Mytown, State, Zip," do not write "406 S 1st N, S MTwn, State." The contractor may be using different work crews, subcontractors, and material delivery services. You can't assume that your shorthand will be understood.


Always designate whether it is street, avenue, lane, terrace, etc. Many cities have similarly named streets and you don't want your crew to go to 4th Street while your tile is being delivered to 4th Terrace. Always include the zip code in case the contractor will be having materials delivered by UPS or the Post Office.
 Most home improvement projects that aren't strictly cosmetic will require a building permit from the local building codes department. The contract must define who will pull permits and who will pay the permit and inspection fees.
 As the Contractor Licensing Board of California says, a well-build contract describes everything. Go through the estimate step-by-step and incorporate it into the contract. Specify everything down to the brand names. "Install Moen faucet, model XYZ in the bathroom sink and matching Moen shower hardware, model XYZs, in the shower.If blueprints or other drawings have been developed for the work, reference them in the scope section of the contract.
 If your fantasy bathroom includes changing plumbing or wiring it must be detailed and included in the contract. Not just "new plumbing" or "upgrade wiring." Ask the contractor to clarify if needed.
 This includes site preparation and clean-up. Typically, the homeowner will be responsible for clearing and securing all personal items from the work area and securing pets. Unless specifically agreed on, the contractor should remove all debris, including old appliances.


Discuss special issues during the estimate phase. You do not want to be stopping work to relocate an heirloom rose bush for a new sewer line. The homeowner should either build this into the contract or do it ahead of time.
If your roof is being worked on, you should be prepared to remove all valuable and fragile items from the walls and shelves and to cover antiques.
 This is standard in many states. Basically, for three calendar days after a contract has been signed, the homeowner has the right to cancel the contract and receive a full refund of any deposits.


This does not apply to contracts for emergency repairs. If later, you and the contractor can't come of an agreement on the full project, the contractor can bill you for the emergency work. This is common for plumbing leaks.
 If the project gets started and the contractor is not complying right out of the gate, you need a way to get him off the project. Add the procedure to terminate the contract. Typically, it will include that you file your complaint in writing and give a reasonable time for him to comply. If he doesn't, you send a cancellation letter, request an invoice of work to date, and terminate the contract. As part of paying the final invoice you can negotiate who keeps the materials that have been delivered, but not used.
 As soon as the first hammer falls, something will change. A typical scenario is that a wall will be opened and something such as termite damage will be discovered. The contract must address how this will be handled and how costs will be estimated. Typically, change orders must be in writing and approved by the homeowner. The exception is an emergency, such as discovering water or gas leaks inside a wall.
 This serves two purposes. First, you can check out the other companies that will be working in your home and lodge a protest if any red flags pop up. The second is to protect yourself from liens if the contractor doesn't pay them.


As a subcontractor finishes up his part of the project, you can demand to see that the contractor has paid them or ask the subcontractor to sign a lien release.You can also ask to see receipts for payment of materials. Do not make the final payment to the contractor unless all potential liens have been cleared from your home.
 Most contracts are for a fixed price which includes the labor, materials, and profit built into a single price. This section of the contract must detail things like down payment, progress payments, and final retention payment.


Some states, like California, limit down payments to 10 percent of the contract or $1000, whichever is less.Check with your state's consumer protection agency if you have any questions on state standards., A punch listis the list of items that need fixing at the end of a project. Typical punch list items range from sloppy paint and caulking, to missing caps and appliances that don't work properly. Specify that 10 percent of the contract amount will be retained until the punch list is completed., Specify that the contractor will supply you with warranty documents for any materials used in the project. Also incorporate any warranties and guarantees offered by the contractor into the document.
 The contract must include when the project will start, estimated milestones, and the projected end date. Usual milestones are building inspection dates. If the project starts to fall behind, you can ask the contractor why and if the lost time can be recovered.


If the delays are the result of inspection issues, change orders, or weather, you can mutually agree to extend the finish date.
 On a large project, especially if the contractor is from another county or state, the agreement should include a statement that any litigation that arises out of a breach, by either party, will be handled in your local court. This prevents you from having to chase the contractor around the country trying to effect service and establish jurisdiction.