 Keeping track of spending is the type of advice that almost everyone “knows” already, but few people actually do. It’s easy to put off, and keeping track of your spending takes a commitment over time and can force you to confront some uncomfortable truths about how you manage your money. Nonetheless, almost everyone who takes the time to track every penny of their spending for at least a week is glad they did., Instead of thinking about a purchase as a proportion of your whole paycheck, think about it in terms of the hours you have to work in order to buy the item. The reason for this simple: your paycheck is usually a lot bigger than a single purchase. Any one item is going to be much closer to your hourly wage, so it helps keep in perspective the effort you put into every purchase you make.Even if you are on salary, you can calculate your rough hourly wage pretty easily. Just take your weekly salary and divide it by the number of hours you work.
 It can be tempting to spring for a sale item. Making a buy at lower than market price makes us feel like shrewd, savvy shoppers. However, it’s a good way to spend more money than you planned on spending. Instead, just buy what you need. If you want to feel shrewd, find discounts on the item you’re already going to buy., It can be very easy to overspend when you can’t physically see the amount of money you’re spending. Instead of using your card for everything, make one large withdrawal at the beginning of the week and spend it as you go. It will be much easier to monitor your spending if you do.This makes it easier to set spending goals and stick with them as well. If your goal is to spend no more than $100 on miscellaneous purchases, if you only withdraw $100 for the week, you’ll have a much greater awareness of how much you’re spending each time you need to make a purchase.
 If you feel like you must make a certain buy, delay making the purchase for a half hour or so. If you still want it in a half hour, get it. It will save you from buying something you don’t need on impulse., Even if you can only save a penny, save something each time you get paid. The process of saving becomes a habit, like anything else. The habit will reinforce itself, and you’ll want to save more and more.There are also quite a few apps that will help you save money. Apps like Mint and Level will help you track your spending habits and let you know how much you can spend each day, while Digit actually keeps track of your spending and makes small withdrawals automatically.