 Especially if you want to make musical theatre your profession, this is necessary. Many people talk about “raw” natural talent. There is no substitute for it, but you still need to refine that talent. Majoring in theatre in college will give you a well-rounded education, which can help you get into musical theatre, but also several other jobs associated with the stage.Conservatories focus on refining specific skills like singing, dancing, acting, and playing instruments.While in college or the conservatory, think about what skills will set you apart as a performer. Who knows what skills a producer will want, so it is best to have knowledge of a variety of traditional and non-traditional performing skills. Steve Martin is a comedian, but he often uses a banjo for comedic purposes. If you can play the banjo and you go our for a musical version of Huckleberry Finn (like Roger Miller’s “King of the Road”), you’ll have a heads up on other performers without that skill. It is much easier to play a banjo than to successfully mime playing one.
 Getting connections is also part of your training. Yes, it's clichéd, but knowing the right people in the right way is important. Get an idea of who's a big deal and who's not. Then attend shows and after parties where those people are bound to be. Play it cool. Complement their shows. Highlight what you have in common or how you might be able to help them. Overtime, these connections can result in more auditions and jobs.
 Like any job, having a well laid out, detailed resume will make you look more professional.


Start with your name and basic information such as your phone number, email, address, and date of birth. You may also wish to include your vocal range (e.g. Soprano, Alto, Tenor, Bass) in this section.
Next, include a list of what previous productions you've been in. This format should include the name of the production, the company that put it on, where and when it was, and what your role in the production was. Next you should include any training you've done or relevant extra-curricular activities such as vocal lessons, dance lessons, acting lessons, gymnastics, and instruments you play. You will need to also put who your teacher was or the company you did it with.
Think about your digital presence also. Include your Twitter handle, Facebook name, and personal website (if you have one). With so many personalities and musicians hitting it big on Youtube, producers pay close attention to the online presence of their performers. If you have a big following online too that could translate into more theatre goers, producers may be further intrigued by you., Most people think that agents only deal with big Hollywood stars. This isn't true. Agents are paid to be in the loop and to have connections. While you can develop these connections over time socially, it might pay to expedite the process. Agents can get you into more auditions. They can help get you more exposure as well, which might translate to musical theatre jobs down the line. When getting an agent, pay attention to whom they've worked with. Make sure that they aren't just going to take your money and not work for you.
 Whether you're looking for your big break or your first lead role, you have to wait to get it. It takes a couple of shows before you finally begin to get recognized by people in the theatre community. If you wait and are patient, not only will you have a larger resumé, but you'll be a better actor/actress for it!

