 Tap the App Store on your iPad to launch it.;
, Type in HP ePrint on the search field.
 Locate the correct app and download it. Tap the “Install” button beside the app; it’s free.
 Locate the app on your iPad. Its icon has a tablet with a document and a Wi-Fi signal. Tap on it to launch it.
 On the HP ePrint app, tap the gear icon for Settings at the upper-right side of the screen.
 Enter your email address under the Email field. HP ePrint will validate your email address by sending you a PIN code.
 Go to your email account and look for the email from HP ePrint.
 The email from HP ePrint will contain an activation link and a PIN code. Click on the link to activate your account.


If you can’t click on the link, copy the PIN code and enter this on the app where you left off. Tap the “Activate” button to complete your activation.
 Make sure the printer is powered on and connected to the same Wi-Fi network your iPad is using. Also, make sure that the printer has been registered with HP ePrint.


Refer to your printer’s user manual and HP ePrint for more details.
 On the HP ePrint app, there’s a middle portion where “No Printer Found” is displayed. This happens when there’s no detected and linked compatible printer available.


Tap this box to search for a printer from your local Wi-Fi network.
 The available compatible printers found will be displayed. Tap on one to select it.


The printer will now be displayed on the box where “No Printer Found” was previously found. The printer is now ready for printing.
 On the HP ePrint app, tap the “Photos” box on the main screen. This will bring out the Camera Roll.


Browse through your local photos and tap the one you’d like to print. A preview will be displayed on the screen.
 On the HP ePrint app, tap the “Email” box on the main screen. This will bring out all your email accounts linked with the app.


Browse through your email folders, look through your emails, and tap the one you’d like to print. The email will be displayed.
Towards the bottom, tap on “Email Body.” A preview will be displayed on the screen. You can add a new email account by tapping on the “Add Account” button, and following the instructions on the screen to set it up.
 On the HP ePrint app, tap the “Email” box on the main screen. This will bring out all your email accounts linked with the app.


Browse through your email folders, look through your emails, and tap the one whose attachment you’d like to print. The email will be displayed.
Towards the bottom, tap on the file attachment you’d like to print. A preview will be displayed on the screen.
 On the HP ePrint app, tap the “Web” box on the main screen. This will bring out a browser with the app. Use this as you will any other web browser.


Go to the web page you’d like to print. You can either search for it using the Google search box or input its URL directly. The web page will load.
Tap the “Print” button at the upper-right side of the screen. A preview will be displayed on the screen.
 On the HP ePrint app, tap the “Cloud” box on the main screen. This will bring out all your cloud storage services accounts linked with the app. Select the one that contains the file you’d like to print.


Navigate through the sub-folders by tapping on them. Tap on the file you’d like to print. A preview will be displayed on the screen.
You can add a new cloud service account by tapping on the “Add Account” button, and following the instructions on the screen to set it up.
 Review the selected file on the screen to make sure this is the correct one to print. You don’t want to waste paper and ink by printing the wrong files.


If the file has several pages, scroll through it by swiping left or right.
 On the preview screen, there’s a header toolbar. Tap the “Copies” icon and select the number of copies from the drop-down list. You can select between 1 and 10.
 On the preview screen, there’s a header toolbar. Tap the “Color & Quality” icon, then “Quality.” Select between “Draft” and “Normal.”


The quality of the print will be based on what you select.
 On the preview screen, there’s a header toolbar. Tap the “Paper” icon then “Size.” Select the size of the paper you have in your printer.


There are six predefined paper sizes to choose from.
 Tap the “Paper” icon on the header toolbar then “Source.” Select between “Auto Select” and “Main Tray.”


The printer will use what you select as the main source for the paper.
 Tap the “Layout” icon on the header toolbar then “Orientation.” Select among “Use Document,” “Landscape,” and “Portrait.”

, Tap the “Layout” icon on the header toolbar then “Two-sided.” Select among “Normal,” “Short Edge,” and “Long Edge.”

, Tap the “Page Range” icon on the header toolbar then select between “Single” or “Multiple.” Set which pages will be printed, if not all.
 Once you’ve set all the parameters and are ready to start the actual printing, tap the “Print” button at the bottom of the screen.


Make sure you have enough papers in your printer. The printer will receive the data and start printing.

