 Select a heavy cardstock-like paper to act as the support for your bookmark, and then choose an additional image or pattern to glue over the top. Feel free to make a collage of other papers or to select multiple images if you want.
 The size of the bookmark is up to you. Cut the cardstock into a small, less obtrusive bookmark only an inch long, or choose to make a more traditional sized bookmark measuring 2-3 inches wide. Don’t make the bookmark longer than six inches, as some books are this size and you don’t want the bookmark to stick out the bottom as well as the top.
 Using the decorative paper or images you may have selected, cut and glue them onto the cardstock. Try gluing a piece of textured paper or a cut-out from a magazine over the entirety of the cardstock for an easy way to add style to your craft.


Adding glitter or stickers is a great way to give your bookmark personality without much work.
Draw over your bookmark with markers or pens to add words, phrases, or quotes that you particularly like. You can also draw your own images onto the cardstock, or add details to the bits of paper and pictures you have glued on.
Make a collage of images you cut out from magazines by overlapping them on your cardstock. You can do this with your own personal pictures as well.
 In order to protect the paper from becoming frayed or damaged, add a protective covering to your bookmark. If you have the ability to, laminate your bookmark with plastic.


You can also create this effect by using wide packing tape in an even strip on both sides of your bookmark.
Consider using a craft epoxy-like liquid gel to paint onto both sides of your bookmark. Paint one side at a time, allowing drying periods between coats.
 Use a hole-punch to create a hole at the top of your bookmark. Cut a piece of ribbon to be 6-8 inches long, and fold it in half. Then place the loop-end of the ribbon through the hole punch and slide the tail ends through the loop, pulling tightly.


Add multiple ribbons for more color and texture on your bookmark.
Use beads on the ends of your ribbon for a bit of glam. Slide a few beads over the ends of both the ribbon tails, and then tie a knot to secure it.
Use a match or a lighter to burn the cut-ends of the ribbons to prevent fraying. The flame will cause the plastic to melt, creating a blunted-end to your ribbons.