 The more unique it is, the better. This way, you can be distinguished from others and if you get rarer in the future, Jammers will click your nametag more and trade you.;
, Once or twice a day is ideal, but if you can't, then it's no big deal. Others will begin to recognize you the more that you're around in the same server.
 Mondays have "Rare Item Mondays" in the shops - these are rares that you can buy in stores for one day only. Once they're out of stores, they become rarer, and some could become rarer than spikes (e.g. the rare headdress and the non-rare ones as well). Go to the stores, either the clothes shop or den shop (but mostly the clothing shop) and get rare items. Note that some rares are only for members - try trading for the member rare item Mondays, but do not over trade as they are still in stores - they will not become rarer until they are out of stores.
 Know your rares as well. Avoid searching up what rares are worth on the Internet, as information on there is usually a scam, inaccurate, or outdated. Instead, ask some real friends that you have in real life that also play this game. If they do not know or you want more verification, ask around Jamaa. Go to Aldan or a famous Jammer's den and ask rare Jammers what specific items are worth. However, if they reply to you saying that it's worth a necklace, a store bought item, or one item that is not that rare, they are an obvious scammer. Ignore them and block them to avoid being scammed.
 This way, if you ask someone what an extremely rare item is, you'll know if they are trying to get you scammed because you already know what a single of an item is worth and obviously a higher rare item is not worth that item which is lower in rarity. Multiple of those items would be fair for a rarer item however.
 Non-members can only have up to two animals, but you at least you can go all out and cool on them. It can be less time consuming only having two animals anyway, and that's a good thing because there are plenty of other things to do in your life. Choose matching colors and decent clothing. Try not to use too much store bought clothing, but sometimes a necklace, ribbon scarf, or even a cheese hat won't hurt. Some non members are rare, yet they don't have rare looks - they mostly have the funny ones. Do whatever you like with your look and be creative.
 Start by being nice and being helpful. Being kind and saying nice things to other Jammers helps to make friends faster. For example, if someone has a cool username or nice look, say, "I like your username/look!" They might even thank you.


Make lots of friends in general. You never know who might want to share a rare with you. Consider going to Aldan to find buddies. There, there are lots of members, but also non members that are scattered about. Try to start up a conversation with a non member instead of a member - unfortunately, members sometimes bully the non members, so it's best to have fun with someone that has something in common. An example could be another non member that also has no rare items. Hang out with each other, and if you both do become rare in the future, share some of them with your buddies.
 If you somehow get rare item Mondays, epic wonders items, or even non-rare items that are out of stores, keep them as they will probably get rarer! Collect items such as spirit armor, phantom armor, monster teeth, gold bricks, etc. Some Jammers will actually want these items for their rare items (E.g. 3 gold bricks for a blue short wrist or spirit body armor for a den beta).


Create backup accounts. Place these rares in your backups, but keep some in your main account for emergencies. Since non members have less inventory space, you'll want to save some rares on your backup for more space. Get your backup account on and transfer the saved and collected items to your main account every time you trade the current ones away. This will efficiently get you more rares and ways to become rarer. The same can also be done for stored den items.
 Some of these rares include non member pirate swords, rare bows and arrows, rare fox hats, and worn blankets. Some of these items are also rarer than others, e.g. the black non member pirate sword (which is worth a den beta - other non member pirate swords are worth less), the raspberry bow and arrows (a little rarer than most rare bows and arrows - the neon bow and arrows is also very rare, as it is worth a red/purple short spiked collar), or the black worn blanket (worth a bad long spiked wristband). You can get most of these by trading stored items for them, especially epic wonders items, such as gold bricks and golden bows and arrows (which are worth a lot of gems i.e the reason Jammers want them). Save as many non rare rare item Mondays and trade them for these rares as well.
 Consider going on 'Return of the Phantoms' in Hard Mode. Take 2 backup accounts with you and have a member arctic wolf buddy or Jammer go with you. If you get a good reward on one chest, open the same exact chest with your backup accounts as well to get multiple good rewards at once. Some good rewards from this adventure include non member pirate swords, rare bow and arrows, worn blankets, rare fox hats, and best of all, rare head feathers (worth a rare spiked wristband). Collect several of these items to start small first.
 Put 3 or 4 of these rares (put one head feather or one black worn blanket to get a spiked wristband quickly from there if you have one) on trade and go to the server Aldan. Head to a crowded land. Say something such as, "My list for a spiked wrist, jag if so," or if you'd like some den betas, say "Trade me non member den betas." Have some member den betas too so that you can trade member ones for other spikes and save the non member ones. Note: Since non member den betas are for all Jammers, they are more valuable than member ones.
 The best way to start becoming rarer is to start off with spikes. Spiked collars are usually the base item that many Jammers use to trade for items such as party hats, headdresses, founders' hats, and even the extremely rare items, including tan tiki masks, magenta furries, glitched rings, etc. Start off with some spiked wristbands and then trade those for rare spiked collars.
 Try to get 2 more good longs and one more bad long, and you might just be able to get a black long collar. This may take quite a while, but continuously collecting spikes with non member den betas as well as other small rares will get you rarer in a matter of 1 or 2 months. Once you get a black long, usually several other rares could be afforded.
 Trade long collars for black longs if they want it, or a red long and add for a headdress. You can also trade several other types of spikes and rare items for party hats, since their rarity is going up almost as much as headdresses. Have at least one party hat or headdress and a few spikes, and trade up to rarer items.
 This is a den where you put all your den betas in to know what you will trade and what den betas you have. Trade extra rares, such as worns, rare bows and arrows, etc., for non member den betas, and occasionally accept member den betas to use for trade. Save as many non member den betas as possible since they're more valuable. You can also use non member den betas in case someone wants den betas for their rarer items (e.g. 20 den betas for a founders' hat).
 Some of these items include rare nerd glasses, neon bows and arrows, straw hats, and light up rings. Most of these items are worth spikes as well. Set a goal for getting several of these items at a time so that you can make a cool look and become rarer at the same time. Not only can you trade to become rarer as a non member, but even to make cool looks for your animals just for the fun of it.

