 Place 1 cup (180 g) of dry quinoa into a mesh strainer and rinse it for 2 minutes. Place the rinsed quinoa in a large pot and with 1/2 teaspoon of salt and 2 cups (470 ml) of water. Bring the water to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to low and cover the pot. Let the quinoa simmer, boil lightly, for 10 to 15 minutes. Remove the pot from heat and let it sit for 5 minutes.You'll know the quinoa is cooked when it has absorbed most of the water. Fluff the cooked quinoa with a fork after it has cooled slightly.;
, You'll need fresh tomatoes, onions, jalapeño, and cilantro. Dice the red onion so you end up with 1/3 of a cup (50 g). Remove the seeds from 3 medium tomatoes and cut them into chunks. Remove the seeds from 1 jalapeno and finely chop it. You'll also need to chop about 1/4 of a cup of fresh cilantro.Set these aside as you prep the rest of the Mexican quinoa salad.
 Place the diced red onion in a small bowl. Pour 2 tablespoons of fresh lime juice over the onion and stir them. Set the onion aside while you mix up the rest of the ingredients. This will help cut back on the sharpness of the fresh red onion.If you don't have lime juice, you could substitute lemon juice. Try to use freshly squeezed juice since it will be more flavorful.
 Put your chopped tomatoes, jalapenos, cilantro, and diced onion with lime juice into your serving bowl. Add the cooled quinoa and remaining ingredients and stir the salad until it's completely combined. You'll need to stir in:1 15-ounce (425 g) can of black beans, drained and rinsed
1 cup (175 g) of corn kernels, fresh or frozen and thawed
5 ounces of Queso fresco or fresh Mozzarella, cut into 1/4-inch to 1/2-inch cubes
3 tablespoons of olive oil
Salt and pepper to taste

, Taste the salad and adjust the flavors. For a brighter salad, add another tablespoon of lime juice. For a little more spice, add more chopped jalapeno. Drizzle a little extra olive oil or sprinkle more salt and pepper until the salad tastes the way you want it to.Serve the salad at room temperature. Leftovers will keep in the refrigerator. Just realize that the red onion flavor might get stronger the longer it's kept.

