 When you call, say that you think you have a tooth infection so that you can be seen as soon as possible. Make sure that you see your dentist even if the pain goes away. Sometimes pain will subside because the nerves have died from the infection. Common signs of a tooth infection include:an intense, throbbing toothache that does not go away
sensitivity to hot, cold, and pressure while eating or drinking
fever
swollen face and/or cheek
tender, swollen lymph nodes (lymph nodes are glands located under your jaw)
flood of bad tasting and bad smelling fluid, which can be white, gray, or yellow
pain that is relieved by a ruptured abscess;
, In some cases, you may need to go to an emergency room or call 911 for treatment. Seek immediate medical help if you have symptoms of a tooth infection and:a fever
swelling in your face
trouble breathing
difficulty swallowing
increased heart rate

, If you have an abscess with your tooth infection, then your dentist will need to drain it as soon as possible in order to get rid of the infection. To drain the abscess, your dentist will use a sterile scalpel to cut open the abscess and allow it to drain. You will be given anesthesia prior to this procedure so that you do not feel the pain., If a tooth infection is severe, then it may be necessary for your dentist to perform a root canal or a tooth extraction. These are two different procedures and your dentist will talk to you about your options.Root canal. A root canal involves drilling deep into your tooth in order to drain an infected tooth. Your dentist will then place a crown on the tooth to seal and strengthen it.
Tooth extraction. A tooth extraction is when your dentist removes a tooth that has become infected.
 In many cases, your dentist will prescribe an antibiotic to help treat an infection. The antibiotic will help to fight off any remaining bacteria from your tooth infection. Make sure that you take the antibiotics exactly as instructed by your dentist.Do not stop taking the antibiotics without talking to your dentist first because this may decrease the effectiveness of any antibiotics that you take in the future.
Your doctor also might prescribe an anti-fungal medication for you (for the prevention of candida), as well as gastric protection pills for your stomach.
 You may have some pain after your procedure and your dentist may prescribe a pain reliever or advise you to take an over-the-counter pain reliever for pain. Some non-prescription pain reliever options include acetaminophen, naproxen, and ibuprofen.Make sure that you read and follow the instructions for use. Talk to your dentist if you are not sure what or how much to take.

