 This is one of the most commonly cited triggers to binge eating. Do not restrict your food intake. Eat a diet rich in healthy fats, protein, fibre, and other nutrients so that you feel nourished and satisfied. Feeling hungry and tired is more likely to leave you with less willpower to battle the urge to binge.


Have you ever had someone tell you that you couldn't have something? It generally makes you want it more, doesn’t it? The same idea applies to eating. If you’re craving chocolate, have a little. Craving chips? Have one serving. The all-or-nothing attitude is much more difficult to maintain, and more likely to lead to bingeing.
Scientific studies have shown that when our bodies aren’t getting enough food, our brain desperately desires sugar., According to Leslie Anderson, PhD, this will help remove temptation.This doesn’t mean that you can never eat the foods you crave; it just means that when you want them, you must first go out to buy them, making it a more conscious decision to eat them.
 Eating mindfully means slowing down and paying attention to your body and what you’re putting in it.Take time to savour what you’re eating, and pay attention to how it feels when you are satisfied, rather than mindlessly eating until you are uncomfortably full.
 We often eat when we are bored or tired.Before you eat, run a quick self-assessment to determine whether you may just be bored.
 If you often restrict your food intake or eat when you are not hungry, you may find that you no longer know how it feels to be hungry. If you’ve been doing this for a while, your body may not even be showing the usual signs of hunger, which include stomach growls, irritability, weakness, and headaches. Ideally you do not want to let it get to the point that you are irritable and weak.
 Often when we think we are hungry, we are actually thirsty.If you are unsure of whether you are hungry or thirsty, try drinking a large glass of water and waiting 10-15 minutes. If you still feel hungry, you probably are.
 There are varying opinions on how much water one should drink each day, but a common rule is to drink roughly 2 litres of water every day.You would want to drink more if you’ve been sweating (for example, due to exercise or hot weather) or if you have an illness that requires you to drink more water (for example, kidney stones).


You may wish to download a phone app to help you track how much water you drink each day. Popular ones include Waterlogged (iOS) and Water Your Body (Android).

