 A child with a fracture will have pain that persists, and tenderness over the site of the injury. They will not want to move the injured part, and will cry out if someone tries to move it. There may be swelling and sometimes there will be a deformity, such as an abnormal crookedness to a bone, or a bony bump or lump that normally isn’t there. The child may avoid putting weight or pressure on the injury.;
, In most cases you cannot tell if a fracture includes a growth plate fracture by merely looking at it. One can be suspicious if the injury is located where growth plates lie. For long bones, such as in the arms and legs, the growth plates are near the ends of the bones. he tibia, for example, is the larger bone that runs from the knee to the ankle. The growth plates of the tibia are near those joints, and not in the middle section of the shin.

If your child is experience signs of a fracture in the area where a growth plate may be located, this will need to be confirmed with an x-ray.
 Keeping the injured part raised can help the pain. Have your child place an ice pack on the fractured area as often as needed throughout the day. This can reduce the pain and swelling until the child can be seen at a medical facility.Wrap the ice pack in a towel before placing it on the skin to minimize the risk of frostbite.
Let the ice sit for 20 minutes as tolerated every couple of hours. Do this until you get medical treatment.
 If your child has signs or symptoms of a fracture, describe what happened and what you have noticed about the site of injury and how the child is behaving. It is best to be seen at the doctor’s office as soon as possible, in a day or two at the latest. Waiting too long, say, more than a week, can allow a fracture to begin to heal. If the growth plate was fractured, too, that may cause deformity later on.


Take your child to an emergency medical facility if you cannot get into your doctor quickly, or if the pain is severe.
 The only definitive way to diagnose a growth plate fracture is with an X-ray or other imaging procedure. Your doctor or local hospital can assess the severity of the break and suggest the best treatment.The medical professional may order X-rays or an MRI to better assess the fracture and determine the best treatment., Once the doctor knows that the child has a fracture — and that it includes or extends into a growth plate — they can determine how best to treat it. Some fractures need splinting and some need casting. In some cases a doctor will need to reduce the fracture, which means manipulating the broken bones back into place (under local or general anesthesia).The most severe breaks may need surgery to move broken segments back into their proper locations and keep them there, perhaps with pins, screws or plates attached to the surface of the bone.
Properly treated growth plate fractures usually turn out well.
 Your doctor will give you instructions about what care your child needs after the fracture has been diagnosed and treated. Your doctor may advise certain restrictions on activities, and may recommend medications for pain. Ice applications or elevation of the injured part may be recommended, but it depends on the exact type of fracture. If your child has a cast or splint, be sure to get instructions on how to care for the type of cast or splint used.
 A fracture can present challenges in doing daily activities. In fact, they may even prevent healing or cause additional swelling and pain. Make sure your child knows not to push themselves and that they can rely on family members and friends to help whenever they need it. This can relieve any discomfort and minimize the risk of further injuring themselves.


For example, they can ask a friend to take notes or type written work.
 If you are unable to get your child to a doctor, and cannot get an X-ray done, it will be hard or impossible to know whether or not a growth plate is fractured. One can make a splint at home, which will keep the injured part from moving too much. This may help the pain and, as the injury heals, any fracture will probably heal eventually – in the correct position or not.


For a fully grown adult, who does not have any active growth plates, this might not be too serious; however, an undiagnosed or incorrectly treated growth plate fracture can be very bad for children, especially young ones, because the bone may become deformed over the following months and years.
 It can take several weeks to recover from a growth plate fracture. This is especially true if they have a cast or surgery. Giving your child at least a few weeks — and in some cases even longer — to heal can ensure that the injury doesn’t cause problems in the future. This may require follow up visits with the doctor for a year or longer., Part of allowing the fracture to heal is taking care of any casts or surgical sites. Casts hold the fractured area together and reduce pain, swelling, and muscle spasms. It’s important to protect them to help promote proper healing. This includes inspecting your child's cast, keeping it dry, and leaving in padding.Wrap your child's cast in heavy plastic when they shower or bathe. Consider putting a washcloth around the edges of the cast to prevent water from seeping inside. This can also prevent skin irritations or infections.
Make sure your child steers clear of dirt, sand, and powder so that it doesn’t get into their cast. These can cause irritations and infections.
Leave any padding intact. Call your doctor if it is bothering your child.
Do not allow your child to itch under their cast with items such as coat hangers, which can break their skin. If rough edges are causing the itching, don’t break or trim them off without talking to your doctor.
 Your doctor or surgeon will provide specific site care instructions to follow. Depending on how severe your fracture and surgery were, your child will need at least six to eight weeks to recover. During this time, it’s important to treat the surgical site gently. This includes keeping it clean and watching for signs of infection. Nursing the site can promote healing and prevent infection and irritation.Wash your hands with soap and water before touching the surgical site.Dry your hands with a clean towel., This may be once a day or more often. Loosen any tape and gently remove the bandages. If it gets stuck, wet it and try again. Put the old dressing in sealed trash and set it aside. Wash your hands again before putting on new dressings.
 Use mild soapy water or a saline solution to clean the skin around the surgical wound. Try to flush away all drainage and any dried blood that has built up around the skin. Use a syringe, or irrigator, to wash out the wound if the doctor recommends it.


Avoid putting skin cleansers, alcohol, peroxide, iodine, lotion, cream or herbal remedies on the surgical site unless your doctor instructs you to do so. These can damage wound tissue and slow healing.
Watch for signs of infection including swelling, redness, and foul-smelling drainage.Let your doctor know if your child's skin seems to be irritated or possibly infected.

