 Understand that most of the people in the audience would be scared to death to give a speech too, and are glad that it is you and not them! For the occasional speaker, it is okay to say, "Excuse my nerves, I am not used to this." When people hear that, they root for the guy, not cut him apart (unless they paid big bucks to be there, in which case, you do need to be skilled.);
, Be overwhelmingly, thoroughly, and completely prepared before taking the stage. If you don't know your lines, your speech, your call to action, then you'll stumble mentally and from there, the sweats and weak knees will soon take over. Much of your fear stems from the anxiety that you will make mistakes, or that the audience will know more than you (including knowing that you don't know). There is one sure way to overcome that, and that is by knowing your material inside and out.
 Okay, you've just being told to know your material thoroughly. Sometimes this just isn't possible, and in such a case, it is very important to focus on the message that needs to get across. For example, it might be an emergency situation and you need to clearly tell people to exit or stay calm. Or, someone might have fallen sick and you need to tell the audience that the speaker isn't available but that you're happy to talk on a topic you do know about, for a much shorter time, or some such compromise. When winging it, remember:


The audience doesn't know that you don't know things to talk about. By acting confident, you reassure them that you do know.
Your tone and your stance are very meaningful. If you have great posture and a clear, calm and resonant voice, along with confident body language, much of what you say will seem convincing, even if it isn't. In fact, this is important whether or not you do know your material!
If the message is important, this can give you a boost of confidence that you may not otherwise have had. If it's to save people's lives, to spread awareness of something you're passionate about or to clarify an important point, you may be able to wing it without stage fright even becoming an issue.
 If you are not calm you'll face more difficulties than usual. To cool yourself down, some of the following suggestions may come in handy.
 Meditation is all about cooling down. Our stress and tiredness make us unhappy, impatient and frustrated. It can even affect our health. Meditation makes your mind calmer and more focused and is a good remedy for stage fright.
 There's no reason to worry about making mistakes. The more you think about messing up, the more likely you are to do it. In order to think positively, you have to change your emotional and mental approach toward yourself, other people and situations.
 Fear is a bodily reflex and one that you can overcome. When you get afraid, you start to breathe in short, fast breaths. Before you speak, or while you are being introduced, aim to sit quietly and breathe with slow, deep breaths. Continue this as you make your way to the stage and while on stage.
 Listening to music that will pump you up can help get you energized, confident, and in the zone. Conversely, listening to soothing music might be best to calm your nerves down.
 Get some exercise beforehand so that you can expend some of that nervous energy in a constructive way. Do some backstage push-ups or jumping jacks.
 You're going to have to leave your inhibitions behind, so you can't worry about looking dumb. The best way to combat this insecurity is to do something that makes you feel silly or embarrassed backstage like making funny faces or dancing around. This can help you get over the feeling and realize that even making a fool of yourself isn't that bad.
 If you're in a band or performing with a group of people, get together right before the show starts to help everyone get focused and on the same page.
 If it's appropriate to your performance, you should make a point to make eye contact with the audience. For musicians and public speakers, eye contact is essential. For athletes and dancers, not so much. Eye contact may seem distracting at first, but the more you do it, the more you'll get used to it.


If you're in a dark club, try looking at the wall on the far end of the room. This way, you're looking up at the crowd, but you won't get distracted since you can't see any audience member's face from that distance. This only really works if there are people standing in the back, of course.
 Shifting your focus from your feelings to others or the materials/job at hand, can help you to overcome stage fright.


If you are part of a play, try to focus on the other actors with whom you are speaking; or imagine you are talking to someone you are comfortable talking to if you are alone on stage.
If you are giving a speech, focus more on the speech, than on the audience's response. If they are encouraging or applauding you, you can be bolstered by this but don't get sidetracked or feel needy for applause. You came to do a job, so keep your focus on that aspect.
 You may tense up again when you first get out there. Acknowledge it and let yourself relax again. Loosen up and move around a little. The crowd wants to see you succeed as much as you do, and they want to see that you're enjoying yourself.
 Avoid nervous body language such as fidgeting and sticking your hands in your pockets. Being more animated will help you loosen up.
 Never forget that when it comes down to it, it's no big deal! You're there to have fun, and you will do your best. Even if it doesn't turn out to be your finest moment, it's not the end of the world.

