 Running away without proper preparation can put your life in danger. Take as much time as you need to figure out a game plan. Where you are going, transportation, work, and shelter are all important to consider. Gather supplies beforehand, some of which might include:


Cash
Change for the laundromat
First aid kit
Coat
Sleeping bag
Socks
Change of clothes (x2)
Change of underwear/bra (x2)
Toothbrush/paste
Tampons/pads
Hairbrush
Water bottle
Non-perishable food (granola bars, canned food)
Pepper spray
Deodorant, Carrying a heavy load can slow you down if you need to move quickly. As a teen runaway, many other homeless will be bigger and stronger than you, and if you need to escape, you need to do so quickly, without being bogged down by creature comforts. Only pack necessities. Take as much cash as you are able, but be wary of credit or debit cards, which can be tracked. Pack for your destination. If you are heading somewhere cold, your greatest concern should be keeping warm.


Keep in mind that arid climates, like the desert, get very cold after dark. A lightweight thermal blanket could save your life., Staying in a forest, park, or nature preserve is not recommended. All it takes is a bad step and you may be stranded with a broken ankle far from medical help. If you want to live in the country, be sure to travel along main routes where you can flag down help if needed. If you live in a city or are running to an urban area, try to find a shelter. If you don't have any safe options, try to rest in a busy place during the day. Sleep on a blanket in the park or at the beach during the day. This will make you look less suspicious and more like a normal person taking a nap.


A location with public transportation is a good choice, as it is cheaper and faster than other options.
A bicycle can be useful, but its weight and safety can be a bigger hassle than help.
Bridges offer protection from the elements and the cement will hold warmth from the day through the night. Beware of others if you attempt sleeping under a bridge; these are popular locations for other homeless.
If you chose to go to a homeless shelter, you must be prepared to answer questions when you arrive.
A friend or a relative's house should be considered, but will come with its own rules. You will always have to respect the homes of others.
 The most important thing you can do after you escape your situation is getting to a place of wellness. Whatever trauma made you leave home in the first place, it is likely there will be some resulting issues you'll need to address before you are able to start living a healthy and happy life.Before you leave, do some research on the area you are running away to, and find halfway homes, detox centers, or counseling centers so you can get yourself the help you need.


If you have turned to drugs or alcohol as a way of coping with the things you have suffered, this will eventually cause even greater harm to you physically and emotionally. You are not to blame; whatever you have suffered has pushed you into a vulnerable place. However, you cannot truly be well on your own until you address and resolve your addictions or dependencies., Even if you've made up your mind to never return home, there may be other people suffering from the same abuse or neglect that you did. Especially if you have siblings, please consider making an anonymous call or tip to the police or Child Protective Services in your state, or talking with ChildHelp from a public phone or using a friend's phone.


Child Protective Services: Within the US, state numbers for CPS can be found at the Child Welfare site here.
Child Helpline: (800) 422-4453

, As a teen, even working at a fast food establishment will require you to have parental consent along with other necessary information, like an address and your Social Security number. Eventually, you will run out of supplies and money. You will need a source of income to support yourself. When applying for a job, hint that you are looking to make some extra money working "under-the-table", which means you will be paid directly by your employer secretly, usually in cash. Some under-the-table work options you can consider:


Busboy (restaurant)
Dishwasher
Landscaping/gardening
Tutor
Babysitter
Mover
Painter