 Choose from 6 types of quizzes: standard, single question, % correct quiz, personality quiz, checklist quiz, or image checklist quiz.A standard quiz has a single correct answer but the person taking the quiz has several options to choose from. As she answers each question, she is immediately told whether she got the answer right or wrong.
A single questions quiz is just one question and one answer.
A % correct quiz is not like a standard quiz in that the person taking the quiz does not know whether his answers are right or wrong until he is finished the quiz and learns what percentage of the quiz he got right.
A Personality Quiz allows the person taking the quiz to choose from a variety of answers. Each answer has been assigned to a different result. The more answers that line up to a specific result determines the final outcome.
A Checklist Quiz poses a question with numerous possible answers. People can check off all that is applicable to them from this list and share that number with others who have also taken the quiz. An Image Checklist Quiz is similar but uses images over text.
 Get creative and title your quiz something that will make it stick out. Appeal to an audience using humour and intrigue., Create your quiz using a conversational tone, injecting as much personality as you can. Make your reader part of the joke. It’s a fine line between sarcasm and offensive but you want to avoid bland writing as well.Write persuasively and emphasize positivity. The person taking the quiz wants to feel gratified for taking the time to answer your questions. Pay them off with humour or a positive message about themselves.
 Bold images can help people immediately visualize the message you’re trying to get across. A face can draw a person in while a short blurb tells the rest of the story.Use images and content that you have the rights to if using your quiz for the public. Make sure that you only use original content or have received permission to use someone else’s work.If using images make sure that they are in the public domain, e.g. if the have a CC0 Creative Commons license.
 It will be easier to create your quiz if you picture who will be taking it. Speak directly to that person to keep your quiz focused and fun. This will also make your quiz personal and create a connection with the person taking it., Most quizzes should be less than 10 questions, especially if you’re creating it for a social media site. People have short attention spans online.