 For example, are you a casual Internet user or a gamer? Think about what you'd like to accomplish on your new computer. Have you been dreaming of starting a new website with Flash? Do you play games online, or do you play the latest retail games when they are released?;
, If it's an expensive computer, optimized for something such as video editing, and you're not going to use it for editing videos, then don't buy it!


"Value" line computers. These PCs are good for checking emails, surfing the web, and word processing, but they are not geared towards much else. Dell, HP (Compaq), Gateway, and other large-volume retail computers offer excellent values for a complete value series package.
"Enthusiast" line computers. Computers of this category are suitable for most power-user tasks, multimedia, and casual gaming. Again, Dell and other major brands will be a good choice.
"Gaming" line computers. These are best for media creation, workstation publishing, and intensive gaming. Typical tasks that require a fast computer include recording music and making Flash movies. Larger computer builders may not be the best choice, but a few of them such as Dell's XPS line, Dell's Alienware brand name, and Northwest Computers, might be good choices. Most users with needs in this category typically build their own PCs, purchasing individual parts from a computer component retailer such as Newegg.com.
 This will help you find the best deal.
 It's easy to miss out on opportunities if you're not looking for them. Do you have friends who are computer savvy? What about your neighbors? Do they build their own PCs? If you're looking for a powerful computer, purchasing all of the components and assembling it yourself is often less expensive than purchasing a package deal. If a friend is willing to help you build your own, it might be a worthwhile experience. Avoid this if all you need is a value line PC, because major brands will often get rid of their older components by bundling them in value line PCs.
 If purchasing components to build your own, double check each component's compatibility. For example, if you want to purchase a motherboard with an LGA775 socket, make sure you buy an LGA775 socket CPU. If in doubt, read user comments on products and research the different standards online. The most important compatibility considerations:


Motherboard: CPU socket type, graphics card slot type (PCI-E or AGP), and memory type and speed
CPU: Intel or AMD, and the socket type (ie: AM2, LGA775, 478, etc.)
Memory: Type (DDR or DDR2) and speed (ie: PC3200/DDR400 or PC2-6400/DDR2800)
Power supply (often included with a case): how many watts do you need for your components?

, Major brands such as Dell provide a web-based configuration tool for customizing a PC before you purchase it. This may be a more relaxing experience than being rushed by a sales representative over the phone. If there is something you don't understand when configuring your PC, call that company's sales line for answers.

