 Express lanes are created for people who have a certain amount of items, such as a little snack or a little handful of groceries. This limit may be set between 6 to 15 (on average), depending on the store. Cashiers will probably look down at customers who have more than the limit and try to use the express lane to get out quicker.;
, Between the conveyor belt and the store aisles, people need to get through. Leave about a shopping cart length of space between the last person at the conveyor belt and yourself. Like traffic intersections, you may move forward if there's sufficient room for you and your cart on the checkout side.
 While waiting in line, please be sure that you have everything you need and anything that you do not want. Avoid giving cashiers food, especially perishable items, because you have changed your mind at the last minute.
 Coupons that need to be subtracted manually with the specific item can set things back a little if the cashier is unaware of it. Be prepared to give any membership or store club cards to the cashier in advance. It saves time and the savings can be subtracted as the items gets swiped.
 If there is no bagger at the check-out station that you're on, it's in good faith to bag your groceries instead of waiting for the cashier to ring up everything and then have to sort and bag themselves.
 Huffing and getting impatient will make it feel like a longer line. Read a magazine or distract yourself in another positive way. Don't scan other lines to see how fast they're moving or how many people there is in a line. These thoughts will probably cause you to move into another line; a position that may or may not be better than the previous line you were in.
 A polite greeting followed by a short conversation will make the transaction pass faster for the both of you.
 There is nothing worse than taking a step back and hitting someone's cart because they are too close. Think of when you are driving, do you like people to tailgate? Its the same with shopping carts.
 If the cashier says "Yes", move into that line. This is not line cutting.
 Take a deep breath and go to your happy place and enjoy an extra minute of meditation.

