 Every crafts project should begin with thoughtfully choosing the materials you'll be using. What paper you choose to make your boat with will have a major impact on its use and function. Construction paper is arguably the most common paper for use in this project, as it's colourful and easy to work with. Newspaper is another good choice, as it is commonplace, folds well, and resists water.A rectangular piece is needed for a boat-like length. Any size will do, although bigger sizes will increase the boat's floatability.;
, Using more than one piece will improve the boat's stability and ability to float in the water. It will also make the craft heavier and more sturdy, which helps if you're trying to make your boat look like it's ready to go into battle. Stack identical sheets together and fold them as if they were one piece.


You can increase the stability of your boat by doubling the amount of paper from 2 to 4 sheets.
 Make sure that you have folded it in half evenly. Inaccurate folding at this early stage will botch the entire craft.


It helps to go over your fold thoroughly. Run your finger over the crease to press it down. You should try lining up the corners of the paper together to get a more precise fold.
 This should result in two triangles meeting in the center, with a strip of uncovered paper at the bottom.


If you're having difficulty finding the center, make sure the corners are lining up evenly. If you're still having trouble, try measuring the paper with a ruler and draw a thin pencil line down the middle. This will give you a target to aim for.
 If you're using multiple strips of paper, divide the layers of the bottom rectangular strip in two. Take each half and fold it upwards. From there, you should have the shape of a smaller triangle on top of the folded rectangles. Crease your fold and continue.If your fold isn't creased smoothly, try smoothing them it out by running your finger along it, or pinching it with your finger and thumb.
 This will open up the boat and turn it into a three-dimensional object. The boat should be pulled open by its wide corners. Be gentle as you pull it open, and make sure not to undo any of the folds you've creased.


You can complete this more easily by pulling open the body from the corners.
After opening the bottom it should take on a long diamond shape. If the shape doesn't look like this, it is likely your measurements were wrong at some point leading up to it.
 Once you have completed the folds and opened it up, it's time to see how your boat has fared. Upright, the boat should take the form of a long pyramid, with a triangle tip (or sail) poking out from the top. Although it's not quite a battleship yet, with the folds all done, you'll be set to decorate it as you please.

