 Before you begin your search for an international private investigator, it will be helpful to take some time to think about the specific reason for the hire. Private investigators specialize in different types of investigation—from investigating the legitimacy of an international company you want to invest in, to uncovering evidence of foreign fraud, to locating a missing person abroad.


Knowing the type of investigative work you need will help you select the most qualified investigator for the job.;
, The best way to find an investigator with whom you will be satisfied is to ask people you know and trust to recommend someone they have worked with before who delivered satisfactory results.


If your social network includes any attorneys, corporate officials, employees of non-governmental organizations, or any other individuals with reason to hire private investigators that conduct international investigations, ask if they can point you in the right direction before you begin a search on your own., There are many websites that provide contact information for professional investigative associations around the world.Locate an association for the country in which the investigation will take place, and contact them for a referral.


By conducting your search in this manner, you will be able to draw from a pool of investigators that, at the very least, have met the basic licensing and ethical requirements to join a professional organization.
This will also help you locate investigators with experience in the country in which the investigation will talk place.
 If you don't have the necessary contacts, or are unsuccessful with professional associations, the next-best place to find an international private investigator is by searching the internet. During your search, be on the lookout for investigators that specialize in the type of work you need done, and that have relevant experience in the country in which the investigation will take place.
 During your search, when you find an investigator that looks promising, place their name and contact information on a list that you can refer to later. Try to find several investigators that look promising, so you can compare their specific services and fees later.


Your list shouldn't just have one name, but it shouldn't have ten, either. You will be investigating each of these individuals thoroughly, and it is better to be able to focus your efforts on a handful of promising candidates rather than sifting through an extensive list.
 If your potential international private investigator has a website, your first step in evaluating his or her quality will be to check his or her website (or the website of the firm he or she is affiliated with).The information provided can be very helpful in determining if this particular investigator is right for you. Try checking the website for the following:


If the investigator lists specific areas of expertise.
If the investigator lists previous work or case studies of completed investigations.
If the investigator indicates countries or languages of expertise.
If the investigator is accredited by a organization like the Better Business Bureau or a reputable professional association.
 If your potential investigator is a member of a firm, it will be beneficial to gather information on that firm to determine its legitimacy. Try finding out how many people are employed by the firm, what work the firm has successfully completed in the past, the countries the firm operates in, and the areas of investigation in which the firm specializes.Also check to see if the firm or individual is affiliated with a recognized international investigator professional association. While this is no guarantee of quality, firms or individuals must usually meet certain basic standards to be a member of such organizations, and this can be a great initial indicator of competence or reputeThere are several websites that provide contact information for such associations so that you can confirm your investigator's membership.Also check to see if the investigator/firm is accredited by any regional, national, or international private-investigator associations.You should also try to get a sense of how investigative work is performed by the investigator in relation to the firm as a whole. For example, is certain work handed off to subordinates, or does the investigator you hire handle all the work themselves?

, It is very important to hire an investigator that is properly licensed and insured in his or her home jurisdiction. Different countries have different legal requirements for private investigators operating in their jurisdiction.Some countries have very little regulation, while others are incredibly strict. Be sure to ask the investigator about the requirements of his or her home jurisdiction.


Try contacting the licensing agency for the jurisdiction in which your investigator claims to be licensed to ensure they have complied with the relevant governmental regulations.Also ask to see relevant documentation. For instance, if the country requires the investigator to be registered with the state, or be approved by a specific authority, ask to see copies of these credentials to verify the investigator's legitimacy.Ask to see a copy of the investigator's insurance liability policy as well.
The investigator usually must be licensed in their home jurisdiction and in the jurisdiction in which the investigation will take place., You will want to make sure your potential hire has the appropriate specialization and experience for your particular needs. For example, an investigation into a corporation requires an individual with a business, corporate, or legal background while a criminal investigation should be undertaken by someone with a law-enforcement background.Still other types of investigations might warrant a military background. Make sure you hire someone with the right kind of experience for the job at hand.


Look into your investigator's previous education as well. For example, someone with a legal education who understands what investigative practices are permitted will be more likely to conduct an investigation that yields evidence you can actually use in court.It is also a good idea to inquire about the types of equipment the investigator has experience with and access to.The more sophisticated technology at the investigator's disposal, the more thorough the investigation will be.
 Your ideal candidate should have already conducted successful investigations in the country that will be the target of your investigation. If the investigator is not able to discuss competently his or her experience with the target country, you may want to try someone else. Try inquiring about the following:


Has the investigator worked in the country before? How many times? How long has he or she spent on the ground in that country?
Does the investigator have a good understanding of the local laws that will govern his or her investigation? Every country has different standards regarding what types of surveillance or intelligence gathering is allowed by a private individual.
Does the investigator have a thorough knowledge of the customs and culture of the target country?
Does the investigator speak the language of the target country?
Does the investigator have a solid network of contacts in the target country?

, This is a great way to verify that your potential investigator actually has experience in the target country.You will be able to see exactly what countries the investigator has been to, and how long he or she has spent in each country.
 The investigator should be able to provide you with a list of references that can vouch for his or her previous work. He or she should also be able to provide you with previous samples of his or her investigative work, so you can get a sense of how thorough he or she is, the quality of the reports he or she produces, and the nature of the sources he or she makes use of when conducting investigative work.While reviewing this information, try to get a sense of how much work the investigator does on their own, and how much work (if any) is delegated to other individuals.
Be sure to follow up with any references provided to you as soon as possible. Ask them questions to determine if they were satisfied with the investigator's performance, if the amount charged was in line with the client's expectations, etc., After you have selected the investigator best suited to your needs, you will want to first determine the contracting requirements for the jurisdiction in which the investigator is based. In many countries, a simple contractual agreement will suffice, but others have specific requirements (e.g., required notarization of the contract by the relevant authority).Ask the investigator/firm what the contracting requirements for his or her home jurisdiction are.
Ask the investigator for a copy of a previously executed contract to get a sense of what an international-private-investigator contract entails, as well as to see any special provisions/notations that are included.
 This document will control what services the investigator will provide, the terms of the investigation, and how the investigator will be paid for his or her work. Make sure to address terms such as cost per hour, cost per mile/kilometer and other travel expenses, daily fees, and how much you will allot for expenses incurred in the pursuit of the investigation.Make sure all costs are accounted for up front, and spelled out in the contract, so you know exactly how much you will be paying for the services you will be receiving.
You should also outline a timeline for the investigation, and indicate the frequency with which the investigator must update you on your case.
Also include a confidentiality provision allowing for the investigator to turn over any evidence to an attorney if necessary.
 Before your investigation commences, you should make sure to sit down with your investigator and outline how the investigation will be conducted.You want to ensure that you have an agreement with your investigator that he or she will not use any illegal methods to obtain the information you need.


While laws vary based on jurisdiction, it is generally illegal for a private investigator to impersonate a law-enforcement officer, misrepresent themselves, engage in wiretapping, trespass, tamper with someone's mail, or look into credit reports or other sealed records.Any information not available to the general public should not be accessed by your investigator.Any evidence obtained illegally will likely be of no use in legal proceedings, and either you, the investigator, or both of you might be subject to legal penalties depending on the nature of the violation., When you pay your investigator based on the terms of your contract, try to avoid direct bank transfers or money-transfer services like Western Union unless you're certain the company is reputable. Instead, use methods that provide you with payment protection, like a credit card or PayPal. This way, you can contact your credit-card company or reputable payment website in the event of fraud.
 After the investigation has begun, it is a good idea to keep in regular contact with your investigator.Not only will this allow you to receive updates on how the investigation is progressing, but it will also make sure the investigator stays on top of your case if they have multiple clients among whom your case might get lost.

