 Pour the flour into a large mixing bowl. Add the baking powder, baking soda, and the salt. Stir them together, then add in the chocolate chips. Toss everything together gently.


This recipe requires a 12 to 24-hour chilling period. Plan ahead!

, Pour both the white and the brown sugars into another large mixing bow. Pour in the canola oil and the water. Whisk them together for about 2 minutes. You can speed up the process by using a handheld beater, a stand mixer, or a food processor fitted with whisks.


If you don't have canola oil, you can use another type of oil with a neutral flavor to it, such as grapeseed.
If the brown sugar has clumps in it, be sure to break them up first before adding it to the bowl.
If you can't find a vegan-friendly white sugar, use 1 cup (200 grams) of brown sugar instead of a combination of white and brown sugar., Keep stirring until the color and texture are consistent. If you don't have liquid food coloring, try 3 drops of gel food coloring instead.If you want the cookies to have a minty flavor, use 1 teaspoon of peppermint extract instead of the vanilla.You can use more food coloring if the color is not strong enough for you.
 You can do this with a wooden spoon or a rubber spatula. Scrape down the sides of the bowl, as needed, and stop when there is no flour left. Do not over-mix the batter.
 Cover the bowl with a sheet of plastic wrap, then stick it in the fridge. Leave it there for 12 to 24 hours. This is very important; if you skip this step, the cookies will spread out too much while baking.
 Line two large baking sheets with parchment paper. Do this when the dough is done chilling.
 Use a small ice cream scoop or a cookie scoop to form the dough into balls. Gently flatten each ball to a 2-inch (508-centimeter) wide disk.


Consider freezing the cookies for 10 minutes. This will help them keep their shape.
 They are ready when the edges turn golden. If your oven is not big enough to fit the baking sheets, you will need to put them on separate racks. If you end up doing this, be sure to switch the baking sheets around halfway through baking.
 Let them cool on the baking sheet for about 5 minutes first before transferring them to a wire cooling rack. Let them finish cooling (about 10 minutes) before serving them.