 You can also make a little extra money by selling your old things. There may be a lot of items sitting around in your house that you hardly ever think about, but which can earn you some serious cash. You shouldn't have to part with anything you love or need for sentimental reasons, but if you can get rid of some things you don't really care about, you can earn some extra cash while also doing some inadvertent clean-up around the house. Here are a few things to sell:


Sell old books you haven't seen in years to a used book store.
Sell your gold jewelry to a reputable store.
In a pinch, you can sell your stuff to a pawn shop.
Sell Girl Scout cookies or brownies, or set up a lemonade stand in your neighborhood.
You could also sell some of your old stuff in a garage sale, or online at a site like Ebay.
 This doesn't mean that you should do anything scandalous, but that you could earn good money and help the health of others if you sell your blood or other parts of your body. Here are some things to sell:


You can get money from giving plasma, blood and maybe even hair, if you have long, healthy hair.
Sell your sperm or eggs, but be aware that it can be a painful process and that you should only do this in a very safe environment.
 There's also something to be said for renting your stuff. This is an easy way to make money and to make use of the space or things you don't really need. Here's what you can do:



Rent out a empty room. If you have an extra room in your house that you don't really need, rent it to a person you trust.
Rent half of your space. Instead of renting a room, you can find a roommate to share your home with you. Having the right roommate will not only cut your rent costs in half, but you will have a new companion, and be able to save on your groceries if you decide to share meals.
"Rent" the space in your car. If you're giving your friend a ride, make sure your friend actually pays for your gas. Don't rent your car because you can get in a lot of trouble if something goes wrong when your friend is driving it.

