 This side kick is similar to the normal side kick except there is a spin in it. The reverse side kick is especially useful for sparring or when someone is attacking you because you can do it while fading away from or moving into your target.


This kick is also called a spinning side kick.
 You will start from your fighting stance where you have one foot in front and the other behind. Your back hand should be by your chin with your front hand 12-16 inches (30-40 cm) away from your front shoulder.
 Turn your front foot so that it is pointing behind you or away from your target. This means that you will turn your foot 180 degrees around. You will have to begin turning your hips at the same time as you turn your foot.
 Your head should follow the direction of rotation of your foot. This means you will be looking over the shoulder that is on the same side as your kicking foot.


For example, if your front foot is your right foot then you turn your right foot so that it is pointed back and bring your head around counterclockwise. You will then be looking over your left shoulder at your target.
 This swing is similar to that of a normal side kick. Bring your back foot around and bend your knee as you rotate your body. Your knee should now be at your chest and there should be a straight line between your hip, heel and the target.


For example, if your kicking foot (back foot) is your left foot then you will continue rotating counterclockwise while bringing your left knee to your chest. There should then be a straight line between your left hip, left heel and the target.
This is the “spin” of the spinning (or reverse) side kick.
This side kick gains additional power from this spin due to the momentum. The smoother and faster your spin is, the stronger your kick will be.
 Straighten the knee to kick out and strike your target. You will usually want to hit at chest height but you can aim for other areas as well.


You should strike with the blade (outside edge) of the foot or the heel. These areas will transmit the most power to your target.
 Bring your knee back to your chest and then step forward or straight down with your kicking foot. This should bring you back to your fighting stance with the other foot in front compared to when you began the kick.

