 However, if your job is very strenuous — for instance, if you move or lift lots of packages, boxes, or other heavy bundles — you might need to wait several months before returning to work. Talk to your doctor about setting a timeline for returning to work.
 After a heart attack, you can usually manage the stamina for sex after about four to six weeks.Sex does not increase your risk for another heart attack.


Due to anxiety or stress of the heart attack, men may experience erectile dysfunction (ED) after a heart attack. Beta blockers (a kind of medication commonly prescribed to people who have had heart attacks) may also produce erectile dysfunction. Talk to a doctor if you have ED.
 After a heart attack, even standing for too long can be exhausting. If you take the bus, tram, ferry, or subway, you should sit rather than stand.This ensures you will not get too tired, especially on long trips.


You may experience motion sickness in moving vehicles following your heart attack. If you do, simply get off until you’ve settled a bit, then get back on.
You might need a doctor’s note before traveling by plane. Before booking any flights, check with your airline about their rules regarding recent heart attack patients.
 This will give your doctor time to evaluate the extent of the damage to your heart and monitor your recovery. Your doctor will let you know when it is safe for you to begin driving again.


Contact your local Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) after you have a heart attack. Some states have rules requiring motorists to provide a doctor’s note indicating they are fit enough to drive again following a heart attack.Your doctor will probably also know if your state’s DMV requires a medical statement.
 Very cold water, likewise, can increase your risk for heart attacks, especially if you are already at risk for heart disease.Avoid saunas and hot tubs in addition to hot showers.
Very cold water causes the blood vessels of the heart to constrict. This could produce chest pains or a heart attack. Stay out of pools where the water temperature is very cold. Dip your fingertips or toes in the water before diving in. Don’t do a cold water “polar bear plunge” during the winter.
Keep the water temperature lukewarm when bathing or showering.

