 This game can be played with two to four people, with four players being the ideal number.


Note that the game is recommended for players eight years of age or older.;
, The first player to score 12 points will win the game.


The game is played using a game board, 40 track cards, four large LOSE cards, two dice, four scoring pegs, and four playing pieces.
Players will roll the dice to move their playing pieces along the linear track on the game board. The track cards are played where you land, and each track card adds new instructions to each space and allows you to move forward or backward. Once played, track cards remain on the track and continue to be in play for that space.Points are earned and lost depending on which tracks you land on. SCORE spaces are worth one point each, but landing on the LOSE space will cause you to lose a point.
There are three SCORE spaces and one LOSE space. The remaining spaces are ordinary track spaces.
 Each player should start the game with one large LOSE card and four track cards.


Assign a scorekeeper to hand out cards and keep score during the game.
The scorekeeper should hand each player one large LOSE card. This player should also shuffle the track cards and deal four of these cards to each person.
Each player should turn their four track cards face-up in front of them.
The remaining track cards should be placed face-down into the card-holder tray.
 Each player should will need one of the playing pieces.


Everyone should place their playing pieces on the START square before the game begins.
The scorekeeper should also place a peg for each player into the starting position of the scoring tray.
 You can decide among yourselves or use the dice to determining the order of play.


Each player should roll the dice. The player who rolls the highest number takes the first turn, and the order of play moves to that player's left.
 During your turn, roll the dice and move the playing piece the same number of spaces as the number you rolled.


Your next action will depend on the type of space you land on, whether or not that space is already occupied by a playing piece, and whether or not that space already has a track card lying beside it.
 Generally, your turn does not end until you land on a second unoccupied track space with no track card next to it.Your turn will also end when you land on an unoccupied SCORE space or the LOSE space.
You can only place one track card on the board during your turn, but you will need to follow the instructions of previously placed track cards each time you land on an unoccupied space with one previously placed track card beside it.
 Each time you play a track card from your hand, you must take a new track card from the deck.


Wait until the end of your turn before taking a new track card.
If all of the cards are placed on the board before anyone wins, continue playing with only those currently placed on the board. When you land on an unoccupied track space under these conditions, your turn will end without any further action from you.
 If you roll a six on both dice during one turn, you automatically earn one point.


The scorekeeper must move your score peg one space forward on the score track.
Move your playing piece 12 spaces forward as instructed by the dice. Play the track square you land on as you usually would.
 There are times when you may fall into a loop based on the track cards played and the position of those cards. You will not remain caught in this trap indefinitely, though.


For example, you may land on a space with a "Back 2" card assigned to it, and that card may send you to a space with a "Forward 2" card assigned to it. Following those instructions precisely would cause you to remain trapped in between both spaces for the rest of your game, and your turn would never end.
When something like this happens, you will actually score one point. Make sure that the scorekeeper moves your peg forward one space on the scoring tray.
Leave your playing piece on the forward space of the trap and end your turn. At the start of your next turn, roll the dice as usual and move your playing piece forward according to the number of spaces indicated on the dice.
 The first player to score 12 points will win the game.


Usually, the game will end once one player wins.
If desired, though, you can continue to play until you have a second, third, and fourth place. Second place is assigned to the second person who reaches 12 points. Third place is assigned to the third person who reaches 12 points. Fourth place is assigned to the remaining player.
 If the space you land on during your turn does not have an opponent's playing piece on it, you will need to play a track card for that space.


If there is no track card next to that space, place one of the track cards in your hand next to the space. Follow the directions on the card during that same turn.
If there is already a track card next to that space, follow the instructions on that card during that same turn. Do not play a new track card.
 When you land on an ordinary track space that is currently occupied by an opponent's playing piece, you should roll the dice again.


Do not play either a new or old track card for this space.
Roll the dice again and move your piece the number of spaces indicated on the dice. Treat the new space you land on as the space you'll play. If you land on another occupied space, continue rolling and moving until you land on an unoccupied space.
 When your piece lands on one of the three SCORE spaces, you will earn one point.


The scorekeeper must move your score peg ahead by one point on the scoring tray after you earn this point.
If the SCORE space is currently occupied by an opponent's playing piece, you still earn a point, but you need to roll the dice again and move off this space.
If the SCORE space is currently unoccupied by any other playing pieces, you earn your point and your turn ends.
 When your playing piece lands on the one LOSE space, you will lose one point.


The scorekeeper should move your score peg back by one point on the scoring tray in response.
No one's score should drop below zero. If you do not have any points and you still land on the LOSE space, do not use negative points or apply the loss to future points. In this case (and only in this case), you should ignore the LOSE space.
After you land on the LOSE space, your turn ends. This is true even if an opponent's playing piece is already on the LOSE space.
Note that the LOSE space is the only space of the game board that can be occupied by more than one playing piece at a time.
 When playing a normal track card, you will need to move forward or backward based on the instructions written on the card itself.


Track cards will either say "Forward" or "Backward" on them. This indicates the direction your piece must move in. The direction will be followed by a number. That number indicates the number of spaces you need to move, regardless of which direction you're moving in.
Other possible track cards include "Roll Again," "Go to Nearest Score," and "Go to Start." Follow the indicated instructions when these cards are played.
 There are also two exchange cards in the deck. When you play or land on a space assigned to one of these cards, you can exchange it for any other card already on the board.


Note that you can only exchange cards already on the board. You cannot trade an exchange card for a card on someone's hand or a card from the deck.
After swapping the exchange card with the track card of your choosing, follow the instructions written on the card you just traded for.
 The large LOSE card you receive at the beginning of the game can be used against other players to slow them down.


You can play a LOSE card against an opposing player at any time during his or her turn. Playing the card stops the other player's turn immediately and forces him or her to move to the LOSE space on the board.
Upon moving to the LOSE space, the player must lose one point and pass the dice along to the next player.
You can only use a LOSE card once per game. After a LOSE card is used, it is completely removed from the game and no one else may use that same LOSE card.

