 UV rays can be split into three subtypes: UVA, UVB, and UVC. UVA and UVB are the two types that can damage your skin. UVA composes 95% of all UV rays, and are responsible for sunburns and blisters. However, UVB rays cause more of the erythema, or the redness caused by the swelling of blood vessels. Examples of erythema include redness by sunburns, infections, inflammation, or even blushing., Blisters will not pop up immediately after sun exposure. Rather, they take a couple of days to develop. Burn blisters form when blood vessels are damaged and plasma and other fluids leak in between layers of skin, creating a pocket of fluid. Do not assume that the blisters are unrelated to your sunburn just because they appeared later. Harmful UV rays impact lighter skin tones more than darker ones, so you may be more or less susceptible to blistered sunburns than others, depending on your skin type.First-degree burns cause erythema, and blood vessels will widen, causing the skin to rise and become red in color. In the case of first-degree burns, only the outermost layer of skin is burned. However, damaged cells can release chemical mediators that can further irritate the skin and destroy other damaged cells.
In the case of second-degree burns, inner layers of skin are also affected, as well as blood vessels. Thus, blisters are a sign of second-degree burns. This is why burn blisters are considered to be a much more serious condition than the average sunburn.
 Your body may be suffering severely due to extended sun exposure, causing conditions such as dehydration or heat exhaustion. Watch for the following symptoms and seek emergency assistance immediately: Dizziness or faintness
Rapid pulse and rapid breathing
Nausea, chills or fever
Heavy thirst
Sensitivity to light
Blisters covering 20% or more of the body

, Consult a doctor if you have chronic actinic dermatitis, lupus erythematosus, herpes simplex, or eczema. Sun damage can worsen these conditions. Sunburns may also cause keratitis, inflammation of the cornea of the eye., If you exhibit the early symptoms of sunburn, do the best you can to get out of the sun immediately to prevent blistering. Symptoms include:Reddish skin that is tender and warm to the touch. The ultraviolet rays of the sun kills the living cells of the epidermis (outer layer if the skin). As the body senses the dead cells, the immune system starts to respond by increasing blood flow in the affected areas and opening up capillary walls so that white blood cells can come in and remove the damaged cells. The increased blood flow makes your skin warm and red.
Prickly, stinging pain in the affected area. The damaged cells in the affected area activate the pain receptors by releasing chemicals and sending signals to the brain that cause you to feel pain.
 These blisters can occur hours or days after exposure. The epidermis contains special nerve fibers that mediate the sensation of itch. When the epidermis is damaged because of prolonged exposure to the sun, these nerve fibers are activated and itchiness is felt in the affected area.Also, the body sends fluid to fill up the gaps and tears in the damaged skin in order to protect it, resulting in the formation of blisters.
 When your body’s immune system senses the dead cells and other foreign bodies, pyrogens (substances that cause fever) are released and travel to the hypothalamus, part of the brain that regulates body temperature.The pyrogens bind to the receptors in the hypothalamus and your body’s temperature starts to rise.You can take your temperate with a run-of-the-mill thermometer available at any pharmacy or drugstore.
 The dead cells in the sunburned area will be sloughed off by peeling, in order for the body to replace them with new skin cells.