 To ensure that there isn’t any dirt, oil, or other residue that might prevent the peel’s ingredients from penetrating your skin, you should wash your feet. Use warm water and your usual body wash or soap to get your feet clean.It may be convenient to apply the exfoliating peel after a shower or bath because it’s easier to wash your feet that way.;
, After your feet are clean, fill a small basin, foot bath, or bathtub with enough warm water to cover your feet. Allow them to soak in the water for 10 to 15 minutes to soften the skin so it will absorb the peel’s ingredients more easily.If the skin on your feet is particularly dry and hard, you may want to soak your feet for up to a half hour to soften it sufficiently.
 When you apply the peel, you don’t want any excess moisture on your feet that might dilute the ingredients. After you’ve finished soaking your feet, pat them dry with a clean towel so they’re ready for the peel., Virtually all exfoliating foot peels feature plastic booties that contain all of the ingredients inside so you can easily keep them on your feet for the duration. To use the peel, remove the booties from the box and use a pair of scissors to cut them open where indicated.The peel booties are always sealed when you purchase them so the ingredients don’t leak out before you use them.
It’s best to cut the booties open one at time and place the opened bootie on your foot before opening the next bootie. That way, none of the peel liquid will seep out while you’re trying to secure the booties.
 After you’ve cut open the booties, slip them over your feet as you would with regular socks. The booties contain adhesive tabs that help secure them closed over your feet, so pull off the tabs and fasten them around your feet.The adhesive tabs usually aren’t that strong, so you may prefer securing them to your skin rather than the plastic material. Your skin has more texture than the plastic, which can make it easier for the adhesive to stick.
 It is extremely difficult to walk around with the plastic booties on your feet because you can slip easily. To make them more comfortable to wear and easier to move around in the booties, add a pair of regular socks over them on your feet.It’s best to use a tighter pair of socks because they can help keep the acids in the peel in contact with your skin more effectively than the plastic booties will alone.
 When the booties are fully secured on your feet, leave them on for an hour or as directed by the peel’s instructions. It’s best to stay off your feet while wearing the booties to avoid slips and falls, so you may want to use the hour to relax.If your feet are extremely dry, you may want to leave the booties on for longer than an hour. Wearing the peel for up to two hours may lead to more effective exfoliation.
 When the hour is up, take off your regular socks. Next, carefully slip off the peel booties and discard in the trash. Rub the residue on your feet into the skin.While your feet will have absorbed some of the peel ingredients, there will still be residue on your skin, which can be very slippery. Take off the booties are close to the location where you plan to wash your feet as possible to avoid falling.
 After you’ve taken off the booties, remove the remaining residue from your skin by rinsing your feet in warm water. You can take a shower or bath, or use a damp cloth to wipe them off., You won’t see the results from the peel right away. It typically takes between two and three days for your feet to start peeling, though it may take as many as six. The skin will slough off itself, but you can rub your feet with a loofah or washcloth if you prefer to help exfoliate.If your feet aren’t peeling by the third or fourth day after the peel, soak them in warm water for 15 to 20 minutes to help jump start the process.
While you’re waiting for your feel to peel and even after they start peeling, don’t moisturize them with foot cream or body lotion. That may stop the peeling.

