 First off, just like in Helonia Coast and Port Skandia, there are plenty of conversations to eavesdrop on. As usual, you can do this by looking for NPCs with yellow speech bubbles with an ellipses (...) above them.;
, The Crescent Hill area has many important places, but the most important areas for you in this venture is the town Lunarin, Clark’s Farm, and the Crescent Flower Field. Lunarin is found in the eastern portion in the map, and is your starting area. The Flower Field is directly south, and the farm is directly west.
 Walk up to the NPCs, click, then listen! It might take you a few times, especially if others are also trying to listen in to the conversation or if your Internet is slow, but just make sure you listen until you get an Achievement notice!

, The title “Lunar Legend” is unlocked when you manage to listen to all the conversations in the area. It grants you a bonus 3 points in SPD and 4 points in CRT when you equip it.The vast bulk of the conversations are found in the town itself, but there are two at the far west of the Flower Field and one in the farm. All in all, there are ten conversations, so good luck eavesdropping!

, As usual, you will find yourself drawn to the green exclamation points scattered on your world map.These are Hidden Quests, which offer little to no advice on how to complete it or any quest notification in your Journal, but they offer some nice bonuses on top a Title upon completion.
 Go pick the Moonlight Flower at the southernmost part of the Crescent Flower Fields, due south of town. It’s the only pink flower in the section full of yellow flowers. Then head to the far east section of town, where Nala lives. When you talk to her, you can hand her the flower, and she’ll not just give you a nifty flower crown (which gives you a small buff) but also the title “Florist,” which adds 20 HP when equipped.
 Pick up five Flowers from the fields near where you found the Moonlight Flower. Then head northeast of town, around a shining pagoda, near where the Fishing Association NPCs can be found. You’ll spot a Box near the water, and clicking it will yield an Empty Basket. Now, right-click on the basket, then choose to fuse it with the flowers. This will become a Basket of Flowers.


Right-click on the Basket of Flowers that you receive, and it will lead you to the area. Right-click again, and a short scene and a battle ensues. Defeat your opponent and get the title “The Illusionist,” which grants you +16 DMG!

, Somewhere in the northern area of the Flower Field is a Drunken Lily Beetle half buried in the ground with only it’s “flower” poking out. If you click on it, you can gather some Intoxicating Nectar from it. Head back to town, and you can find Winemaker Cain near the northern exit of town. When you give it to him, he’ll give you a nice bottle of wine and a nifty title, “Wine Enthusiast,” which adds 4 points to CRT.
 Somewhere due northwest from town, north of Traveling Merchant Angie, you’ll encounter a Small Bag. If you click on it, you’ll receive some Strange Beans. Right-click on them to automatically head to Clark’s Farm, which is directly west of the village, and to what appears to be a flower garden in the farm. If you right-click it again, you’ll be able to plant those beans. Once they’re grown, defeat the enemy that appears, and receive the “Super Cool” title, which gives you a bonus 20 HP when you equip it.
 Since you’re at Clark’s Farm, go and check out the Feed Barrel nearby. When you gather Bird Food from it, head to the Birdbrains just to the east of the farm, click on one, then right-click the feed. When you’re done, head back to the farm, talk to Clark himself, then watch the scene that ensues. You’ll get the title “The Glutton,” which rewards you with +16 DMG when equipped.
 At the southwestern end of the map, in the depths of the camp of the Mistwalker Tribe Gnomes, there’s a tank. If you click on it, you can gather some Green Juice. Take it to town and find Sue. She can be found in the middle of town, and when you talk to her, she rattles off something about a beauty treatment. Afterwards, she asks you to get a Feather from the Birdbrains nearby. Go slay a few to acquire your Unidentified Feather, then head back to Sue. After a cutscene, you’ll be rewarded with the title “Fashionista,” which adds 16 points to your DMG when you use it.
 Inside the Mistwalker Tribe’s camp, to the west of the entrance, you’ll see poor old Gruff crying in a corner. If you approach him, he’ll ask you to help him find his lost treasure. Exit the camp then head east around the hill, then south until you find a pool. If you run into the water, a short scene will play, and Gruff will set a small box on the ground. Pick up the box’s contents and you’ll receive the “King of the Ring” title, which adds 4 EVA when you equip it.
 Somewhere in the southern corner of the Alabastren Temple Ruins is a Box of Machinery between some arches and stairs. Pick it up to get some Mechanical Parts, then head on over to Paolo, somewhere in the southwestern fringe of the Temple Ruins, directly east of Angie. Give the parts to him, and watch the ensuing scene to get the title “Ace Mechanic,” which grants you a bonus 4 points to DMG.
 Since you’re at the Temple Ruins, head near where your found the Box of Machinery. You’ll see a Raised Mound there, and you can gather some Old Slate Fragments from it. Head on over to Clark’s Farm, and show it to Rosie. She’ll restore if for you and tell you about it’s use. Right-click on the tablet and you will be brought back to the ruins. Right-click it again then watch the scene that unfolds to unlock the title “Modern Relic,” which gives you an additional 4 EVA when equipped.
 Head on over to the furthest eastern portion of the Temple Ruins, west of the glowing red gate. It’s a bit hidden, but you’ll spot a Toolbox there. Click on it to take a pair of Scissors from it. Click on one of the leonine Mysterious Provocateurs, then right-click on the scissors.


You might want to be a bit higher-leveled to do this, since the Provocateurs are generally aggressive mobs that try to kill anyone and anything wandering too close, or at least be really good at running away.
When you’re done, head on over to Craftsman Anthony back in the southern end of Lunarin and present to him the Lion’s Mane you got. Watch the scene to get the title “The Superstitious,” which adds 20 points to HP when equipped.
 You probably reached level 20 sometime before arriving in Crescent Hill. Once you reached 20, you probably had a special quest triggered while wandering around, and now you find yourself in an unfamiliar face and at a loss. But not to worry, this quest can be easy for the prepared!

, Of course, this quest is only triggered once you reach level 20. Once you reach 20, a cutscene will be triggered, and you’ll be prompted to head to Crescent Hill. If you glance at the lower right side of your screen, you’ll see that a Quest has been added to the list. If you left-click the option to head over to Barthold, you will find yourself automatically being taken to Crescent Hill, specifically to the Dimensional Mage Barthold. After speaking to him, you can now choose to accept the quest or not.


Do note that the Dimensional Key he gives you after accepting only lasts for 24 hours. If it expires, go to your Journal, click the Quest’s entry and click on the “Abandon” button. This will let you talk to Barthold again and receive the Key again.
 While this dungeon can be accessed by anyone by themselves, to truly take advantage of it, you need two others who have accepted this quest. To the left of your World Map is an icon that looks like a person holding a wooden sign. If you click on that, you’ll see the Party Menu open. You can click the option on the upper left to only let you see what parties are recruiting for a level-appropriate dungeon. On the left, you can see what dungeons you can start raiding—in this case, “Dimensional Hall (20+).” Click on that, and on the right side, you’ll see what parties are recruiting for that dungeon. You can then click on a promising name on the list, then click the “Join” button under it.


When you click on the party you wish to join, you can also view which members are already in it on the upper right part of the menu.
If you’ve made friends beforehand, pop open your Social Menu, which can be opened by clicking on the icon that looks like two people being buddies. Scroll down to whoever is online and the appropriate level, right-click their name, then click “Invite to Party.”
It’s highly recommended you take a Bard with you or have a member with Merrilee as their Eidolon, since this dungeon is normally your first taste in beating bosses by waves.
Your invitation is automatically rejected if they’re fighting a monster or already part of a party. You can invite your friend to your party even if they’re on a different channel, but you need to be on the same channel if you want to beat dungeons together.
 Now that you have two other people along for the ride, it’s time to head on over to the Dimensional Hall. Use the portal right behind Barthold. Click the portal and click the option “Dimensional Hall (20+).”

, Now pick one of the three large floating crystals, and click on it. All three party members need to pick different ones. Choose to unlock the Shackles when given the option.
 You’ll suddenly have to fight off some monsters and a couple mid-bosses before the actual boss comes around. Coordinate with your members and don’t die!

, While you’ll get an achievement from beating this, plus the usual quest prizes, you’ll need to do this four more times before you get the title “Banisher,” which adds 3 points to SPD when equipped. You can just ask Barthold for the quest after finishing it, but since it’s a daily quest, you might need a few days to completely finish it, since you need the key to unlock it.
 The “Crescent Conqueror” title is given to you when you manage to defeat and capture all the four mid-boss monsters wandering in the area. Those monsters are distinguishable by the silver crowns hovering above their names and by the dragon head icon roaming around in the map. The four, from weakest to strongest, are <Alluring Fragrance> Bayin, <The Glutton> Doniland, <Deadly Poison> Senka, and <Troll Berserker> Varis.
 Of course, you can’t kill them if you can’t find them. Bayin is the easiest to find, since he hangs out right at the western edge of town and is basically an overgrown Lunar Flower Dryad. Next is Doniland, who is a rather overgrown Flower Trap and lurks at the south, in the Flower Field. Senka, a huge beetle, is at the northern part of Clark’s Farm. And finally, Varis lumbers about, looking very much like an extra-large golem, in the northern corner of the Alabastren Temple Ruins. They respawn at random times, but are found in the mentioned areas.
 Now it’s time to fight them! The weakest, Bayin, is at level 21, while the strongest, Varis, is at level 29. There aren’t actually a lot of requirements to defeat them, just decent equipment, good timing, and maybe a few potions. But after the battle, you need to have at least one slot free in your inventory. This is because the four monsters are immediately “sealed” in a crate or urn that you need to take back to the village. When you click on the urn or crate that appears when the monsters are defeated, it immediately becomes a cart that follows you around.


Note that you can only carry one crate or urn with you at a time, so you can ‘t go fight all of the monsters at once.
The crates or urns also have a time limit. It only lasts for 20 minutes in your inventory before it disappears. It also disappears if you log off or switch characters or server channels.
 Once you’re dragging the cart, head on over to the Village Guard Albert. He’s found at the southern exit of town, by the stairs near the Banker and past the Chefs. He’ll gratefully take your spoils and reward you with a chest of loot for your troubles. Once you hand the last of the mid-bosses to him, you’ll get your fancy new title, which grants you an additional 8 DMG when you equip it.
 If you’ve managed to reach the end of the Crescent Hill questline, you’ll be prompted to head over to the Temple. If not, you can still tackle the area once you’re around level 28 or so. It’s found at the far northeast of the map, and the entrance is at the furthest eastern section.


If you’re completing the Main Quest prompt, simply use the automatic function of your Quest Log to take you there instantly.
You can also use the Warp Portal southeast of town. It’s the pagoda with the floating blue jewel. Click on the jewel and choose the Instance tab, which shows you the dungeons available at your current level, then pick Alabastren Temple.
 You’ll be able to get Silver, Armor, and Weapon chests and Refining materials from beating the monsters, as well as some special equipment from the three bosses inside. You’ll need to be ready for the fights, though, so buy the best stuff you can afford and train up Eidolons you want to use!


You can also tackle this as a party of up to 5 members.
 You can enter the dungeon by yourself around four times a day. Leaving the dungeon counts as you entering, but not beating the dungeon. You get a title if you beat it three times, then another at five times, then the last Solo title at ten times.


The first title is “Life After Death,” which adds 6 points to your HP.
The second title is “Big Comeback,” which boosts your DMG by 7 points.
The last Solo title in this dungeon is “Walking Dead,” which grants you a nice bonus of 12 HP and 3 SPD.
 The dungeon in general is a bit harder to compensate for the extra party members. If you can get your party to stick with you enough times, or attempt it enough times with decent members, you’ll get a title when you beat it three, five, and ten times. When you finish the Crescent Hill questline, this unlocks a Daily Party Quest prompt from Halton, though you can only reap the Daily Quest reward (if you’ve already progressed to the end of the Crescent Hill questline) once a day. You can also enter this about three times a day as well.


The first of the Party titles is “Barely Alive,” which adds 12 HP when equipped.
The second you can get is “Demolition Party,” which has nice bonus 12 points to DMG and 3 points to SPD when equipped.
The last of the titles from beating it in Party mode is “Undead,” granting you an additional 1 SPD and 14 HP when equipped.

