 This doesn't mean you have to like his friend. It just means that if you get close to his friend you might get a head start when talking to him.;
, If he walks with another one of his friends, then get your guy friend to walk with them just by saying, "Hey there's ______ !" and when they start talking to you, you can introduce yourself to your crush. Hopefully after that you will be able to start a conversation. What some people find works best is to just act outgoing and fun to be around.
, Try to talk about what happened somewhere, like she said that she would be going to the fair with you. Just a short and fast sentence, say whatever you want to say but don't make it stupid and pointless. Maybe talk about a football game that night.
 Then you could ask him what class he's going to next, and he would probably tell you. He also might start a conversation. Walk with him for a little while, then go to your class. Don't do it everyday as it might start annoying him. Just do it occasionally when you run into him.
 Just make sure he is interested in you, like if he walks by and glances and then blushes at you, or pokes you, or greets you when you're at your locker. When your friend comes up say something along the lines of, "He's my buddy," or "This is my buddy (name)." don't annoy him with it, its not his nickname. Just do it maybe twice, so he will notice.
 You're making progress towards a relationship, so make sure that is what you want. Smile when you hug him.
 If he says yes, then you could add him, and talk to him.


When talking to him on one of those networks try to avoid writing "hey" all the time, it may get really annoying to him.
While it's good to like and comment where relevant, doing it for every post may border on stalking.
 We can talk on the phone later." He'll probably give it to you. Give it about two weeks and take this time and use it for talking, getting to know each other, and bonding then he'll probably think you're interesting enough to date.

