 Although she doesn’t spend a fortune on her skin, Emma does take good care of it. To look like her, you should start by wearing daily sunscreen.


She also uses moisturizer every day. She likes facials and peels. She has used baking soda on her face and says she puts olive oil on her face and body all the time.
She was once accused of faking freckles, and she sometimes is seen with small freckles on her face., Emma always dabs her lips with a bit of color, but she usually chooses more pink hues. She avoids completely nude lipstick, saying it makes her look too pale.


A touch of peach or pink is what Emma favors. Occasionally, if she is dressed up to go out on the town, she might choose a darker rose color. She was once said to have “pioneered the hot pink lip trend.”You will rarely see her wearing extremely heavy or dark lipstick. She goes for a more natural, and younger, vibe. Occasionally, she might pair bright red lipstick with black if she’s dressing up, though.
 Emma’s sparkling light green eyes are probably her most distinctive feature. Play them up because she does.


She usually chooses dark black eyeliner that she applies on the upper and bottom lash line, including inside the water line. Her most signature look is to use black liquid eyeliner on the lash line, and she’s occasionally used lighter eyeliner, such as bright blue, in the corners of her eyes.She then applies dark black mascara. She often applies black eyeliner in the top corners of each eye to capture a cat eye look. In the movie, Birdman, her makeup artists gave her a traditional smoky eye and then “roughed it up a bit” by smudging it around the edges., Emma’s eyebrows are thin. She isn’t going for the Brooke Shields eyebrow look. So get your eyebrows waxed or threaded for precision.


Her eye brows are arched fairly dramatically. Apply a light brown or red eyebrow pencil to them (depending on your hair color).
Try using brow gel to make sure the eyebrows look shaped and neat. She’s said the only makeup she doesn’t go without is a little mascara and filling in her eyebrows., Emma Stone has healthy skin, which glows. However, she almost never has a tan. She goes for the porcelain skin look.


If you are tanned, or spray tanned, you won’t look like her. Her skin is luminous and light. Apply a primer or light foundation to eliminate any uneven spots. Then, use a makeup brush to sweep light powder over the skin.
Apply only the lightest peach-pink blush on the apples of the cheeks. Emma plays up her eyes, but the rest of her look focuses on her pale, unblemished complexion.
Her makeup artist has also accomplished this look by using Chanel’s Perfection Lumiere Velvet foundation, without powder. It’s dipped in facial water with a beauty blender sponge and blotted on her face., Emma has been open about the fact that she doesn’t spend a fortune on facial products.


She once said she has used $1 baking soda as a facial rub! This is part of her charm. She doesn’t ever seem too high maintenance.
She uses Burt’s Bees lip balm and other products you can guy in a drugstore, including Revlon Lash Potion mascara. As for scents, she prefers jasmine or citrus smells.