 Before you start looking, know what federal, state, and local regulations you need to observe. You also need to have a good idea of what you want to buy when you start looking.


On a federal level, you are legally eligible to buy any type of long gun, such as a rifle or shotgun, as long as you are over the age of 18 and are not a convicted felon. You are legally eligible to buy a handgun if you are over the age of 21 and are not a convicted felon.
State and local restrictions vary, however, so you need to verify that there are no restrictions preventing you from buying or owning a gun within your city or state. For instance, some states do not permit anyone with a domestic violence conviction to own a gun even when this conviction is a misdemeanor. Others have restrictions on the type of gun you can own or buy, as is the case with Chicago's ban on handguns. Some municipalities, like Washington, D.C., prohibit the possession of guns within the municipality’s borders altogether.
Note that you may wish to contact a local gun store before buying a gun in a private transaction. While doing so is not strictly necessary, you can learn from the shop about local and state regulations governing the purchase or ownership of a gun.
If you do not wish to find out about regulations from a local gun shop, consider contacting your local government, the NRA, or a local organization focused on gun ownership rights. These sources can also give you the information you need concerning what is and is not legal in your area.
 Let the seller know that you are interested in making a purchase and discuss with him or her your preferred method of doing so. If you intend to keep the purchase completely private, you will need to meet with the seller in person and pick up the gun in person, but the details of the transaction can be arranged online ahead of time.


You can usually find a private seller by looking for online ads. Do an Internet search for gun owner community forums and check for a specific message board dedicated to the trade and sale of firearms.
While the vast majority of states will require you to make a gun sale in person, there are some situations that allow long guns to be mailed unloaded as long as it is mailed within the same state. These guns must comply with all regulations of the Federal Gun Control Act of 1968and must not be capable of being concealed. Moreover, the mailer might be required to open the package and prove that the firearm is in the correct condition to be shipped. The mailer must also fill out a PS Form 1508, "Statement by Shipper of Firearms."Note that unloaded antique firearms are also acceptable for mailing within the state as long as they are mailed with the purpose of becoming curios or museum pieces.
 The entire transaction itself needs to occur in person if you intend on keeping it private. If you meet privately with the seller, you do not need to go through a background check ahead of time.

Note that some states require background checks even for the private sale of guns. For instance, California and Rhode Island require background checks for all firearms sales, while 12 other states require such checks for all handgun sales. Other states with private gun sale regulations include Iowa, Maryland, Minnesota, New Jersey, and New York.
Understand that a seller has the right to refuse to complete the transaction at any time before payment has been accepted. In fact, if a seller meets with you and suspects that you are a fugitive, an addict, a convicted felon, or mentally ill, he or she is legally obligated to refuse to sell you a firearm. In other words, a private sale might be more convenient, but you should not try to use it as a way of obtaining a gun if you are not legally allowed to own one.

