 These are: Color, Clarity, Cut and Carat. Unlike in diamonds, color in tanzanites is the most significant feature. The blue in a tanzanite is valued in terms of hue, tone and saturation. Clear, deep blue violet tanzanites are valued more than dusky ones.;
, Why is tanzanite such a prized gemstone? What makes for its popularity with the celebrities? What features should you look for in Tanzanites?

, The Clarity feature in a tanzanite refers to the inclusions or flaws in a tanzanite. Tanzanites are seldom heavily included, and clearer ones are quite possible. Larger sizes display the color best, so choose the largest that you can afford.
 The Cut refers to how well the shape of a tanzanite has been executed, to optimize its beauty. Excellent tanzanite shapes are possible, so cutters achieve imaginative shapes in tanzanite.
 Carat is the weight of a tanzanite, and naturally the larger a tanzanite, the higher the cost. Further, if the carat is higher, and color and clarity are optimum, a large tanzanite maybe a sound investment.
 Gemstones are also valued by their place of origin. This is where Tanzanite scores over all the rest of the gemstones. The only known source of Tanzanite is Tanzania in Africa. Given this, it is the rarest of rare gemstones. When you buy a tanzanite, it is an heirloom.
 Be sure this is the tanzanite you want.
 This is most relevant when buying a tanzanite online. Don’t make the expensive error of buying a tanzanite that looked better in the catalog, and is its distant cousin in real life. Study the Return Policy of the Jeweler.
 If you are choosing tanzanite and diamond jewelry, choose diamonds of a lower color and tip the costs. Such small diamonds don’t need certification necessarily.
 Metal preference can also affect the cost. Usually, 10K gold is lower priced than 18K gold; both yellow gold finish, as well as white gold. The color of a tanzanite is always enhanced by white gold.
 A fun way to buy jewelry online is to build your own. Most sites offer to customize jewelry, and you can choose the tanzanite according to your budget.

