 If you see a post that offends you or makes you angry, take a moment to calm down before you respond. Close your eyes, and take a deep breath. Do not let yourself respond until you no longer feel any anger or sadness.If you are emotional or upset, you may want to wait ten minutes before responding. Make yourself a cup of tea, or answer a few emails. Walk away from the computer if you have to., Instead of blaming or attacking the other person, frame your opinion as an “I” statement instead of a “you” statement. These can defuse tension. It makes it seem as though you are inviting discussion instead of provoking an argument.For example, instead of saying, “you are completely wrong about this. You have no idea what you’re talking about,” you might say, “I disagree. I think that there are other ways of looking at the issue.”

, Instead of reacting emotionally, try providing statistics, data, historical facts, and other forms of evidence to support your point. By providing evidence, it does not seem as though you are attacking the person. Rather, you are simply disagreeing with their idea.You might say something like, “Actually, statistics show that pit bulls are not as aggressive as other breeds of dog."

, People can react defensively when their viewpoint is challenged. To show them that you are interested in their perspective, try asking them questions. They may be more willing to have a civil conversation, and they may provide thoughtful reasoning or evidence. If you still disagree, you will be responding to their viewpoint, not launching a personal attack.You might ask, “Would you mind explaining your perspective on this issue?”
You can also say, “I would really appreciate it if you could walk me through your reasoning. I am very curious about your point of view.”

, The comments section of a social media page can lead to large public arguments. To keep the debate civil, ask the other person if they would like to continue the conversation over private message.You might say, “I would love to keep talking to you, but perhaps we should continue this conversation in a private message.”

, Sometimes, it is more civil just to thank someone for their opinion without engaging with it. Thank them for expressing their opinion, and do not engage with them further.


You can say, “While I don’t think we see eye to eye, thank you for contributing to the discussion.”
You can also try saying, "I think we will have to agree to disagree, but I appreciate you taking the time to talk to me about it."

, Calling other people names or insulting them can only weaken your case, and it is more likely to provoke a full-on argument. No matter how upset you are, try to use calm, rational language.Do not use words like “idiot,” “moron,” “stupid,” or “crazy.”
Do not curse at the other person.

