 Dye is translucent. It adds color to whatever color is already there. For example, if you tried to dye a pair of blue shoes red or pink, you'll end up with purple. You also cannot dye shoes a lighter color.You can, however, dye any color of shoe black.
 This will protect the rubber from picking up the dye.If you want to dye the laces as well, you will still want to take them out; you will dip them into the dye bath along with the shoes. This will help them dye more evenly.
 Make sure that the bucket is deep enough to fit your shoe.


The salt and laundry detergent will help make the dye brighter., Each company may be a little different, so follow the directions on your bottle or packet. In general, liquid dyes do not need any preparation. If you are using powdered dye, you will need to dissolve it in 2 cups (475 milliliters) of hot water first., If your shoes float to the top, you will need to weigh them down with something heavy. You can use glass jars or bottles, or even sticks. If you don't do this, they will float to the top and your dye job will be uneven.


Some people find that soaking the shoes in warm water first helps the dye soak in better and more evenly.Dye can get messy. Consider wearing some plastic gloves to protect your hands from getting stained., This will give the dye enough time to soak into the fabric.
 Use warm water first to set the dye, and then cold water to get rid of the excess dye.Be sure to get the inside of the shoes as well.
 This is to get rid of any last traces of dye. Remember to rinse the inside of the shoes as well.
 If you can, set them out in a sunny spot. This will help them dry faster. If you don't have any newspaper, you can use an old towel or even a paper bag instead.
 If any dye leaked onto the shoes, you can remove it using rubbing alcohol or a bleach pen.You can also try a magic eraser or a paste made from equal parts of baking soda, water, and vinegar.If you are using a bleach pen, leave the bleach on the rubber parts for 10 minutes, then wipe it off with a damp cloth. Be careful not to get any bleach on the fabric part., The heat will help set the dye further.It will also help the shoes finish drying, if they are still a little damp.
 Your shoes are now ready to wear.

