 Make sure you have friends that love metal. The biggest reason to surround yourself with fellow metalheads is to share your thoughts on metal and learn from them but don’t exclude any of your friends who don’t appreciate or like metal. If they are your friends, you should be able to get along regardless of music preference.
 Be sure to not be a jerk. Metal is aggressive, but this doesn't mean you have to act aggressively. Metal music is an expression of human emotions. Metal became so popular because it is an outlet for fans and musicians to channel the darker emotions of life.


All good art channels universal human emotions in a way that reacts with you. Metal certainly can have a moving effect on you, but don’t let that alter the way you treat others., Claiming to be a metalhead does not make you one.You should also realize that metal has almost nothing to do with fashion. It is okay to wear a t-shirt of your favorite band or a leather jacket, but you certainly don’t have to.


Metal is completely about being yourself; there is no model to follow. Be a metalhead out of your love for this music, not for the fame or the attention.
Remember: being a metalhead does not mean making all of your conversations based around music., While style doesn’t dictate a metalhead, you can still look good while rocking out. Check online to see if your favorite band has merchandise that you like. The classic metalhead will have a handful of metal band t-shirts. It is similar to the punk aesthetic in this sense.


Wear guitar pick necklaces, or other instrument related things, if you can play the instrument.
 There are several aspiring metalheads who get wrapped up in trending dress styles. Stores like Hot Topic can have plenty of gear, but a lot of their merchandise is for fading trends. If you find a t-shirt from a band you like that you think is cool, go ahead and buy it. Avoid spending all your money at a store like this.


Being a metalhead is all about authenticity. You cannot buy your way into a lifestyle.
At the end of the day, being a metalhead is about the music and your devotion as a fan.

