 Don’t start rummaging through your closets and crawl spaces the day before you plan to have the sale! As soon as you know you’re going to move, keep your eye out for items you think you’ll want to get rid of. As you go along your daily routine gather these items and set them aside. You’ll have lots of things to worry about as the sale gets closer, so try to make it easier on yourself by being organized in advance.;
, This may even include touching up paint or mending a hole in fabric. No one wants to buy something that looks like it’s been on the floor of your garage for ten years. If you want people to buy your stuff, you have to make sure it’s clean. This can make the difference between getting two dollars for an item and getting ten dollars.If you’re selling clothing, make sure you wash it before you display it. No one will buy your clothes if they smell like someone else’s body odor.
 Most people go to moving sales to find trinkets, used furniture, or new clothing.If you have specialty items that are worth a lot of money, a garage sale may not be the best place to get rid of them. In fact, if the item looks especially expensive, it may even get stolen. Consider selling them on Craigslist or auctioning them off on Ebay.
 The merchandise is the most important, but there are other items that are a close second. First, you need at least one trash can for your customers, especially if you plan on selling drinks or snacks. It’s easier to sell electronics if you have easy access to an electrical outlet; then, customers can make sure your products can turn on before they buy them. Lastly, provide plastic grocery bags for your customers. This allows them to carry items more comfortably and hopefully encourage them to buy more!


Using grocery bags can also prevent theft. If you see someone walking away with an un-bagged item, you’ll know they haven’t paid for it. If you see this happen, loudly ask if the person has paid yet. This will usually embarrass the shoplifter and they’ll leave the item where they found it.
 The first step to selling your merchandise is making sure it’s legal to sell. Depending on what region you live in, you may need a permit to host a moving sale. This information can usually be found on your city’s website.If you’re still unsure about the legality of a moving sale in your area, call your local information hotline.
 Most people come to moving sales looking for great deals. If your item costs more than 1/3 of the retail price, it’s unlikely that anyone will buy it. While deciding what to charge, try to price your items in increments of one dollar.Most people don’t carry around change anymore, so a difference of 25 cents can make or break a sale.


Display your prices clearly. People are generally more likely to buy items if they know how much it costs.Consider offering some kind of bargain to your customers. For example, if you have a lot of old books, you can give your customers a discount if they buy more than one.
 You don’t want to go through all the trouble of setting up a garage sale only to have your profits stolen! If you decide to use a cash drawer to store your funds, make sure a trusted friend or relative is next to the drawer at all times. If a cash drawer sounds too risky, consider a money bag that clips around the waist.


Have change on hand. Not many people carry around correct change so you want to be well stocked. For example, if you’re selling your items in increments of one dollar, make sure you have a lot of dollar bills.
Consider using a credit-card swiping device. These are readily available in many electronics stores and can be linked to your bank account. Don’t miss out on sales just because someone doesn’t have change!

, Make large, weather resistant signs and place them around your neighborhood. However, make sure you get permission before you put it in someone’s yard! The date and time of the moving sale should be clearly listed in large, legible letters. If there’s room, list some of the more popular items you’ll be selling, such as outdoor furniture or baby clothes.


Raise awareness using social media to attract the largest possible customer base. Websites such as Facebook, Twitter, and Craigslist can be useful when attracting younger people.
Conversely, consider taking out an advertisement in your local paper’s classified section. Many older people use the newspaper to find garage sales.
 Most people get paid at the beginning of the month. If you host your moving sale during the first weekend of the month, you’re more likely to sell more stuff. Furthermore, try not to host your sale during a rainy weekend or a holiday. If you do, you might not sell as much as you’d like.


Saturdays and Sundays are by far the most popular days for moving sale shoppers. If you need to host it another day, you may not see many customers.
 Instead of casually dumping items into boxes, try to attractively display your merchandise on tables. Add some flair by putting colorful tablecloths or scarves underneath everything and arrange the items in striking displays. Group the items into reasonable categories so that shoppers don’t have to search around for what they want.If you have a lot of kids toys to sell, consider having a “kids area” on an old carpet. Post a sign saying that kids can “test” the toys while their parents shop. Most of the time, the kids will fall in love with a toy and ask their parents to buy it!
Display clothing on clothing racks so it's easier to browse through.
 If you sell inexpensive bottled water, sodas, and snacks, customers are more likely to linger at your moving sale.If it’s hot, see if you can provide some shade by setting up a canopy. Lastly, play some soft music to create a nice atmosphere.


If you’re anticipating a large crowd, ask a trusted friend or family member to run the refreshment booth for you. Otherwise, you may not have time to watch your merchandise and help customers with questions.

