 If there's no question that your guy friend is suddenly getting butterflies in his stomach every time he sees you, it's time to let him know you don't feel the same way before things get out of control. But if you want to deliver the news in the best way possible, you have to pick the right time and place so he's comfortable and receptive, although you don't want it to seem like a date.


Pick a place that is not romantic. If you tell him the news at a nice restaurant, or while the sun is setting on the beach, he'll be thrown off guard. Tell him at a place where you would never go on a date.
Tell him in the morning or during the day. The nighttime is more romantic.
Pick a place where you'll be relatively alone and away from his friends. You don't want him to be embarrassed if other people hear you deliver the bad news.
Pick a time when he's not likely to be busy or stressed-out. Don't tell him the night before a big exam, or when he has an incredibly busy day at work.
Don't dawdle. Once you know he likes you, don't wait too long for the perfect moment to say something. The longer he doesn't know how you feel, the more hurt he'll be.;
, If you want to tell him in the most effective way possible, then you should prepare what you'll say in advance. If you don't know exactly how you'll explain that you don't like him romantically, you'll be much more likely to make things more awkward or to get caught in a web of excuses that make everything worse.


Prepare to keep it simple. You won't have to go into all of the reasons why you only like him as a friend.
Practice your tone. Say everything you plan on saying aloud so you feel more comfortable when the time comes.
 Before you tell him, you should predict how he'll react. Will he be shocked into silence, or hurt? If the guy is your friend, you should have some inkling of how he'll react, so you should prepare to react accordingly.


If he's a shy and sensitive guy, then he may not have much to say afterwards. Think of a few reassuring words you can say, or even a few light-hearted comments, that can make it easier.
If he's going to be really hurt, prepare to support him. You don't have to apologize for not liking him, but you can be there for him and tell him not to be so upset. He's a great guy, and he'll definitely find someone else.

