 If you wish to have your wrap hot, such as containing hot fried onions, tofu, mushrooms and / or fried egg (etc) and have melted cheese, add the cheese on top of the fried filling (such as mushrooms) and grill / broil briefly until the cheese melts to your taste.;
, For the breads, little need to be done for these unless you wish to have them hot, in which case you can warm a non stick pan and lightly toast the bread on each side until heated through. You may also cook the bread directly over an open flame, however this is a high speed method and safety precautions must be taken.  


Alternatives, such as cabbage leaves may be blanched in boiling water and cooled and rice paper needs soaking in cool water for a few minutes until it is tender enough to be wrapped.
Some thick wraps or large tortillas may also be filled and then briefly grilled, heated in a panini press or baked lightly to to give a warm, crisp outside and a cold filling inside.
 You may spread the bread with the sauce to get an even coating, (suitable for mustard, mayonnaise & cream cheese dip type of sauces), otherwise you can add them on top of the fillings.
 There is a wide range of methods and styles to do this, depending on the shape of the bread (round or square), as well as presentation style. Ideally, avoid overfilling your wraps if you want the filling to stay crisp (such as lettuce), as the rolling method will compress the fillings. Some methods are as follows:


Visually divide the wrap in half and place the fillings in the top half.  Fold the lower half up over the filled half, then fold the sides in. This is suitable for smaller, or less flexible wraps.
Place your filling onto the wrap, leaving 1 inch (2.5 cm) of the side free. Fold this inch over (this will end up as the base), then roll the wrap up starting from the side nearest you towards the size furthest away.
Place your filling evenly across the middle and simply roll up the wrap like a carpet. This method is suitable for very thin breads and for slicing into mini wraps or party snacks (ideally pin them with a toothpick).
  Hot & cold wraps may be served with any additional salad, hot sauce or cold salsa, dressing or dipping sauces you desire to make a complete meal.
