 Decide in advance if you want to eat a full plate of salad, a few small salads, or half of a salad with a meal. This will help you fill your portion with nutritious foods. Remember that your salad should be just as balanced as any plate of food you'd eat at a meal. You'll need to include:Complex carbohydrates
Healthy proteins
Good fats
A variety of vegetables;
, If you know you'll be going to a certain restaurant or cafe for lunch or dinner, get on their website to see the menu. Many restaurants with a salad bar will list some of their offerings, so you can get an idea of what to expect.

If the restaurant doesn't list their salad bar options, call the restaurant and ask them for details, especially if you're looking for specific foods.
 Try to eat healthy balanced meals before you go to the salad bar. This may help you feel more accountable and continue eating healthily. You'll also be less likely to fill up on unhealthy foods or large portions.If you have to wait a long stretch of time before eating at the salad bar, keep a few healthy snacks around, so you're not starving when you get to the restaurant.
 Instead of adding a little bit of everything on the salad bar, walk and look at the entire bar first. This will give you an idea of what is available and what looks the best to you. For example, you might have read that the salad bar offered spinach greens, but if they look wilted, you might want to eat a different type of green instead.

Putting a little bit of every kind of food can create food waste or cause you to over eat.
 If you're at a small salad bar, they may just offer iceberg lettuce and romaine lettuce. While iceberg lettuce is low in calories, it doesn't offer very many nutrients. Instead, pick romaine lettuce, spinach, or a spring mix which contain vitamins and minerals like vitamin C, folate, and lutein.Try to fill much of your plate with greens, since this will be the base of your salad.
 You'll probably find a variety of vegetables at the salad bar. Look for vegetables that aren't marinating in oil. You can add shredded or sliced vegetables in a variety of colors, so you get a range of vitamins and minerals. Just limit your intake of corn which is high in calories. You can add:Tomatoes
Bell peppers (in any color)
Fresh mushrooms (not marinated)
Shredded carrots
Broccoli florets

, If you want a little burst of sweetness, you can add slices or cubes of fresh fruit. Most salad bars will offer sliced melon, grapes, or strawberries. Just ensure that the fruit isn't floating in a sugar syrup. You should also avoid adding too many dried fruits. Dried fruits can be high in sugar and calories.For example, choose halved grapes instead of raisins. You should also avoid dried cranberries, since these are usually coated in sugar syrup to sweeten them.
 Salad bars offer a number of healthy proteins for any diet. Most bars will have slices of hard-boiled eggs, cottage cheese, or grilled chicken, which is low-fat and a good source of protein. If you're vegetarian, you can probably find cubes of tofu, black beans and chickpeas.Remember to plan how much protein you want to consume, so you don't overload your salad. You may want to stick to around 1/2 cup of protein.
 Look for an olive oil and vinegar-based dressing. If there are labels on the bottles, try to choose a dressing that only has a few ingredients. Choose a vinaigrette like lemon poppy seed vinaigrette, balsamic vinaigrette, or red wine vinaigrette to get maximum flavor with fewer calories.Regardless of the dressing you choose, limit your amount to 2 tablespoons.
 You may not think of carbohydrates at the salad bar, but several options are high in fiber and carbs. Beans (like garbanzo beans, kidney beans, or black beans), quinoa, rice, and corn can quickly load your salad with carbs. Decide which of these you'd like to include in your salad, so you don't overdo it.Limit the carbs to 1/2 cup, but don’t omit them completely. Having some carbs in your salad can help to make it more satisfying.
Avoid crackers and rolls if you are watching your carbohydrate intake or calorie count. These are less nutrient-dense than other carbohydrate options.
 Most salad bars will have crumbled bacon (or bacon bits), salami, or ham to choose from. Avoid these highly processed meats because they can be high in sodium and nitrates.

You should also avoid fried chicken strips at the salad bar, since these will be high in fat and calories.
 Once you've assembled a healthy salad, you don't want to overdo it with garnishes that offer little to no nutritional value. These are usually the crunchy items next to the dressings. Try to avoid these altogether on your healthy salad:Croutons
Shoestring fried onions
Tortilla strips
Candied nuts

, A little shredded cheese is a great way to add some calcium and flavor to your salad, but avoid piling it on. Cheeses like cheddar and parmesan are high in fat and calories, so choose reduced-fat cheese, if possible.For example, sprinkle just a little feta or blue cheese on your healthy salad. You can also tear up a stick of reduced-fat cheese, so you can track how many calories you're adding.
 You'll probably see a number of cream-based dressings (like ranch, thousand island, or blue cheese). These are usually high in saturated fats and calories since they're made with oil, cream, and cheese. You should also avoid Italian dressings that are made with lots of oil and cheese.Keep in mind that just because a dressing says it's "Light" or "Low-Fat" doesn't make it a healthy choice.
 If there are any sweets, such as pudding or Jello on the salad bar, then make sure to avoid these as well. These extras will add calories and sugar without much (if any) nutritional content. If you want to have something sweet after you finish your salad, then have some fresh fruit for dessert.