 While you may not want to discuss big issues such as abortion, immigration, racism, or the economy with younger children, teens are more ready to talk about these things. It may be uncomfortable for you to bring it up, yet, remember that your teen will be voting soon.If something comes up during a political ad, ask your teen, “What do you think about that?” Use the opportunity to have an important discussion with your teen and hear them out.
 Many youths get political news and information via social media. Politicians are quick to grab attention to themselves and their platforms by using social media to further their messages or even to insult their opponents. Especially with an upsurge of fake news stories, it’s important for youth to know what is credible.If your child brings up a story or commercial, ask them about the claims they heard. What makes the claims credible, and how do you find a credible news source?
This is a good time to talk about bias. If your teen’s news source is social media, tell them that anyone posting an article generally has a bias toward a politician or position. Some news sources may be biased, too, so talk about them with your child.
 If you feel strongly about the environment, share your views with your child. If a political ad mentions the environment, talk about how you agree or disagree with it. Consider discussing opposing candidates or positions about the environment and how you think their plans could alter the future.If there are issues you care deeply about, interact with your child about how the political ads address the issues. Ask, “What does this candidate say that the other one does not? How do you feel about her plans?”

, You might find that you and your child disagree on political topics and positions. Show your child that it’s okay to disagree with someone and that you can disagree in a respectful way. The best way to do this is to model the behavior. Find something that you agree with, elaborate on a specific point, then add to it. For example, you can say, “Yes, I agree it’s important to be informed about abortion, and it can be a very heated and debatable topic. You said that it’s important for a woman to have a choice, and I think it’s often important for a man to be heard, too.”Avoid using “but” as this can subtract and no add to an argument. Keep your speech positive.
Keep your tone of voice friendly and not hostile or defensive.

