 Dress and skirts are almost universal fashion signals for the feminine - wearing one defines you as a girl and throwing your jeans out is a femininity statement you make to yourself. Modern fashion has made it possible to find a dress or skirt for any occasion, from sleek black cocktail dresses to light, flowery summer skirts. The best way to pick a dress is a personal choice: do you feel comfortable, beautiful, and feminine? If so, chances are good other people will see similar traits.;
, The softness of your natural curves is your feminine gift. Accentuate and embrace your female body to bring out the feminist aesthetic. This often means wearing clothes that highlight your chest and waist. Yet the easiest way to highlight your curves is to wear clothes that fit.Your clothes should be tight enough that someone can make out your silhouette. A woman's figure is markedly different from a man's, and calling attention to it will naturally look more feminine.


If you feel comfortable and feminine in an outfit, then it makes you more feminine.
You do not have to show skin to appear feminine.
Try wearing push-up bras, form fitting or slimming styles, or leggings.
 There are some fashions that, despite being worn by both men and women, are predominantly feminine. In general, delicate or softer fabrics and eye-catching patterns are considered feminine. Some things to incorporate into your wardrobe include:


Lace, silk, or velvet
Floral patterns
Polka dots

, Again, though this is not strictly necessary, feminine looks typically rely on bright colors to bring out the vibrancy and fun of the feminine world.Try bolder color ideas, or spice up a simple outfit with a splash of colorful shoes or makeup.


Accessories, like scarves, bags, and head wear are a great place to make your outfit more feminine.
 Typically worn by women, jewelry has become socially acceptable in many corners of the world for everyone. Having a little bling can make you feel confident, attractive, and worthwhile, and it will ramp up your feminine image. In general, jewelry with stones (diamonds, ruby, etc., fake or real) is considered more feminine than plain rings or chains.


Wear pinky or thumb rings.
Put on a nice necklace.
Get you ears pierced., No one has to see what you're wearing underneath for it to make a difference. Remember that being more feminine starts from within, so if you feel it, others will feel it do. Try slipping on something a little risqué and see if it makes you feel more feminine as a result.
 Ultimately, if you don't act feminine, your looks will only carry you so far. Feel at home in your own skin, love who you are, and enjoy life and you will radiate femininity whenever you want to. If you feel feminine, chances are good other people will see it in you too.
 Though there is no one right way to "be feminine," there are fashion cues that signal femininity. Looking feminine, however, does not mean you must submit to traditional gender roles. Rather, it is a stylistic choice that accentuates many classic examples of femininity such as grace, dignity, flirtiness, and sexuality.Anyone can bring feminine style into their wardrobe regardless of gender or sexual identity.
Think about "classic" examples of feminine beauty, such as Halle Berry, Marilyn Monroe, and Nicole Kidman. What makes them feminine to you?
Anyone -- male, female, transgender, etc. -- can look, dress, and be feminine. Feminine is not the same as "female," because it is a social, not biological, concept.