 Start by stretching the loop between your hands. Hold the thread so that it is stretched between your thumb and index fingers. 









Put one hand inside each end of the looped thread, with your palms up, before you rotate your hands several times. It might be enough to rotate them twice, although some experts suggest as much as 15 times.
Roll your right hand in a clockwise direction to twist the thread six or seven times times, or until you have about 1 inch (2.5 cm) of intertwined thread between your hands.
Twist one hand clockwise and one counter clockwise. The end result is that this motion should end up twisting the thread in the middle. When you open up your palm and fingers with the thread around it at each end of the thread, you will create a circle of thread at each end with twisted thread in the middle.;
, Hold the string with your thumbs and index fingers inside the loops on each side, then pull your right thumb and index finger apart.










The twists of thread should move toward your left hand. Now, close the space between your right thumb and index finger and open the space between the left thumb and index finger.
This is the threading motion that traps hairs in the twisted thread and pulls them out.
In order to thread your eyebrows, you’re going to open and close your hands, and the thread. Your hand should be inside the thread loop when you open it so that part of the thread is on top and the other part of the thread is on the bottom of your hand., Make sure to thread the eyebrows in the opposite direction from which direction your hair grows. Notice the direction of hair growth first.










Place the thread under the eyebrow hair that needs removing. You could apply dry loose power on your eyebrows. That will make it easier for the thread to pull it out.
Open up the loop and hand in the opposite direction that you want to thread (left hand to thread to the right; right hand to thread to the left). You want to place the twisted section of the thread under the hair that needs removing. When you open and close the loops, the twisted portion of the thread will tug out the hair., As you twist the center of the loop, the twisted threads will pluck out the hair. Some experienced practitioners will hold the thread in their mouth, while manipulating the other ends of it with both hands. Others hold each end of the thread in a different hand.









You can do this fast or slow. It’s the process of opening and closing your fingers that is pulling out the hairs. Very experienced practitioners are able to do this process very quickly. When you are starting out, though, go slow.
Starting at the highest hairs you want removed, align the twists of thread to that hair. Open your right fingers in a smooth motion, moving the coil down, and then, open your left fingers to move the coil back. Continue these motions, working from the top to the bottom, aligning the coil of thread carefully before moving it up and down the removal area until all unwanted hair has been removed.
Threading can be used for lip and chin hair also. Clean your forehead with the same thread. The process lasts about 2 to 3 weeks.
 Although it sounds complicated, it’s really not. Threading your eyebrows has several advantages over other methods.Threading the eyebrows is faster than plucking. It will also remove tiny hairs that you are likely to miss with tweezers. Some people also consider threading a less-painful method than waxing and tweezing.Waxing can irritate the skin, but threading is unlikely to do so. Threading your eyebrows is also faster and cheaper than using at-home wax kits. If you learn how to do it yourself, you can save a lot of money. The thread might cost you under $1.Many cities have salons that offer eyebrow threading services. If you’re not confident with your ability to do it yourself, see a professional! Threading improperly could result in eyebrows that don't look good. Professional threaders are often required to have licenses or permits.However, some studies have found dermatological complications from threading., You will need a few key tools in order to thread your eyebrows. Luckily, none of these things costs very much, and they are widely available in drug stores. You may already have most or all of them at home.



Buy a spoolie or clean lash comb or, if you don’t have those, find a fine-toothed comb. Consider purchasing loose face powder. Although not essential, it’s a trick that can make threading eyebrows easier.
You will need very small scissors such as grooming scissors or those small scissors you can find in sewing kits.
 This is the most important tool that you will need to thread eyebrows. And here’s the key: Make sure that you buy 100 percent cotton sewing thread.You need a piece of thread that is the length of your forearm plus about three extra inches. Other experts say the thread should be about 15-24 inches long, and longer if you have big hands. The less string you use, the more control you will have. Choose thread that won't snap easily.Choose thread that doesn’t have a large amount of synthetic fiber in it, especially if your eyebrow hair is very coarse. If you can’t find 100-percent cotton thread, choose thread that has a high percentage of cotton in it. You can use regular thread you find at sewing or other stores.
 You shouldn't just thread your eyebrows randomly. Take some time first to figure out the shape you want.



Use a pencil to take the following 3 measurements in order to thread brows into a natural shape: to find the inside limit of the brow, measure a straight line from the corner of the nose to the inside corner of your eye, to find the outside limit of the brow, measure the edge of the nose to the outside edge of the eye, and to find the highest arch of the brow, measure the outside edge of the nose through the pupil.
Thread outside those lines. Use an eyebrow pencil to outline and fill in your eyebrows exactly how you want them. This will help you to ‘stay in the lines’ when you’re threading and prevent you from removing too much hair.
 Take your spoolie or other lash comb, and sweep your eyebrow hair upward. You should work on your eyebrows one section at a time.










Take the small scissors, and trim a tiny amount of the hair (not much at all, just the finest hairs that you see.) Next, sweep your eyebrows downward, and snip any hairs that are particularly long and that stand out.
Comb your eyebrow hair back into the place it normally is. It’s very important in this process that you don’t snip too much hair. Do this extremely lightly. Trim the extra hair at the beginning of the eyebrows with the scissors.
 Take the high-cotton sewing thread into your hand. The cotton thread is what you are going to use to pull out the hairs. First, though, you need to prepare the thread for the threading process.



Fold the thread over onto itself. That’s why it needs to be so long. You’re essentially turning the thread into a long loop.
To create the loop, tie the ends of the thread together. To do this, just make a knot at the end of the thread. The thread should not be open at either end. It should now form a large and continuous loop.

