 People of all ages experience episodes of peer pressure, but the teen years seem to be particularly ripe for it. The desire to “fit in” or impress others is at a high point, which can lead to both positive and negative choices. It is safest to assume that every teen will experience negative peer pressure and to talk about it well in advance.For instance, the ongoing discussion about resisting pressures and making smart choices regarding things like drugs, alcohol, tobacco, and sex should begin before most teens are even teens. It is not uncommon for ten to twelve year olds to face peer pressure regarding such issues normally associated with the teen years.
Such conversations are going to be a bit awkward no matter how long you wait to initiate them, so you might as well get the process started instead of hoping in vain that “things will be OK” without your active involvement.
 Any teen can get caught up in a bad situation due to peer pressure, including those who seem most popular, successful, or well-adjusted. Certain factors, both inherent and environmental, can make some teens more prone to succumb to peer pressure, however. Be extra vigilant in the cases of those teens at higher risk.


Risk factors for increased susceptibility to negative peer pressure include poor academic performance, depression and/or eating disorders, unstable home life, isolation, lack of direction, lack of confidence, and low self-esteem.
Generally speaking, teens who feel they are different in a “bad” way are more likely to succumb to negative peer pressure.
 Talk to teens about the reality that peer pressure can be either negative (spurring underage drinking or bullying others) or positive (causing better grades or a desire to volunteer more). Therefore, peer pressure is unavoidable and not always a bad thing. It can also occur directly (being dared to vandalize the school at night) or indirectly (starving oneself to match the look of the “cool kids”).


Discuss also the fact that the strongest peer pressure is likely to come from friends — real friends, false friends, and new friends. You can’t choose teens’ friends for them, but you can encourage them to choose wisely and regularly evaluate the overall value of each friendship.
 Make it clear that although negative peer pressure is impossible to avoid and difficult to overcome, each teen must be held accountable for his or her poor decisions. In other words, make it clear that excuses like “but so-and-so made me do it” or “but I just wanted to be like them” will not absolve them from blame.Whenever you’re dealing with teens, and especially as a parent, you have to balance compassion with conviction. Teens have to know that choices like drinking alcohol or making fun of other kids will result in negative consequences regardless of the circumstances, but they also need to feel as though they can come to you in a spirit of mutual honesty and understanding.
 As much as you want to protect the teens you care about and ensure their happiness, you can’t lock them up in their rooms forever or shield them from all negative peer pressure. Learning by making mistakes is part of growing up. So give them a little space to “live and learn,” but stay actively engaged so that you can help prevent major lapses in judgment with lasting consequences.Ask lots of questions — “Where are you going?” “Who else will be there?” — even if it causes friction with your independent-minded teen. Also, reiterate your clear expectations for behavior and consequences if they are violated. Remember, parenting isn’t a popularity contest., Talk to them about the importance of choosing friends wisely. Realize that forbidding a teen to hang out with a “bad seed” might cause the opposite effect, but set restrictions on how much, when, or where they can associate (such as only at your house). But, make sure you have better reasons than “I just don’t like that kid.”Talk to teachers, parents, and other adults to get the “scoop” on what’s going on with your teen and his or her circle of friends. You’ll have to decide for yourself what constitutes “spying” on your teen and what constitutes “good parenting.” The more reason you have to suspect that bad influences are affecting your teen, the more you should act.When you have figured out what it is that bothers you about one of your teen's friends, try talking with your teen about it. For example, you could say something like, "I don't like the way your friend treats you. She doesn't seem to respect your point of view."

