 This synthetic fabric will keep your body insulated and wick away moisture and sweat from your body; all while allowing your skin to breathe properly.


Choose polypropylene clothing for the layers closest to your skin; such as socks, underwear, undershirts, and leggings or pants.
Polypropylene workout clothing is usually sold by major athletic manufacturers and can be found in retail stores that specialize in athletic clothing or online at each company's website.;
, A middle layer will provide your body with extra warmth during cold weather.


Choose the material for your middle layer based on how your body handles cold temperatures. A cotton t-shirt or sweatshirt may be sufficient; however, if your body is prone to being colder during your winter workouts, you may want to select a heavier material, such as wool or fleece.
 Windproof and waterproof jackets and pants will protect you from rain, snow, and low windchill temperatures.


Look for synthetic, man-made jackets, sweatshirts, or pants with tags or labels that indicate the fabric contains technology that repels water and wind. If you are unsure about the capabilities of a specific fabric, consult with the company's website or with an associate at a store that specializes in athletic clothing.
Choosing a waterproof outer layer is highly recommended if your middle layer is made from cotton or a similar fabric that can absorb water.
 This will help protect your ears from frostbite and retain more of your body heat; especially since up to 50 percent of your body heat can escape through your head during workouts.


Wear a skull-cap made from heavy wool in dry, cold temperatures or a synthetic material that repels water in rain or snow.
If you wear a helmet or headphones during your workout, select a hat that allows room for these items to fit.
 These fabrics will keep your hands and fingers warm during your workout.


If your workout requires you to handle items, such as a basketball or free weights, choose gloves or mittens with leather or rubber strips on the palms or finger pads to help maintain your grip.



If your workout consists of running or other activity in which you may come into contact with ice, select an athletic shoe with a thick tread on the bottom or choose rugged footwear designed specifically for icy conditions.
If you decide to wear multiple layers of socks or socks made from thick material, such as wool, you may need to choose athletic shoes in a larger size.
 This will help keep your feet dry during your workout and protect you from frostbite.


Consult with your shoe's manufacturer or with an associate at an athletic shoe store to determine recommended products for waterproofing your athletic shoes.

