 Dripping blood is fresh and oxygenated, so you need a fake blood recipe that is more watery and a bit brighter than the fake blood used for dried smears. Light corn syrup can accomplish this effect. Adding corn starch thickens the mixture to the right consistency, and the addition of laundry soap makes the blood less likely to stain.


In a small bowl, mix together 2/3 cup (150 ml) light corn syrup, 1/3 cup (75 ml) warm water, 3 to 5 tsp (15 to 25 ml) red food coloring, 2 to 3 drops blue or green food coloring, 5 Tbsp (75 ml) cornstarch, and a squirt of liquid laundry soap. Continue mixing until evenly combined into a smooth mixture.
Note that you can adjust the amount of red food coloring as needed to achieve your desired shade.
If the blood seems too thin, add more cornstarch. If it seems too thick, add more water.
 Squeeze the tip of a clean, empty eye dropper and dunk the mouth of the dropper into your fake blood. Release the tip to draw the blood into the body of the dropper.


A syringe without a needle could also work if you do not have an eye dropper. Essentially, you just need a tool that you can use to control the application of fake blood. That tool must have a mouth that is small enough to fit into one nostril, however.
 Hold your heat straight and place the mouth of the dropper at the base of one nostril. Slowly squeeze the bulb so that fake blood comes out in a mild trickle. The blood should pour down from the base of your nostril to your mouth in an even stream.


To make the process easier, use a mirror when applying the blood.
Note that you may not use all of the fake blood inside the dropper. You only need to use enough fake blood to create one steady trail.
Do not squirt the blood directly into your nostril. The tip of the dropper should be on the outside of your nostril, at its very base. The body of the dropper should be pointed up and slanted off the one side.
Only apply the fake blood to one side of your nose for a more convincing nosebleed.
The conclusion of this step marks the end of this method.

