 If you don’t already have a fence, consider installing one to make your space more private. If a fence isn’t possible, you can also plant hedges to create privacy. If you are renting or sharing a space, consult with your landlord or roommates before making any changes.A fence can be costly. Factor in the cost of supplies and labor if you don’t know how to build a fence on your own.
 You don’t have to cover the entire yard with a deck, but a small part of the yard is nice to off section for a patio. Lay down stones or build a wooden deck. It can be as small as just four feet in length if you don’t have a lot of space. Consider the shape of your yard when planning the patio. A long, narrow deck would be ideal for a long, narrow yard. , Look for a table and chair set to place on the deck. For a smaller area, look for a small table and two chairs to set on either side of the table. For a wider area, look for a square table with four chairs. You can have your meals, read, or enjoy a glass of wine at the table on nice days and evenings. The table and chairs directly on the ground, but for more stability, it is better to place them on a wooden deck or stones. You can purchase a wooden or pop up gazebo to place over the table for coverage during light rain or bright sun. Gazebos can be purchased for home improvement stores.
For an easy option, you can buy stones to lay down.
 Add some color to your yard by setting up flowers around it. You can buy some larger pots, small pots to put on tables, and if you have a place to them from, you can buy hanging pots. Look for perennial flowers, like coneflower, that will stay lovely and colorful all year long. Instead of flowers, you can also choose plants or herbs for the pots. Heuchera and ferns are plants that go well in containers. For herbs, lemon thyme and ‘Alaska’ nasturtium is well-suited for pots. Buy potting soil and fertilizer, then plant the flowers into the pots.
 Purchase a small grill for the patio area. A tabletop grill can be found to save space. Use the grill to entertain guests or cookout with a friend or your partner. Grills can be purchased at places like Walmart, many home improvement stores, and online.