 Lay out your clothes, shoes, a bible, and any other items you require to go to church. Nice clothes include a short ( but not overly short) skirt and a shirt, or leggings and a nice shirt.


Make sure your clothing is appropriate for church and the season, e.g. don't wear a strappy dress in the middle of winter or you could get chilly and don't forget your head scarf or hat if your religion requires you keep your head cover ed in church.;
, For example if the service starts at 10:30am there's no need to get up till 8:00am. If it is an evening service you are attending, when you get it isn't so important.
 Don't go to church on an empty stomach. It could be a bit embarrassing if your tummy rumbles whilst the congregation is quietly praying! Some good breakfast ideas include egg on toast, muesli or a bowl of frosties.
 If you took a shower the night before, you can skip this step or take another as you wish. Many religions see cleanliness as virtuous.
 Remember to use a mouthwash.
,, Remember to keep it simple. Do something like a ponytail or put it in a clip, or even leave it down. if you want to leave it down you may want to straighten it or go over your hair with a curling iron and put a few waves in it.
 Depending on your age, you may like to wear a little makeup, a lot, or none. There's no right or wrong amount of make-up for any age group, or occasion. If you feel comfortable, your makeup or lack of it, is fine. Since most Church services are in the morning, only daytime makeup is needed. Tinted lip gloss (or a light lipstick,) a quick swipe of mascara, some light eye shadow,and a bit of blush are all that is needed. If it is an evening service, a slightly darker lip and eye color can be used -- however, bear in mind that is still Church, and not a dance or a club, so, don't get too dramatic with the makeup, or you will come across as a fake! In my opinion, the lesser the better

, Also keep a small bag handy with your cell phone and other essentials (money, chapstick) in case you need something on your way.

