 When you are living a life you are passionate about there will be little to fix. Chances are, you are not feeling passionate right now. If not, go back to square one and find out what you truly need to be doing to live a fulfilled and happy life.Grab paper and a pen and complete the journaling exercises below. On your paper, answer the following:Why am I here? – Consider your current purpose in life, and the variables that contributed to you being where you are right now.
Create a list of 20-50 things that make you happy.
What is the best thing that has ever happened to me?
What are five things I like about me?
List three traits or characteristics others would use to describe you.
My dream is…
After you have answered all of the above, tie it all together. How can you realign your current purpose with meeting your dreams? How can you surround yourself with more things that make you happy? How can you make others see the positive traits or abilities that you see in yourself?;
, Now that you have gotten a good understanding of the things that make you happy, look at your life and try to discern what led to you becoming disconnected from these passions.


For example, sometimes we have goals and aspirations in life that do not fit with our parents’ or families’ goals. We might let go of our own passions to please others. Doing so might bring us pleasure for a short time, but eventually we become unhappy because we are not satisfying our core passions.
Consider another example: Maybe you once had a passion for helping others before college. When you graduated and entered the rat race, you lost touch with that passion in favor of making money and getting the bills paid.
 As you have probably guessed, you lost touch with your passions when you began to prioritize others’ passions or less important aspects of life above those things that truly make you happy. You can fix this. When you prioritize positivity, or plan your day so that it is filled with things that naturally evoke positive emotions, you have a better chance at feeling this way more often. Research shows that this method of prioritizing these good vibes is more effective than constantly chasing happiness 24/7.Look at that list of items that make you happy. Consider ways you can be proactive and incorporate some of these things or activities into your daily life. This way, whenever you get the chance, you are engaging in activities that bring you joy and peace of mind.
For example, if you enjoy nature, you might schedule daily walks in the morning or the evening with either your dog, a partner or a friend.
 Live in the present moment, not in the past or future. Ruminating about past situations and worrying about future situations only subtracts from your life right now. Take an active hand in creating your own happiness by focusing on the here and now.


Pause throughout your day and strive to be present-focused. Take several deep, cleansing breaths. Think about your environment and physical sensations. What do you see, smell, or hear? What are you feeling in your body? Continue to breathe deeply as you orient yourself to what's happening in this very moment.