 For best quality, you should obtain a pigment printer that is used primarily for producing high-quality prints. A pigment printer will place the ink on top of the paper, whereas a dye printer sinks the ink into the paper. The difference can be quite significant in terms of how long the photo will last.


Pigment-printed photos are rated for 200 years, whereas dye-printed photos can fade within a few months or years, depending on sunlight exposure.;
, The 4" x 6" and 5" x 7" photographs are ideal for albums and scrapbooks. The 8.5" x 11" or 8" x 10" photo paper works well for printing 8" x 10" photographs that you plan on framing or displaying, including family portraits and wedding photos. When printing the photos, purchase the photo paper of the size that you would like, then select the size from the print menu or on the printer itself, if it has an interactive screen.


Load the photo paper into the tray of the printer. There should be an instruction manual to point out where the paper tray is. If you don’t have the manual, these can often be found online with a quick Google search.
You may have to purchase a special printer that can accommodate larger prints if that is what you desire.
 You can choose a glossy or matte finish, or a finish somewhere in between the two. The “finish” refers to how shiny the photograph will be once it is printed onto the photo paper. Glossy paper will give you deep, vibrant colors. A matte paper offers you a rich texture and resists fingerprints. A luster finish will be between matte and glossy.Glossy is great for showing the details and colors of the photo but is susceptible to glare when a light is reflecting off the surface of the photo. It is also prone to retaining fingerprints if someone handles the photo with greasy or sticky fingers.
Luster is popular with professional portrait photographers, particularly for wedding and family portraits. The balance between glossy and matte makes for a nice, professional finish.
Matte finishes are great for reducing the glare on a photograph by deflecting the light and will also prevent fingerprints from sticking to its surface. A matte finish is ideal for photos that are frequently handled.
 Most printers will come with a recommended set of color cartridges to purchase or will manufacture cartridges that are made specifically for your printer model. You may not be able to purchase third-party ink cartridges if your printer only accommodates cartridges of a certain size or shape. Before purchasing your printer, find out what cartridges it requires or accepts so that you know what to expect when purchasing cartridges in the future.


Printer ink is often purchased from office supply stores, such as Staples. It can also be purchased online from Amazon.com or any office supply stores that offer online ordering.
The ink cartridges are usually found within its own tray of the printer. You may have to pull this tray out to access the cartridges.

