 Open a new browser tab and go to the Google Mapmaker website.;
, It’s located at the top right corner of the page. This directs you to the Google account sign-in page.
 Enter your Google email address and password into the fields provided, and click the blue “Sign In” button just below the password text-field area.


If you don’t have a Google account, you will be required to create an account, then return to the Google Maps page.
 This can be achieved through either of the following:


By clicking on any point on the current map and dragging it with the mouse, then zooming in and out until you find your area. You zoom in and out using the plus (+) and minus (-) panel found at the bottom right of the page. The plus sign zooms in and the minus sign zooms out.
By entering a location in the Search field. This search field is found at the top left corner of the page. Take your cursor and click inside the search field, then type the name of the location. As you type, Google Maps will suggest possible locations that you can select by clicking them in the drop-down menu that appears.
 Do this by clicking the red “Add New” button at the top middle of the page. A menu will drop down. From here, select “Add a Place.”

, To the top right corner of the map window is a square box labelled “Satellite.” Click on it to open Satellite View and zoom in to the exact area you want to add information.
 Right-click on the place you want to add on the map, and select “Add” from the menu that appears. A pop-up with a drop-down menu will appear. This menu has a number of categories arranged in alphabetical order.
 The drop-down menu has an arrow icon pointing downwards. Click on that icon to view the categories available. Scroll down and click on your preferred category. A category can be street, business, or building. Immediately after you select the category, two text boxes will appear.
 In the first text box, enter the name of the place. This could be your business name. In the second text box, type in a description for the place.
 You’ve now added information in Google Maps!

