 Comb your hair to remove any knots or tangles. Next, part your hair down the center. Drape the left side over your left shoulder, and the right side over your right shoulder.








Use the handle of a rat-tail comb to create a neat, even part.Choose a side to start with, then clip the other one out of the way.;
, Gather three thin sections from your hairline, like beginning a regular French or Dutch braid. Each section should be no thicker than ½ inch (1.27 centimeters).








Make sure that the sections are pointing towards the back of your head and not the floor.
 This is just like Dutch braiding or Reverse French braiding. Instead of crossing the strands over the middle one, you'll be crossing them under. This is very important. If you don't do this, then the boxer braids will end up too flat.
 Gather a thin strand of hair from your hair line or part (depending on which side you started on). Make sure that the strand is no thicker than ½ to ¾ inch (1.27 to 1.91 centimeters). Add the strand to the left section.
 Give the left and middle sections a gentle tug to make them as tight as comfortable. Smooth down any stray hairs with your fingers.
 Gather a ½ to ¾-inch (1.27 to 1.91-centimeter) thick strand from your hairline/part. Add it to the right section, and cross it under the middle one.
 Continue gathering thin strands of hair from your hairline/part and adding them to the left and right sections. Cross the left and right sections under the middle one. Try to keep the braid between your ear and center part, and angle it towards the center of your nape.









The tighter you braid, the better. Don't worry, you can loosen the braids up at the end.
 Once you reach the nape of your neck, you will run out of hair to gather into your left and right sections. Instead, continue doing a regular braid. Remember to cross the left and right sections under the middle one. Stop braiding when you have about 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) of hair left.
 If you have very dark hair, you can use a black elastic instead. You can also use a colored elastic for something more fun.
 Use the same technique as before. This time, begin by crossing the right strand under the middle one. Continue adding thin sections of hair to each strand when crossing it over. When you reach the nape of your neck, finish off with a regular braid.
 For a boho-chic look, gently tug on the outer loops of your braid to loosen them. If you want to, you can also muss up the hair at your temples. Set the style with a light misting of hairspray.