 Carbon filters are highly recommended for indoor gardens of all sizes. The contain activated carbon, which neutralizes the odors in air as it passes through. The carbon filter is installed in the grow room's exhaust system, where an inline fan forces the air through the filter before passing outside.There are two types of carbon filter, granular and block. Block is generally more effective, with a larger carbon surface area and greater density for slower, more thorough filtration.Granular filters may be effective for small cultivation areas.Choose the filter size according to the amount of air you need to evacuate, measured in cubic feet per minute (CFM). The intake fan in your exhaust system should have a CFM rating stamped on the body of the fan. Make sure the filter has a rating equal to or lesser than the fan's to ensure the fan is powerful enough to move the air through the filter. Likewise, both devices should have the same duct diameter (6 inches is standard, but check just in case).If you do not have a fan already, you may opt to purchase one separately, or as part of a fan-filter combination.



Connect the filter to the fan's intake side using an airtight clamp. Alternatively, you can use metallic duct tape for this step.
Wrap fixture hangers around the filter and fan, and hang them from the ceiling using two hooks. Raise the system by pulling on the cords.
Try to position the filter and fan in line with the ducting, which should be more or less parallel to the ceiling and pass into the wall.
Attach the fan's exhaust end to the duct.
Some people find it more effective to install the carbon filter at the opposite end of the exhaust system to the fan. In this case, attach the filter to ducting at the end or back of the system. Rig to the ceiling using the fixture hangers as described above., Plants produce odor around the clock, so you'll need to manage it constantly., Carbon filters are less effective in humid conditions.


To help regulate conditions in your grow room at all times, consider connecting the extraction fan to a fan-speed controller that also measures humidity and carbon dioxide levels., Over time, carbon's filtration power lessens, and odors will return. Depending on the filter, it may last between 9 to 12 months. Keep track of when you've last changed the filter and plan ahead to avoid odiferous interim periods.

