 You may feel silly doing the lion face, but it will help ease tension in your face and jaw as well as increasing circulation in your face. Poor circulation and facial tension both can lead to wrinkles.To prepare for lion face, take a few deep breaths. On a deep inhale, contract every muscle in your body. As you exhale, slowly release all those muscles. Widen your eyes and stick your tongue out and down towards your chin, opening your mouth wide.
Try to hold the position as long as possible, maybe 30 seconds, breathing slowly and deeply and feeling the stretch in your tongue.
Relax back to start and take a few breaths before repeating again. Do this pose three times.
 Inversion can help your blood pressure as well as increasing circulation to your head and face, improving your complexion and helping to release facial tension. If you're new to yoga, start slowly and keep yourself well grounded.A deep forward bend is one of the simplest ways to invert yourself. Simply stand tall with your feet wide, about four feet apart. Point your toes slightly inward. Place your hands on your hips, elbows out, and on an inhale, fold your body forward from your hips.
Keep bending forward, if you can, until the top of your head touches the floor. Release your hands to the floor. If you can get the crown of your head to the floor, you can rest your thumbs on your chin with your fingers along your cheek to get an additional stretch for your face.
If you can't bend all the way to the floor, bend as far as you comfortably can, and rest your hands on your knees or your shins.
Stay bent for several breaths, breathing deeply in through the nose and out through the mouth. On an exhale, slowly roll back up to stand.
 When you hear the word "facelift" you may think of cosmetic surgery, but there also is a face yoga move that helps lift your eyes and cheeks to ease facial tension and smooth your smile lines.To start, put your palms on your temples and press gently. Push your hands up and back to lift the sides of your face. As you lift, make an "O" shape with your mouth, dropping your jaw as low as you can.
Hold the pose for about five seconds, breathing deeply in through your nose and out through your mouth. If your mouth gets too dry exhaling this way, you can exhale through your nose.
After five seconds, relax. Take a couple breaths, then repeat the move twice more.
 This exercise fights wrinkles especially if you are someone who squints or stares at computer screens all day. By working the muscles in your forehead and around your eyes, it helps reduce the tension in your entire face.All you have to do is open your eyes as wide as possible, showing as much of the whites of your eyes as you can. Make sure you're continuing to breathe, and keeping your forehead as smooth as possible.
Hold the position for about 60 seconds, or until your eyes start to water. Then relax. Don't repeat this exercise multiple times, as it can harm your eyes. If you're wearing contacts, you may want to skip this one.

