 A head tilt is the telltale sign of wry neck in a rabbit. Your rabbit will tilt his head in the direction of the affected side. The head tilt may start gradually or have a sudden onset., Wry neck is not a disease itself—it is a symptom indicating problems with a rabbit’s sense of balance. A rabbit’s inner ear and brain play important roles in balance. If your rabbit’s inner ear is infected, or something damages his brain (e.g., trauma, stroke), his sense of balance will be thrown off. Therefore, your rabbit may lack coordination when walking or walk in circles.Your rabbit may look very wobbly on his feet when walking.If your rabbit is unable to get up, he might just roll around on the floor.If you try to pick up your rabbit, he may start rolling his body in your arms., Since the brain is part of your rabbit’s balance system, damage to the nerves in his brain controlling his facial movements could lead to facial problems. For example, your rabbit’s eyelids may not close, leaving him unable to blink. In addition, his eyes may start to look sunken in. Also, your rabbit may drool and his lip may start to droop.You may notice your rabbit’s eyes moving back and forth rapidly. This is called nystagmus and indicates nerve damage., With an altered sense of balance, your rabbit may start feeling nauseated. This sick feeling may cause him to eat and drink less.Anorexia can lead to very serious gastrointestinal problems in rabbits, so pay close attention to whether your rabbit is eating less than usual.


Even if your rabbit wants to eat, the head tilt would make it difficult for him to get anything in his mouth., Do not delay in getting your rabbit to your vet—an early diagnosis is essential to treating a rabbit with wry neck.Although wry neck can be easily diagnosed based on the characteristic head tilt, your vet will need to identify the specific cause of wry neck. Effective treatment will depend on your vet determining the exact cause.Take your rabbit to a vet who has experience treating rabbits. Visit http://rabbit.org/vet-listings/ to find vets in your area who work with rabbits.
With several potential causes of wry neck, your vet will perform various diagnostic tests, along with a physical exam, to rule out the causes one by one.Diagnostic tests that your vet may perform include blood tests, analysis of the urine, and x-rays., After your vet has identified the cause of your rabbit’s wry neck, they will devise a treatment plan specific to that cause. For example, if your rabbit has an inner ear infection, then aggressive, long-term treatment with antibiotics would be needed. If trauma is the cause, then steroids may help with recovery, in addition to other emergency treatments.For wry neck caused by the parasite Encephalitozoon cuniculi, anti-parasitic drugs like fenbendazole and albendazole are indicated., Your vet may prescribe several medications for your rabbit. Make sure you understand all prescription instructions and follow them exactly.If you are unsure how to administer the medications, ask your vet to show you how.


Treatment for wry neck can take up to several months, or may be lifelong.Properly administering the medication, whether short term or long term, will help your rabbit recover.
 Feed your rabbit plenty of fresh vegetables, including leafy greens. With a tilted head, your rabbit probably won’t be able to eat much on his own. In addition to what he can eat on his own, you may have to feed him a supplement with a syringe; your vet can show you how to do this.You could also try breaking up his food into small bits and feeding him by hand.


If pellets are a part of your rabbit’s regular diet, do not feed them to him during his treatment.Your rabbit will still need to eat his cecotropes, the fecal droppings that contain important nutrients. If he cannot reach them on his own, place them where he can easily get to them.Wear gloves to pick up the cecotropes.
Your vet can show you how to feed your rabbit with a syringe.
 Staying hydrated during treatment will be just as important for your rabbit as eating a healthy diet. Purchase a shallow, heavy water bowl that your rabbit can drink from without knocking it over.If he is not able to drink on his own, you may need to place water in his mouth with a syringe.
 Exercise is an important component of your rabbit’s treatment for wry neck. Once your rabbit is steady on his feet, set up a large play area for him to exercise. Examples of toys to put in his play area are cardboard boxes and shredded newspaper.Keep your rabbit company as he plays.
 Since you may be treating your rabbit for a long time, you will need to be patient with him as he recovers. You may start seeing at least a little improvement within a few days. Examples of improvement are eating and drinking, attempts at grooming, and efforts to move around.Be mindful that your rabbit may still have a head tilt after treatment has ended.Fortunately, your rabbit can still have a happy life with the head tilt, as long as his other symptoms have improved and he is living a generally normal life.
 If your rabbit falls when he walks or rolls around on the floor, he may injure himself against the sides of his enclosure. In addition, he may develop sores and bruises from lying in one position for a long time. Place a few layers of fleece blankets in his enclosure for extra padding.Remove any items (e.g., water bottle with a sipper tube) from the inside walls of his enclosure that could injure him.Consider placing your rabbit in a smaller area so he doesn’t have as much space to wobble and roll around. Placed rolled up towels or blankets on the sides of his enclosure to give him something soft to lean against.A plastic, rectangular laundry basket is an ideal small enclosure. Line the bottom with some pee pads and a fleece blanket, and line the sides with rolled up towels., If your rabbit cannot blink his eyes, switch to dust-free litter. This will keep dust from flying into his eyes when he uses his litter box. To keep your rabbit’s eyes moist, your vet may prescribe eye ointments or artificial tears. Trimming your rabbit’s nails (or having your vet do so) will prevent him from scratching his eyes with his nails., With a head tilt, your rabbit may not be able to groom himself very well. This could lead to a buildup of urine and feces in his anal area, which would feel irritating to him and possibly cause a bacterial infection.Gently wipe his anal area to dry it off and remove feces.Pet-friendly wet wipes are another option for cleaning your rabbit’s fur.Look for them at your local pet store.
Brush your rabbit twice a week with a medium or soft bristled brush.If your rabbit is trying to groom himself, let him do so. This is a sign of improvement for him.
 Picking up your rabbit may make him feel unsteady. If you must pick him up, hold him firmly against your chest to help him feel more stable.Pick him up and rotate his position slightly to prevent the development of sores on his body.