 The best kisses are the ones where both people are enjoying it. Observe your girlfriend before you attempt a kiss on the neck. You'll want to take cues from her on whether or not it is the right time to go in for a kiss. Typically, her body language and facial expressions will give you important signs.Pay attention when you touch her. Whether your hands brush when you hand her a drink, or there is contact when you help her put on her coat, notice her response when you make physical contact. If she pulls away at all, she is probably not receptive to kissing at this time. But if she allows the touch to linger, that is a positive indicator.
Notice her eye contact. Is she letting her gaze linger on yours? That is a sign that she might be open to kissing. If she looks away quickly, she is trying to create space between you.
Blushing is a good sign. If her cheeks are flushed when she looks at you, that is a sign that she is attracted to you. You can also look at her feet. If they're pointed towards you, she is receptive to your attention.Have good timing. Pay attention to your date's actions and words. For example, if she is telling you an emotional story about a fight she had with her best friend, this is probably not the right time to kiss her on the neck. That might be seen as not taking her problem seriously.;
, Before you go in for a kiss on the neck, make sure that you are in an appropriate environment. Many women are open to a little bit of physical affection in public, but most will shy away from overt displays of physical activity in public.Pay attention to her mood. Does she seem relaxed and comfortable? Then it might be a good environment for a kiss.Know the crowd. Is your girlfriend's family extremely conservative? Then it is probably not a good idea to give her a lingering kiss on the neck in front of them. Likewise, it is probably not appropriate if you are spending time with her boss or coworkers.
If you are in a relaxed public space, such as a sporting event or concert, a kiss on the neck might be a fine idea. However, make sure that you are not putting your date on display by drawing a lot of attention to the two of you.
 Women say that physical chemistry is very important when choosing who they want to kiss. Females are attracted to how people look and how they smell. Most woman report that prefer being kissed by someone who is well-groomed. If you have facial hair, make sure that it is clean, trimmed, and looking good.Having fresh breath is also important. If you anticipate kissing, take a moment before hand to pop a breath mint. This will make kissing a more pleasurable experience for both of you.

