 Different jurisdictions operate their own warrant databases. Thus, to find a warrant, you would need to search the database for the county in which the case or offense took place.


Search any counties where you have lived, or where you visit frequently.
Don't forget that in addition to state courts, there are also federal district courts, which handle federal offenses. If there is a case against you for violating federal law (as opposed to state law), the case will proceed in federal court, and there may be a federal warrant for your arrest. Federal courts do not provide searchable databases, but you can call a court clerk for more information.;
, Go to the city, county, or state website where you think you might have a warrant for your arrest. Government websites are kept up-to-date, which makes them a reliable way to get information.You will typically need to enter your first and last name. Some sites allow you to further refine your search by nickname, date of birth, and other attributes.Federal government websites end in .gov. State and local government websites usually end in either .gov or .us, but sometimes also end in .org, .net, or .com. If you are not sure if a site is credible, government-operated site, look at the site design and writing style.If a webpage looks amateurish and poorly-organized, it may not be a legitimate source.
Look for the "Legal" or "Health and Safety" sections to see if they offer a warrant search.
Alternatively, try entering a phrase such as "arrest warrant" in the search bar on the website's home page, or do a search engine search, such as "Orange County arrest warrant search."
Some counties do not offer online warrant searches. In that case, look at the local sheriff or police department site for contact information.
 For federal warrant searches and for counties that do not offer a public database search, you will need to call the court directly. Have the following information ready: the case number (if you know it), your name, birth date, and Social Security number.For some cases, such as family, juvenile delinquency, and domestic violence cases involving protective, peace, or restraining orders, you may not be able to get complete information through the court clerk because the information is restricted due to privacy concerns of the people involved in the case. However, the clerk should still be able to tell you about an arrest warrant, even if he or she cannot give you specific information on the case itself. Most criminal case information is public record, but if you need information about a case where information is restricted due to privacy concerns, contact a bail bondsman or attorney.
Note that if you call from your own phone, the police may be able to locate and arrest you. They can trace the phone number to an address, or to any billing information associated with that phone number. If you are nervous about calling yourself, ask a close friend or family member to call for you., The NCIC operates an index of criminal justice information used by federal, state, and local law enforcement. The database includes active arrest warrants. You can call NCIC at (304) 625-2000 from 9:00am to 5:00pm, EST.Ask the operator to search the warrant database for your name.
 You can use the computers at your county court to search warrants. If you feel uncomfortable doing this yourself, ask someone to do it for you (a friend, family member, attorney, or bail bondsman). Most minor offenses will not lead to an immediate arrest. You may be able to pay a fine and settle the matter quickly.Be warned, however, that if there is warrant issued for you, you risk being taken into custody.
 Some non-government websites can perform a warrant search for you. Some are free (such as Got Warrants), while most others charge a fee.These services are quick and easy, but may not give you all of the information you're looking for. For example, they may provide vital statistics and property ownership, but not information about arrest warrants. For this reason, these services should be a last resort., If you suspect you have a warrant out for your arrest and are prepared to turn yourself in, you can simply ask a police officer. Police officers have access to special databases and can tell you if you have an outstanding warrant. While this method is quick, it will almost certainly lead to your arrest if there is an outstanding warrant.If an attempt is made to arrest you, do not resist. Resisting arrest can be considered a felony or misdemeanor., Sometimes people can be completely unaware that they have a warrant out for their arrest. Knowing when the warrant was issued could shed light on some important details.


There may be fines associated with your charge that have been accumulating since the warrant was issued. These will be listed among the warrant information. If the warrant was issued a long time ago, you’ll want to get the matter settled quickly before incurring any further penalties.
 If you know what you’re being charged with, you can more adequately prepare your response. Vital information includes the date of offense, the details of the charges, and the case type (e.g., felony, misdemeanor, traffic ticket, etc.).You may be able to avoid being arrested by paying a fine.
The severity of your charge may influence your choice of legal representation.
Also note any date of conviction, sentencing, disposition, and probation, if they apply to your case.
 If you’re concerned that you will go to jail, knowing the predetermined bail amount for your charge could help you raise the funds to avoid jail time while awaiting your trial.
 This will only catch up to you. The next time you get pulled over for speeding, or even visit the county clerk’s office for a routine matter, you could be arrested on the spot.
 Regardless of the charge, the best thing you can do for yourself is to respond quickly. Being proactive about your warrant helps you avoid being arrested publicly and at inopportune times. Moreover, it limits any accruing fees.
 In the event that a warrant has been issued for a major offense, you will most likely want to contact a criminal defense lawyer. An attorney can help you understand your warrant and will make suggestions as to possible next steps. In addition, an attorney can accompany you to the local court to inquire about your warrant. Bring the warrant number and all relevant information you have so far.You can get referrals from friends and family, or from attorneys who may not practice criminal law but know a trusted colleague who does. You can also use referral services through your state and local bar associations, or just search online.
If you're unable to pay for a lawyer, contact the public defender's office of the county where your warrant was issued. Ask to speak with the duty attorney and explain you'd like to clear your warrant.
 Turning yourself in can help make the process smoother, reducing the risk of more severe punishment and fines, and, in some cases, the creation of a criminal record.


Start by turning yourself in to the courthouse clerk. Ask for information about what steps to take next, but make sure you have the right clerk. For county and state warrants, talk to the county clerk; for federal warrants, talk to the clerk of the U.S. District Court.
Bring an attorney or legal representative with you for advice. Some misdemeanor and minor charges may be taken care of without a hearing. A court-appointed attorney will be provided for you if you turn yourself in and cannot afford a your own attorney.
If you turn yourself in to a police station, you may end up being put directly in jail until your appointed time in court. Try to find out when the judge will see defendants from your county and turn yourself in the day before. Avoid turning yourself in on a Friday or the day before a holiday, as you may be held over the weekend.

