 For men, male pattern baldness is the most common cause of hair loss, and for women, its alopecia, which causes gradual thinning. However, if you have a less common condition that's causing your hair loss, the best way to prevent further loss and foster regrowth is to receive treatment for that condition. Consult with your doctor if you suspect you might have one of the following conditions:



Hormonal fluctuations. This is a common cause of hair loss for pregnant and menopausal women, and it's often temporary. Using birth control can also lead to hormonal fluctuations.

Thyroid issues, such as hypothyroidism.

Scalp infection or skin disorder, such as ringworm or psoriasis.

Alopecia areata, a disorder in which the body's immune system attacks hair follicles.

Certain medications can also cause hair loss. Drugs used to treat cancer, depression, heart problems and high blood pressure might list hair loss as a side effect.
 Hair loss can be the result of a physical or mental shock to the system, and it can also happen if you're constantly feeling stressed. If you know yourself to be chronically stressed, either because you're dealing with something that's out of your control or you're just a high-stress person, do what you can to decrease the stress in your life.


Incorporate yoga, meditation, or nature walks into your routine. Research has shown that spending just 5 minutes a day in a park with trees can help relieve stress.Get regular exercise to help you decompress. Try jogging, biking, or just taking long walks to release endorphins and help your brain feel less weighed down.
Aim to get 7 to 8 hours of sleep per night. Having a sleep deficit leads to greater stress.
 Harsh chemicals found in shampoo, conditioner, hair spray, and hair dye can cause your hair to dry out and break more quickly. To slow hair loss, switch out your chemical-heavy products with natural shampoo (try making your own and hair spray or gel made with organic ingredients.


Commercially-produced shampoo often contains sulfates, an abrasive detergent that's also used in products like dishwashing detergent. It's too harsh to use on hair, especially hair that's in danger of falling out. Use a gentler, all-natural shampoo in its place.
Hair dye and bleach is hard on both your hair and your scalp. The same goes for chemical straightening products. Your best bet is to let your hair grow as its natural shade and texture. You can use henna dye as an organic alternative to chemical dye.
 Using a hair dryer, curling iron, straightener, and any other heat tools is damaging to hair. It can damage both the hair shaft and roots, making the hair fall out more quickly than it otherwise would. Try styling your hair without heat as an alternative. , Pulling, twisting, and rubbing your hair can damage the shaft and cause it to fall out faster. Handling your hair with more care will slow down the hair loss process. Make these simple changes to your routine to keep your hair growing strong:


Don't towel dry your hair vigorously; just pay it gently with a soft towel.
Never brush your hair when it's wet. Use a wide-tooth comb. To get tangles out, hold the hair halfway up the shaft and work from the bottom up, so you're not pulling on your scalp.
Don't wear tight hairstyles that will keep your hair pulled taut from your scalp. Wear it down and free as much as possible.

