 To avoid having to undergo expensive bone grafting procedures, prevent dental bone loss from occurring. Preventing it is fairly easy, provided you take the necessary steps. All you have to do to maintain excellent oral hygiene is follow a few simple steps:


Brush your teeth thoroughly every after meal - Brushing your teeth at least twice a day can prevent gum diseases. Brushing removes the plaque that is responsible for gum diseases and dental bone loss.
Floss after brushing. Flossing gets rid of plaque that isn't removed by brushing. It is imperative that you floss after brushing because there might be plaque that remained in your teeth that were not reached by the bristles of your brush.
 Tooth decay is one of the leading causes of dental bone loss. Tooth decay can be prevented by regular visits to your dentist to receive a thorough cleaning and comprehensive dental care.


To preserve your dental bone, you must also keep all your teeth healthy.
Visit your dentist every six months for routine cleaning, a must in order to maintain excellent oral hygiene.
Regular consultation with your dentist enables him/her to monitor your oral health and prevent developing gum problems.
X-rays can be taken to clearly reveal areas of dental bone loss.
If you miss your routine dental check-ups, you may only find out about bone loss at a stage when it might not be reversible.
 Fluoride toothpaste can protect your teeth and gums from bone loss by, providing necessary minerals to your bones and tooth enamel.


Excessive use of fluoride other than toothpaste is not recommended, as it may lead to other health problems.
Use fluoride-based toothpaste once a day to brush your teeth, otherwise use normal toothpastes.
Do not use fluoridated toothpaste in kids below the age of 10 years.
 Calcium is a critical nutrient to the health of all your bones, including your teeth. Calcium-rich foods and calcium supplements make sure your system receives the adequate amount of calcium needed to build up and strengthen your bones and teeth, increasing your bone density and reducing your risk of dental bone loss and bone fracture.


Foods like low-fat milk, yogurt, cheese, spinach and soy milk are rich in calcium and are important for the maintenance of strong teeth and bones.
Calcium is also available in supplement tablets.

Take 1 tablet (Caltrate 600+) after breakfast and 1 tablet after dinner. Should you miss one dose, take it as soon as you remember it.
 Take a vitamin D supplement or get some sun to ensure that you have the proper levels of vitamin D in your body. Vitamin D helps increase your bone density by helping your body absorb and retain calcium in your system.


To determine if you are suffering from insufficient vitamin D, ask your doctor if you could have a blood test to measure the amount of vitamin D in your blood.

A result of less than 40ng/mL indicates insufficient vitamin D in your blood.
The recommended amount of vitamin D in your blood is 50 ng/mL.
Take 5,000 IU of a vitamin D supplement daily.



