 You don't want to wash any items in your backpack that could be damaged by water. Turn your backpack inside out and use a small vacuum to clean the hard to reach interior corners of your backpack that might have small particles of dirt and garbage.Once you are finished emptying your backpack, leave the pockets unzipped.


Set all of your belongings from inside the backpack in a plastic bag, so you can put it all back in after you clean your bag. That way, you won't lose anything important.
If you notice that any of your personal items are dirty, clean them now while you are washing your backpack. You don't want to put dirty items back into a clean bag.;
, Use your hands to brush off loose, exterior dirt and dust. Then use a damp rag to lightly wipe down the outside of your bag. This gets off the big, surface dirt, and will help keep your cleaning water as clean as possible.If you pack has some kind of frame, make sure to remove it before trying to wash the bag.
Take off any detachable pockets and straps from the main body of the backpack, and clean them separately. This will ensure that each portion of the bag gets a thorough cleaning.
Cut away any loose threads or fibers close to the zipping areas.This ensures that along with your clean backpack, you will have a backpack free of snagged and stuck zippers.
 Always follow the care instructions for the backpack (if it has any) to ensure that you are washing your bag in a way that won’t damage it. Care labels are usually located inside the backpack along a side seam, most likely in the main zipper compartment. The care labels for backpacks usually have recommended information on washing and drying the bag, to ensure its sustainability.


Certain chemicals and cleaning practices can damage the backpack (its ability to resist water, for example) so it’s best to follow the guidelines that come with the bag.
If the fabric doesn't have a label for care and washing, test a small area of the fabric to see how it reacts to the cleaning agents you want to use.
 Use any pre treatment stain remover of your choice to target dirty spots, but avoid bleach. Use a soft brush (an old toothbrush) to scrub away stain residue, and let the treatment sit for up to 30 minutes. Most of the stain should come off when you actually wash the bag.


If you don’t have any staining pre treatment, you can use your brush dipped in a 50:50 solution of liquid detergent and water.
 You can also do this in a laundry basin or laundry sink. Make sure you have plenty of room to really wash out all the pockets and sections of the backpack.


Avoid hot water, because hot water can cause colors in the backpack to bleed.
If your care label indicates not to fully submerge the backpack, try wetting and cleaning parts of it with a soaked rag.
 The detergent you use has to be a gentle cleanser that is free of dyes, fragrances, and chemicals. This is because harsh chemicals could damage your backpack’s fabric material (by diminishing the efficacy of the layers of waterproofing on the bag fabric), and the fragrances and dyes could irritate your skin., You can either fully submerge your backpack in the water, or use the water to dip your scrub brush or cleaning rag in. A brush will help clean areas that are particularly dirty, and a rag is suited better for general cleaning of the bag.


A toothbrush can be used for getting tough stains out of the backpack material, and getting into hard to reach areas of the bag.
If your bag is made of a delicate material, like mesh, you might want to use a sponge instead of a brush to prevent damaging the fabric.
 Rinse out any soap or detergent with lukewarm water to avoid getting a soapy residue on your backpack fabric.


Wring out the bag to the best of your abilities. You can try laying the bag on a large body towel, and rolling the towel with the bag inside, until it looks like a tube. This helps with absorbing large amounts of water.
Watch out specifically for zippers, straps, and foam areas when wringing out your bag so you don't damage them.
 Allow the bag to dry naturally rather than in a drying machine. If possible, let the backpack hang upside down, with the pockets unzipped while it dries.


You can also try drying the backpack outside in the sun. This will help de-odorize your bag.
Before the next use or storing the backpack away, be sure that it is completely dry. Leaving it wet when in use or in storage can increase the chances of mold growth on the bag.

