 You will have to pry it free of the door panel, then cut the connecting wires.;
, Calculate the difference between the 2 measurements.
,


Cut a piece of poster board to the entire width of the door panel. This is your base template.
Cut a piece of poster board to the size and shape of the portion of the door panel you want to install the speaker in. This is the upper template.
Trace around the speaker on the upper template where you want the speaker to be located and cut out that hole.
 You may need to adjust the positioning of the upper template to ensure there are no obstructions.
,, You will have to remove all of the trim and door hardware first, then pry the door panel free.
,


Trace the templates onto 2 separate pieces of medium density fiberboard.
Cut out the templates using a jigsaw.
Screw the 2 boards together, but do not sink the screws entirely. You now have the basis for your door panel assembly, called a speaker pod.
,


Mount the door panel, speaker pod attached, in its place on the door.
Open and close the door to make sure nothing catches.
,, Your speaker pod should appear to be made of 1 piece, rather than 2.
 Sand the speaker hole down, if need be.



Trace the upper-template face of the speaker pod onto a piece of Masonite.
Drill 20 small holes into the Masonite where the speaker will be.
Sand the drill holes so there is no excess Masonite on the surface, left by the drilling process.
Spray the Masonite liberally with spray glue.
Wrap the Masonite with black grille cloth.



Cut a piece of foam rubber padding and a piece of vinyl to a size that is slightly larger than entire speaker pod you created.
Spray the speaker pod liberally with spray glue.
Wrap the padding over the top of the pod, leaving about 1 inch (2.54 cm) excess around the entire back edge.
Spray the padding with spray glue, then wrap the pod tightly with the vinyl piece, also leaving about 1 inch (2.54 cm) excess around the back edge.
Pull the vinyl over the back and edge staple into place with a staple gun.
Trim any excess padding or vinyl with scissors and cut a hole for the speaker.
 The speaker enclosure construction is now finished. You may install the speaker and reattach the door panel.

