 If you have gone a long time since your last oil change, it’s possible that your oil filter has become too clogged to allow oil to flow through it properly. Address this by draining the oil from the engine, replacing the oil filter, and refilling the engine with new oil. If the old oil filter would not permit oil flow, the light will turn off when you start the engine with a new filter and oil pressure should return to normal.If the oil light does not come back on and the oil pressure gauge reads properly then the issue is resolved.
If the light comes back on, turn the engine off immediately.
 If your engine’s oil was low but there is no sign of a leak, it likely means the engine is burning oil. The engine’s oil should not be able to enter the cylinder to be ignited with the air and fuel mixture, so burning oil means a seal in your engine has been compromised enough to allow oil to seep past it. Two common locations of increased clearance are the valve guides and piston rings. If these have worn enough to allow oil to pass through them, it also will limit the amount of compression the leaking cylinder is capable of.Purchase a compression gauge and insert it into the first cylinder’s spark plug hole to conduct a compression test. Repeat the process with each cylinder.
Have a friend crank the engine as you assess the maximum reading on the gauge.
If one cylinder reads as lower than the others, that cylinder has compromised rings or valve seals. The engine will require significant repairs.
 Locate the oil pressure sending unit and disconnect the wiring giving it power. Look to see if that has any effect on the oil pressure gauge in your vehicle. If it does not, it is likely that the issue is not an actual oil pressure problem, but rather a problem with the sensor reading that pressure.Check in your vehicle’s service manual to locate the oil pressure sending unit, as it may be located in a number of places depending on the make and model of your vehicle.
If the gauge does not move when the sending unit is disconnected, the engine’s oil pressure may actually be fine.
 Oil pumps technically don’t produce oil pressure, but rather they produce flow and it’s the resistance the oil runs into along its path that creates the pressure. With that in mind, a faulty oil pump can reduce the engine’s ability to create oil pressure. If you choose to replace the oil pump yourself, make sure to use the correct gasket or you may create a significant oil leak. Installing a new oil pump can be a big project, so unless you have the tools and expertise, it may be best left to professionals.Use the correct installation tool for your vehicle when seating the oil pickup tube into the pump. Forcing it can cause damage.
Add oil to the pump before you install it to ensure it is properly primed before the engine is started once it’s in place.

