 Isn't it obvious? When you hop into the car after a fantastic day they immediately ask why you look so happy. So try to keep a straight or calm face while talking to them. NO scowling, frowning, pouting or sulking. If you look like that, they'll most likely get mad and irritated and hey- the fight is on!;
, This will probably raise your temper and increase the urge to yell at them. Don't. Instead take deep long breaths and reply to their chatter calmly. Never sound impatient or become snappish because they will snap back and trigger the verbal attack. OH yeah, no swearing. Saying "What the hell/what the EFF/Bloody hell/etc" is not permitted here.
 Your mum will know you're venting your anger on the objects around you and what's more, she'll probably scream at you for damaging the furniture which in turn will set off the battle.
 Also don't sigh heavily too often or yawn loudly. Because this annoys exhausted mothers and make them snap at you - which will obviously prompt a row.
 Sometimes teens feel ashamed to present their mothers to their friends, and sometimes show obvious signs of embarrassment when with them in public. I want you to know that mothers are hurt deep down (did I mention that they are also sensitive?) when we do this. So, when she's at your school recital, or friend's house, or supermarket with you; do not brush her off with snappy remarks, do not attempt to walk away from her, don't rudely ditch her to be by yourself, & do not embarrass or humiliate HER about her ignorance - because it will get back to you at home.
 To word it easily; Your tolerance is at end, anytime now all your grumpiness will burst forth from you in one go. This is the time to GET AWAY. You've been doing so well at disguising your moodiness, and you really don't want to ruin all your efforts at the last minute. As you can't take anymore of your mother, make an excuse to get away ( Toilet, homework, computer, telephone-friend, walk, shower,... whatever) & slip away into your own company to deal with your moodiness alone. I know it sounds miserable- but hey! At least your mum will still give you your weekly allowance, permission to attend that sleepover, transport to and from school, and self-freedom.

