 Using your regular shampoo and conditioner regimen, wash your hair as you normally would. Rinse your hair clean of shampoo and conditioner.
 Using a hair dryer might change the way your hair reacts in a certain amount of time, so using a towel and air to dry your hair is the best method.
 Andre Walker, hairstylist for Oprah Winfrey, created a system for determining hair type primarily based on curl size and pattern.This includes a range of hair types from straight to coily.



1 (straight): Hair has no curve in it at all.

2 (wavy): Hair is wavy but does not curl much.

3 (curly): Hair is curly with an S shape and holds a definite curl pattern even when unstyled.4 (coily): Hair is tightly coiled or kinky, often with a definite Z pattern.It can be stretched out and will return to its curled shape when released. Type 4 hair might shrink up to 75% of its actual length., Take a look at a representative chunk of your hair. Observe the thickness and pattern of the curl (if you have curls)., , These are also based on the Andre Walker system that categorizes hair into four types and three subcategories per type.



1A: Hair is soft and cannot hold a curl.

1B: Hair does not curl but has more volume.

1C: Hair does not curl and is rather coarse.

2A: Hair is wavy, resembling the letter S, and is coarse.

2B: Hair is often frizzy with a definite wave.

2C: Hair is very frizzy with thick waves, and is the coarsest of this category.

3A: Curls are about the same diameter as sidewalk chalk, or pretty loose curls.

3B: Curls are about the same diameter as a sharpie, or medium-sized curls.

3C: Curls are about the same diameter as a pencil, or corkscrew curls.

4A: Curls are very tight, about the same diameter as a needle.

4B: Curls resemble a zigzag pattern, looking like the letter Z.

4C: There might not be a curl pattern to this hair type.
 The LOIS system compares a strand of your hair to the letters L, O, I and S.Take a single strand and hold it up with one hand. Compare your hair to the shapes of the letters L, O, I and S.



L: Your strand looks like the letter L, with right angles, bends and folds.

O: Your strand resembles the letter O or spirals into several Os.

I: Your strand is straight with little to no curves or waves, resembling the letter I.

S: Your strand is wavy and curves back and forth like the letter S.

Combination: Your strand might have a combination of two or more of these letters. If this is the case, check a few more strands of hair from all over your head to see if one of the letters is more dominant.

