 The reward is a headgear with 12 DEX. At level 50, try to get a Zakum Helmet. You can find them from the Free Market or by doing a Zakum Run. If you are playing in a new server, Cassandra will give you an event which you have to reach level 70 in a month. If you do, she will give you a bandanna with Zakum Helmet stats. If you can't afford any of those, wear your regular job hats.
Clothes. All archers can wear most armors. However, Low STR and STRless cannot wear anything from the Von Leon, Ipos Bloody, or the Falcon Wing series. Any of the clothes mentioned here have set effects, wear all of the clothes in there for a set bonus. If you can, try collecting the Wind Walker set for a bonus.
For gloves, try to get your hands on work gloves with attack. You can scroll them, buy them from the free market, or buy them from the MTS. If you don't have any work gloves, use the Mushking Leather gloves that you can get from the Mushroom Kingdom themed dungeon. Gloves for Attack scrolls can be obtained from Jane's final quest. If you can, check your Crusader Codex for which monsters drop those.
Squishy Shoes are good shoes for your archer, as they give stats. Alcaster also gives a quest where you have to defeat the Ice Knight 10 times. When you finish the quest, you get Ice Knight Chain Crampons, that increase your PvP damage by 2%. If you don't have access to those, wear your regular job shoes.
If you are STRless, the only weapons you can choose are the Maple Bows or the Visitor bows. If you played as a Wild Hunter during the release of the Resistance, you will have the Special Revolution crossbow. Ultimate Adventurers will receive a level 60 bow/crossbow, which can be used even if you're STRless.
You can mix and match accessories, but if you wear an accessory set, you get bonuses. An example of an accessory set is Larson's Challenger set.Try to buy an Archer symbol when you're level 90, or make one if you have accessory crafting. Wear the Silent Crusade rings too as the higher ones give weapon attack.

