 Holding hands will not only make you feel connected, it will declare to the world: "We are a couple!" Get close to her so that you are shoulder-to-shoulder. You can notice how she reacts to this first touch, and your hands will be close enough so you can hold hers easily.


If you're nervous and your palms are sweating (which is normal and ok, but not always the best feeling sensation), quickly wipe them on your pants before reaching for her hand.
Try hooking your pinkie finger with hers. This is a good move if you haven't held hands yet or you're nervous--it's very flirtatious and makes it easy for her to drop your hand if she isn't feeling the hand-holding yet.
Slide your hand under hers so that they are palm-to-palm.
Lace your fingers through hers so your hands are clasped together. Or try hooking your thumb over hers and wrapping your fingers around the back of her hand--the way you would hold your hands if you were making a "begging" gesture.
You may want to change positions every few minutes so your palms don't get too sweaty.
 This is a romantic way to hold your girlfriend if you are walking next to each other or standing and watching something. It is especially good if there is a height difference between you, since you can slide your hand down to her hip or up near her ribs.


While walking side-by-side, reach your arm across her back and place your hand on her waist.
Gently pull her toward you so she is snuggled against your body, under your arm.
Be sensitive to the fact that she might not want to be touched near her stomach. Some girls are a little self-conscious about their waist and may not be comfortable being touched there--especially if you squeeze her.
If she seems uncomfortable with your hand at her waist, try sliding it up to the bottom of her ribs, or simply putting your arm around her shoulders instead.
 This should be done when you are facing each other. This is something probably best done in private, as it's rather intimate and may lead to some kissing, since you'll be face-to-face.


Slide your hands under your girlfriend's arms and wrap them around her back. Slowly pull her toward you so that your bodies are pressed together, but not too tight!
Rest your chin gently on the top of her head, look down into her eyes, or nuzzle your head against her neck.
If she is comfortable with this, let your arms slide down so that you are embracing her around her waist.
 This is a cute way to surprise her, but you should be sure you are already familiar with her boundaries and that she's okay with being touched.


Walk up to your girlfriend from behind and slide your hands under her arms.
Wrap your arms around her waist in a backwards hug. Kiss the top of her head, her cheek, or her neck for a little added romance.

