 You will be more likely to feel confident if you feel comfortable in your workout clothes. If you have not purchased any new workout clothes for yourself in a while, then treat yourself to a new outfit.Choose clothes that fit you well and that are flattering. Steer clear of clothes that are too tight or too loose on you.
Opt for clothes that move with you and breathe well, such as spandex leggings or shorts and a cotton t-shirt.
Choose clothes that make you feel comfortable. For example, if wearing a tube top and shorts makes you feel self-conscious, then try a t-shirt and some sweatpants instead.;
, If you are doing something that you don’t enjoy, then it will be harder to stick with it and it may also affect your self-confidence. Find an activity that is fun for you to increase the chances that you will stick with it.Try some different workout classes at your gym, such as Zumba, spinning, and yoga classes.
Try different machines, such as the elliptical, treadmill, and stationary bike.
Experiment with other activities, such as swimming, martial arts, and hiking.
 Another way to change your focus when you are working out is to remind yourself of your goals. This may help you to feel more confident and keep you moving forward.Try writing down your goals and reading over them before each workout to help motivate yourself. For example, if your goal is to lose 10 pounds by your birthday, then write, "I want to lose 10 pounds by my birthday."
Make sure that you are setting realistic goals for yourself. For example, if you have a large amount of weight to lose, then try to focus on smaller amounts over shorter time periods, such as 5 pounds in one month.
 Focusing on the physical sensations of your workout may also help to reduce your self-consciousness. Instead of focusing on the people around you, try to focus on the way that your body feels as you move.For example, you might notice that your quad muscles are burning as you pedal a stationary bike on high resistance, or you might notice that your arms feel powerful as you move the handles on an elliptical machine.
 Having a buddy can help to reduce self-consciousness and it can also help to make working out more fun. Try asking a friend to accompany you on walks or to meet you at the gym.If you don’t know anyone who likes to exercise, then you might consider joining an exercise class to meet some people at your gym or sign up for a running or walking club in your area.
 Distracting yourself can also be an effective way to reduce self-consciousness while you are at the gym or exercising outside. Always bring your cell phone or an mp3 player with you to ensure that you will have something to distract you.For example, you might listen to music, an audiobook, or a podcast while you work out. Find something that you enjoy listening to and save it for your walks or trips to the gym.

