 As a volunteer, it's important to follow the rules and guidelines provided by the volunteer coordinator or staff member. Even if you think something could be done a better way, there might be an important reason for the current system. Avoid causing problems or throwing off the schedule by following the rules of your assignment.
 Following the rules and guidelines doesn't mean you have to do the bare minimum. If you're assigned to wheel patients from one room to another, take the time to talk to them, hold their hands and learn their names. If a staff member ever asks for your help with anything, be willing to jump in -- even if it takes extra time or effort.
 If you are given the freedom to plan the activities yourself, put yourself in the shoes of the residents and consider what they will enjoy. If you're going to play music or do karaoke, choose songs from their time era that they will actually recognize. Ask the residents or the staff members what past activities have worked really well, and incorporate some of those into your plan. Even if it's not always an activity that you personally enjoy, remember that this time isn't about you.
 If you say you'll be there for an hour every Tuesday afternoon, be there for an hour every Tuesday afternoon. Not only is it stressful for the staff and other volunteers if you miss your assignment, it can also be disappointing to the residents. Life at a nursing home can be very monotonous, and they look forward to special visits and activities. Before committing to a volunteer schedule, make sure it's a reasonable commitment that you can definitely keep. If you ever need to adjust your schedule, let the volunteer coordinator know well in advance.
 It can be intimidating when you start volunteering because you don't know any of the residents. Keep in mind that not every resident is the same -- they have different personalities and interests, just like you. Act like you're meeting people your own age and don't be afraid to be yourself. Tell them about your hobbies and interests and ask them about theirs. Chances are, you might have more in common than you initially think.

