 Begin by brushing your dry hair thoroughly with a paddle brush to remove any tangles. Mist a texturizing hairspray all over your hair, which will provide your strands with a little extra volume and grip. If you have very fine hair or need additional body, apply a volumizing powder or dry shampoo product at your roots and then fluff your hair with your fingers.Unwashed hair works best, but if you've recently washed yours, simply use a little more texturizing product.
You can also get extra volume and create more of an “undone” look by backcombing your hair gently at the roots.;
, Pull all of your hair back and hold it at the nape of your neck. Keep one hand around your hair and use the other hand to grab a hair elastic. Secure your hair in a low ponytail with the elastic. Choose any kind of elastic you like, large or small.Black and clear elastics are popular color choices, but feel free to try other options.

For example, get a more sophisticated look by using elastics that match your hair color or your outfit.
To achieve a fun and casual vibe, try using glittery or bright hair elastics.You want it to be secure, but don’t wrap the elastic too tight – this can cause breakage.
 Now that your low ponytail is secure, move two inches down the ponytail and add another elastic. Move down another two inches and add another. Continue doing this until you reach the end of your ponytail. Leave about three inches of your hair dangling at the end after you secure the final elastic.Make sure you space the elastics apart as evenly as you can, so that your bubbles will all be the same size., Start at the top with the first section, which is directly beneath the first elastic. Use your fingers to grab the hair on both sides of your ponytail. Gently tug at both sides with equal pressure. The hair in that section will loosen to create the bubble shape.For a minimal style, tug gently so that your bubbles are small.
For a messy and undone look, exaggerate the bubbles by tugging a bit harder on your hair.
 Use your fingers to tug at the hair in the next section to create a new bubble. Tug until the new bubble is approximately the same size as the first one. Work your way down your ponytail, repeating the same actions, until all of your bubbles are created. Try to keep the bubble shapes and sizes as consistent as possible., Lightly mist your favorite hairspray all over your hair to keep the style in place. To soften up the look even more, pull out a few strands of your hair around your face to frame it. The more strands you pull out, the softer and messier the overall effect will be.Tuck a travel-sized can of hairspray in your bag, just in case you need to spritz your hair again at midday.

