 In most dance studios, they sell merchandise such as leotards, tights, shoes, and duffel bags. They come in all sizes, patterns, and prints so get one that is right for your child. If they are only in ballet, get a small bag that will hold their leotard, tights, ballet slippers, hair items, and spare shoes. If your child is in more than one dance genre (jazz, acro, musical theater, hip-hop, lyrical, tap, etc.), then get a bag that will hold all of their stuff (shoes, sweats, leotard, tights, hair items, etc.). Since this is all for fun, get a dance bag that they like, and that is a good size for all the items.


Since your child is young, they will probably want to take toys to dance, so make sure a toy will be able to fit in one of the pockets.;
, Give them something healthy, so that they're energized, and is ready to have fun. The best options for a snack are fruit, yogurt, or a granola bar. Give them something small, so that they aren't completely full and tired during dance. If your child is loaded up with sugar or too full, they may end up crashing, getting tired, slowing down, and throwing a tantrum. However, if they're hungry during class, they will also be tired, and will get distracted from hunger, and not pay attention in class. So, remember to give them a little something before dance class.
 Even if your child says they doesn't have to go, make them try so that they doesn't miss anything in class. When they're done, change them into their leotard, tights, and ballet shoes. Most ballet dress codes consist of black leotard (no sparkles, tutus, or fringe), plain white or pink tights, and pink, black, or white ballet slippers.
 You may need to freshen it up right before class, though, if it gets ruined while she's in the car or playing before class.


The best method for a bun is to put your daughter's hair in a ponytail (preferably a high ponytail), and twist it tightly. This might pull her hair a bit, but it will be fine.
Next, twist the twist, so that it forms a bun. Put a hair band on it to secure it, and bobby pin the hair that sticks out.
Add a cute bow, so that your daughter looks cute in class.
 It is also very important to get there on time, because if you don't it hurts your child when dancing, everyone gets annoyed with you, your child will be unhappy, and it makes you look unreliable. If you can't make it on time, have a friend or family member take them. Tell them about the uniform, snack, bathroom, hair, and what time to be there.
 It's a hassle to tie them, tuck them in, and have them trip your child we dancing. If you can't find any slippers without elastic strips, then cut them a bit shorter, to the point where they won't drag, if they are untied accidentally.
 You aren't going to be able to be on time every week. You may forget to tie their shoes, or take them to the restroom. Just remember, this is for fun! As long as your child is happy, that's all that matters. Most children don't care if they show up to class in a sundress, and cowboy boots! You are their parent, and if your child is happy, then you are perfect!

