 Most restaurants post their menus online. Knowing what you want before you get to the restaurant will help to minimize your anxiety when you actually order.


Look up unfamiliar words or dishes that might trip you up. This will help you to feel more confident when you order. If you don’t know what pepperoncinis are, for example, a quick Google search will save you from having to ask someone later.
Always plan a back-up order. Restaurants run out of items sometimes, so it’s a good idea to have a second meal choice in mind. This way, if your first choice isn’t available for some reason, you don’t have to worry about figuring out what you want instead.
Look for possible follow-up questions. Does that meatloaf come with a choice of sides, for example? Do you get to choose what kind of cheese or sauce comes on your burger? Read the menu carefully when you’re planning your order so you won’t be caught off guard by any questions your server asks.
Write down your order and bring it with you to the restaurant so that you don’t forget it.;
, Practice making your order a couple of times in front of a mirror or with a friend. Preparing and practicing your order in advance will help you to feel more confident when you place your order in real life. Practice feeling relaxed while you order. Anxiety is partially a bad habit of your brain’s, so if you force your brain to think positively while you practice, it will be more likely to do so during the real thing. If you feel yourself getting anxious as you practice, try some deep breathing. It might also help to picture yourself successfully ordering. , If you feel yourself becoming anxious, it’s okay to tell the person taking your order that you’re not ready yet. Take all the time you need to feel comfortable before ordering.
 Be as straightforward as you can. Try to remember to smile (even if you still feel nervous


Be prepared to answer any questions the person taking your order might have. Even the best-planned out order might need clarification. Remember that when the person taking your order asks a question, it’s not because you did something wrong—they just want to make sure your order is exactly what you want. They want to make sure you’re happy and comfortable.
If you don’t know how to pronounce the name of the item you want, it’s okay to point at the item on the menu. It’s also okay to order the item by number rather than by name, if menu items are numbered.
 The person who takes your order is happy to answer any questions you have about the menu because they want to make sure that you will be happy with what you order. If you don’t know what something on the menu is, you are probably not the first. If you have a smart phone you can also Google any unfamiliar menu items.
 Nobody is perfect—and nobody expects you to be perfect, either. If you do make a mistake, remind yourself that you’re not the first one to make it, and you probably won’t be the last! The key is to accept the mistake and let it go. Focus on the next thing you have to do instead. It’s okay if you mispronounce the name of an item—if the menu has lots of items with foreign names, you are definitely not the first person to make this mistake! Most order-takers hear mispronunciations regularly, and they won’t judge you for it.
 Don’t let your nerves get the best of you—always smile and thank the person who brought your food. Check over the food to make sure it’s right and if it’s not, make sure you let the person who brought it know. Don’t let your anxiety stop you from enjoying your meal!

