 Spread your legs to make sure that you are in a stable position. Never extend yourself to the point where you lose your balance. Reach out to the person and yell, "Grab my hand/arm/paddle!" You may have to yell multiple times before the person hears or sees you. Speak in a voice that is loud,clear and confident.This type of rescue is only helpful if the drowning victim is within reach of the side of the pool, pier, or close to the shore.Do not attempt to perform a reaching assist while standing. This puts you in a precarious position, and you are more likely to fall into the water.
Reach out your dominant hand, since you'll be using your strength to pull the victim to safety.
Grab an object you can use to extend your reach if the person is a little too far for your arm to reach. Almost anything that can add a few feet to your reach can help; a boat paddle or a rope are also effective if the person is able to grab them.
Pull the person safely out of the water and gently help him or her get onto dry ground., This is a long metal pole with a hook on the end that can be used either as a handle for the victim to grab, or as a device to wrap around the victim in the event that the victim is unable to hold onto it himself. Many pools and outdoor swimming areas are stocked with this tool. Warn other people on the deck to stand away from the end of the stick in case it hits them. You don't want them to interfere with the rescue.
 Brace your feet in case the victim pulls on the pole. Be sure you're far enough back that you don't risk getting pulled into the water. Hold the hook where the drowning person can reach it, and call to the victim to grab the hook. If the person is unable to grab it, dip the hooked part further into the water and wrap it around the person's torso, just below his or her armpits.Make sure the hook is not near the person's neck, since this could lead to injury.
Aim carefully, as it is often difficult to see.
You will feel a sharp tug when the person finds the crook.
 Verify that the person has grasped the object before you begin to pull him or her in.Slowly and carefully pull the victim to the side until he or she is close enough for you to use a reaching assist to pull him to the wall. Lie down and make sure you are stable before performing the reaching assist.