 Purchasing a high-quality scanner and photo editing software for your home computer can help make digital restoration at home possible. Invest in a photo editing program like Photoshop and a high-quality scanner that can scan images at a high dpi, or dots per square inch. The greater the dpi, the more detail the scanner will be able to capture. A dpi of 300 is recommended for most photographs.;
, Gently place the photograph in the scanner, and select to scan the image at a high-resolution to capture as much detail as possible. When prompted, save the image as a TIFF instead of a JPEG. A TIFF is a larger file, but it will retain the detail and quality of the photograph.Once you have saved the image, open it in your photo editing software.
 Use the cropping tool to remove any evidence of damage around the edges of the photograph. Edges of old photographs often curl when exposed to water or humidity. If your photograph has damage around the perimeter, cropping the image will quickly correct this problem.
 Repair the color, brightness, and contrast issues before attempting to change any other imperfections or signs of damage. These can be adjusted by opening editing tools in Photoshop or another photo editing software. These levels can be altered by sliding your cursor along a scale until you produce your desired effects.


Increasing the brightness level can help brighten up a dark photo, or intensifying the contrast can bring out a washed-out, faded photo.
Play with the color sliders to help remove unwanted tints.
Save each version you create under a different file name so you can compare each version later and select the best restoration.
 Using the Dust and Scratches filter or the Spot Healing Brush in Photoshop or a similar tool in other photo editing programs makes removing imperfections straightforward and simple.Magnify the photograph, and use the cursor to touch up the damaged marks. Work slowly and be sure to zoom out to check your progress as you work. This filter works by removing some of the details, so you will want to be sure that you are not overusing this feature.


Keep a window open of the whole photo so you can observe the changes as you make them.
 If there are tears, rips, or missing sections of the photograph, you can use the Clone Stamp tool to recreate a portion of the image and fill in the damaged sections. After opening the tool, select the potion of the photo that you would like to clone or recreate and click it once. Move the cursor to the area you would like to repair with the material you just copied.
 After you have restored the photograph, use an inkjet printer or a special photo printer with glossy paper to print out your restored photograph.

