 If you have a jailbroken PS3, you can use it to play most PS2 games. the process is a bit more complex, and requires that your console be jailbroken or modded, which voids your warranty and can get your console banned from PSN. See Jailbreak a PS3 for instructions on jailbreaking your PlayStation 3 if you can handle these risks.

You'll need multiman, the most common game manager for jailbroken PS3s, installed as well. This comes with most custom firmware packages.
 You won't actually be playing the game from a disc on your jailbroken PS3. Instead, you'll be creating an image file of the disc and then adding the PS2 Classics emulator wrapper to it, allowing you to play it as a PS2 Classic. You'll be doing all of this from your computer, and then transferring the finished file to the jailbroken PS3., You'll need to use a disc imaging utility to do so:

Windows - Download and install InfraRecorder, a free, open-source disc imaging program. Click the "Read Disc" button and then follow the prompts to create an ISO file from your disc.
Mac - Open Disk Utility from the Utilities folder. Click the File menu and select "New" → "Disc Image from <Drive>." Create the image file on your desktop. Once you finish creating the CDR file, open the Terminal and type hdiutil convert ~/Desktop/original.cdr -format UDTO -o ~/Desktop/converted.iso. This will turn the CDR file into an ISO file.
 You can do this using a USB drive or an FTP client. Use multiman to place the files in the "dev_hdd0/PS2ISO" directory on your PS3., You'll need two different packages, which you'll be installing on your PS3. Perform Google searches for the following files, as they can't be linked here:ReactPSN.pkg
PS2 Classics Placeholder R3

, Place the ReactPSN.pkg file on the USB drive. Extract PS2 Classics Placeholder R3 so that _PS2_Classics_Placeholder_R3.pkg, exdata (folder), and klicensee (folder) are all on the USB drive. All of these should be located on the root of the USB drive (not in any folders)., This is the slot closest to the Blu-ray drive., Select the file on the USB drive to install it. You should see it in your Game section after installing (don't run it yet)., Follow the same process to install the PS2 Classics emulation wrapper to the PS3., This is required to continue with the installation process., After a moment, the PS3 will reboot and your "aa" account will be renamed to “reActPSN v2.0 1rjf 0edatr” or something similar., You don't need to use the newly-created account, just log in with the one you normally use., This is where you'll find all of your old games, including PS2 games., This will list all of the ISO files that you copied to your PS3 from your computer., multiman will begin processing the ISO file and converting it into a playable game, which may take a while to complete. After the conversion is finished, the game will say "PS2 Classics" before the game title., You'll be returned to the XMB after selecting it., This will load the game that you converted, and it will begin playing.