 Act genuinely interested in her and ask her questions about herself. Keep the conversation light and ask questions about what they like and the hobbies that they enjoy. Think of questions that require more than a one-word answer so that the conversation lasts longer.You can ask things like, "What do you think of the new Kendrick album?" or "Who is your favorite actor right now?"

, Instead of just waiting for your turn to talk, make it a point to listen to what they have to say. This will give you more things to talk about and the girl will appreciate that you're paying attention to what she has to say.For example, if she's says something like "English class is so boring," you can say something like "But what makes English boring for you?"
Or, if she's talking about a show you can say something like, "Yeah, Piper is so self-centered. She tries to come off as moral, but she's really just selfish."

, Avoid talking about heavy politics like religion, race, gender issues, or politics. These conversations can be highly polarizing and may turn off the girl completely. Instead, keep the conversation light and on more innocuous topics., Being witty and funny will make girls appreciate your company and will put them at ease. Point out funny contradictions and make respectful jokes relating to the topics that you're talking about.If you're not a naturally funny person and can't think of funny things to say, stay polite and positive instead.
You could say something like "Why do you think that beer always comes in red cups? Why not clear cups? Or blue cups?"

, If the conversation went well and you want to continue to talk to them, make sure to ask for their contact information before you part ways. "Well I'm glad I met you. I'm about to dip. You think I could get your number before I go so we can chat some other time?"You could also say something like "I really enjoyed talking to you tonight. Can I text you later?"
You could also say something like "Are you on Facebook? I’ll add you and maybe we can message each other some time.”
Phone numbers aren't a big deal, so don't overthink the situation.

