


Budget is probably going to be the most limiting factor in buying a used horse trailer. How much you have to spend is going to narrow your choices. If budget is not a concern, then you can buy a horse trailer with all sorts of modern features such as dressing rooms, interior lighting, padded dividers and more. A lower budget might limit your choice to a horse trailer that is structurally sound, but not very attractive. Less money can also get you a stock trailer; they're not designed specifically for horses (lower height) but they are less expensive, and do the job.;
,


Horse trailers come in a variety of sizes to accommodate shipping a number of horses. The smallest trailers will ship 2 horses, while the largest can ship 6 horses. Professional horse movers can accommodate many more horses, but they are pulled by a tractor trailer designed for hauling very heavy loads.



If you're going to be trailering every weekend, then it might be worth spending a bit more on a used or even a new trailer, if your budget allows. If you are going to be showing, then having a trailer with a built in dressing room can be very convenient. At the very least, you will want a trailer with some front storage to carry your tack (saddles and other equipment.) If you will only be using the trailer periodically, then a structurally sound but no-frills trailer may be more practical.



Trailers have different hitching mechanisms. Three common types are goose neck, 5th wheel and bumper pull. Both a gooseneck hitch and 5th wheel hitch mount in the bed of a truck but the difference here is the fifth wheel hitch mounts above the bed whereas the gooseneck hitch mounts level with the truck's bed and utilizes a mounted ball for towing. Make sure that your hitch is equipped to tow the horse trailer you choose, along with the weight of the animals. A 2-horse trailer (3400 lbs) and 2 large horses (1300 lbs each) can reach 6000 lbs. Experts recommend only towing up to 2/3 of your vehicle's rated towing capacity, so a vehicle rated to tow 9000 lbs would be appropriate to haul a 6000 lb load.



Once you've determined your budget and your trailer needs, you can begin to look at the overall condition of the trailer. A used trailer must be structurally sound. There should be no damage or wear to the floor of the trailer, and the electronics (brake lights and so on) should be in good condition and working properly. The trailer should have a functioning breakaway system which will apply the trailer's brakes in an emergency if it becomes disconnected from the tow vehicle. The suspension and tires should also be in good condition. Always check to make sure you have a full sized correctly inflated spare. If you don't know what to look for, consider asking your car or trailer mechanic to take a look at the trailer.



Horses do not like to be trailered. Some horses will tolerate it, while others strenuously object. The larger the interior and the better lit and ventilated it is, the more at ease your horse will be. In addition, there are step up and ramp access trailers. Most horses load more easily onto ramp mount trailers. The walls, back door and dividing bars should be adequately padded to protect the horse. The halter mount should be long enough to allow the horse some head movement to expel dust and other contaminates but not too long to be caught up in a leg or hay net. The larger the horse, the more interior room they'll need. Interior latches, breast bars, dividers and latches should all be in good condition with no sharp edges or protruding parts.



Besides being safe for the horse and structurally sound, the safest horse trailers are those with a rubber torsion suspension. With these trailers, neoprene cords absorb about 97 percent of the road shock, meaning less stress on the horse's legs. It has the added benefit of being able to carry the trailer on 3 wheels safely until you can pull over, if a wheel should happen to go flat.

