 First thing's first. Can you tell that you're addicted? Here are four questions to determine if you are or are not addicted. (It may or may not be a strong addiction)


When you see your computer (closed or opened), do you feel an urge to go to MapleStory?
Does MapleStory distract you from anything? (Learning, classes, etc.)
Do you often go to Maple only? Maybe you talk (or desire to talk) to your friends about maple almost 24/7?
Is MapleStory affecting your grades? Look at your report card. If you're getting D- to C on any grade, this may be a good idea to quit;
, How so? There can be people that have an uncontrollable lust to play everyday. People always competing to be the top. That could ruin your life for good. You could be too distracted to the desire to play. Some people could have easily failed their classes because of that. (Happened to me) So think. Don't ruin your life. You get no second chance.
 After admitting, you should set goals. You don't have to quit to get over your addiction. Maybe play lesser a week. For example on setting a goal: I will play three times a week in # hours.
 Try following it. It might be hard at first but you'll get the hang with it. Try using other hobbies to occupy yourself. Don't feel discouraged if you didn't do exactly what you had intended. If you stopped a bit you've made progress!

, Replace those negative terms with positive terms. The more people think negatively the more they really will fail. Don't forget to try. Making some-what improvement is still improvements too!

, Your friends are there. They should be able to help occupy you like mentioned before.
 They will basically allow you to do a years work of levelling a character up in a day or less. After about a week, maybe two weeks tops, you'd be able to play almost every single character on MapleStory. Private Servers has a thing called Rebirth, basically if you reach level 200, you'll get "re-birthed" to level 0 with everything, except for your level.. So yeah.

