 Before you report sexual harassment at any level, you need to have documentation that it's occurring and that it is interfering with your ability to do your job.Two types of sexual harassment are recognized by anti-discrimination laws: quid pro quo harassment and hostile work environments. The type of evidence you need will differ depending on which type of harassment you're experiencing.
Consider keeping a journal or diary in which you write down each instance of harassment as soon as possible after it happens. Include details such as the date, time, location, and context of the incident, as well as the names of your harassers and any witnesses. This sort of log is especially helpful in hostile work environment cases.
Quid pro quo harassment occurs when a supervisor or other employee with some measure of authority over you threatens your job in some way unless you're willing to perform sexual favors for him or her, or acquiesce to sexual acts.
Keep in mind that sexual harassment can occur regardless of your past relationship with someone.
For example, if you used to date one of your co-workers but then the two of you broke up, if he continues to make sexual advances or lewd sexual comments to you at work, that behavior could be construed as sexual harassment.;
, Before you take the next step and file a charge with the EEOC, give your employer notice of the problems you're having and the opportunity to correct the situation.Read your employee handbook and find out what your company's policy is for reporting sexual harassment. If someone is designated to take complaints, address your notice to that person.
However, don't hesitate to go to someone else if the designated person is the one harassing you, or if you don't feel comfortable talking to him or her about the situation.
Submit your complaint in writing so you have proof that you provided your employer with notice of the situation in the event nothing is done or the harassment continues.
Provide thorough details in your complaint, including dates, times, locations, and the names of all employees present when the harassment occurred, as well as a description of what transpired.
State that you consider the behavior sexual harassment in violation of state and federal laws, and if it doesn't cease you will be taking further action to protect yourself and enforce your rights to a safe and harassment-free workplace.
Keep in mind that under federal law you only have 180 days from the date of the most recent incident of harassment to file a charge with the EEOC if you want to preserve your right to sue. Don't lose sight of this deadline so you can go ahead and file a charge if your employer is slow to respond to your complaint.
 To preserve your right to sue for sexual harassment, you must first file a charge with a state or federal administrative agency.You can use the EEOC's online assessment tool at https://egov.eeoc.gov/eas/ to quickly and easily determine if you're eligible to file a federal charge.
Federal law only covers businesses with at least 15 employees who have worked at least 20 calendar weeks in the past year. However, your state law applies to businesses with fewer employees, so if you aren't protected by federal law you may still be able to file a state charge.
 The EEOC's intake questionnaire asks for basic information about you, your employer, and the sexual harassment you're experiencing in your workplace.If your employer isn't covered by federal law, contact your nearest state fair employment agency to learn the process for filing a charge there.
To start the federal charge process, download the EEOC's questionnaire at https://egov.eeoc.gov/eas/uniformintakequestionnaire09.pdf. You can take all the time you need to fill it out at home, then print it up to submit.
You also can pick up a print questionnaire from the nearest EEOC field office and fill it out by hand if you prefer.
If you're eligible to file state and federal charges and want to file both, find out if your state has a dual-filing procedure in which the state agency will file your federal charge on your behalf, so you don't duplicate your efforts.
 Generally you must take your questionnaire to the nearest EEOC field office once you've finished filling it out.If you're filing a state claim, you'll need to follow the procedures of your state's fair employment agency.
If your employer is subject to both state and federal law, you typically can dual-file a charge with both agencies by filing with your state agency, which will file a duplicate charge with the EEOC on your behalf.
To file a charge directly with the EEOC, you must submit your questionnaire to the nearest EEOC field office – you cannot submit questionnaires electronically. The EEOC has a map available at http://www.eeoc.gov/field/index.cfm so you can find the closest location.
Given that there are only 53 EEOC field office, the nearest one to you may still be too far for you to travel. If this is the case, call the office where you need to submit your questionnaire and talk to an agent before you mail your questionnaire. The agent will ensure it gets to the right place and that you don't miss the deadline.
 The EEOC will assign your charge to an agent, who will contact you with any additional questions so he or she can begin investigating your charge.One benefit of taking your questionnaire to the field office in person is that usually you can complete your interview with an EEOC agent the same day.
If you mail your questionnaire, the agent assigned to your charge will either call you or mail you a list of additional questions to complete and return.
 The EEOC will send a copy of your charge to your employer within 10 days of your interview, along with instructions on what actions the EEOC is requesting your employer to take.If the EEOC finds no violation, you will receive a right-to-sue notice.
If the EEOC does find a violation of federal law, it either will send you and your employer to mediation, or assign an investigator. If an investigator is assigned, your employer will be required to submit a written response to your charge.
You will receive a right-to-sue notice if you are unable to reach a settlement through mediation, or if the investigator forwards your charge to the EEOC's legal team and they decline to file a lawsuit on your behalf.
The EEOC is allowed 180 days under the law to investigate your charge. If that period is drawing to a close and the investigation is not yet complete, you can request a right-to-sue notice. You generally will be given one if the EEOC determines the investigation won't be completed by the 180-day deadline.
 If the problem remains and the EEOC has issued you a right-to-sue letter, an experienced employment discrimination attorney can help you navigate your next steps to enforce your rights.Employment discrimination attorneys often will work on contingency – especially if you have a strong case – meaning you won't have to pay any attorney's fees or court costs out of pocket while your case is being litigated.
An attorney working on contingency will take a percentage of your settlement or award as fees, as well as deducting all costs such as filing fees that accrued, before writing you a check for the remainder.
To find an attorney, you might want to begin your search on your state or local bar association's website. Typically there is a searchable directory of members, and there also may be a referral service that will provide you with names of attorneys who take cases like yours based on your answers to a few questions or your brief description of your case.
Try to interview at least three attorneys before you make your final selection so you can compare and contrast to find the best attorney for you. Pick someone who has significant experience in litigating sexual harassment lawsuits similar to yours.
 Once you've chosen an attorney, he or she will need all the information you have about the harassment you've experienced to craft a complaint and proceed with litigating your case.A good place to start is by providing your attorney with copies of everything you submitted to the EEOC or your state agency when you filed your charge.
If you have additional information, such as a diary or journal you've kept detailing each incident of harassment, you should also give this to your attorney.
Your attorney also will need information about the injuries or losses you've suffered so he or she can calculate the amount of money to ask for in damages. This potentially would include lost wages, if you missed work directly or indirectly because of the harassment.
Mental suffering can be hard to quantify, but if you have the names of people who can speak to the mental distress you suffered as a result of the harassment, or if you've been seeing a psychological professional, that can help your attorney calculate your damages.
 You must take your complaint and any other required documents to the clerk of the court that will hear your case to initiate your lawsuit.Generally, if you're filing for a violation of federal law, you'll need to file your lawsuit in federal court. If your employer isn't subject to federal law, you will need to use your state courts.
Your attorney will go over the complaint with you before it's filed. Generally, the document provides your name and address, your employer's name and address, defines the court's jurisdiction, and sets forth the allegations that state a claim of sexual harassment in violation of state or federal laws, along with the amounts you're claiming in damages.
When your complaint is filed, the clerk will assign it to a judge and give it a case number which will be used to identify your case in all subsequent filings.
Filing a complaint requires payment of a filing fee of several hundred dollars. Assuming your attorney is working on contingency, he or she will pay this amount and add it to the costs of your lawsuit to be deducted from any settlement or award.
 From the date you filed your complaint, you have 120 days to deliver it to your employer through the proper legal process.Typically a complaint must be hand-delivered, or served, to the defendant. U.S. Marshals take on this duty in federal courts, while in state court a complaint would be served by a sheriff's deputy in the county where the employer is located.
 Once your employer has received your complaint, he or she has 21 days to file an answer or other motion in response.If the deadline passes and your employer doesn't file any response to your lawsuit, you may be eligible to win by default – but given that your employer has fought your claim so far, don't expect this to happen.
Most likely, your employer will file an answer in which he or she denies most if not all of the allegations in your complaint and includes several defenses.
Your employer also may file a motion to dismiss. If this happens, you can expect a court hearing where you must prove to the judge's satisfaction that your claims are meritorious and should be allowed to proceed.
 Through the discovery process, you and your employer will exchange information in an effort to build your respective cases and prepare for trial.One of the most important discovery methods in a sexual harassment case is the deposition. Through depositions, parties and witnesses are interviewed under oath about the allegations in the case. A court reporter records the questions and answers and creates a transcript for later reference.
You have the ability to depose your employer, supervisors, and other employees who have witnessed the harassment you experienced. Many of these witnesses may offer strong testimony that makes your case more compelling.
Written discovery in the form of interrogatories, requests for admissions, and requests for production also can be beneficial to your case. These generally are documents with questions or requests that call for written answers under oath.
For example, through requests for production you can ask your employer for copies of personnel records, company sexual harassment policies, and written documents or correspondence among managers or supervisors related to your sexual harassment claim.
 Throughout the pretrial period, your employer typically will make offers to settle the case out of court rather than continue with a public trial.If your employer offers to settle the case, your attorney must present the offer to you. He or she may advise you on whether to accept the settlement, reject it, or make a counter-offer, but the ultimate decision on what to do is yours alone.
Keep in mind that most sexual harassment cases settle before trial. Employers prefer this because a settlement doesn't involve any admission of fault, and the confidential nature of a settlement's terms keeps the matter out of the public eye.
It may be to your advantage to take a settlement offer, even if the amount is significantly lower than what you've asked for in your complaint, because of the time, effort, and expense of taking a case to trial. Additionally, you should keep in mind that there's no guarantee you will win, or that you will win as much as what you've asked for in your complaint.
 The judge likely will hold hearings on motions filed by either you or your employer, as well as calling periodic conferences.The judge likely will hold a number of scheduling conferences, depending on how long the litigation lasts. Scheduling conferences typically are only attended by the judge and the attorneys, and set deadlines for various pretrial phases to ensure the case stays on track and neither party is unreasonably dragging things out.
Closer to the time of the trial itself, the judge likely will call a final conference to lay out the order in which the trial will proceed and the evidence that will be presented.
 Many courts require litigants to at least attempt to resolve their dispute through mediation before a trial will be scheduled.The court typically will either assign a mediator or allow the parties to choose from a list of court-approved mediators. These professionals are trained in dispute resolution and will facilitate a discussion between you and your employer aimed at reaching a mutually agreeable settlement.
Even if you tried mediation earlier with the EEOC and failed to reach a settlement, you should keep in mind that negotiations may be significantly different at this point, especially considering the amount of information that has been revealed through discovery.
If you come to an agreement through mediation, the mediator typically will write it up for the attorneys to review before it is signed. Some courts may require your settlement agreement to be approved by the judge.
If you reach an impasse at mediation and are unable to settle, you and your attorney will have to work together to develop your trial strategy and prepare your evidence and witnesses for trial.

