 Before you jump into creating a foundation, you should make sure that there is a need for what you want to do. Become familiar with your community and its needs. Read local newspapers and magazines to determine topics that appear to be of interest. It is important to get to you know community, both to prepare yourself for fundraising as well as issuing your grants.As an example, if you wish to support performing and visual arts in your area, you should become familiar with the arts organizations that already exist. Talk to managers of local theaters or art galleries. Ask questions about the needs that they have, and find out what sources of funding they already have. If your sources suggest that they are getting along fine already, you may wish to move in different direction.
You can gather data about your community and its demographics by using the U.S. Census Bureau’s “Fact Finder.” This is a website that allows you to search for information about your community based on age, gender, ethnicity or a wide range of other factors.;
, The mission statement is the guiding document for your organization. A mission statement should consist of no more than two or three sentences, which describe the purpose of your foundation and its future operations. If properly stated, it will help you focus your work and it will help describe your purpose for other possible donors. Everything that your foundation does should be guided by the mission statement.As an example, if you want to create a nonprofit fund to generate interest in the arts in your community, your mission statement might be, "Our mission is to support local visual and performing artists by providing financial support and advice. We seek to partner with artists to support innovative ideas and generate interest in the arts by the general public."

, The board is made up of other people, like yourself, with the goal of operating a grant-making foundation. You may select your own friends and acquaintances, or you might choose to advertise and accept applications. You will want to select people who are as passionate about the topic as you are. You will also want to select people whom you can count on to help you with the work that will be required., In general, grant-making foundations exist as one of two formats. These are the private foundation and the public charity. Both are beneficial, both provide essentially the same services, and both are non-profit. There are a few key differences in operation and preparation:A private foundation generally begins with a predetermined source of capital. This money generally may come from an endowment or bequest. The work of the foundation is then to determine how best to manage or invest this money, and how to issue grants to qualified applicants.
A public charity is an organization that works to raise money for an identified public purpose. The organization usually seeks out donations from other established foundations or from members of the general public. These donations are then used as the basis for making grants to those who apply.
 Your board of directors should assist in creating the business plan. A business plan is an outline of the way that your foundation will operate. A good business plan is essential to creating a strong foundation. The precise format of the plan is not important. You can write it in whatever way works best for you. The information and planning that go into it, however, are critical. Working with the full board will ensure full buy-in by everyone., How will you advertise your foundation? This includes everything from announcing the creation and existence of your foundation (you want people to know who you are!), advertising to generate donations, and letting people know of the opportunity to apply for grants. You need to consider where you will market your foundation, what sources you will use, how you will pay for the advertising, and when to post any ads.If members of your board have experience in marketing, you can do this yourself. However, for this stage, you may wish to engage the services of a professional marketing agency.
 The strategic plan is the statement of your foundation’s essential goals, combined with the specific action steps that you will take to reach those goals. Each action step should define what will get done, who will do it, and what time line you want to apply for the step to get accomplished. A good strategic plan should be reviewed every few years to make sure that your goals are being met but remain challenging.The strategic plan is the section of your business plan that should address how you will award your grants. This is where you should decide your overall focus. Do you want to target individual, struggling artists with small grants of $500, for example? Or will you try to play a role in changing education by issuing million dollar grants to innovative school systems? You and the board need to make these decisions and address how you will convey your plan to the general public and to those who may become eligible for your grants.
 You need to decide, and write down, how your foundation will function. Who will conduct the day-to-day operations? Will you even have day-to-day operations, or will you only call the board members together once a year to review grant applications? If you wish to define a managerial system or hierarchy, this is the place to do so., How will your foundation pay for its operations? You need to account for everything, including salaries of any paid employees, advertising and marketing costs, and all business operations right down to how you will buy the stationery and postage to send out correspondence and decisions.If you will pay the operating expenses out of the foundation’s principal fund, you must determine the income (based on interest or investments) and make sure that it meets your expenses. Otherwise, you will continually lose money, and eventually your foundation will collapse. (This may actually be your business decision, if you only want the foundation to operate for a finite number of years. However, you should plan ahead and determine this.)
You may choose to engage in some money-making activities during the year that are to pay the operating costs of the foundation. If so, you need to define what these will be, how they will function, and how much you expect to earn.
Unless someone in your organization has a background in finance, it may be helpful to engage the services of a financial planner or accountant when developing your financial plan.
 You are allowed to operate a grant-making foundation without incorporating. However, creating a corporation is highly recommended. By incorporating, the foundation becomes its own legal entity and will be able to continue perpetually. You may choose to change careers or move away, or you could even die (eventually), and the incorporated foundation will be able to continue. Incorporating also has the benefit of removing any personal liability, so no one individual will not be responsible for the costs of the foundation., In most cases, the decision of location will be easy - you will incorporate in the state where you conduct your business and issue your grants. However, if you choose to operate on a regional or even national basis, you may wish to research the corporate laws of several states to determine whether any particular states have corporate laws that may benefit your organization. For example, different states have more or less strict regulations on filing annual statements. Different states may have tax laws that could create certain operating benefits.If you are not well-versed in researching corporate legal issues yourself, you may wish to hire a corporate attorney to help with this step.
You can find a helpful resource with links to corporate information from every state at http://grantspace.org/tools/nonprofit-startup-resources-by-state?_ga=1.194418415.339665185.1481398348. By selecting your state, you will be redirected to specific information about that state’s corporate offices, as well as information designed to help start-up foundations in the state.
 Your secretary of state’s office will have a feature on its website for you to search for available corporate names. You must make sure that the name you select is not already used by any other organization. It must also be distinct enough that you will not be confused with any other organization already operating.Search the Internet for your state’s Secretary of State and the word “corporation.” You should find the links you need. In some states, the office may be called the Corporation Division, Business Office, or some similar title.
 The by-laws function in much the same way as the business plan that you have already drafted. The by-laws outline the operations of your foundation. By-laws are not required to be public documents, but if you choose to make them public, you may encourage more interest in your foundation. In particular, your by-laws should define the following:Size of the board and how it will function.
Roles and duties of directors and officers.
Rules and procedures for holding meetings, electing directors, and appointing officers.
Conflict of interest policies and procedures.
How grant monies will be distributed.
Other essential corporate governance matters.
 The Articles of Incorporation is the public document that defines your foundation’s legal structure. The secretary of state’s office will have a link to a template form that you can use for this purpose. You may use the prescribed form or, in nearly all states, you can draft your own, as long as you include all the necessary information. In most states, the Articles of Incorporation are required to provide the following information (this is a general list; you need to check the specific requirements for your chosen state):Corporate name.
Registered agent.
Address of corporate office.
Statement of compliance with section 501(c)(3) of the IRS tax code. This is to ensure your tax-free status as a charitable organization. (See IRS Publication 557 for more information on this topic, available at https://www.irs.gov/forms-pubs.)
Statement that the corporation’s activities will be limited to the purposes set out in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Statement that the organization will not engage in political or legislative activities prohibited under section 501(c)(3).
Statement that, upon dissolution of the corporation, any remaining assets will be distributed to another nonprofit, government agency, or for another public purpose.
 The Articles of Incorporation is a public document. This means that you are required to file it with the Secretary of State’s office before your foundation can begin operating. The state’s website will give you instructions for filing. In many cases, you may need to submit multiple copies. You should always submit one extra copy, with a self-addressed stamped envelope, and ask the office to date-stamp and return it to you as proof of filing. Review the instructions on the secretary of state’s website to find the required filing fee as well. Without paying the fee, your incorporation will not be final., The document that you use to establish your tax-exempt status is IRS Form 1023. This form can be found at https://www.irs.gov/charities-non-profits/applying-for-tax-exempt-status. There are actually three different versions of Form 1023. You may review them and decide the one that is most appropriate and helpful for your purposes:Form 1023. This is the standard form, which is applicable for all organizations. You can print the form from the IRS website, along with the instructions for completion. If you are experienced in completing tax forms, you may prefer this version.
Form 1023-Interactive. This includes the form, along with helpful hints and links to other IRS publications, which may prove beneficial. If you are new to filling out tax forms, this is the version you should use.
Form 1023-EZ. This is a streamlined version of Form 1023, which applies to some organizations. You should complete the worksheet, available at https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/i1023ez.pdf, to see if you qualify. In general, Form 1023-EZ applies to smaller organizations, with less than $250,000 in assets and expecting less than $50,000 in revenue over the course of the year.
You can get all these forms online, or you can order any tax form by calling 1-800-TAX-FORM (829-3676)., Whichever version of Form 1023 you select, you must complete it accurately and provide all the required information. Form 1023 requests information on the following areas of your foundation’s operations:Identification
Organizational structure
Statements of compliance with 501(c)(3)
Narrative description of your activities
Compensation of officers, directors and other employees
Members who receive benefits
History of the organization
Past activities
Detailed financial data
Public charity status.
 The user fee for operating as a tax-exempt organization is either $400 or $850, depending on your organization’s average annual gross receipts over a four-year period. If you have been in operation for more than four years, then you will use the actual data from the past four years to calculate this figure. If not, then you can estimate your expected receipts.If your average annual gross receipts exceed $10,000, then you will pay $850. If not, then you will pay $400.
 An authorized representative of the foundation must sign the completed Form 1023. This will usually need to be an officer or director, in accordance with your Articles of Incorporation. Without an appropriate signature, the form will not be accepted and you will delay your tax-exempt status. Send the completed, all the accompanying documents and other supporting materials, and the user fee, to Internal Revenue Service, P.O. Box 192, Covington, KY 41012-0192.


If you are submitting your forms by express mail or other delivery service, then send your submission to Internal Revenue Service, 201 West Rivercenter Blvd., Attn: Extracting Stop 312, Covington, KY 41011.
 A private foundation is required to file IRS Form 990-PF as part of its annual tax return. This form reports all the grantees and grant amounts given during the year. A public charity does not have such a reporting requirement.