 Figure out your own play style and preferred champion roles, this will aid you in benefiting your team by knowing where to place yourself. It will also be beneficial if you try as many different champions as possible so that your knowledge about their abilities can help you counter them.;
, Decide whether you want to play a normal game or a ranked game (providing you are level 30), if you wish to try out a champion it would be recommended that you do not do this in a ranked game. Normal games are more relaxed and is a great place to try out a champion.


If it is your first time playing a champion, kindly notify your team in the champion select screen so they will be aware that you might require assistance more than others.
 This includes letting them know where you'd like to play and to organize an efficient team composition. Avoid arguing over who will play in which lane and focus on thinking about which champions have good synergy and how you will perform in team fights.
 This includes letting your team if you want to invade their jungle, like to gank earlier if you're a jungler or if you prefer levelling a certain skill earlier or later that may affect your team.
 If you're against a strong lane, notify your team as soon as possible to let them know that you might require help, in this case, play safe and farm under your turret so it in turn makes your lane susceptible to a gank from your jungler.
 This will provide you with enough gold to purchase core items on your champion and to increase the stats relevant to your champion.
 Utilize the use of smart pings to 'always let your team know if an enemy is missing so that they will be able to respond accordingly, this can decrease the chance of a successful enemy gank and even save objectives.
 As opposed to contrary belief, it is not a certain roles' job to organize objectives for your team. If you feel that capturing a certain objective such as Dragon, Baron or a turret would be beneficial to the game you're playing then inform your team and request assistance when appropriate.
 Flaming a teammate has negative effects on their play throughout the game and causes unnecessary arguments, it is better to simply let them know how to improve, remind them to play safe or simply state "unlucky". Also, if you see an argument break out between your team, try your best to calm them and let them know that with teamwork, any game can be turned over.


In extreme cases, you can ignore a player by pressing tab and finding the speech mark to the right of their username.

