 Before you begin any strengthening exercises, you need to warm up your lower body with a low-impact cardio exercise such as cycling or walking. A proper warm-up will decrease your risk of injury.Strengthening exercises are primarily concerned with the muscles that surround the knee, such as your quadriceps and your hamstrings. Making these muscles stronger reduces the stress on your knee joints.
If these muscles aren't warmed up prior to exercises, you put yourself at greater risk for injury, including cramps and muscle tears.
Stretching the muscles in the legs are also key to the warm-up before and after weight training. This includes hamstring stretches, quadriceps stretches, and calf stretches.
 Straight-leg lifts build the strength in your quadriceps. As you do this exercise, you should feel the burn in the front of your thigh. Make sure your form is correct and you have control over your movements.Start this exercise by lying on your back on the floor. One leg should be extended straight out, the other bent at the knee. Tighten your thigh muscles to slowly lift your straight leg off the floor. When it's about a foot off the floor, hold it for between three and five seconds, then slowly lower it.
Switch back and forth between legs, doing 8 to 10 repetitions per set. Try to do between four and six sets of this exercise. You can start with fewer and work your way up.
While doing this exercise, keep your upper body relaxed and your back flat. You can tighten your abdominal muscles to keep your lower back flat against the floor, which also engages your core.
 This exercise further builds the strength in your quadriceps, while also working your hamstrings and glutes. To set up for this exercise, you'll need two chairs with even backs of the same height.Set the chairs on either side of you with their backs facing your sides. Hold onto the tops of the backs of the chairs for balance, and lift one leg in front of you slightly. Bend your other leg to lower yourself down a few inches, hold for three to five seconds, then rise back up.
Do 8 to 10 repetitions of this exercise, then switch to the other foot and do 8 to 10 repetitions to complete one set. Aim for four to six sets of this exercise.
Make sure you're not using your arms or upper body to hold your weight – they should only be used to help you keep your balance.
As you lower yourself, lean back as if you are sitting in a chair, rather than letting the knee of the leg you're standing on go out in front of your toes.
 Your hamstrings run along the backs of your thighs and your knees. Building strength in your hamstrings is crucial if you want strong knees and a decreased risk of knee pain or injury.For hamstring curls, you will once again need a chair. Stand behind the chair with both hands on the back of it for balance. Lift one foot and bring the heel toward your buttocks. Hold that position for 3 to 5 seconds, then slowly lower it back to the floor.
Do this 8 to 10 times before switching to the other foot. Another 8 to 10 repetitions with the other foot equals one set. Try to complete four to six sets of this exercise.
 Wall squats predominately build the strength in your quadriceps. Using the wall provides you with additional stability and ensures that you're not putting additional strain on your knees, which is common with traditional squats.To start, stand up straight with your head, back, and hips against a wall. Step out until your feet are about two feet from the wall, hip-width apart. Slide down the wall until you are almost in a sitting position, then hold that position for between 5 and 10 seconds before sliding back up.
Do four to six sets of this exercise, with between 8 and 10 repetitions per set.
This exercise helps you learn the correct position for traditional squats, while providing support for your back and helping you maintain your balance. Don't slide so far down that your hips are lower than your knees, or allow your knees to move forward over your toes.
 Once you've become more accustomed to strength-training exercises with just your body weight, use barbells or ankle weights to gain further strength by increasing resistance.To build muscle, you should choose a weight that will allow you to complete your exercises, but that is heavy enough that you'll be struggling to complete the last few repetitions.
As you exercise more, you'll have to keep increasing the weight to get additional strength-building benefits. You also can do additional repetitions with a lighter weight.

