 This software is compatible with both Windows and Mac computers, providing three options that will either cut you off completely from the Internet or filter distracting websites while allowing you to continue to browse. You can download it from their website and install it following its instructions. To use this software, you can set a time limit. This limit can be as short as one minute and as long as 24 hours, depending on how long you want to be disconnected.


This software also allows you to disconnect your computer completely from the Internet. That means you can't use email or browse social media. You can also choose a blacklist of specific websites, so you can still use the Internet to find more important stuff.
This app also allows you to write down a work goal or time limit, which you can customize.;
, This app is compatible with Windows and Macs, locking you away from the Internet by blocking all internet activity on your computer. You can download it from the website and install following its instructions.


Mac Freedom gives one option to block all Internet access on your computer for a particular amount of time. To use the application, you pick an amount of time you want to be locked out of the internet for, from 15 minutes up to eight hours.
You also have the option to choose local or normal mode. Click local mode if you still require access to your local network. Then, click okay.
Freedom also has a scheduler so you can block time for a week in advanced when you want the Internet to be blocked., This app is compatible with Windows and Macs, allowing you to disconnect from distracting websites, set goals, and send an alarm when you have spent too much time on a distracting website.


This app allows you to become aware of your own bad habits by changing your computer use and reducing inefficiencies. If you ever wondered where all that time went, RescueTime will tell you that you have just spent two hours on Facebook, or YouTube, or other offenders.
Set goals that you want to achieve for the day. You can view in a report generated later whether you achieved them. Then use the website filter to allow you to block the most distracting websites for a period of time., On your mobile phone, there are lots of apps available that allow you to customize different timeframes and budget your time more effectively, helping you to stay more focused while you're working.While these don't block your access to the Internet, they're quick and easy ways to keep yourself on task. Here's a list of apps you can check out:


Self Control
Vitamin R
Yelling Mom
Finish
Procraster
AppDetox
Beat Procrastination
Concentrate
Avoiding Procrastination 101

