 The aorta is the primary artery that delivers blood to your heart and to all your other extremities, and an aneurysm affecting the aorta can be classified into two sub-types:Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). An aneurysm that happens in the abdominal (stomach) area is called an abdominal aortic aneurysm. This is the most common type of aneurysm and is fatal in 80% of cases.Thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA). This type of aneurysm is located in the chest area and occurs above the diaphragm. During a TAA, a section near the heart enlarges and affects the valve between the heart and aorta. When this happens, a backflow of blood occurs in heart, causing damage to the cardiac muscles.
 Unusually severe and sudden stomach or back pain can be a symptom of abdominal aortic aneurysm or thoracic aortic aneurysm.The pain is caused by your bulging artery putting pressure on neighboring organs and muscles.
The pain usually does not resolve by itself, nor will changing position alleviate it.
 If you experience nausea and vomiting along with severe abdominal or back pain, you may be experiencing a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm.Constipation and difficulty urinating may also occur. Abdominal rigidity can also occur with sudden onset.
 Dizziness is caused by massive blood loss that often accompanies a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm.Dizziness may also cause fainting. If you feel dizzy along with these other symptoms, try to sit down or rest on the floor, lowering yourself as carefully as you can

, A suddenly increased heart rate is a reaction to the internal blood loss and anemia caused by a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm., Clammy skin can be a tell-tale symptom of an abdominal aortic aneurysm.This is due to an embolus (moving blood clot) that is formed by the abdominal aneurysm and affects the surface temperature of the skin.
 Since a thoracic aortic aneurysm happens in the chest area, the increased size of the aorta can push up against the chest area, causing pain and a high-pitched sound during breathing.This chest pain feels intense and stabbing.
Dull chest pain is probably not a symptom of an aneurysm.
 Difficulty swallowing can indicate the occurrence of a thoracic aortic aneurysm.A problem swallowing can be due to the enlarged aorta, which puts pressure on the esophagus and makes it hard to swallow., An enlarged artery can press the laryngeal nerve, including the vocal chords, which leads to a hoarse voice.This hoarseness will come about suddenly, not over time as with a cold or flu.

