 Antihistamines are often the first line of defense for allergies. Fortunately, many antihistamines are readily available over-the-counter. You have your choice of several non-drowsy antihistamines.Some of your options include loratadine (Claritin), cetirizine (Zyrtec), and fexofenadine (Allegra).
It is important to closely follow the package instructions when taking medication.
 This type of nose spray is another common treatment for allergies, and they are also available over-the-counter. It is a type of steroid, but it doesn't have the systemic side effects of oral steroids. Be sure to follow package instructions when using a nasal corticosteroid. Most pharmacies carry these types of sprays.Two common types of these sprays are mometasone furoate (Nasonex) and fluticasone propionate (Flonase).Corticosteroids may be safe to use long-term, unlike some other types of nasal sprays. Talk to your doctor first.
 Decongestants can help un-stuff your nose. The main types of decongestants are pills, sprays, and drops; however, sprays and drops should only be used for a couple of days in a row. Otherwise, they may make symptoms worse.The most common oral decongestant is pseudoephedrine (Afrinol, Sudafed). Sprays include phenylephrine (Neo-Synephrine) and oxymetazoline (Afrin).Some oral medication combine both antihistamines and decongestants, so make sure you don't double-dose.
 Some people have asthma symptoms in relation to pollen allergies. See your doctor if you have symptoms such as shortness of breath, tightening in the chest, or wheezing, you may need a medication to deal with these symptoms specifically.Common types of asthma medications include inhaled steroids or bronchodilators, oral anti-leukotrienes or bronchodilators, and/or injected medications.
 If you haven't been tested for allergies, it's a good idea to find out what you're allergic to. You may already know you're allergic to pollen based on the fact that you have allergy symptoms when there's a high pollen count; however, if you don't realize that you also have other allergies, you may not be doing all you can to alleviate your symptoms.The most common type of allergy test is a skin test. Basically, the skin on your forearm or back is divided into small sections and marked. They will then drop a bit of each allergen in each section. Your skin will be pricked so that the allergen penetrates the top layer of skin better. After the test, you wait to see which patches of skin react, usually with a red, itchy patch.
Another common type of test is a blood test. A blood test is not quite as sensitive as a skin prick test, but it can help detect some of your major allergens.Before an allergy test, you must stop any antihistamine you're on five days ahead of time, as antihistamines may prevent you from reacting to allergens. You may also need to stop other medications, so talk to your doctor about what you're taking.
 If your allergy symptoms persist longer than three months of the year or if medication is not helping, you may want to discuss getting allergy shots with your doctor. Allergy shots can help dampen your immune response to specific allergens by injecting you with tiny amounts of the pollens you are allergic to. This is not a cure, but may help alleviate symptoms.


Based on your response to the allergy test, your doctor will determine what you are allergic to and have immunotherapy formulated specifically for you Then you will be given an allergy shot schedule. It is important to adhere to the schedule for best results.
Tablets that dissolve under your tongue are a new form of immunotherapy; however, some studies have shown that they don't work as well as shots and may only provide minor relief.