 The first thing you need to do when packing for a trip is to look into the weather. Depending on where you’re traveling to, the weather might be completely different from where you’re coming from.Use a site like Weather.com to figure out the projected weather forecast for the days of your trip.
Look at both the highs and the lows. Temperatures fluctuate throughout the day, so check to see both how warm and cold it will get and pack for both sets of conditions.;
, If you’re going on an overnight trip, you’ll need far fewer outfits than if your trip lasts an entire week. Figure out how long you’ll be away, then plan to pack for that length of time.Plan to pack one extra outfit, in case you spill or have a problem with one of your other outfits.
Plan to pack at least two extra pairs of underwear and socks. They’re small enough that they won’t take up a lot of room, but you’ll miss them if you don’t have them.
 Now that you know how long your trip is and what the weather will be like, it’s time to plan your outfit for each day. Think about the purpose of the trip – are you going to visit museums? Are you competing in a choral competition? Whatever you’re doing, make sure you’re packing clothes that will work for the occasion.Lay all of your outfits on the floor, organized by day of the week. This way, you can see what you’re missing or forgetting.
If you’re going to be doing a lot of walking, pack sneakers or other walking shoes.
If you’re staying in a hotel with a pool, pack a bathing suit.
 Think about all the items you need to bring with you that don’t qualify as clothing. This includes hair and makeup products, bathroom products, such as a toothbrush, toothpaste, and razor, plus any electronics or books you might need to keep you entertained.If you’re going to a competition or festival, make sure you pack any school related items you might need.
If you’re staying at a hotel, you do not need to pack shampoo, conditioner, and shower gel.
Pack some extra feminine hygiene products – you never know when you’re going to need them.
 At this point, you probably have a pile of unpacked items on your floor. Look through the pile and take out anything you don’t envision yourself using.Talk to your friends who are traveling with you so you don’t double up on the same items. If you’re all sharing a room, only one of you needs to bring a hairdryer.
If you accidentally overlook something, you can always purchase it when you arrive at your destination.
 The size of your bag should depend on the length of your stay and the kind of travelling you’ll be doing. If you’re taking a short trip, you can pack your clothes in an overnight bag. For a longer stay, you might want to use a duffle bag or a suitcase with wheels.If you’re going backpacking or hiking, make sure to bring a backpack with you.
If you’re traveling on a plane, check to see if your group will be checking bags. If not, your bag will need to be small enough to fit in an overhead bin.
Try to choose a bag that is brightly colored, so you can easily identify it.
Label your bag with your name and a phone number in case you and your bag get separated.
 You only have a limited amount of room, so make the most of it. Roll your pajamas, T-shirts, and sweaters to save room and cut down on wrinkling. Stick your socks and underwear in your shoes to create more space.Make sure to pack some empty plastic bags. You can use these to hold your laundry and wet bathing suits.
Save a small amount of space in your bag for any souvenirs you might want to bring home.
 On trips, it’s nice to pack a smaller bag with your most prized possessions and the possessions you use the most. This bag should stay with you at all times, even if you check your larger bag.This bag should contain things like your wallet, any forms of ID, your electronics and chargers.
You should also pack one of your outfits in this bag, in case your other bag doesn’t reach your destination at the same time you do.
Include a book, hand cream, lip balm, hair ties, gum and any tickets you might need in this bag as well.
 No matter where you’re going, it’s always good to have some food and water on hand to snack on between meals. Throw some snacks that travel well into your bag, along with a water bottle.Granola bars, fruit snacks and pieces of fruit travel well and are easy to eat on the go.
If you’re traveling on a plane, bring an empty water bottle. You’ll be able to fill it up as soon as you get through security.
 If you’re someone who needs a little beauty rest when you travel, add some earplugs and an eye mask to your bag. If you’re taking a long bus trip, you may want to include a blanket and neck pillow or roll up a soft jacket.If you’re not staying in a hotel, pack your own towel.
If you’re staying somewhere with group showers, pack flip-flops too.
 While most of your trip is probably already paid for, it helps to have cash on hand to pay for food and souvenirs. If you’re traveling on a plane, you’ll also need a state ID, as well as your boarding pass.If you’re traveling internationally, pack your passport.
Pack your student ID, just in case. It may get you a discount on something!

