 Your brain, like any other body part, improves with exercise. A great way to give your brain a workout is to test your recall. Throughout the day, see how many details of a given moment, list, or task you can remember.


Try to memorize small things each day. Write a grocery list and commit it to memory. Memorize a small passage from a poem or book. Wait an hour and see how much you can recall of what you've committed to memory.Draw a map from memory. Sketch a map going from your home to work, a store, a friend's house, or another place you frequently visit.Notice the little details. Making a conscious effort to notice seemingly irrelevant things can be a huge tool to help you become more logical. Do you notice the new paper cut on your friend's hand? Do you count the steps in your school or college? Do you look for spelling mistakes in texts? If the answer is no, now would be a great time to start. The more you practice, the healthier your mind will be. Over time, you'll become a more critical thinker.;
, The benefit of crossword puzzles on the mind is well documented. Crossword puzzles force you to push your brain slightly beyond its capabilities, which causes the regrowth of brain neurons. This increases your overall brain power and can promote more sound, logical thinking. Pick up a crossword puzzle book from a local bookstore or do your local newspaper's crossword each morning., Learning new abilities requires a lot of logical thinking. From devising strategies that help you learn to undertake challenging tasks, you use logic and strategy to acquire new skills. Try taking up some of the following activities to boost your logical thinking skills:Learn to play instruments.
Learn to draw or paint.
Learn to speak a foreign language.
Learn to cook.
 Learning from others is a form of mental exercise. Social connections and friendships nourish the brain and push people to strive to better understand themselves and the world around them. Spend time with close friends and family members on a regular basis. Attend social events and take this as an opportunity to meet new people. This can be difficult if you're a shy or introverted person, but pushing yourself to take risks socially can actually improve your ability to think logically.