 One of the hardest things to do when coping with addiction is to actually make the decision to stop your addiction and change your life. In college, this can be difficult. You are away from your parents, living on your own for maybe the first time, and surrounded by temptation and stress. Even so, you can make the decision to stand strong and change your life.As you cope with your addiction, you will probably have to change a lot of things. You may have to change who you hang out with, what you do on the weekends, and how you deal with the stress of college.
You may decide to refocus your priorities. For example, you may decide to put school first, and then do something you’ve never done before, like learning a new skill, sport, or hobby.
 College should be challenging, but there may come a time when you have put too much on your plate. Maybe you have taken too many classes, or you have one too many jobs or internships. Because of this course load, you may have turned to drugs to help keep you awake, or you drink because you can’t handle the stress. Reduce the amount of stuff on your plate to help take some of the pressure off of yourself.College is the time to challenge yourself, but you don’t have to do it all. If the pressure and inability to meet your obligations has led you to an unhealthy addiction, you should take a step back and focus on getting yourself back on the right track.
 One way to help you fight addiction and cravings is to find new ways to occupy yourself. In college, there are many different opportunities for you to try new things. You can get involved in campus clubs, join an intramural sport, or take a class in something you know nothing about.Trying new things is a good way to meet new people who are not connected to your addiction. You also can start spending your time doing things that have nothing to do with your previous addiction as you move forward with your life.
 One way to help yourself on your road to recovery is to look towards the future. Set goals for things you want to do. Take this time to focus on yourself and bettering yourself instead of going back to your addiction. Your goals don’t have to be large or life-altering. They just need to be something you can achieve to make yourself feel better.For example, you may set a goal to make a higher grade on your next exam, try one new activity each month, make one healthy diet change each week, or exercise one additional day each week.
 College is a difficult time, and you may feel even more challenges as you cope with addiction. But thinking negatively is not healthy. Negative thinking may lead to depression or anxiety, which can lead to cravings or relapses. Instead, stay positive. You are doing something to change your life for the better. Even if the successes are small, they’re still there. You deserve to stay positive.Even if your classes are getting difficult, you’re not doing as well in them as you want, or you’re not as social as you used to be, remember to focus on the good that has come into your life instead of the negative.
Recovery is a series of small positives. If you have to, write down the positive things that have happened or your successes every day.

