 The ideal temperature for a rabbit is between 55 and 70 degrees Fahrenheit. They can tolerate temperatures as high as 85 degrees Fahrenheit, if absolutely necessary, but anything higher will increase the risk of heat stroke.If you keep your rabbit outdoors, pay attention to the temperature. Summertime is the most common time of the year to be concerned. If your rabbit is left outdoors in a pen or a cage during the summer months, its fur will trap the sun’s heat, causing it to heat up quickly.Keep your rabbit’s cage out of the sun.Cover any windows with blinds and curtains if necessary. If this doesn't make a difference, consider moving the cage to a cooler part of the house, such as a basement. If you have a window air conditioning unit, you can close the doors to that room and keep the bunny there. If you have central air conditioning, you may want to close some vents and direct the cool air to the rabbit room to manage the electricity bills. You can also purchase standing air conditioning units for a particular room.;
, Use fans to cool your rabbit. Position an oscillating fan so that it blows in the rabbit cage, but not directly on the rabbit. This will create a breeze to cool your rabbit down. Make sure that your rabbit can escape the fan if it chooses. You can build a hiding place for the rabbit with a cardboard box. Be careful that the rabbit doesn't chew on the cords. This can be quite hazardous.
A wire covered cage allows air to flow freely from all sides. If your rabbit is outdoors in a hutch keep them in the shade and allow for cover without compromising ventilation. Bedding should be absorbent and non-toxic like straw, aspen shavings, CareFresh (recycled paper), or wheat-based like Eco-Straw. These materials air out easily and don’t retain heat.A circulating ceiling fan above the cage is another option. Used in combination with floor fans, ceiling units can effectively ventilate your rabbit’s area.
 This is especially effective in combination with a running fan. Not only will the towel provide shade, but the cool moisture will help as well.


Take a normal sized shower towel (roughly 2.5' x 3.5'). Soak it in cool water. Wring it out and place it on top of the cage. Try to to cover the entire cage with the towel. You want to make sure that you don't obstruct the cage's ventilation. Make sure that the towel is not still dripping either. You don't want to soak your rabbit., Put some ice packs underneath your rabbit cage. This will cool the bottom of the cage. You can also freeze a water bottle and place that inside the cage to create a cool spot for the rabbit to lie against when it is too hot. Never apply ice directly to the rabbit's body. Doing so may lower your rabbit’s temperature too quickly., Rabbits should get at least a couple hours of out-of-cage play time a day. Your rabbit won't feel like running and playing as much if s/he is very hot.