 Homebrew applications are programs (such as games and emulators for old game systems) that are written by individual programmers and usually distributed for free to anyone who wants them. The downside of running homebrew programs on your PSP is that it requires hacking your PSP's firmware so that it'll allow unlicensed programs.
 Hacking your PSP's firmware isn't a big legal deal to anybody, but custom firmware can occasionally impede your ability to run some commercial games properly. Although the homebrew community is always improving in reliability and compatibility, the problem still exists. Back up all of your save files and other electronically stored data onto a second memory stick before you proceed, just in case.
 You either have an official firmware or a custom firmware. The latest official firmware for the PSP is the version 6.60. If you have anything under 6.60 it's highly recommended you update it since new games do not work on older firmwares. So go to Sony's official website and download the latest firmware, they have a very detailed guide there to help you on the update process. After your system software is 6.60 you good install a Custom firmware (CFW).
 The best CFW for the PSP is called "PRO", No matter what PSP model you have (1000/2000/3000/e1000 or Go!) All work with the same PRO CFW. This is how to install it:


Download the 6.60 PRO-C fix3 CFW. There is a newer version called C2 but it has a bug which makes PSN games unplayable so it's recommended to stick with PRO-C fix3.
Enter USB mode. Navigate to your PSP's “Settings” menu and select “USB mode.” Connect the PSP to your computer with a USB cable and open it up on your desktop. Be sure your empty memory card is still in the PSP. Navigate to the root file of the memory card.
Copy the firmware. The firmware comes with 3 folders (PRO Update, CPL Flasher, and Fast recover), Copy this 3 folders inside the "PSP\GAME\" folder of your Memory Stick.
Leave USB mode. Disconnect your PSP from your computer and exit USB mode by selecting the appropriate option. You can get rid of the files on your computer now, if you want.
 Go to your PSP's menu screen and select the “Game/Memory Stick” option. From there, select the “PRO Update” icon. Press X to launch the firmware.


Imprint the firmware. Once you've installed the homebrew firmware, you'll need to either permanently imprint it or know how to restore it so you can use it to play homebrew games. The method you'll use depends on the model number of your PSP.

For 1000-series and 2000-series models, navigate to the “Game/Memory Stick” menu and select the “CIPL Flasher” icon. Press X once it runs to make your firmware update permanent.
For 3000-series and GO-series models, security countermeasures prevent you from permanently imprinting the firmware. However, you can run the PSP's Fast Recovery utility each time you start your PSP to restore the custom firmware for that section.
 Now that everything is up and running smoothly, an Internet search for “PSP homebrew games” should yield plentiful results. Many of these games are emulated versions of older games for other systems, but there are some custom-designed games available, too.

