 Being able to perform tricks means wearing practical, non-restrictive clothes that don’t need to remain in pristine condition. Expect twisting, tearing, fading, and possibly even blood. While skaters often wear tighter clothes, those clothes still need to allow them to move about easily and give them flexibility. Before doing advanced tricks, try wearing out your clothes so that you can perform those tricks better.
 These are a common style element with skaters and they will help keep you on the board. For additional authenticity, choose skater shoes that are specifically manufactured for skateboarding (ex. some have extra stitching to increase their lifespan). Some good brands are éS, DVS, Fallen, Supra, Vans, Circa, DC, Emerica's, Converse, Adio, Etnies and Lakai.


To fake the skater look, rip your shoes around the toes; if you're a true skater, however, they'll be ripped in no time. Keep in mind that wearing a brand new pair of shoes with holes may not look believable. If you are just going for a skater's style, this is acceptable, but if you are looking to become a real skater or are a real skater, allow your shoes to rip overtime, to show that you've worked hard to get them that way.
 Element, Baker, Analog, Quicksilver, Volcom,Vans and Billabong are a few classic examples. You might also try some snowboarding brands like Burton because a lot of skaters snowboard. You don't have to include these brands in all of your outfits, but they usually have clothes that skaters are drawn to because of their style and functionality, so if you are starting from scratch, these brands are good to check out.


Some of the top ranked skater brands today are Bianca Chandon, Dime, All Timers, Supreme, Antihero, and Palace., Don’t spend a lot of money on shiny new accessories and brand-name items when an old t-shirt and a faded pair of jeans will get the job done. Skaters like to look put together, but in a way that shows they didn't try really hard. Go for outfits that are stylish, but casual.


Be sure not to wear skating-brand gear all the time – wear casual clothing as well. Striped shirts, t-shirts, hoodies, and logo/name-brand shirts work. Wear hoodies or a snapback on your head. If you wear too much name brand clothing it may look like you are trying too hard, which will likely categorize you as a poser.

