 Shelves are a magical thing when you’re low on space. Whether you get bookshelves, modular plywood shelves (for clothes, shoes, and collectibles), or wall-mounted shelving, shelves can significantly expand the amount of space your child has to work with. Even old milk crates or vintage wooden boxes can make cool, fun shelving for your kid.Some shelves are designed for use with small cubby containers. These containers allow your child to maximize the amount of stuff they can fit in the shelving.;
, An open wardrobe provides much of the same benefits and functionality as a freestanding clothing rack, but is sturdier and more permanent-looking than a clothing rack. If you don’t think you’ll want to move your clothing rack, or if you have an ideal place for it (like in the recess of a wall) you should consider an open wardrobe for your kid’s room., A dresser, armoire, chifferobe, or any other piece of furniture with sliding drawers or shelves is a great way to create storage in a kid’s room without closets. Dressers and their variations are usually used to create space for clothing. But depending on the size of the furniture and the number of drawers it has, you might be able to divide part of it into space for clothes and part of it for other belongings like toys and games.Ensure the dresser you select for your kid’s room is not too tall for your child. Many home goods stores offer dressers or armoires specially made for children.
 A chest or trunk is basically a large box. The chest or trunk can sit comfortably at the foot of the bed, against a wall, or in the corner. Place toys or off-season clothing in the chest or trunk. Some of the sturdiest trunks can be found in antique markets, but you can find new ones in home goods stores as well.Don’t just use the inside of the trunk for storage. If you expect your child will rarely use whatever is inside the trunk or chest, place books, toys, or games on top of it.
You could also use a spacious suitcase if it is sturdy enough.
 A desk is a great spot to store books, writing materials, and other school supplies. Encourage your child to place their stapler, pens, paper, and pencils in the desk drawers. Get a desk with multiple drawers to maximize its use as a storage space. Place the desk against the wall so that it’s out of the way.