 Set goals for each day, and create a plan that will help you achieve your goals efficiently so as not to waste a minute. Planning ahead will help increase productivity, giving you more energy and time to meet your goals., Stay organized and silence your cell phone. Focus on a single task at a time and follow it through to the end. Release yourself from a standard of perfection, and allow that as long as everything has a place and you are able to find it when needed, your system will work for you.Multi-tasking can actually make you less productive and can waste your time. Make a list of everything you need to accomplish, and tackle them one task at a time.
Spending time with organized people can motivate you to become more organized. An organized friend can not only inspire you, but can also hold you accountable for your messy habits., Limit your time online, and limit other time-wasting distractions, such as television, so that you can stay on track. Refrain from constantly being connected to the Internet and instead check your email only periodically. Creating a list of manageable goals can help you to determine how to spend your time more effectively.Take short breaks between each task and reward yourself for completed goals in order to motivate yourself.
Set yourself up to be accountable for your actions by letting others know your goals. Checking in periodically with a supportive friend can help you stay focused and on track.Give yourself rewards for accomplished goals. You deserve to celebrate even your small successes, since each step you take is a move closer to your larger goal. Staying aware of how far you have come can help you to believe you will reach each of your goals.
 Limiting yourself and refusing to take on challenges can be wasteful, impeding your progress and growth. Jump at any chances to improve yourself and make the most of them. Say “yes” to something new, and take a risk. Network with friends and peers to improve your career options. Ask for that cute stranger’s number.Attend networking events with an open mind, and try to interact with people whom you think you can help, rather than those who might be able to help you in order to make the most meaningful connections., Resigning yourself to someone else’s expectations for you is a waste of your time. Discover what you are passionate about and spend time doing what you love. Expand your horizons to find where you belong and where you should expend your energy., Stop wasting energy on people who drain you, and instead prioritize the people who make you feel safe, loved, and respected. Be deliberate in who you make the effort for, since some people are more selfish than others. If you find that being around a certain person drains your energy and gives you feelings of negativity, distance yourself or remove this person from your life.Realize that your time and attention is valuable, and that you deserve only the best. If someone is treating you in a way that makes you feel uncomfortable, you should communicate this to them. Reward yourself for making moves toward distancing yourself from this toxic relationship.You need to put yourself first, since you are your strongest ally in life. Don't make excuses for other people's poor behavior. Just because someone is unable to give you the love you deserve, doesn't mean that you are unlovable. Release yourself from toxic relationships so that you can make room for the right person to enter your life.
 Cutting ties with someone close to you is never easy, but it is necessary to our growth. Try writing about how you feel, and distracting yourself by walking in nature. Talk to a trusted friend or family member; it is never shameful to ask for help.It is perfectly normal and healthy to cry, so don't hold back from expressing your emotions. Remember that you are loved and valuable. Take great care of yourself so that others can learn how to take care of your needs in the best possible way.

