 They are easy to find and you can buy one at any sporting goods store. Invest in a good quality pump, air gauge, and keep a supply of pump needles on hand. Some pumps have an air gauge built in. If yours doesn't, make sure you get a low pressure gauge.You'll also need some silicone or glycerin oil for lubrication.;
, Check the manufacturer's manual to find the recommended air pressure level for your soccer ball. The recommended air pressure will be expressed either in lbs, psi, or bar, and typically will be between 6 lbs and 8 lbs.If the recommended pressure of your soccer ball is expressed in a different unit than what your air gauge reads, you'll need to convert. To convert bar to psi, multiple by 14.5037, or divide by the same amount to convert the other way. To convert bar to lbs, multiply by 10, or divide by the same amount to convert the other way.
 Use either silicone or glycerin oil, and place a few drops in and around the valve in the soccer ball. This helps maintain the valve, and helps with the needle insertion. Lubricate the needle with the same oil. , It should slide right into the end of the air pump. Lock the needle in with the locking mechanism of the pump. Put the needle tip into the opening of the soccer ball valve., The ball will start to inflate. Go slowly so you don't over-inflate the ball and put unnecessary pressure on the seams. , If your air pump has a built in gauge, just stop once the level on the gauge reaches the recommended air pressure. If your pump doesn't have a gauge, you'll have to pull out the needle and check the pressure with the gauge regularly once it starts to feel firm., Avoid kicking it hard against walls. Never sit or stand on your soccer ball. This puts too much pressure on the stitching of the ball and can cause it to become warped or eventually burst., Ideally, you'll want to check the air pressure of your soccer ball with a gauge every couple of days. The more often it's used, the more often the pressure should be checked. Balls with butyl bladders will retain air much longer than balls with latex bladders., Although not necessary, manufacturers recommend that after a match, you should let a little air out of the your soccer ball. This reduces the stress on the ball when it's not in use. Just don't forget to re-inflate it before using it again., Although quite sturdy, soccer balls are vulnerable to exposure to sharp and abrasive surfaces. Stick to playing either on smooth wooden floors, grass, or turf. Surfaces like gravel and asphalt can damage the ball.