 Most beaches around the world have a type of beach crab that you can find along the shore. They vary in color, from the typically dark green common shore crab in England to the invasive Asian shore crab that has spread from its natural (and non-invasive) habitat in Asia to the east coast of the United States.While you can find these crabs on most beaches, the rockier ones tend to be better for finding them, as the crabs like to hide under the rocks.
Make sure you bring along a pail and small trowel or gloves. You don't really want to pick up the crabs with your bare hands, because they can pinch you, even the little crabs.
 The really small shore crabs can hide under little rocks, or burrow into the sand, but the best places to find them are under larger rocks. They like to hide under these rocks and when you turn the rock over, they tend to go scurrying into the protection of the sand.For example, the shore crabs of the Pacific Northwest, in the United States, (called Hemigrapsus nudus and H. oregonensis) can be easily found beneath rocks. They range from smaller than a fingertip to the size of a half-dollar.
You can also often find Hermit crabs on rocky shorelines. Look in tide pools and beneath rocks.
 This is where the crabs tend to collect to feed and move around. Tide pools are great places to find all kinds of marine life, including shore crabs. If you find a tide pool and you don't see anything at first, keep watching. There's always something going on a tide pool., Put a little bit of wet sand in your bucket so that the crab doesn't dry out. You can watch it burrowing around in the sand and scuttling side to side, in the manner that crabs move. This is an especially fun activity to do with children at the beach.


Handle the crabs gently, especially the small crabs. They do have hard shells, but they are still delicate to human handling.
 Don't take crabs home as pets. Most places have laws and rules against removing the wildlife, which are so important to maintaining a thriving ecosystem. The little crabs that you find on the shoreline aren't worth eating.


You should especially leave a crab alone if you see that it has eggs attached. These are the females who are waiting for their eggs to hatch and shouldn't be disturbed.

