 A lot of girls hate waking up in morning, but you have to wake up 1 or 2 hours before school starts. Get an alarm clock (if you don't already have one). You could get a radio alarm clock and set it to your favorite station so you can wake up to your favorite song. Plus it's a lot less annoying than waking up to a buzzing alarm clock. It's true! Don't put your alarm clock by your bed, put it on a dresser or on any surface that's not close to your bed. That way you have to get up out of bed to turn it off.;
, (this is especially important if this is a rule in your home)it will also make you feel more organized. This is not time consuming if done right. You don't have to make your bed perfectly, just fix the blankets/ sheets, and neatly place pillows on top. This also helps in keeping you up, and not crawling back under the covers to sleep in longer.
 In the mornings you don't need to take hour long showers. Showers should take up to 10-15 minutes. Wash your hair and body, shave if necessary, and wash your face. After you're done apply a moisturizer (suited to your skin type) to your face and use body lotion for the rest of you! Also comb your hair.
 Nobody wants to look at gross yellow teeth or smell bad breath! Use mouth wash as well, bring along some breath mints or gum (if you're allowed to in school).
 Even though you're trying to be fast DO NOT skip breakfast. Eat a piece of fruit, a bowl of healthy cereal or a piece of toast - if you really need to get out the door grab a granola bar.
 Less really is more, all you really need is mascara and/ or eyeliner (optional). A light colored eyeshadow, light blush, chapstick (keep your lips soft and smooth) and lip gloss; if you have a really bad zit then use cover-up.
 If you want your hair to be straight, straighten it before bed and touch up in the morning. If you want your hair to be curly, wet your hair and braid it before bed. Or you could sleep in rollers. If you don't want your hair to get sweaty and messed up,wear a shower cap or something similar when you wake up. Undo the braids or take out the rollers and spray lightly with hair spray and mousse if your hair is really straight and doesn't curl easy.
 As soon as you get out of the shower, or when you first get up, stretch, take your PJ's off, put on deodorant, get dressed and spray yourself lightly with sweet light smelling perfume or body spray. There you're dressed quick!

, Put your shoes on and be on your way to school.

