 This is a typical way to celebrate Gotcha Day, and the celebration should work much like a child’s birthday party. You can bake or purchase your child a “Gotcha Day” cake, topped with candles equal to the number of years since the adoption. If your child is in school, invite several of their friends over and give your child a few gifts.If you’d prefer that the party be more intimate and not invite guests from outside the family, you can have a smaller family-only party. Serve your child’s favorite meal along with a cake and small gift.
 Gotcha Day is a great opportunity to create a fun and meaningful family tradition that’s unique to you and your adopted child. Choose an activity that will hold significance for your child and that can be repeated annually: for example, pull out photographs taken the first time you brought your child home, and narrate the events of the adoption to your child in a loving and affirming way.If this tradition would bother your child or bring up bad memories of being taken from their birth family, you can create a more benign tradition. Take the child to a zoo, museum, or an amusement park for a day of family fun.
These methods of celebration can be used as alternatives to a birthday-party style celebration if you or your child are not comfortable celebrating Gotcha Day in that manner.
 This will help the child feel that they belong in the family and communicate that Gotcha Day is a celebration of family and the adopted child’s place in that family. You can cut up photographs from the past year and tape them to a page or two in a scrapbook for the child to flip through and remember fun times had as part of your family.You could also keep a “family journal,” and each Gotcha Day write in it a few favorite family memories from the previous year. These could include memories from vacations and travel, and have space for the child to write or draw their thoughts on the adoptive process.
This method is a useful alternative to a more typical birthday-party approach to celebrating Gotcha Day. A scrapbook or family journal places the focus on family connection and intimacy.
 If you adopted the child from a culture, heritage, or racial background different from your own, it’s important to affirm this heritage to your child. Use Gotcha Day as an opportunity to familiarize your child with their heritage and celebrate their cultural origin.For example, if you’ve adopted an African American child, take him or her to an African American cultural or art museum on Gotcha Day.
Especially as your adopted child ages, this will help them feel that they are fully a member of your family, but that they do not have to assimilate or sacrifice their cultural background to belong in the adoptive family.
 If you feel that a celebration of Gotcha Day will cause your adopted child emotional distress or is insensitive in general, focus your celebration instead on National Adoption Day. This informal holiday is typically celebrated on the Saturday before Thanksgiving.A celebration of National Adoption Day can focus on the good work being done by adoption agencies in general, rather than celebrating your particular case of having adopted a child.


Your celebration could include a fun party for all of the adopted children in your neighborhood or community. This will allow the adopted children to form friendships and uncover shared experiences and realize that they are not alone in their adoption experiences.A celebration of National Adoption Day can also help reduce any lingering stigma around the concept of adoption.