 Your “calf muscle” is actually made up of three muscles that are attached to the Achilles tendon in the posterior lower leg. These three muscles are the gastrocnemius, the soleus, and the plantaris. Most of the injuries that occur to the calf are actually injuries to the gastrocnemius, the largest of the three.Your gastrocnemius crosses your knee and ankle joints. It is also made up of many fast-twitch muscle fibers. This combination puts it at high risk for straining and tearing because it is constantly subjected to rapid stretching and contraction.Your soleus crosses your ankle joint. It is mostly made up of slow-twitch muscle fibers. Because of this combination, it is less likely to be injured than your gastrocnemius. However, treatment is often different for injuries to the soleus.The plantaris doesn’t do much in your calf. It is considered a largely vestigial muscle. If it is injured, treatment is the same as for a gastrocnemius injury.Your Achilles tendon connects these calf muscles to your heel bone. This tendon can also be injured and cause calf pain. Common injuries to the Achilles tendon include tendinitis or tendon rupture.;
, Torn calf muscles are most likely to occur during strenuous exercise.They commonly occur when you are exercising and rapidly change direction or acceleration.This injury commonly happens after explosive movements with increased loading of the muscle, such as sports that require bursts of speed (e.g., hurdling, jumping, basketball, soccer).Contraction (sudden onset). Sudden bursts of speed from a completely stationary position are a common cause of a calf tear. Short track sprinters are very susceptible to torn calf muscles.Sudden changes in direction, such as those occurring when playing basketball or tennis, can also cause tears.Prolonged degradation. Over-work and overuse are other common factors that can eventually lead to a tear. This is seen in runners and football players. Football players have both contraction and prolonged running. Both of these factors combined leave them very vulnerable to a calf tear.
“Weekend warriors,” or people who are only intermittently very physically active, often experience calf muscle tears. Men are more likely to experience these injuries than women., The symptoms of a torn calf muscle are usually more immediate and obvious than the symptoms of a strain. They are often similar to the symptoms of a ruptured Achilles tendon.Symptoms include:feeling like you have been struck or kicked in the back of the leg
an audible “pop” or “snap” in your leg
sudden, severe pain in the calf muscle (usually throbbing)
tenderness and swelling in the lower leg
bruising and/or color change
limited range of motion in the ankle
trouble walking or standing on your toes
limping

, Get off your feet, elevate them and get some rest. If your legs are very painful and start swelling, you almost certainly have a calf injury that needs medical attention. You will probably start bruising in the calf area, especially with a tear, as there will be some internal bleeding.


If you hear a “pop” sound or see swelling in your calf, visit an emergency room immediately. Your injury requires immediate medical attention.Swelling or bleeding in an area can lead to a condition called compartment syndrome, where not enough oxygen or nutrients can reach the muscles and nerves in the area due to increased pressure.It can happen after a fracture or badly bruised muscle, so if you think your injury is severe, get medical attention as soon as possible. You may end up needing surgery if you develop acute compartment syndrome.
 It is important to be able to differentiate injuries to the specific muscles in your calf. You cannot do this on your own. Your doctor will perform tests such as physical examinations and MRIs to determine the extent of your injury. If you think you have torn a calf muscle, see your doctor immediately.If you try to diagnose and treat a torn calf muscle on your own, you could cause further, more severe injury.
 Your doctor is likely to order an ultrasound or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of the affected area.An MRI will use magnetic waves and computer imaging to take 2-D and 3-D images of an area. It is used to diagnose internal injuries that simpler techniques such as X-rays cannot pick up.Your doctor may also order a magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) scan. This is a type of MRI that examines your blood vessels, often using a contrast dye to make them appear more clearly. The MRA can help detect if there is any damage or entrapment of your blood vessels, which could lead to conditions such as compartment syndrome., Treatment of a torn calf muscle usually does not require surgery. It’s critical to follow all of your doctor’s instructions during your recovery period. If you do not, you could cause severe re-injury or trauma. Be patient: it can take up to 8 weeks to see recovery, and several more months before your calf feels fully back to normal.Usually, immediate treatment involves rest, ice, compression, and immobilization (with a splint etc.).
Recovery treatment will usually involve physical therapy exercises, massage, and use of crutches.

