 Eating disorder problems do not follow a set schedule, and if your friend really wants or needs to talk during hang out time, or if they truly cannot handle talking during your designated talking time, be understanding.


Be honest about your concerns. Do not be harsh and try to avoid speculative statements like “I am afraid that if this continues you might…” but do express your concerns to you friend.
Let your friend know that your worries come from a place of caring. This reminds them that they are important to you, and that their disorder impacts those they love, as well.
 Saying things like “if you ever do this again, I won’t talk to you anymore,” or “if you can just manage this I will do something in return” could promote unhealthy behavior or discourage or your friend from talking to you.
 You may not be able to see them or have long talks with them on a daily basis, but reaching out to them regularly reminds them that they have someone to turn to when times get hard.


You do not need long periods of time together to be supportive. Sending a simple message each day lets your friend know that you care. “I hope you have a great day. I am here if you need anything,” can go a long way.
If your friend asks for space, be mindful. They are dealing with a great deal physically and mentally, and forcing them to talk doesn’t do any good. Do be willing to check in every once in awhile, though, to remind them of your support.
 Avoid forcing anything on your friend, but do pass along resources that could help them, especially if your friend has expressed interest in them before.


If, for example, your friend has talked about wanting to see a nutritionist, a doctor, or a therapist, offer to help them research one that specializes in eating disorders.
If you know a specialist your friend could trust, provide them with their contact information and offer to introduce them.
Do not pressure your friend to make an appointment. Putting pressure on them may cause them to avoid both professional help and you. Offer resources, but do not demand action.
 Remember that your friend is still your friend no matter what inner demons they are battling. Keep your habits healthy and work to maintain your friendship, because it is stronger than an eating disorder.


Make choices that focus on your personal health rather than your body image, and choose healthy outlets for your emotions, like a sport, an art, or therapy. Doing so is good for you and a good example for your friend.Maintain a healthy diet. Changing your eating habits because of your friend's opinions about food and body image only reinforces your friend's misconceptions.
Your friendship can outlast your friend’s battle with anorexia. Keep this mind when you encounter particularly difficult times. If your friend comes to you with something that you consider to be too much to handle on your own, let your friend know: "I care about you and want to help you through this time, but I am not equipped to deal with this particular matter."
You may not be able to help in the moment, but by staying supportive you are showing that you prioritize your friendship and are showing your friend how much you care about them.

