 Understanding your medical history and how and when your symptoms occur will help your doctor or rheumatologist make an accurate diagnosis. Note when you first observed joint redness, any other accompanying symptoms, and whether symptoms are constant or intermittent.Note what makes your symptoms better and what makes them worse.
You should also report any medications, such as anti-inflammatories, that you take to manage your symptoms. Let your doctor know how effectively any medications relieve your symptoms.
 It's best to make an appointment with your doctor if you experience persistent redness with or without pain, stiffness, or other symptoms. While there are ways to distinguish various joint conditions, only medical tests can make an accurate diagnosis.You’ll need to see a doctor promptly if you suspect septic arthritis or if you take a blood thinner.
 Most primary care doctors don’t have the specialized knowledge and experience required to diagnose arthritic conditions with certainty. Since various joint issues have overlapping symptoms, it’s best to have your primary doctor offer an initial examination and, if appropriate, a culture. They should then refer you to a rheumatologist, especially if the issue isn’t related to an infection or local injury., You’ll first report your symptoms to your doctor or specialist, then they’ll perform a physical examination and test the joint’s range of motion. Depending on their findings, they’ll likely order imaging techniques, such as an x-ray, ultrasound, or MRI.Imaging techniques will help distinguish between forms of joint inflammation. For example, an ultrasound can detect gout-related urate crystals in a joint., Joint aspiration involves drawing fluid from a joint for examination and culture. It’s useful for distinguishing between cases of gout and septic arthritis, so your doctor or specialist might order the procedure if they suspect either of these conditions.Blood and joint fluid cultures can identify a bacterial or fungal infection that’s caused septic arthritis.
Examining joint fluid for urate crystals can diagnose gout.
 Your diagnosis will determine the best treatment or management options. The best ways to manage many cases of OA and RA are rest, eating a calcium-rich diet, applying heat or cold in 20 minute intervals, and taking over the counter anti-inflammatories.At first, you should try applying both heat and ice packs at different times. See which works better for you, then stick to whichever provides relief.
Wrapping the area might also reduce redness and inflammation.
Your doctor or specialist might suggest corticosteroids and topical pain relievers. In cases of severe joint damage or deterioration, they might recommend joint replacement., Anti-inflammatories and pain relievers are used to manage gout. Additionally, medications that improve uric acid removal can help prevent gout flare-ups.Antibiotics are used to treat infection-related septic arthritis.In addition to corticosteroids and anti-inflammatories, specialized medications are used to manage psoriatic arthritis., Call your insurer before undergoing lab tests or imaging techniques to make sure all procedures are covered. Ask them if your rheumatologist is in-network, or ask them to refer one in your network, in order to ensure specialist care is covered.

Ask your insurer, “My doctor has recommended a joint aspiration and x-ray. Does my plan cover these procedures? Do I need prior approval from my insurer in order for these procedures to be covered?”

