 Increase the amount of fresh fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and lean proteins in your diet to help support your skin health and reduce the appearance of crow’s feet. Cut back on your intake of processed foods, fried foods, saturated fats, and sugar as much as possible., Fish is an excellent source of protein, and fish like salmon, herring, and sardines are full of omega-3 fatty acids. Fatty acids not only help promote heart health, but they can help keep your skin looking young, bright, and healthy, which may help reduce the appearance of wrinkles like crow’s feet.To reap the benefits of omega-3 fatty acids, try to eat fish twice a week., Smokers are more likely than non-smokers to have a stroke or develop heart disease, and the cigarette smoke can also take its toll on your skin.Smoking can influence the production of collagen, and the chemicals in cigarettes can cause internal damage to your skin and the blood vessels around your eyes.When you stop smoking, your collagen production will increase, which may help reduce the appearance of crow’s feet.


Ask your doctor if there is a support group in your area, or contact the National Network of Tobacco Cessation Quitlines for assistance.
 Exercising will increase your heart rate and improve blood circulation. With improved circulation, your skin will receive more nutrients and oxygen, which can help nourish your skin cells. In addition, exercise can decrease stress and the production of the hormone cortisol, which breaks down the production of collagen.Aim to engage in 150 minutes of moderate exercise each week, or for 30 minutes for 5 days., Sleep helps you relax, which reduces stress and cortisol production. It also allows your skin cells to regenerate, which can help alleviate and prevent crow’s feet.Try to get 8 to 9 hours of sleep every night.
 Mediation, yoga, and other self-soothing practices may help you control stress, which can minimize cortisol production and alleviate damage to the proteins in your skin. Yoga has been shown to reduce the body’s stress responses. The breathing techniques associated with mediation and the focus on the present moment can help ease stress or anxiety.