 Measure from the top of your forehead to the bottom of your chin and from cheekbone to cheekbone. Remember not to pull so hard on the tape measure and squish your face. You need the mask to be somewhat comfortable to wear.;
, If the balloon isn't proportioned for your face, then blow-up the balloon to at least the height of your head.
 Also make sure you take extra care in making sure you sketch the shape of your right eye. Also, draw the boundaries of your face, just in case.
 Remember: the mask only covers the face, not half of your head! Also, if you want a sturdy mask, but not want to use the entire roll of plaster? don't cut all the roll into strips (common sense).
 You don't need a specific pattern, but try not to glob a bunch of them together or your mask will be lumpy. Also, bear-in-mind the size of Tobi's eye hole. His eye hole is very very tiny. If you don't want your eye hole that small, then don't make it that small.
, Place the mask on your face to make sure it's a fine fit. If it fits around the face funny, VERY carefully, mold the mask to your face.
 this may take up to 3 days depending on how thick u made your mask. Just keep checking on it if you plan on leaving it out for an extended period of time. bring it inside at night.
 Use a power sander at a low power to buff-out any minor bumps and smooth the edges. Or you can use regular sandpaper. make sure to use a low-number grit.
 When you get it as you want it, take a sharpie (or any other very dark fine-pointed permanent marker) and carefully outline the swirls.
 I started with a dark yellow Tempera base, let it dry, re-outlined the swirls with a sharpie, and then put on an orange acrylic paint coat. Then i took a thin paintbrush and dark brown acrylic paint and re-outlined the swirls. There are many methods to painting the mask. Painting is art and therefore are not rules. Make sure to let it fully dry before applying more coats. But always make sure to use some kind of finish on it. I accidentally used a gloss finish, but i would recommend a Satin finish because pictures of your mask might come out weird, like mine do.
 The further in you glue it, the more supportive it will be, but make sure you have enough to measure around your head. Then when the one side is absolutely dry, put the mask on your face and adjust the other side of the mask. Make sure the mask fits snug; Not too loose, but not too tight. Glue the other side as well. Let that sit and dry.

