 If you have a dog, invite the girl over your house. Prepare a sign that says "Prom?" and hang it around your beloved pet's neck. Then, call your dog to come join you and watch the girl laugh as she reads the note around his neck. The promposal will be too cute and funny for her to say no.You can also try this trick with a very obedient cat.
 Invite the girl over and order a cheese pizza, or order the pizza with a group of friends. When the pizza arrives, quickly write, "I know this is cheesy, but will you go to prom with me?" on the inside of the lid of the pizza box, and wait for the girl to open the pizza and laugh. For extra precaution, you can order the pizza and write on the box and then ask the girl to come over., Ask your teacher for a scantron and write "Prom?" sideways on all of the bubbles. Then, approach the girl and tell her that you did really well on a test; show her the scantron as evidence of your academic success. Wait for her to laugh as she accepts your offer.
 Decorate a white t-shirt that says, "Will you go to prom with me?" that has a box for "Yes" and "No." Wear a marker around your neck and ask her to fill out the t-shirt with her answer. This will remind the girl of those precious notes that middle school boys use to ask out girls and she will laugh and naturally accept.
 Depending on how shy you're feeling, making a corny dance with your friends in front of the girl is the perfect way to ask her to prom. You can do the dance after school, in the hallways, or even the cafeteria -- though you'll be likely to get detention. When the dance is over, stand in a line with your friends, all the way on the right side. Then, everyone will remove their shirts from left to right, until they spell out "P-R-O-M-?" Your shirt will have the question mark on it.


This silly dance will show the girl that you're comfortable enough with yourself to be completely goofy, and that you'll be the perfect prom date.
 If you want to make the girl laugh, you can spell out "P-R-O-M?" with a variety of foods. Try writing it with sushi, pretzel sticks, french fries, pepperoni, tiny cookies, hash browns, or any food that you happen to be eating or whatever is available in your cafeteria. She'll get a good chuckle out of this and will be very likely to say yes.

