 No matter what diet method you try while you have diarrhea, you need to keep hydrated. One of the major side effects of diarrhea is dehydration due to the continual loss of nutrients and fluids from the body. You need to continually replace these losses with electrolytes. Try drinking electrolyte rich drinks such as Gatorade and Pedialyte along with plenty of water. Electrolytes such as potassium are key to keeping you safe and healthy as you work through your sickness.Dehydration is more common with diarrhea than other stomach issues because the colon absorbs electrolytes and water, but when it is inflamed like it is when you have diarrhea, the colon cannot do either.
Make sure you pay extra close attention to your hydration during the first few days of your diarrhea. This is when you lose most of your fluids.Drink at least 64 oz of water a day or 8 eight oz glasses. Drinks with caffeine do not count toward the daily total of water consumption.
 There are some homemade mixtures you can make to help with rehydration. Take one liter of water and add 6 teaspoons of sugar and 1/2 a teaspoon of salt. Drink one teaspoon of this solution every 5 minutes., There are some groups who are more at risk for dehydration than others. Infants and toddlers are at an increased risk of dehydration when suffering from diarrhea. Watch infants, toddlers, and children for symptoms such as crying without tears, decreased urine in diapers or urinary output, and sunken eyes or fontanels. If you notice these signs, seek medical attention. Dehydration can be serious and require intravenous fluid replacement.Babies being breastfed can still be breastfed when suffering from diarrhea.
 Any adult can become dehydrated while suffering from diarrhea. Groups of people such as diabetics, the elderly, or those with HIV are at higher risk of dehydration. Look for symptoms such as dizziness when standing, a racing pulse with standing, dry oral mucosa, or feeling very weak. All the cells in our bodies run on what is termed the sodium-potassium pump, so losses of these minerals are critical, especially potassium. This can cause serious problems, including sudden cardiac death.If you are unable to tolerate oral fluids, keep a close watch on yourself. You may need to go to the emergency room to get IV fluids and electrolytes if you can't rehydrate on your own. You should go to the the ER if you are having nausea and vomiting associated with your diarrhea such that you cannot keep down liquids.

