 Confidence is one of those qualities that girls find attractive. Now, confidence doesn't equal arrogance, so there's a fine line that you'll need to walk. Fortunately, you can build your confidence, it's not something that you're just born with.Fake confidence until you actually start to feel confident. You can do this by doing confident things, even if you don't feel it. Start small and work your way up. For example: if you're shy, strike up conversation with one person you don't know each day. Work your way up to striking up conversation with that cute girl you've been eying.
Use confident body postures to convey confidence and trick yourself into being confident. Stand with your legs apart and your hands on your hips. Don't cross your arms across your chest (this comes across as being not confident).
Chew gum. Weirdly, not only does chewing gum make your breath smell nice (which can be attractive to a girl), but it can actually reduce your stress. So before you're around the girl you're looking to attract, pop a stick of gum in your mouth.;
, The definition of hygiene very much depends on where in the world you are. Certain places have higher or lower standards of hygiene and you'll be more likely to attract a girl with more or less cleanliness. (For example: if you lived in rural Alaska, you would probably attract a girl with less cleanliness than Los Angeles.)


Bathe at least once a week. This is, obviously, just a guideline, but it's a good idea to clean yourself at least occasionally. While there is research that supports women finding men's sweat attractive, you don't want to overwhelm her with your sweat.
Keep your clothes laundered. Again, a little sweat and a little scent isn't a bad thing, but you want your clothes to be at least moderately clean.
 White teeth are definitely a sign of attractiveness. More than your physical features a girl is likely to be attracted to clean, white, healthy teeth, so make sure that you're brushing twice a day, at least, and flossing regularly.


White teeth are one of the first things women (or anyone) will notice, so it's important that you take good care of them.
You also want your breath to smell good, which means brushing your tongue, as well, especially at the back of your mouth.
 Clothes can be an important indicator of confidence, and of attractiveness. Again, it really depends on where you are in terms of your main wardrobe (what goes over well and is necessary in rural Alaska is going to be very different from what is necessary and stylish in Los Angeles). There are a few basic things to keep in mind, however.Make sure your jeans, or whatever trousers you're wearing, fit you. Clothes that fit can enhance your body. Baggy clothing hides your body, or makes you look sloppy, while too-tight clothing looks good on basically no one.
Buy nice shoes. While not all girls are obsessed with shoes (or clothes) a good pair of shoes can make you look put together, which is something a girl will register, whether she does it subconsciously or not.
Pick colors that work with your skin tone, eye color, and facial features. If you have a nice pair of green eyes, wear a forest green sweater that makes them pop. Red and black are very good colors to wear if you're looking to attract. Both red and black make you appear more powerful., There's nothing wrong with a little scent, especially if you live somewhere that is big on colognes and body spray. But you want to make sure that you don't overwhelm the girl you're looking to attract. You may also want to consider not covering up your natural scent. Women tend to be attracted to a man's sweat.Just make sure that you aren't overwhelming anyone with your body odor. It's a good balance that you have to strike. If you're of the type who sweats a lot, make sure that you wash frequently and change your shirts.
Cologne and body spray can add a nice little accent to your appearance as long as you don't go overboard. Spritz a little behind your ear, on your face and chin (one spritz should do it) and on your chest. You want to make sure that your cologne or body spray mingles with your natural scent and pheromones.