 Wash your hair using whatever method works best for you. Don’t let your hair dry completely before the next step. Avoid blow-drying, as the heat can dry out and damage your hair further.;
, Be sure to get the roots as well as the tips. There are a variety of different leave-in conditioners available. Pick the one that works best for your hair type.
 This can be your favorite conditioner straight out of the bottle. A dollop of hand lotion can be added to increase the slipperiness of your hair, making the detangling process easier. Especially dry hair can benefit from the addition of hair oils, which work to soften and moisturize.The best product for this step is dependent on your hair’s unique qualities, so trial and error over time may be necessary to find your perfect conditioner. However, there are some basic guidelines you can follow depending on your hair type to narrow things down:


Straight, fine hair: Volumizing conditioners will keep your hair from looking too flat.Wavy hair: Light-weight moisturizing conditioners are able to both moisturize your hair to get rid of tangles without flattening out your natural volume.
Thick, curly hair: Deep-hydrating moisturizers are necessary to prevent this hair type from drying and causing further tangles.Coily: This type of hair needs the most intense moisturizers, and it's often best to use products specifically designed with African-American hair in mind. Look for conditioners that include oils or shea butter among their ingredients., Start from the back bottom and work your way up and to the front. Make sure to work the conditioner into the full length of your hair. If your hair is long, pile the conditioned back portion on top of your head to reach the hair underneath.
 Gently comb your hair with a wide-tooth comb as you rinse. Don’t use a brush, as brushes can cause further tangles. Start combing in sections from the tip of your hair to the roots to avoid breakage., Massage or spray in a small amount of leave-in conditioner. Remove most of the water by wrapping your hair with a towel for a few minutes. Rubbing your hair with a towel can damage your hair.
 Letting your hair dry naturally prevents future damage and tangles. Be gentle while combing to avoid breaks. You don’t need to be as careful once your hair is almost completely dry.

