 Research is one of the most important things you could ever do while trying to learn about something. Contrary to belief, Goth has a defined meaning. Goth being "anything you want it to be" is a too vague definition and almost makes it have no meaning. Some basic facts of the subculture are:


Goth is a music based subculture that was born of the post-punk genre in the early 80s. Some real goth bands are Bauhaus, Siouxsie and the Banshees and The Sisters of Mercy.The goth term came about because a member of UK Decay (tongue in cheek) referred to their music as "gothic rock" and Ian Astbury jokingly called Andi Sex Gang a "gothic goblin" because he was small, like macabre music and lived in a building called "Visigoth towers" in Brixton, making their fans "goths".The Goth subculture includes music, fashion and aesthetic. They are the only three things that goths, in general, have in common. The music is the most important because a goth is a fan of goth rock/post-punk. The fashion usually refers to traditional goth fashion which the original goth musicians wore in the 80s and the aesthetic refers to the dark and macabre way of thinking that goths have.;
, Listening to Goth rock or deathrock is the most important part of the subculture, and the thing that makes you goth. Goth rock was born out of post-punk in the early 80s with Bauhaus' song Bela Lugosi's Dead.Some other goth bands are:


Address Unknown
Alien Sex Fiend
All Gone Dead
And Also The Trees
Angels of Liberty
Ausgang
The Awakening
Arctic Flowers
Bat Nouveau
Bauhaus
BFG
Bloody Dead and Sexy
The Cemetery Girls
Christian Death
Cinema Strange
The Damned
Date At Midnight
Diva Destruction
The Faces of Sarah
Feeding Fingers
Fields of the Nephilim
The Flesh Eaters
Frank the Baptist
Gene Loves Jezebel
Ikon
Inkubus Sukkubus
Joy Division
Kommunity FK
The Lords of the New Church
Mephisto Walz
The Merry Thoughts
The Mission (UK)
Nosferatu
Red Temple Spirits
Rozz Williams
Sad Lovers and Giants
Screaming For Emily
Screams For Tina
Sex Gang Children
Sexbeat
Shadow Image
Siouxsie and the Banshees
The Sisters of Mercy
The Southern Death Cult/Death Cult/The Cult
Specimen
The Spiritual Bat
Two Witches
Voodoo Church
13 Candles
13th Chime
1919
45 Grave

, If you want to listen to anything else, you can. You should be being yourself and not trying to be a "perfect goth" by only doing "goth things". The goth music makes you goth, so it's important, but a goth shouldn't be the only thing that you are.
 Dressing goth alone does not make you goth, it would make you Gothic. There are said to be many goth styles, but trad goth, deathrock and romantic (lots of bands in the 90s used to wear this style) are ones that are only really "goth" whereas others like Victorian goth, CyberGoth, pastel goth etc are all from different branches and just take the name goth, rather than actually being it. It doesn't mean that you can't dress in these, just remember that they're not exactly goth. Pastel goth and nu goth in particular are from Tumblr and are more of a trend/just a fashion rather than a type goth. Again, if you want to dress in these, go ahead. Just understand what you're doing because misrepresentation can harm the subculture.
 Most, if not all, actual goths have joined the subculture because they had an interested in the dark and spooky from a young age. This sparked an interest in dark movies, literature and fashion when they were older, leading them to learn about the subculture that focuses on this especially. If you don't already have the Goth mindset then you need to ask yourself what reason you're doing this for, as a dark mindset is not something that is gained overnight. Remember that having a dark mindset only does not make you goth. It's an important aspect of the subculture, but Goth was born out of the music (the fashion following).
 Reading Gothic literature is certainly enjoyed by a good amount of goths, but it does not really make you goth. In Victorian times, barely anyone called their writing "goth" and since that was the most popular writing of the time, it would have made everyone "goth" which definitely was not the case. The subculture was born out of the music, which is the most important thing to remember. Some books you might want to check out are:


The Castle of Otranto by Horace Walpole
Dracula by Bram Stoker
Wuthering Heights by Emily Bronte
Frankenstein by Mary Shelley
Zastrozzi: A Romance by Percy Bysshe Shelley
Anne Rice's works
Stephen King's works

, During the original scene, when an elder spoke, it wasn't out of respect, it was because you were genuinely interested.These days, people have started to throw goth aspects, customs, traditions and characteristics that make goth goth out the window.People are losing the sight of the backgrounds, roots and history that make the subculture what it is, so preserving the important of the music and creativity that goes into the subculture is important because without it, new bands and artists can't tour and make new albums. They are not getting the support from new members like they deserve. The reason why other subcultures like the metal subculture is doing so well is because people understand that it's about listening to metal, and that it's not just an aesthetic. So if you see a baby bat, someone who is new to the subculture, teach them (if they are willing to learn). Show them music, fashion and what the subculture really has to offer., If you have suddenly just gained inspiration because you've seen something that you like, it doesn't mean that you should become part of an entire subculture. Goth is something you grow into, not out of.

