 In other words, the subjunctive mood is used to express something that is not necessarily true at present.
 It is always used with the word 'that' before the subject. To form the present subjunctive, simply use the bare infinitive form of the verb with 'that' and your subject before it. To make a present subjunctive clause negative, place "not" in front of the bare infinitive. Only some verbs can take the subjunctive, such as 'request', 'demand' and 'ask'. You must study those verbs as there is no rule to it. Here are some examples of this kind of usage:


I demanded that my boyfriend attend Thanksgiving dinner with my family.

"demanded" is in the past tense; "attend" is the present tense verb - it is in the subjunctive mood.


I demanded that my boyfriend not attend Thanksgiving dinner with my family.

The "not" makes the clause negative.
 It is mostly used in the second conditional sentence (e.g. If I were Obama, I would not bomb Libya.) It is also used after verbs such as 'wish' (e.g. I wish I were Obama). The past subjunctive does NOT need the 'that'. To form the past subjunctive, you only need the simple past form of the verb. The only irregular past subjunctive is 'to be', which is always 'were' in the past subjunctive.


If I had a lot of money, I would buy a Ferrari.

It's saying if something were true (that is not true) then something else would be true.

To be – "I was happy."
Third person singular form of regular verbs – "He plays sports."


Corresponding Subjunctive Phrases

that he go to Starbucks
I were happy
that he play sports



,

(Note: the past perfect is formed with the auxiliary had + past participle, the present perfect is formed with the auxiliary have + past participle)
For the past perfect: "If I had gone to Walmart yesterday, I would have run into an old friend" can be made into a subjunctive sentence by changing the "if I had" to "had I," resulting in: "Had I gone to Walmart yesterday, I would have run into an old friend."
For the present perfect: an example of an indicative sentence is: "Jason has completed his homework." A similar subjunctive sentence may be formed thus: "It is imperative that by tomorrow Jason have completed his homework."

,


The subjunctive with "should": "I recommended that Don should see a doctor," "We shall have a deal, if you should decide to accept it"
The subjunctive can be formed by inversion

Inversion by omission of the conjunction, "if":

Inversion with should: Should you feel hungry,... (equivalent to If you (should) feel hungry)
Inversion with were as simple past subjunctive: Were you here,... (equivalent to If you were here,...)
Inversion with were in compound forms: Were he to shoot,... (equivalent to If he were to shoot, i.e. If he shot)
Inversion with had in the pluperfect (already mentioned in this article)



Where a conjunction like whether, although or even if is omitted. (Note: all but the second and third examples are generally archaic)

Be he called on by God, ... (equivalent to "If he be (i.e. If he is) called on by God, ...")
Be they friend or foe, ... (equivalent to "(No matter) whether they be friend or foe, ...")
Be he alive or be he dead (from Jack and the Beanstalk).
Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home (from "Home! Sweet Home!"; meaning "even if" or "even though")



The subjunctive appears in fixed phrases:

Long live the King!
God save the queen.
God bless America!
Heaven forbid!
Be that as it may, (meaning "that may be true, but...)
Come what may, (meaning "no matter what happens," this phrase begins a clause)
As it were, (preceded by a comma that ends a non-literal clause, it means "figuratively speaking")
Suffice (it) to say
Far be it from (or for) me (to), (Used to express reluctance to do something which one thinks may be resented: "far be it from me to speculate on his reasons")
Truth be told



