 Eating right is always important, but it is especially critical when you are training. Make sure that you are giving your body enough fuel. Plan healthy meals to help you keep your body healthy and reduce injury and illness. A good diet can help you meet your fitness goals more effectively and lessen the risk of feeling the need to over-train.Eat breakfast. If you workout in the morning, get up early enough to eat at least one hour before your training session.
Make sure to include healthy carbohydrates in your breakfast. Good foods to eat are whole grain breads and cereals, bananas, or a waffle.
Eat a healthy snack if your workout is several hours after a meal. Reach for an energy bar or a peanut butter sandwich.
Your muscles need food after a workout so that they can repair themselves. Good post-workout meals are pasta with turkey meatballs or chicken with brown rice.
 If you do hurt yourself, make sure to treat your injury. It can be frustrating to have to modify your training schedule, but it is important that you give yourself time to heal. You can still stay in shape while dealing with an injury.If you are a runner, you might occasional tweak an ankle. Take some time off from running and focus on upper-body and core exercises instead.
If your injury is chronic, consult a physical therapist. A PT can help you learn rehabilitation exercises.
When you are working out, stop immediately if you feel a sharp and sudden pain. Give it a few minutes, then try stretching the area.
If the pain persists with gentle stretching, you likely have a strain. This is a sign that you need to adjust your training schedule for at least a few days.
 When you are training, getting enough sleep is imperative. If you are tired, your body will not be able to perform at its highest level. This can decrease the effectiveness of your workouts.The average adult needs between 7 and 9 hours of sleep per night. If you are an athlete in training, you may need an hour or two more.
Your body repairs itself when resting. If you're not sleeping enough, you will not be able to train as hard and you risk injuring yourself.
Make sleep a priority. No matter how busy you are, try to get to bed at a reasonable hour. It's best if you go to bed at the same time each night.
 Your muscles are more prone to injury if you are dehydrated. To train safely and effectively, you must hydrate properly. Make sure to drink water before, during, and after your workout.Water is important because it regulates your body temperature, lubricates joints, and transports nutrients throughout your body.
Drink 7-10 ounces of water during every 10-20 minutes of exercise. Follow your workout with at least another 8 ounces.
You should drink about 20 ounces of water in the 2-3 hours prior to your workout. You can also drink sports drinks, but make sure to still get enough plain water.

