 This is by far the most well-known way of making money as an elementary school student. Prepare several pitchers of chilled lemonade and set up a stand either outside your house or at a popular spot in your neighborhood. Make sure that you are selling your lemonade at a reasonable price, but that at the same time you are making a profit.

For instance, if every cup of lemonade costs about 25 cents to make, consider selling it for 50 or 75 cents.
Ask your parents' help in finding a good place to set up the stand. It may also be a good idea to have a parent or adult around if you are setting up your stand at a place that isn’t your house.
Post brightly-colored signs pointing to the lemonade stand in the blocks around your stand to attract more people.
 If your school is having a bake sale, prepare popular items like brownies, cupcakes or cookies. If your school is not having a bake sale any time soon, ask a teacher or guidance councilor if you could organize one for your school.Avoid making items that contain nuts, as some customers may be allergic to nuts.
You could also sell baked goods around your community, following the lemonade stand model.
Ask you parents’ help with baking the items if you’ve never baked or used the oven before.
 You will need the help of a few other friends or schoolmates. Set up a car wash at busy areas of town where it is easy for cars to pull over and get washed. Make some friends in charge of hosing down the car, some in charge of washing the car with sponges, and some in charge of drying off the car.
You may also ask a couple friends to hold large, brightly-colored signs near the street to advertise the car wash.
Ask your parents to give you advice about where to set up the car wash. You don’t want to be in a location that is too busy or dangerous.
 If you are crafty, consider making and selling your crafts. An event like a farmer’s market is a great place for selling crafts, baked goods or artwork. Find out whether you community hosts farmer’s markets, and if they allow kids to set up booths. Some crafts you can sell include jewelry, artwork or crafts like birdhouses.

