 Throwing stars are trademark ninja weapons. They come in many different sizes, but essentially they are flat pieces of metal with sharpened tips that can be thrown at enemies from a distance.Throwing stars were originally created as non-lethal weapons meant to distract or slow down an enemy, but soon proved useful in delivering serious, though not life threatening, wounds.They could be turned into lethal weapons by dipping the pointed tips in poison before throwing them.
The ninja called throwing stars "shuriken" which means “sword hidden in the hand.”;
, The ninja called these "kunai." These daggers had short handles and their blades were leaf-shaped with extremely sharp points. Because of their small size, they were easy to conceal and throw.


"Kunai" were used for many purposes, including climbing, digging and hammering, and they made perfect make-shift spear ends.Their sharpness and small size made "kunai" very useful weapons that could be carried at all times.
Because of their portability, they were very helpful during surprise attacks.
 Most ninja included a blowgun in their arsenal called a "fukiya." They were used to shoot darts at enemies from a distance and were valued because they were easy to conceal and transport. "Fukiya" were silent and very accurate weapons.The darts the ninja used were very sharp. They were capable of inflicting serious wounds and bone damage.Often the ninja would cover the tips of their darts with poison to make them lethal., Ninja called these rings "kakute" and they were usually made of metal and worn on the middle finger.They were very easy to conceal and had extremely sharp spikes that were often dipped in poison to deliver a lethal wound.When used to kill, "kakute" were more efficient and less messy than swords.
Ninja also used "kakute" to strangle an opponent by jabbing the spikes directly into their neck.
It was hard for an enemy to figure out how a comrade was killed when a "kakute" was involved because it left little evidence behind.

