 Fill the canner about two-thirds high with water, or enough to cover the jars when placed inside. Make sure that a jar rack is placed at the bottom for your jars to sit on. If you do not have a rack, you may need to place a dish towel on the bottom of the canner to prevent the jars from moving around too much as they process.


You can use a large stockpot in place of a boiling-water canner if necessary. You will still need to place a rack or towel inside, though.
 You can fill the jars without a funnel, but the process will usually be a little slower and messier without one.
 Use a slotted spoon to transfer the pears from the pot into the jars. Focus on transferring the pears for now, rather than the syrup, to make sure that the pears are evenly distributed in the jars.
 Slowly pour syrup from the stockpot into each jar to fill up empty space. The pears should be completely covered by the syrup, but you need to leave at least 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of empty space at the top of each jar.
 Take a plastic knife or smooth butter knife and run it around the inside perimeter of the jar to remove air bubbles trapped inside.
 If you got syrup or anything else onto the outside of the jars, wipe it off with a clean sponge or towel. Excess syrup can actually prevent the jars from sealing correctly.
 Firmly fix the lids onto the jars, but stop once you begin to feel resistance. Making the lids too tight can actually cause the jars to chip or crack as they process.
 Use jar tongs or a magnetic jar lifter. Make sure that the jars do not strike each other going into the canner and that they do not touch each other inside the canner.
 The processing time will vary depending on your altitude.Process pint-size jars for 20 minutes at altitudes below 1000 feet (304.8 m).
Process for for 25 minutes for altitudes between 1000 and 3000 feet (304.8 m to 914.4 m).
Process for 30 minutes at altitudes between 3000 and 6000 feet (914.4 m to 1.828 km).
Process for 35 minutes for any altitude above 6000 feet (1.828 km).
 As soon as the processing time has passed, turn the heat off and remove the jars using jar tongs or a magnetic jar lifter. Remove them carefully to prevent them from striking into anything. Set the jars out on a cutting board or dish towel set in a cool, dry area until.
 After 12 to 24 hours pass, check the center button on the top of the lid to make sure that the lid sealed. If the button does not move, the canning process was successful. If it "pops" up and down, it was not successful, and the pears should be stored in the refrigerator and consumed within several days.
 Successfully canned pears can be labeled and stored inside a cool cupboard.

