 In most cases, an incorrectly assembled blender just won't work or won't work well, but sometimes, loose parts could fly out or you could damage the blender.;
, Despite the popularity of the "Will it Blend" series, you're best off using your blender for its intended use. If you do use a blender for making paper or some other non-food purpose, use a separate, inexpensive blender that you won't mind losing.
 You can leave things in fairly large chunks, but make sure they are at least small enough to fit into the bottom part of your blender. Smaller chunks will blend easiest and handle the best.
 If you're not getting good results, pour out some of what you're blending into a separate bowl or other container, and only blend a little bit at a time. Blending too much is similar to trying to chew with too much in your mouth.
 Add plenty of liquid to the mix that you're blending. A mixture that is too dry will behave like a paste and push up away from the blades. This is not necessarily harmful, but it's not too effective, either. Depending on what foods you're blending, you may add different liquids: water, milk, fruit juice, soup stock, and so on.
 Most blenders also have continuous and intermittent (pulse) modes.
 Some blenders are self cleaning but if not, simply remove the vessel from the base pour water and soap or vinegar into the vessel and run it on "pulse" for a few moments. The base of the blender is an electrical device. Under no circumstances should water be placed in this assembly, and it should never be submerged in water. See warnings, below.
 You don't have to do this every time you use the blender, just every few times.
 Make sure the blender has ample time to dry, and reassemble the blender with the rubber gasket or seal on the correct side of the blade assembly.



Replace worn, bent, or dulled blades. They can't generally be sharpened.
Replace a broken or cracked pitcher. Most manufacturers offer replacements for sale.
If you have difficulty selecting different speeds, refer to your manual to make sure you are doing it right. Otherwise, service the speed control switch or have it serviced.
If the blades do not rotate, make sure it is plugged in and that the outlet has power. Make sure you have correctly selected a speed and turned the blender on. If you have checked all these things, suspect either the switch or the motor.
If the cutter shaft sticks, remove the jug, turn it upside down, and spray maintenance spray over the blades.
Check under the jug periodically to make sure that the little tabs at the base are all intact. If one or more are broken then you will need to replace the jug.

