 There's bus stops on both sides of the mall, facing the beach and facing Kapiolani Blvd. Find the bus section for "Leeward/Central".
 This bus will go from Ala Moana to the North Shore. Zipping through downtown, you'll be jumping on the H-1. Passing Pearl Harbor from afar, you'll soon be in Mililani. Between Mililani and Haleiwa, you can see fields of sugar cane. The bus will come to Turtle Bay Resort. This trip will take 2 1/2 hours, depending on H-1 traffic. You can get off anywhere along the way and pick up another bus as it comes along - there's one every 30 minutes on the No 52 and 55 route., It's a little spread out and the first part of the town you come to isn't the main part., get off at the stop at the bottom of the hill as you enter the bay. Cross the road (carefully!) and walk back over the bridge and down into the beach park. From there you can walk along the beach towards the small township on the other side of the Bay. There's some steps up to the road and you can walk up the hill and into the township and catch the next bus from there., This bus stop is where bus drivers turn the bus off and take a break. The break usually goes for 10 to 20 minutes, so stay around and don't wander off., You will then be on the "55: Honolulu-Ala Moana". Don't worry, you're not going to backtrack back down, but now you're going to see the Windward's coastline. The bus will pass by Kahuku, Polynesian Culture Center (in Laie), and come into Kaneohe. On this route, you can see the famous Chinaman's Hat (Mokolii Island). There are several actual beaches and beach parks along the highway, but most of the places that the water meets with the land, are not "beaches" but more rocks and cliffs. This bus route is about 1 hour and 15 minutes., Don't get off at Windward Mall which the bus will come to first. You'll be getting off in front of the Kaiser Koolau Clinic. Walk across the street and to the other side of the shopping center. There's a bus stop right outside of McDonalds. This bus stop will board you on the "56: Honolulu/Ala Moana". This bus runs about every 30 mins but slightly less frequently in the early afternoon. For route and timetable information check out: www.thebus.org., Kailua is the most populated town on the South-East area. As you come in to Kailua you go down Oneawa St. Listen out for the "Kailua Road and Oneawa" intersection. You'll be getting off in front of Chevron gas station. This bus ride would be about 40 minutes., Take the "57: Kailua-Sea Life Park". Be careful because other 57 buses stop here but only take one which says Kaikua-Sea Life Park. You'll be going through Enchanted Lakes and into Waimanalo. Waimanalo is the heaviest populated of Hawaiians and other Pacific ethnicities on the Windward side. Watch as you go around a cliff and end up at Sea Life Park - very dramatic scenery. Get off at this stop. This bus ride would be about 30 minutes. These buses run every 20 minutes.,

"Route 23: Waikiki-Ala Moana": Route 23 starts from Sea Life Park and goes through the residential area of Hawaii Kai. It'll go through Kahala and Waikiki, and its final destination is Ala Moana Shopping Center.






"Route 22: Waikiki": This bus goes from Sea Life Park and follows the ocean to Hanauma Bay. It then travels to Kahala and its final destination is Waikiki. In order to get back to Ala Moana, you'll need to jump on any bus that goes to the mall, including any airport buses.

