 The cooler temperatures associated with the autumn months result in less plant growth. As a result, plants do not need to be watered as frequently in the fall as they do in the spring and summer. Check plants before watering them, to determine if they need water. Look at and touch the soil to see if it is dry. Typically dry soil is light in colour. Water the entire root area until water begins to drain out the bottom of the pot.In the autumn you will likely only need to water your container garden one to two times per week., Although it is important to select plants that can handle frost, you can also take some added steps to further protect your container garden from frost damage. There are a number of things that can be done to avoid frost damage in the fall. Try out these tips to ensure your container garden stays healthy:


Place the container in a sheltered area: At night, if there is frost in the forecast, you should move your containers into a sheltered place. For example, move into the corner of the front porch so that it is protected from the wind.
Bring containers inside at night. If there is a sustained cold period, you may want to bring the containers in at night. This will protect your plants from the elements.
Raise containers off the ground. For example, you can purchase a container that has pot feet, or place the container on bricks. This will aid with drainage and can help prevent the pot from cracking in the cold weather.Place a sheet or fabric over the plants. If you are experiencing a cold snap, you can give your plants added protection by covering them with an old sheet or piece of fabric., You should situate container gardens in an area that gets as much sunlight as possible during the shortened fall days. This will help to keep your plants healthy and green for longer. Do not keep the planter under a covered porch and in the shade all day. This can increase the speed at which the plants become dormant., Although fertilizer is recommended throughout the spring and summer months to help plant growth, it is less important in the autumn. Typically, controlled release fertilizers are impacted by the temperature and as a result not much fertilizer is released for plant use during colder temperatures. Because of this fertilizer is unnecessary.


If you live in a milder climate you may find that fertilizer is necessary in the autumn.
Use a water-soluble fertilizer in the autumn because it will be more effective.

