 Keep your morning meal balanced with enough food to represent a variety of food groups and start your metabolism working for the day.


Start with milk and cold or hot cereal, then top with pieces of fruit and nuts or seeds to create an easy breakfast that contains grains, dairy, fruit, and protein. Avoid sugary cereals or sweetened fruits.
For a hot breakfast, try an omelet with two eggs or ½ cup of egg substitute; ½ cup of vegetables (like chopped broccoli, bell pepper, and onion, for example); and 1 ounce of reduced-fat cheese. Serve with a whole grain English muffin., Buy ingredients for healthy meals for the week ahead of time. Prep several portions of food to eat throughout the week, or eat dinner leftovers for lunch the next day, for a way to save time but still eat well.For a quick lunch, try a sandwich with two slices of whole grain bread, lettuce, onion, tomato, a slice of low-fat cheddar cheese, and a few slices of lunch meat. A side salad with two tablespoons of salad dressing and a single cup of 100% fruit juice could complete the meal.
For a simple balanced dinner, try 1 cup of cooked carrots, 1 cup of steamed string beans, 1 cup of cooked brown rice, and a single grilled pork chop. Water or low-fat milk could serve as a healthy drink.
When planning meals and shopping for ingredients, reduce or eliminate pre-packaged or prepared foods, sodas, salty snacks, and dessert foods. You’re more likely to make balanced meals when healthy, whole foods are on hand, without substituting for easy processed foods.
 Don’t forget to make snacks between meals as balanced as possible. You may not include all food groups in every small snack, but each snack should contain more than one type of food.


For example, try a snack of apple slices and celery sticks with peanut butter to dip them in for a healthy snack that contains, fruit, vegetables, and some protein and oil.
Eating snacks can be a great way to get a full day’s worth of balanced nutrients if you get hungry between meals or have trouble eating substantial meals to contain enough food from each food group.

