 Because the wax will need to thoroughly adhere to any hair on your underarms, you need the hair to be at least .25 inches (0.6 cm) in order to use waxing as your method of hair removal. If your hair is too short, give it another few days before attempting to wax. Trim down any hair that is more than an inch long to prevent any complications or difficulties when waxing.If the hair under your arms is very long, it could make waxing more painful than necessary. Trimming especially long underarm hair prior to waxing can help alleviate this.
 Use a gentle exfoliating scrub, or simply a washcloth to exfoliate your underarms. This will remove any dirt from your pores and help prevent ingrown hairs when you are ready to wax.Try making your own gentle exfoliating scrub with a tablespoon of baking soda and enough mineral water to make a thin paste. Use your fingertips or a washcloth to gently rub the paste against your underarms, then rinse with warm water., Wax will not function properly if you apply it to wet skin. Before applying the wax, make sure your underarms are completely dry. This means no leftover water from exfoliating, and no sweat. You can even try dusting a little baby powder onto your underarms to ensure they are entirely dry.A bit of baby or talcum powder can also help alleviate a bit of the pain associated with waxing, so even if your armpits are dry, consider dusting on a light layer for your own comfort.
 Some waxing products can be applied cold or at room temperature, while others need to be warmed to be used. Whichever product you’re using, follow all directions on the bottle or box. This will ensure the product works its best.


Make sure you stretch your arm up over your head and keep the skin of your underarms as tight as you can. This will help you make sure you apply the waxing strip evenly over your entire underarm, and insure you are able to wax away all hair., After you wax your underarms, you will want to soothe the skin. You can use a normal moisturizer, specifically one with soothing ingredients like aloe. Or, you can use a product made specifically for use after waxing. These products are available at drugstores. They not only soothe the skin after waxing, but can also help protect your freshly waxed follicles from infection or further irritation.Directly after waxing and prior to applying any cream or gel, you can also try putting an ice cube against your freshly waxed skin. The ice can numb the skin and soothe it instantly after waxing to prevent extra pain.

