 Your first impression is not the last impression. When you enter a new place, say, your school or college, or even your workplace, its obvious to feel nervous. Don't worry so are the others. you just need to show that you're scared too. They have seen you for the first time so try not to flaunt yourself, instead; be yourself. Think them as already your friends.;
, Relations are not sent by God, so try to adjust in whichever seat you get. Making access to other's choices is also important to show you care. You need not argue with someone for the best seat. If you want a particular place for yourself like the front seat or the middle one then just be sure to come a little early the next day. Making tantrums the very first day isn't a good idea to present yourself.
 The person beside you or in front of you is seeing you for the first time. Just act normal and introduce yourself, like "Hi, I'm Sasha and you?" or focus on his/her notebook or mobile phone and say, "Good choice, its very trendy." You could just simply comment on his/her dress or shoes or even hairstyle. show that you like him/her. Sometimes there are certain common things that initiate conversation, like the classroom you are in or the boss you are working for. Either way, feel free to voice your opinion.
 Rushing with your rambling is always not a good idea; you should also pause and listen his/her response. Try to engage more in their topics and views. When they find you reliable and easier to talk, you will too, find them interesting. Don't think for any topics beforehand. Let the conversation lead you. you will see one topic leads to another. It often becomes smooth when you act natural. Pretence is not necessary unless you didn't enroll for an acting course.
 Make sure to offer help when they need one. It's up to them to trust you or not, but you could show concern and interest in them. Who knows, you might get help in return. When you're alone in a new place, you won't know what you need and when. So instead of regretting later, you could just ask for some help too unless its very personal. A helping hand once in a while saves from embarrassment.
 It's very rude to not ask for the contact number, especially after the other person has helped you. Even if you do not intend for further communication, just an occasional 'Hi!' or 'Hello! How you're doing?' sums it up. Remember the first person you met saved you from boredom and has at least been a friend to you. Just for the sake of that, drop a message sometimes to show that you remembered. Always be thankful.

