 One of the best ways to clear up acne fast is by regularly washing your skin. Choose an over-the-counter skin wash that's low in oils and chemicals and wash your skin at least twice a day.


Your doctor may recommend using a cleanser with salicylic acid or benzoyl peroxide.
Wash your skin once in the morning and once before bed. When you dry your face afterwards, pat dry with a clean, dry towel. Do not use a towel that's been sitting out in the bathroom as you want to keep bacteria away from your skin.Always wash your skin after working out. If any sweat or dirt is left on your face after a hard workout, it can clog pores and cause acne. Make sure you wash your face after a workout., While there is conflicting evidence on the effects of diet on acne, you can try to change your diet for a week or two and see if it makes a difference. Dairy foods, chocolate, and foods containing a lot of sugar seem to increase the likelihood of breakouts.


Some research indicates dairy, skim milk in particular, increases the likelihood of acne breakouts. You should try cutting back on dairy for a week or two and see if you notice any changes in your skin.While further studies are needed to verify, some research does show chocolate can cause breakouts. High sugar food especially can cause breakouts, so it might be a good idea to avoid sweets in general in addition to chocolate., Sun can damage skin and some acne medications can make you more susceptible to sunburns. Always apply a layer of sunscreen to your face before going outdoors. Remember, even if it's cold out, if the sun's shining, it could cause burns. Aim for a sunscreen of SPF 15 or higher., If you're looking to cure a breakout fast, eliminate any potential skin irritants until your acne is gone.


Certain makeups and cover ups can clog pores. While they may not cause a breakout in and of themselves, using makeup during a breakout can prolong its duration. It's a good idea to go without makeup until acne is eliminated,but another option is to talk to your doctor or skin care expert about better choices of makeup, such as loose mineral-based powders. A tinted moisturizer may be a good choice as well. Look for makeup that is water-based or noncomedogenic.
If you've recently started using a new bath wash or shampoo, this may have caused your breakout. Cease use and see if it makes a difference.