 It’s hard to go into a study like this with absolutely zero presuppositions or preconceptions, but that’s what you need to aim for if you really want the maximum payoff for your work. Be fair. Aim to learn, not “prove” what you already feel or think you know. If you go into this biased in any way, you may very well manipulate your findings to suit your agenda, so be careful.;
, Obviously you will need to choose a topic. You may already feel led, or drawn to a certain topic. If so, go with it because it will drive you crazy if you take on another topic instead. A Bible study group may get together and pray about a topic to study. Others, such as students, may have their topic assigned. The point here is to get one, and only one topic to work with.
 Some topics are simply so massive that they are not manageable. They need to be whittled down. “Men of the Bible” is not a good topic because it is too big. “Men called Men of God in the Bible” is much better, because this pertains to just a few personalities of the Old Testament. Sometimes you will discover your topic is too big during your study. The next step will help you decide which vein of the study you want to follow.
 It is very helpful once you have refined your topic to make a short list of what you think you know, and what you don’t know – or better yet, want to know. For example: If you are studying Biblical marriage, you already have a good idea it’s between a man and a woman. You may want to know who said that, what book that’s in, or even if there were any exceptions made. If you find your topic is too large, this list will help you further refine it mid-study without missing a beat.
 You may be very unfamiliar with what the Bible teaches about your particular topic, and even the Bible itself. It’s okay to use outside resources to steer your Bible study. If you are studying “the Unpardonable Sin”, you may not know what it is or where to find it. Search engines and topical Bibles (online versions available) are very helpful for getting started. Use these resources sparingly. They are to help you find and study your topic in the Bible, not instead of the Bible.
 This is where the rubber meets the road. Here, you will read what the Bible teaches about your topic. Context is extremely important, so you want to read chunks of text surrounding your topic. If you are studying “the Fall”, you will most certainly read Genesis 3:6, but to really grasp it’s meaning you will need to know the context. You will read all of chapter 3, and then may find it necessary to back up and read chapters 2-3 all together. It's also an excellent idea to read several different translations of the Bible. Some versions are more formal (like King James Version) and some are more functional (like New Living Translation). It's a good idea to read a few and compare/contrast. (Did I forget to mention in the introduction that you are going to be doing a lot of reading?)

, These are secondary. You will only use these to supplement your topical study of the Bible in the previous step, but you may use some of them concurrently. Study Bibles are usually equipped with notes, a concordance, glossary, topical index, and more. A Bible dictionary is an amazing topical resource. Commentaries are useful; especially those that concentrate on the Bible’s historical background and place it in its proper cultural context. An online search for “Bible study tools” yields a ton of valuable websites. Be careful not to get carried away here. Remember – these are secondary, supplemental resources. Use accordingly.
 During your study, you need to ask questions and write them down. Too many people are satisfied with barely scratching the surface, but if you ask questions and dig for the answers, you will find them. You will see more often than not, that something you thought was a New Testament subject has its roots in the Old Testament, and Old Testament topics point toward some New Testament ones. It would be a shame to dig for treasure and stop just short of it. So ask questions and find the answers.
 Also during your study you’ll want to make plenty of notes. Your reason for conducting a topical Bible study will dictate your style of note taking. For a group study, anything that helps you keep track of what you've learned will suffice, but you academics know that you need to cite everything – even the Bible. The main reasons for taking notes are to reinforce what you've learned and to have a path back to where you learned it. Do this. It helps. There’s nothing worse than that feeling of learning something and not remembering where it came from.
 This could be an optional step if you are conducting a private study, but if you plan to present your findings to anyone else you need to take the time to do this. Again, your reasons for doing to topical Bible study will dictate how you present them. You may rewrite a short page of ordered notes for your small group to discuss, or plug everything into an outline, storyboard, rough draft, and final copy for an academic paper to be peer reviewed. Either way, you will likely want to convey this newfound knowledge somehow. Don’t give 100% on the front end and only 10% here. Share this new knowledge in a way worthy of the study you put into it.

