 An easement is terminated by release when the dominant estate (landowner that is benefited by the easement - the one using the easement) grants a release of its easement rights to the servient estate (landowner that is burdened by the easement - the one allowing someone else to use their land).


If you are interested in terminating an easement through a release, and you are the dominant estate holder, begin by contacting the servient estate holder and telling them you are going to release your easement rights. In this situation, the other party has no say in what happens because you are simply stating that you are no longer going to enforce or use the easement.
If you are interested in terminating an easement through a release, and you are the servient estate holder, you will have to ask the other party to release their rights under the easement. Here, you may have an opportunity to negotiate a deal but may have to provide something of value in order to have the other party release their rights. For example, you may have to provide financial compensation, or maybe another easement, in order for the other party to agree to release their rights under the easement. However, it is not unheard of for another party to simply agree to release their rights, particularly if they do not use the easement a lot and if it does not burden them to release their rights.
 Once you agree to a release, the termination agreement MUST be in writing. Also, in the event there are multiple dominant estate holders (e.g., a parcel of land is owned by three separate individuals), every dominant estate holder must agree to the release. When you draft this document, be sure you clearly identify the properties involved, the rights being released, and all the parties to the agreement.
 Once you and the other party are in agreement that you are going to terminate the easement by by release, get this agreement in writing and record an easement termination document with the applicable registry of deeds.Because a lot of easements are recorded interests in real property, if you do not record its termination, the easement may still appear on a title search and may affect the land's value and potential uses.You can usually find an easement termination document by going to your county's court website or by calling your county's clerk of courts and asking for help.When you look on the website or call the clerk of courts, you will be looking for, or asking for, an easement termination template you can use to record a terminated easement.
To record something, you will have to take your real estate document terminating the easement to your recorder's office and pay a fee.The document will then be given a number and a time-stamp indicating when the document was recorded.It is then filed with any other documents that have been recorded on that specific piece of property.
Recording documents provides a traceable chain of title to a specific piece of property, including any other interests that may exist on that piece of property (e.g., mortgages, liens, and easements), and it is therefore incredibly important that you record documents quickly and accurately.Because of the importance of recording, you should consult an experienced real estate attorney whenever you are going to record something. He or she will be able to help you through the process and will ensure you accomplish the goals you set out to accomplish.

