 PTSD occurs after a traumatic event. A traumatic event is something that deeply impacts someone such as a brush with death, violence, or serious injury. The event can have actually happened or may have been threatened (such as being threatened by a gun or threatened with violence).Some events may be experienced as more traumatic to some than to others. For instance, living through a natural disaster may be experienced as traumatic by one person but not by another.
Someone may experience a close encounter with death or witness someone else almost die, like a friend or sister.
A traumatic event can include war, natural disasters, car or plane crashes, terrorist attacks, violence such as rape, kidnapping, mugging, or assault, sudden death of a loved one, or childhood neglect.;
, An event doesn’t have to happen to you for it to be traumatic. You may experience an event directly, or you may witness an event, such as violence in your home. You may also experience the event indirectly, such as hearing something that happened to a relative or friend.While you may not have experienced being mugged, you may feel traumatized after hearing that your sister recently was mugged.


For the trauma to be considered indirect, the outcome of the event was either violent or accidental.An accidental trauma could include learning that your sibling was burned severely by boiling water or was severely injured at work in a sort of “freak accident”.
 As a result of the traumatic event, the person may not approach life in the same way. Social, professional, school, or home function may change. The person may experience a decrease in functioning in more than one environment. The distress from the trauma causes significant changes to the person’s functioning.

A person’s school grades may dramatically decrease, work productivity may change, or a once very clean person may suddenly be unable to take care of his or her house or personal needs.
 People may experience repeated or extreme exposure to aversive details of the event after it occurs. These exposures are not a result of media, tv, radio, internet or other mass media outlets.

This is especially relevant for emergency workers such as emergency first responders who witness a traumatic event and must work in similar conditions as part of their job., The changes noted in behavior do not occur as a result of drug use, alcohol consumption, medication use, or a medical condition.No symptoms of PTSD can be attributed to outside causes.


When receiving a diagnosis of PTSD, many mental health professionals will ask about drug or alcohol use, in addition to medical conditions and medication use. It’s important to respond honestly and be clear about drug use, any recent changes in usage or medication, or any medical diagnoses that can affect behavior.
 It’s common to be going along with one’s day then suddenly feel the sting of a painful memory or suddenly feel threatened out of the blue.


A person may be grocery shopping, then suddenly have memories of gunshots or being hurt in war.
 Having unpleasant dreams can be a symptom of PTSD.A person with PTSD may wake up distressed from dreams that re-experience the trauma or evoke similar feelings of trauma. The dreams may be distressing both during and after waking.
 Some people feel as if they are experiencing the trauma just as it happened before. It can feel like the trauma is being relived or as if the trauma is happening once again.When experiencing a flashback, a person may be out of touch with the current reality and get lost in the memory, believing it to be occurring right now.
 Some people may be extra sensitive to events or things that remind them of the event. This may include anniversaries, places, or people that trigger difficult memories. The triggers can be physical or psychological.A psychological trigger may be experiencing a similar emotions state as right before or during the trauma, but interpreting it as the same event. A physical trigger could be the location or things associated with the trauma.
Reminders of the event may cause severe distress and upset.
 It may be easier to avoid thoughts and feelings connected to the traumatic event. To someone with PTSD, engaging in thoughts or feelings from the traumatic event may feel too overwhelming, so avoidance is used instead.A person may detach or avoid interacting with people that serve as reminders of the event, or avoid places that were associated with the trauma.


Engaging in activities, people, places, or thoughts related to the trauma may feel too heavy and it may feel easier to avoid these thoughts altogether.
 A person may have a great memory, yet have difficulties recalling memories from or around the traumatic event. It’s common to experience feelings of blame toward oneself or others and have negative thoughts toward oneself or the world in general. A person may completely detach from previously enjoyed activities and isolate from friends and family., A once pleasant and calm person may become angry, irritable, or start having violent outbursts.People may feel emotionally numb and unable to experience a range of emotions.

A person can get stuck in negative thoughts or emotions. These can include shame, guilt, sadness, or horror.
Ask whether moods have changed as a result of the trauma. Reflect on whether the emotional changes are associated with experiencing the trauma.
 After a traumatic event, a person may feel constantly aroused or “on edge”. The body may feel jumpy or restless and the mind my race or enter into a state of hypervigilance.Someone may feel as if danger may be “just around the corner” and always primed to engage in a fight-or-flight response. This can include a highly sensitive startle response.
These feelings may disrupt sleep or concentration.
 A person with PTSD may detach from people, activities, and feelings. Activities that were once enjoyable may no longer be enjoyable and social engagements may drop off. The person may appear emotionally detached and unengaged., For a proper diagnosis of PTSD, it’s advised to seek out a mental health professional such as a therapist, psychologist, or social worker. Receiving a diagnosis is the first step to obtaining help and treatment for PTSD, and a therapist can help set up a treatment plan to aid in recovery. A therapist can help work through the trauma and accompanying thoughts and behaviors. In addition, therapy can teach ways to cope with the thoughts and feelings more adaptively and regain a sense of control.


For more information on treating PTSD, check out How to Treat PTSD.

