 Social media sites attract people from all walks of life from all over the world. These networks allow you to communicate and meet others who may have difficulty doing so away from their computers. You can connect with people from similar walks of life and possibly make friends.You likely know the power of a hashtag if you have any experience with social media. You can find groups and keywords you are interested in by searching for certain hashtags. For instance, you may find other people in the deaf community by searching for “#deaf” or “#deafcommunity.” You’ll likely find people and subjects in which you are interested.
Specific hearing loss-related Facebook groups include Hear Ya Now and the International Federation of Hard of Hearing Young People (IFHOHYP).;
, Online forums allow you to have conversations with people you may not have otherwise. You can join forums that are based around topics that are important to you or you can join a forum that focuses on your interests. You will likely even find a forum that is made just for deaf people wanting to make friends.

A simple search engine inquiry can help you find forums that match your interests. You’re likely to find something you want to join, although it may take a little bit of effort., Blogs are an interesting way to learn about topics that affect the deaf community. They also give you a chance to learn about different resources that are available to you, which can give you an opportunity to make new friends.

Consider making your own blog about topics that are relevant to you. Chances are, if something is important to you, it’s important to others who are just like you. Having a blog also allows you the opportunity to meet new people, who could turn into friends., Dating sites made specifically for people in the deaf community put you in touch with other people like you. This can give you an opportunity to become friends—or more than friends—with someone who communicates like you.Perform a search engine search to find dating sites for people who are deaf or hard of hearing. You’re sure to find many available.
Or, you can peruse groups on social media like the Facebook group called Hearing Impaired Singles.