 Again, cats naturally lick themselves clean, so your kitten only needs a full bath if she is especially dirty – or if she has fleas. To clean a heavily soiled kitten, you'll need to her a bath rather than just a simple wipe-down. Bathe your kitten immediately after she gets soiled; if you wait too long, she may be uncomfortable and she may develop a rash. Prepare the supplies before you bathe your kitten:


A clean flannel and towel(s)
Cat shampoo; avoid human soaps, and harsh chemicals or cleaners
A basin, sink, or any watertight tub. Avoid washing your kitten outdoors — if it tries to escape the bath, you will have much more trouble tracking it down outside.
 Do not use human shampoo, human soap, or dish soap to wash your kitten! Your kitten's fur and skin are very sensitive, and human soaps will dry out its skin.
 Once you have chosen a bathing location, you should also prepare a warm and welcoming space for the kitten to wind down after its bath. Choose a room in the house that you can close off with a door, a curtain, or a pet gate.


Prepare a warm, cozy spot beneath a desk lamp (or other light source). Plug in a pet-specific heating pad, if you have one. Your kitten will be cold and wet after its bath, so it will want to find a warm location to clean itself.Have a treat (or dinner) ready so you can give it to your kitten after its bath. A yummy treat will be a nice reward for your kitten.
 Use lukewarm water – neither too hot nor too cold. The water should feel comfortable on the skin of your wrist. It is very important to use temperate water. Kitten skin is sensitive: hot water can burn your kitty, while cold water can reduce its body temperature to a dangerous level. Make sure that the water is not deep enough to completely submerge your kitten.
 Fill the basin before you introduce your kitten to the water. Many cats aren't actually afraid of water itself, but of the loud noise of running water. Once they are startled by running water, they learn to fear it. Gently stroke your kitten to make her feel safe and calm. Talk to her in a soothing voice throughout the cleaning process.


Introduce her to water slowly at first. Set her down in the water and let her stand in it for a few seconds. Then, pull her out and dry her feet. Give her a treat to reward her good behavior.
If your cat is very resistant to bathing, ease her into it over the course of two weeks. Towards the end of the second week, you should be able to wash her without a struggle, even under the tap., Make sure that your kitten is completely wet before you start to lather. Squeeze a small amount of shampoo onto a cloth or your hand, and rub it into her coat. Gently lather the shampoo over the kitten's whole body, from her head down to her tail. Use a wet finger to remove any urine or feces that have dried onto the fur.


Avoid washing kittens with soap unless you are treating for fleas. If this is the case, consult with your veterinarian to find a soap that is safe for your kitten.
Keep everything—water, soap, etc.—out of her eyes and off her face. This might irritate her eyes and cause her to panic. If she panics, she'll develop negative associations with bathing.
 Fill a cup of water and pour it slowly over her body. Pour slowly and carefully, and try to be efficient. Wash away all of the lathered shampoo. Use a damp flannel or washcloth to wipe soap from your kitten's face. Speak to her in a calming voice if she's resisting or seems afraid.


If your kitten is getting feisty at this point, have someone else hold the kitten down while you pour the water over its body.
If your sink is outfitted with a detachable spray nozzle, feel free to use this. Make sure that it isn't on a powerful setting, or you might hurt your kitten.
Do not run tap water directly onto a young kitten's head. If you do, water might get into her eyes and startle her., Do not submerge your kitten in water deeper that it can comfortably stand in. Your cat may not be strong enough to pull itself out. Instead, use your hand to wet the kitten's hindquarters and lower belly.
 Bathe your kitten as quickly as possible, then dry her fur with a clean towel. Swaddle the kitten with another soft, dry towel, and put her in a warm place until dry. Stay with her, if possible, and cuddle her to help her calm down.


Hasten the drying process by rubbing the soft towel in the direction that your kitten's hair grows. This will get her warmer faster if she seems cold.

