 If you do not want to fill out a paper application, then you can order directly through the government’s website. Visit the government’s website at www.pr.gov.


Scroll down and click “Certificates” under “Online Services.”
You can then select “Death certificate.” Click on the hyperlink. You will then be able to choose whether to proceed in English or Spanish.
Note that you cannot order a death certificate online if it dates from before June 1, 1931.Instead, you must contact the local registrar where the death occurred and work with them to get a copy of the death certificate.
 You need to create an account at the website. You can do this by clicking on the link “First time user? -> Create an Account.” You will create a username and password. To do so, enter the following information:email address
a password
a security question and answer
your name (first, middle, and last)

, You must fill out all of the relevant fields. Have at hand the deceased person’s full name, including mother’s last name, as well as the date of death and place of death., If you order online, you must still provide a digital copy of your identification and birth certificate. You will need to convert the documents into PDF, JPEG, or JPG format. The file cannot be larger than 1 MB.For information on how to create digital scans of documents, see Scan Documents.
 You can pay online by using a valid Visa or MasterCard. In order to be valid, the card must be accepted in the United States., The department will process requests in about 3-5 business days. The certificate will be sent regular mail (5-7 business days). The cost to mail is $2.00., If you do not want to use the Puerto Rican government’s website, then you can also purchase a copy of a death certificate by using the website vitalchek.com.


Once at the website, you will need to select “Death Certificate” from the left-hand column. Then “start your order.”
From the map, you can then click on Puerto Rico and click “Continue.”
You will then be asked a series of questions: where the death occurred, the date of death, and the reason for the certificate.
The cost for one copy (including the processing fee) is $17.00., You can also call VitalChek’s bilingual phone processing center. It is open 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Call (800) 858-5553 or (800) 255-2414.You can pay using a major credit card. The cost is $12.00 per copy.
If you choose to have the certificate shipped by regular mail (5-7 business days), then you will need to pay an additional $2.00 for shipping. Express mail (2-3 business days) will cost an additional $23.00.