 Crumple up a few clean paper towels and place them inside a plastic container with a lid.


The container should be deep enough to hold these paper towels and your brass piece, plus an additional layer of paper towel not yet added.
A clean container that once held sour cream, cottage cheese, or another food can work well. Make sure that the container is clean and has a lid that snaps on securely.
Never reuse this container for food afterward.;
, Pour ammonia over the paper towels in you container, adding enough to saturate the paper towels.


Ammonia is a hazardous chemical, so you should only do this in an area that is well-ventilated. You should also protect your eyes with safety goggles and your hands with plastic or rubber gloves.
 Pour a generous amount of table salt over the paper towels in your container, distributing it evenly over the surface.
 Rest your brass piece directly on top of the coated and soaked paper towels. Press gently so that the bottom and sides of the brass come into direct contact with the ammonia and salt.
 Crumple another clean paper towel and place it directly on top of your brass piece. Pour more ammonia onto the paper towel, soaking it thoroughly.


Use as many paper towels as necessary to cover the entire outside surface of the brass.
You should also lift up the paper towels and sprinkle a light coat of salt on top of the brass. After doing so, cover the brass piece with your ammonia-soaked paper towels again.
 Secure the lid in place and set the container aside for a few hours to days.


Keep the container in a safe location, away from kids and pets.
You'll need to check on your brass piece periodically throughout the process until the desired look forms. A little patina should start forming within a few minutes, but for a more dramatic or aged look, try giving the process a day or two.
For best results, check on the patina every 30 to 60 minutes.
Note that your paper towels will also change color during the process.
 When the patina you desire has developed, remove the brass from your container and set it aside on a clean paper towel to air dry. After drying it, rinse away any remaining ammonia under running water and air dry again.


If the patina is too dark or dense, lighten it by scrubbing the dark portions with #0000 steel wool.
After a day or two passes, you may also want to coat the piece with clear lacquer or a soft wax to preserve the look of your patina.

