 Once the chip is sanded, clean and dry you can apply the primer just like you would on a medium sized chip. Apply a thin layer of primer to any bare metal using the applicator brush. Be careful not to apply so much primer that drips begin to form, as they could reach the paint or cause the final repair to look uneven.Allow the primer to dry completely before moving on to the next stage.
It may take several hours for the primer to dry to full “cure.” Read the label on the automotive primer you purchased to know for sure.
 Once the primer is dry, it may appear to be textured due to the bristles of the brush or the way it settled on the metal. Use 2000 grit sandpaper and a hose to wet sand the primer. Turn the house on and hold it above the chip so the water is pouring directly onto the dry primer, then use the sand paper to lightly sand only the primer. Be careful not to sand the clear coat or paint from the surrounding area as you lightly sand the primer until it is completely flat.Wet sanding the primer will help ensure it takes on a completely flat and even finish.
Allow the sanded primer to dry again completely before moving on to the next step.
 Using the same method as you might for a medium sized chip, apply the touch up paint to the primer. Dab the applicator brush in the paint, then touch it to the center of the chip and allow the paint to settle evenly. Repeat this process until the paint covers the entire primed area. You may need to apply multiple coats, or one coat could suffice depending on the touch up paint you purchase.Allow the paint to dry completely before determining if you should apply another coat.
If you attempt to apply the paint before the primer has dried from the wet sanding, grey swirls could appear in the paint.
 Once the paint is completely dry, repeat the wet sanding process on the fresh paint to remove any texture and make it completely flat. Make sure to use different extremely fine sandpaper (2000 grit or more) and keep the water flowing over the paint as you sand it to prevent doing damage to the newly repaired area. Dry sanding will result in scratches in the paint.If you make a mistake or identify an issue with the paint during the wet sanding, allow it to dry completely and then apply more touch up paint.
Sand the area lightly until it is completely flat and even with the surrounding area.
 Some touch up paint will come with a small container of clear coat, but you may need to purchase it separately. Clear coat is lacquer based and should be applied in a thin coat over the fresh paint using the supplied brush applicator. A small, fine bristled paint brush will also suffice. Apply the clear coat to the new paint; this will both protect the paint and provide a healthy shine that you will further blend with the surrounding paint with wax in the following step.Apply the clear coat by painting a thin layer of it to the new paint.
The freshly painted chip may still be slightly visible to you as you complete the clear coat, but remember that it will be difficult to see if you aren’t too close.
Allow the clear coat to dry completely before moving on.
 Once the repaired area is completely dry, wash and wax the entire car to ensure the wax is evenly distributed. Waxing the car will further blend the freshly painted area with the surrounding paint and make the repair even less noticeable. You may want to wait a few days before waxing to ensure the repaired layers of clear coat, paint, and primer are all completely dry so you don’t run any risk of damaging the new paint in the process.You may want to repair any other chips you intend to fix before waxing the vehicle.

