 Try to eat fish twice a week or look for daily a supplement containing 0.3 and 0.5 grams of EPA and DHA. Omega-3 fatty acids can protect your heart muscle by reducing inflammation in the body.They may also reduce your triglyceride levels, blood pressure, blood clotting time, and irregular heartbeats. While you can purchase omega-3 fatty acid supplements in liquid gel cap form, there are many fish that are high in omega-3s. Opt for wild-caught fish and avoid farm-raised fish which are high in antibiotics, pesticides and other chemicals harmful to your health.Fish high in omega-3s include:


Salmon
Lake trout
Herring
Sardines
Tuna;
, Nuts contain omega-3 fatty acids, fiber, vitamin E, plant sterols, and arginine, an amino acid that can help relax blood vessels and reduce blood pressure. All of these can protect the heart and the FDA says that eating 1 ounce of some nuts daily can reduce your risk of heart disease.Fiber and plant sterols help lower your cholesterol, make you feel full on less, and may reduce your risk of diabetes, while vitamin E can prevent plaque buildup in the arteries. Try adding just a handful of walnuts or almonds to your meals. Eat either 1.5 ounces of nuts or 2 tablespoons of nut butter to get the health benefits.


Since nuts are high in calories, eat small amounts of them and stop eating chips or soda to balance out the extra calories.
 Try to eat 100 grams or around a cup of berries a day.Berries, like strawberries and blueberries, are high in phytonutrients that help to protect the heart.Studies show that eating berries every day can improve platelet function and "good" HDL cholesterol while reducing blood pressure. Each of these changes help to protect the heart from cardiovascular disease and improve heart function. Berries are also high in antioxidants known as polyphenols. Polyphenols are naturally found in plants and research suggests that they protect the body against cancers and cardiovascular diseases.You can also eat dark chocolate, tea, and red wine, which are also high in polyphenols.
 Eat 1 to 2 cups of red, yellow and orange vegetables, which are high in carotenoids and flavonoids.These protect against cardiovascular disease and improve heart function by preventing oxidation of cholesterol in the arteries.Oxidized cholesterol increases the formation of plaque in the arteries which can lead to heart disease.While you can take beta-carotene or astaxanthin supplements to get carotenoids, there are several vegetables that naturally contain high levels of carotenoids, such as:Pumpkins
Carrots
Winter squash
Plantains
Collard greens
Tomatoes
Red peppers
Broccoli
Brussels sprouts
Kale
Spinach
Oranges
Peas

, Try to eat avocado every day, but limit yourself to 1/4 of an avocado, since they're high in calories. Try cubing them into salads, spreading them on sandwiches, or use them in place of butter. Avocados are known as one of nature's superfoods because they're high in monosaturated fats that lower your LDL or "bad" cholesterol, as well as polyunsaturated fats which, in moderation, are good for the heart. They also have anti-inflammatory properties.Inflammation increases the risk of atherosclerosis and hardening of the arteries. These can cause high blood pressure and congestive heart failure.
 Try drinking 1 to 2 cups of wine or grape juice or eat 2 cups of grapes or raisins.Resveratrol is a natural polyphenol that reduces the "stickiness" of blood platelets, which can prevent plaque buildup, reduce blood pressure, and improve heart function.While you can take resveratrol supplements, it's also found in a variety of foods, including:


Red and black grapes
Red and black raisins
Red wine (talk with your doctor about how much you can safely drink for health benefits)

, Trans fats will increase your “bad” cholesterol (LDL) and lower your “good” cholesterol (HDL). They're produced industrially to reduce the potential for spoilage and give food a longer shelf life. High cholesterol levels increase your risk of high blood pressure which increases the work of the heart. These will increase the risk of congestive heart failure and poor heart function.Foods high in trans fats include:


Deep fat fried food (like fried chicken, french fries, and doughnuts)
Baked goods (especially those containing shortening, like pastries)
Fried snacks (like chips or popcorn popped in oil)
Refrigerated dough (like canned cookie, biscuit, or pizza doughs)
Creamers (like non-dairy coffee creamers)
Margarine

