 You can wash your hands any time you think they might be dirty, but there are certain situations where washing your hands is essential. Some situations where you should definitely wash your hands include:Caring for a wound.
Before and after eating or preparing food.
Caring for someone who is sick.
Changing a diaper or helping a child use the restroom.
After petting an animal, handling an animal, or handling an animal’s waste.
After taking out the trash or picking up garbage.
After coughing or sneezing into your hands or blowing your nose.
Before inserting or removing contact lenses.;
, Turn the water faucet on and hold your hands under warm or cold running water to wet them.Allow your hands to get wet all over.









Either cold or warm water is fine. The water does not have to be hot.
 Dispense a small amount of hand soap onto the palm of one of your hands and then begin rubbing your hands together to distribute the soap. Work the soap into a lather and use the soap to scrub both sides of your hands, in between your fingers, around and under your fingernails, and around your wrists.









You can use a liquid hand soap, a soap bar, or powdered soap. The soap does not have to be antibacterial., Try to keep track of how long you are washing your hands to ensure that you are washing them for the right amount of time.









20 seconds is just about the time it takes to sing or hum "Happy Birthday" twice, so you may want to sing or hum this tune out loud or in your head to help time yourself., After you finish lathering and scrubbing your hands, place your hands under the running water again and allow the water to run over them. Rinse away all of the soap from your hands.
 After you have rinsed away all of the soap, get a clean dry towel to dry your hands or use an air drying unit to dry them.Dry your hands completely.









If you use an air drying unit, make sure to move your hands around and rub them together under the warm air to get them completely dry

, If the water does not automatically shut off, then you may want to use a towel to turn off the faucet. Get a clean dry towel and place it over the faucet before turning off the faucet.









You can also use your elbow to turn off the faucet if a towel is not available.