 Bass and other game fish can grow quite large, and may need hundreds of gallons. These are not guppies; keep in mind the adult size of the fish you plan on getting. They may need specialized care and food. Also, some wild-caught species of fish may be illegal to keep as pets in your area.;
, Depending on what type of fish you plan to include, acquiring a tank is the first step. Smaller fish, such as bluegill, will use a smaller tank than a bass, which can grow very large and need a very large tank. As a general rule, one 2–3 inches (5.1–7.6 cm) long per 10 gallons (37.9 L) of water. Bigger will always be better., A heavy duty filter will be needed as these fish produce large amounts of waste and are used to clean environments. Don't skimp on the filtration device. Shop around for a filter that has easy replacement filters. You will be changing them often!


Depending on the bottom substrate you choose will determine if you need an undergravel filter and powerhead. In some tanks, you might not use an undergravel filter because there is sand from the lake where you got the fish. If you choose large diameter aquarium gravel, then adding an underground filter would be appropriate. It does help keep the debris levels down. You will also need a powerhead to pull the water through the underground filter.
Bottom substrate should be as natural looking as possible. This is essentially a tank that displays a lake or pond in your home. Try to avoid bright colors for the bottom. It also takes away from the beautiful colors of the native fish. Aquarium sand mimics the natural lake bottom and really looks nice. Otherwise, a natural looking aquarium rock will work wonderful. Plan for two to three inches of rock on the bottom.
 You might find the fish playing in it once in a while.
 Plants can be a nice addition to a tank, but these fish may destroy live plants. Plastic plants or silk plants can look very nice. There are many varieties to choose from and there are even lily pads available. If you plan on mixing the types of fish, having many plants in the tank can help create safe havens for the smaller fish.
 Lighting can really enhance your tank. Find a full spectrum bulb that mimics natural sunlight. You will see a color explosion in your fish with quality lighting.
 Another addition to your tank could be an area of the tank with flat pieces of rocks arranged in a way that mimics a rocky area of the lake or pond. Certain fish, like rock bass, for example, need these additions.
 The type of food these fish need will require a variety of choices.


Once your fish realize that flakes and pellets are food (this can take a while), these can become staples.
Get a quality flake food, brine shrimp pellets, and bloodworms. There are some color enhancing foods out there that many fish seem to enjoy and help bring out their colors.
Brine shrimp squares can be crumbled up to make it easier for the fish to eat.
Expect to be adding live food to your fish's diet.
Crickets are greatly appreciated and is quite exciting to watch.
Cutting up pieces of earthworms into quarter inch pieces is another option.
, This allows beneficial bacteria to colonize. You will need to add in an ammonia source regularly during this time either via a pure ammonia source or adding in fish food or even a frozen shrimp. Not all tap water is created equal. These fish are relatively 'tough' but it would be wise to test the water regularly during this time with commercially available test kits and adjust the ammonia source (i.e. adding in another shrimp or more ammonia) accordingly. Your tank will be ready for fish once ammonia and nitrite read 0 and nitrate are manageable at around 20.


Take some time on this and educate yourself properly on water quality testing by reading and asking knowledgeable fish people and remember this article is meant to be simply an overview.
 It is highly advisable to add only young fish to the tank. Older fish will have a much harder time adjusting to tank life. They will be much stressed out and be very picky about food. Younger fish are more adaptable to tank life. Starting off with easier fish, like bluegill, or rock bass will give you a chance to learn and can be a stepping stone to more varieties. Catching them with hook and line is not advisable for two reasons. One it stresses them out and can cause injury that must heal in your care. Second, if you can catch them on hook and line, they are most likely too big. You can catch them with a minnow trap that can be purchased at any tackle supply company. It's basically a funnel on both ends that the fish swim into and are unable to exit. You can fill it with dry cat food or cereal and set it out in the lake or pond by a dock, or where you find bluegill. (Check your state's guidelines for trapping fish. You may need to have a label on your trap with your name and address and fishing license number.) The openings are small so you will only be catching the young ones. Let the trap sit for a day or two and check it. Have a bucket with a lid (ice cream buckets work well) for your new fish. You might be surprised what you catch! Just keep what your tank can hold or less. You can always add more later.
 Add a little bit of the tank water to the Ziploc bag to help the fish adjust to the new water. Add a little more 20-30 minutes later. If the fish are looking good, pour them into the tank.
 Try to keep the area stress free... keep kids from tapping the tank, etc.
 Watch to see if they respond. If after a few days of trying flakes, try adding live or formally live items like small crickets, cut earthworms or brine shrimp. This could be the hardest part of keeping these fish. Watch them carefully and take notes on what they eat. Once they realize what is food they will seemingly eat all the time. Keep to a schedule. They will start to recognize your presence and come to the surface for food. You can eventually start hand feeding them crickets and earthworms.

