 Use natural items to make your home look like you brought nature indoors. Some suggestions include:


Pin up posters of wilderness scenes and wild animals around the party room.
Use floral, leaf and other nature-based arrangements to bring the outdoors inside. This could include wreaths, centerpieces, vases or baskets of flowers, bowls of fruit, live plants and such other things.
Find paper napkins, plates and other items with nature theme decorations on them, such as leaves, flowers and animals.
Use items such as stuffed animals, fur fabric, leaf shaped lights, etc. to add to the nature theme. Pebbles, twigs, leaves and other natural items can be used to decorate tables, sideboards, window sills, etc.
Use wood pieces for turning into items such as name tags around glasses, table place names, hot dish holders, etc.
 This could include using natural tones such as browns, greens, blues, yellows and oranges. Aim for organic cottons, bamboo and other very natural fabrics where possible. You might like to ask people to dress up in their own choice of what represents nature to them; award a prize for the best costumes and ideas.


Another idea is to ask guests to wear the clothes of their favorite activity that they do in nature; this might include snowboard or ski gear, wetsuits, bathing gear, mountain climbing gear, etc. and could be quite a fun way to get conversations started.
 This could include food in the shape of wild animals, trees, flowers and the like. You could also use freshly caught and harvested food, as well as making the entire feast from locally sourced produce. Explain to the guests where the food came from and why you feel that it matters that people enjoy more locally grown food and how this helps your local nature.
 You could find board games or video games with nature themes such as collecting animals for a wildlife park, conserving a wilderness area, etc. Camp style games are a good resource to draw on. And games that use natural items such as stone and wood might be another useful addition to the evening's entertainment.


As well as games, you could set up a nature craft table for the kids to make crafts at. Lots of ideas for nature themed crafts can be found here.
 At the end of the evening, celebrate both renewal and nature with a gift that represents both, such as a packet of seeds to grow, a living plant or membership to a nature society.

