 Federal discrimination lawsuits are extremely complicated, so having a legal expert on your side could be very beneficial.


An attorney can assess your chances of success at trial and help you find your best course of action. Even if you can't afford to hire an attorney to represent you throughout the proceedings, consider a brief initial consultation so you have assistance laying out your plan.You also may consider looking for employment law clinics or seeking assistance at your local legal aid society.
 Before you start drafting your complaint, make sure you understand all the deadlines as well as the document and formatting guidelines.


For example, Rule 8 explains what is needed in a complaint, and the basic rules for pleading a case in federal court., You may be able to find general federal complaint forms online, or a complaint that has already been filed that you can copy.Try to find a complaint that was filed in the court where you plan on filing, since the local rules may differ.
 If you know of any documentation or witnesses to your discrimination, get that information together because it will be useful to have when drafting your complaint.
 The complaint lays out the facts of your age discrimination claim and tells the court what damages you're seeking.


Generally, you must begin your complaint by identifying yourself and your employer, explaining how the federal court has jurisdiction, and then describing the events and facts that you believe are discriminatory as concisely as possible.
Once you've finished discussing the facts of your case, you will explain to the court what sort of relief, including monetary damages, you seek., The federal rules require you to sign every document you file with the court, and print your name, address, email address, and telephone number under your signature.After you've signed your complaint, make a few copies of it along with any other documents you need to file with the court or exhibits you've attached.
You'll need at least one copy for your own records and one copy to serve on your employer. You'll be filing the originals with the court., Once you've compiled your complaints, exhibits, and any other forms the court requires, take them to the clerk's office along with the filing fee.


The filing fee for a federal civil suit is $400. If you can't afford the filing fee, you can submit a motion requesting the court waive the fees., After you file your lawsuit you must send it to your employer so he has notice of the lawsuit against him.


Follow Rule 4 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedureto serve your employer correctly. Generally, you can pay a small fee to the sheriff's department to have the documents served in person or mail them to your employer using certified mail., After your employer is served with your complaint, he has 21 days to file an answer or counterclaim. If he doesn't file, you win your lawsuit by default., If your employer files an answer, you must participate in discovery and other pre-trial activities.


During discovery, both sides conduct recorded interviews with witnesses, request documents, and ask each other written questions. The purpose of this process is to gather evidence you will use at trial and to gain an understanding of the other side's arguments and position., During discovery your employer may become more interested in settling your claim. A neutral third party may be able to help the two of you come to an agreement.


Mediation can help you and your employer agree on various aspects of the case. Even if you don't come to a final resolution on all claims or issues, you might be able to eliminate some of them.