 If you are a beginner, learn at "The Wall" which is below the Honolulu Zoo. Tennis Courts has slightly bigger waves than The Wall and there is a paddle out.;
, This park is between Ala Moana Shopping Center and the ocean.
,


Directly outside and to the right (your right if your are facing the ocean) of the tennis courts is "Tennis Courts". To the west is "Concessions" and then "Big Rights". Tennis Courts is the break with fewer people out there. Courts has a long but make-able right and the left is just a drop and totally unremarkable. Big Rights is bigger and more crowded. Tennis Courts closes out at about six feet.
Watch how surfers and body boarders got out to the lineup. This is not like Kuhio Beach, in Waikiki, where spectators crowd the beach. Going out to the lineup will take a few minutes. If the tide is low, you will see board surfers walking out on paths on the shallow reefs that surfers have walked on for decades.
 When paddling out, head to the left (your left) of the break. Body boarders can almost always paddle out except for when the tides are low. When the water is shallow, stay in the flat position and take shallow strokes with your arms. Propel yourself, with just your arms, until the water gets deeper.






The photo was taken when the tide was very low and the waves were just a foot. Inside of the four rocks is the swimming channel and outside of the rocks, where the water is brown, is the inside reef.
 Merely sitting on the board with your back to the trade winds is enough to hold your position. When sitting on the board, use your fins with just your legs finning against the current. Waikiki close by is a windbreak.
 However, ride the wave all the way in only when your are headed back to the beach: you do not want to scratch the underside of your board on coral. Do not worry about getting cut from coral reefs, Courts is a mild and safe break. The water gradually gets deep and when you are riding a wave, there will be no reefs that will suddenly appear out of nowhere. "Public" surf break in Waikiki is where you should watch out for shallow reefs on the inside. If the tide is very low the reefs will show, but they are not life threatening here. Ala Moana is a man-made beach so even the inside reefs are user friendly.
 Where there is wave action the long spine sea urchins are not present. There are short-spine sea urchins on the reef but nowhere close to the amount you would notice in the country. These short spine are in the holes of the reefs, and will not hurt you unless you start walking with your fins on the reef. Stay on the board, paddle with shallow strokes and you won't get poked by sea urchins or get cut on the coral. Once you get past the beginner's level in body boarding, and stay in deeper water for the most part, the dangers of the reef like coral cuts and sea urchin pokes practically disappear.
 If you have any questions, ask the lifeguard. Use surf shorts that have pockets that are closed by velcro to secure your keys and wallet.
 This is a safe part of Honolulu to be in, relatively speaking. Have fun.

