 Colloquialisms are informal words, phrases or slang in a piece of writing.Your characters should sound as unique as the individuals you encounter every day, and that includes any slang or informal terms they might use. For example, two teenage boys likely will not greet each other with: “Good day, sir.” Instead, they may say “What’s up?” or “What’s goin’ on?”


Be careful about using too many colloquial terms in your dialogue. It can begin to feel distracting or gimmicky if it is overused. Strive for a balance between proper, English terms and slang or colloquialisms.
 Code switching is a language shift made by a character in response to who they are speaking to.It occurs often in everyday life, especially for individuals from different backgrounds or classes who are trying to assimilate or blend in.


If you are writing a character from a certain background, setting, or class, you should consider how they will might use local slang in their dialogue and description depending on who they are speaking to in a scene. A Jamaican man speaking to another Jamaican man, for example, will likely use patois and slang like “Yah, mon” or “Stay ire”. But the same Jamaican man speaking to a white police officer may use more formal speech like “Yes, sir” or “Stay cool”.
 Dialogue tags, or speech tags, are like signposts. They attribute written dialogue to characters. Some of the more commonly used dialogue tags are “said” and “told”. Dialogue tags don’t need to be fancy or overly descriptive. Their primary purpose are to show which characters speak and when. But you can also build believable characters through dialogue tags.Each tag should contain at least one noun or pronoun (Scout, she, Jem, he, you, they, we) and a verb indicating how the dialogue is being spoken (said, asked, whispered, remarked). For example, “Scout said to Jem…” or “Jem whispered to Scout…”
You can add adjectives and adverbs to tags to provide more information about the speaker. For example, “Scout said quietly to Jem” or “Jem whispered harshly to Scout”. Adding an adverb can be a quick and useful way to indicate a certain mannerism or emotion in a character. But be wary of overusing adjectives or adverbs in your dialogue tags. Try to only use one adjective or adverb per scene for one character’s dialogue tag.
 Your character’s dialogue should feel unique to their character and representative of how they interact with others. Good dialogue in fiction should be doing more than simply telling the reader how a character gets from A to B, or how the character knows another character. Read the character’s dialogue out loud to ensure it sounds like speech a person might say to another person in the scene. The dialogue should also sounds true to the character.


For example, in To Kill a Mockingbird, Lee uses dialogue to distinguish the characters in a scene. She also uses colloquial terms that represent children living in a small Southern town in the 1950s.“Hey.”
“Hey yourself,” said Jem pleasantly.
“I’m Charles Baker Harris,” he said. “I can read.”
“So what?” I said.
“I just thought you’d like to know I can read. You got anything needs readin‘ I can do it…”
“How old are you,” asked Jem, “four-and-a-half?”
“Goin‘ on seven.”
“Shoot no wonder, then,” said Jem, jerking his thumb at me. “Scout yonder’s been readin‘ ever since she was born, and she ain’t even started to school yet. You look right puny for goin’ on seven.”


Lee makes Jem’s dialogue distinct from Charles Baker Harris’ dialogue and Scout’s dialogue by using slang terms and colloquiums. This establishes Jem as a character and creates a dynamic between all three speakers in the scene.

