 Get your spare hard drive ready, and set its cross-connects so that it is the slave for the copying process.;
, Wait until both the old drive and the new drive are both in the PC.
 Make sure that the PC is how you want it, with all of the installation of software done, virus-checked and defragged, ready to go, then Shut down the PC, and for safety, disconnect the power cord too.
 If you have spare data and power cables then use them to connect the new hard drive to the PCs motherboard. Do this in the same way that the old drive is connected. If you don't have spare cables or if there are no free connections on the motherboard for your new drive, then just temporarily take the cables from the back of the CD/DVD drive and connect them to your new hard drive. If using the CD/DVD cables, there is no need to remove the third, thinnest cable as this is for the sound card; it is just the power and data cables that are needed. Do not ever take cables from the floppy drive since you will need this for the data transfer.
These images show the typical cables that connect to the new hard drive. Note that there are often extra power leads floating free within the case. (See Tips below on other cables).
 Ideally, use the packing that came with the drive to protect and insulate it. Otherwise, make sure that there is a soft insulating item, e.g., a magazine or plastic sheet under the drive to keep it clear of the circuitry and the metal of the case. Close the case.
 At this stage it will become clear if any obvious cabling errors have occurred; if this is the case there will be errors shown, or a failure to start properly. Do not expect both drives to show up in Explorer or in other file lists at this stage. If there are obvious errors or strange messages, recheck the cabling task until the PC can open normally. Remember to work in the case with the power off.
 The 'exe' file will make a new boot floppy disk that will do all of the data transfer work.(If you have downloaded ISO file then burn it on a CD).
 After an appropriate time the program will advise that the copying between the discs is complete.
 Remove the cables from the back of the old drive and use them for the new drive, remembering to switch off first. Change the cross-connects to make the new drive the master. Close the case again, make sure the floppy is not still in the slot, and start the PC. The PC will open, using the new drive.
 Make permanent any parts undone for testing. If the sizes of the drives differ, it might be found best to keep the smaller of the two drives as the backup, since it will transfer more quickly when it is needed.

