 This can easily be prevented by using a pool cover whenever the pool is not in use, which will minimize evaporation. It’s the most effective way to reduce pool heating costs – it can reduce cost by as much as 50 to 70 percent. There are several pool cover options available on the market, including manual, semi-automatic, and automatic pool covers.


These come in a wide range of prices and many of them have added features that help to conserve even more energy.
Even throwing a large tarp or piece of plastic over the pool technically counts as a pool cover and it will certainly help. However, it’s far more effective to use a cover that’s specifically made for pools.;
, Always turn it down when it isn’t being used. Gas burning pool heaters, in particular, can warm swimming pool water relatively quickly. Depending on how often you use pool, it may be more efficient to only run the heater when needed.


For example, if you only swim on Saturday and Sunday, it’s not necessary to run your pool heater all week long.
Turn your gas pool heater on Friday night, and depending on the size of the heater, you will have nice warm water by Saturday morning.
Turn the heater off again Sunday evening for a drastic reduction in gas costs.
 Only backwash the pool filter when absolutely necessary, since doing it too often wastes both water and energy.Circulate water through the filter only once each day. Keep the water temperature in the correct range when it’s being used – 78-80 degrees for active swimming and 82-84 degrees for recreational use.


Use a pool thermometer to properly maintain the target temperatures.
Use LED or solar powered lighting systems, which are the most energy efficient.
 If you have a gas pump, consider switching to a pool heat pump. These pumps utilize the same process used by air conditioners, except the process is reversed. A pool heat pump uses warmth drawn from the outside air to heat the pool water. You need access to electricity to power the heat pump.Pool heat pumps cost more than gas heaters, but because of their high efficiencies, the yearly operating cost ends up being less than a gas heater.
Pool heat pumps tend to last longer that gas heaters, as well, as long as proper maintenance is observed.

