 Unlike the standard, basic squat, you will not hold the resistance band in this exercise. The band will remain fastened to the squat rack or other immobile object. The only point of contact you will have with the band will be the back of your neck.


Affix the band to a point on the floor approximately one meter ahead of you. Make sure it’s latched securely on a heavy, immobile piece of gym equipment such as a squat rack. Facing the point on the floor to which the band is affixed, wrap the loop of the band around the back of your neck., For this exercise, you will use kettle bells to balance and build strength. Put them in the front rack position, with each kettle bell resting on your shoulder/upper arm. Grip the handles with each hand and keep your palms facing inward, towards one another. Your thumbs should be just under -- almost touching -- your chin. Keep your elbows angled out and away from you and your palms facing each other.









The weight of the kettle bell depends on your fitness level. Try starting with two twenty pound weights and work up from there.
You could also substitute a bar bell in place of the kettle bells., Tighten your stomach muscles and upper body. Position each foot below its corresponding shoulder. In other words, keep your right foot in a vertical line with your right shoulder, and your left foot in line with your left shoulder. Bend slightly at the knees. With your eyes and head up and looking ahead, you’re ready to begin the squat., Unlike in the standard squat, do not make a slight bend forward as you go down; the pull from the resistance band may cause you to topple over. Keeping your neck and back rigid, bend gently at the knees and come down until your bottom almost touches the ground. At your lowest point, your butt should be lower than your kneecaps. Your knees will be angled out, away from each other, and extend past your toes.









If your thigh and shin form a 90˚ angle at your knee, you’re being pulled forward too much, or are not squatting low enough., Hold your position at the bottom of your squat for three to four seconds. Keep your back rigid and your shoulders and head up. You should be able to feel the pull of the resistance band on the back of your neck, tugging your head down and your body forward. Lean back into the band and keep your neck rigid. Do not let yourself hunch over.In this exercise, by resisting the pull of the resistance band, you will build the musculature in your upper back.
 Push up off the ground with your heels and come to a full stand. Keep your back and neck rigid as you rise. Keep the weights in your hand and resistance band around your neck until you are ready to finish your workout.









When you've completed 12-15 reps (repetitions) two or three times (sets), move on to a different exercise pattern. As you gain confidence and strength in your resistance band squatting technique, increase the number of reps and sets you do with each workout session.
When you have completed your workout, place your weights on the floor, then pull the resistance band from behind your neck over your head. Do not attempt to disentangle yourself from the resistance band before putting your weights down.

