 Lay the duvet comforter flat on the mattress so it is all spread out.Be sure that the long side of the duvet is running lengthwise on the bed, and the shorter side of the duvet is running the width of the bed. Also make sure that the tag on the duvet is at the head of the bed.


Having the tag at the head of the bed will ensure that the tag ends up at the bottom of the duvet cover when you insert the duvet into the cover.;
, Stand at the foot of the bed and spread the duvet cover out and on top of the duvet, with the open end of the duvet cover near you. This doesn’t have to be perfectly neat, just spread out enough that you can see the different corners of the duvet cover. Reach your hands into the duvet cover through the bottom opening.Reach until you can grab onto the two top corners of the cover near the head of the bed.


Grab the left corner with your left hand, and the right corner with your right hand. Pull these two inside corners toward you, out through the duvet cover opening, to turn the cover inside out.Once the duvet cover is turned inside out, once again lay it over the duvet with the opening of the cover near you.
 With the duvet cover inside out, once again reach through the cover opening to grab onto the two top corners of the cover.Once you have a hold on the top two corners of the duvet cover, bring your hands down near the end of the bed to grab onto the bottom two corners of the actual duvet comforter.Your hands should look like you’re wearing mittens as your grab the bottom two corners of the duvet.
This would be the time that you would fasten any closures that the duvet or duvet cover has so the corners of the duvet stay in place within the cover while you use the blanket. These closures might be buttons or some sort of tying arrangement.
You may have to momentarily remove your hands from inside the duvet cover to fasten these closures. Once they are fastened, you can reinsert your hands into the cover.
 Through the duvet cover's two top corners, hold tightly onto the two bottom corners of the actual duvet. Flip the duvet cover over your hands while still holding onto the duvet corners, and shake the cover on to the duvet.Be sure to hold on tight as you shake the duvet cover onto the duvet. This will help ensure that all corners of the duvet are spread out to all corners inside the duvet cover.
Powerfully shake the duvet and duvet cover as if you are trying to wave a blanket evenly onto a bed.You can also stand on the edge of the bed and hold the top two corners of the duvet and duvet cover, to evenly shake the cover over the duvet.
You may have to pull the last portion of the cover over the bottom of the duvet and tuck in the corners.
 Once the duvet is completely inside the duvet cover, fasten the inside closures on the two bottom corners of the duvet and duvet cover (if your duvet and duvet cover have any). Once the inside closures are secure, you can close the duvet cover opening at the foot of the bed.Give your duvet a little shake and pull on all side to make sure the duvet is spread out evenly.

