 To decide to do things differently. Say, "No, I'm not doing it that old way anymore.";
,  Be careful, for this is a trick question. Grab yourself a pen and some paper and write a list of all the things you'd love to do or have if you could and all the things you'd rather not do or have.
 What sort of person would you like to be? What or who is holding you back? Write this down too. Then take a step back and look at what you've written. Take a clean piece of paper and write today's date at the top. Draw a large circle on the paper and inside the circle, write how you would 'ideally' like your self and life to be. Around the outside of the circle, write down all the things that you really want to remove or avoid in yourself and life.
 Quieten your mind, trying to block out all thoughts from your day. Focus your mind on what you have written in your circle and state out loud that these are things you want and deserve, whilst visualising actually having them. Put as much feeling as you can into what you visualise, the more the better. See yourself becoming the new version of yourself and see yourself at a time in the future looking back with gratitude., These statements will become powerful affirmations. Repeat this daily until your intentions and desires start to appear in your life. Completely ignore what you have written outside of your circle. The more you focus on your intentions, and the more energy you put towards doing them, the sooner you'll find your true purpose in life.
 It's not enough to imagine you will get what you want. You also need to work towards it. Set goals, and get active. Use the affirming and visualising to self-encourage but don't leave out this important step of actually working hard for what you want from life. Magic may be what you wish to call it, but it needs to be underpinned by the solid foundations of action and effort to get where you want to go. If this means improving your skills, getting better educated or starting on those projects you've always dreamed about, then do so, before you've done naught else but dreamed up ideas without acting on them., You will rewrite your thoughts and feelings many times in your future.  This is a very simple magical technique and one that can be built upon and added later.

