 It is best if you used fresh squeezed, but organic lemon juice in a bottle will also work.The amount of lemon juice you need will depend on how long your hair is, how thick it is, and whether you want to use it all over your hair, or just on sections.


If you have very long hair and you want to lighten all of your hair, you will probably need at least 2 cups of lemon juice. If you have shorter hair, or you just want to lighten a couple of small sections, you might be able to get by with a 1/2 cup of lemon juice.
You can potentially also use non-organic lemon juice, but this should be a last resort as you won’t know what toxins and/or pesticides might be present in the juice. These may be trace amounts, but they still aren’t good for you.;
, Mix two parts lemon juice with one part water in a spray bottle.How much a part is depends on how much you want to make, it is not an exact measurement, but rather a ratio.In this case, if you were to use 2 cups of lemon juice, you would use one cup of water. If you used 1 cup of lemon juice as a part, you would use only a half a cup of water.
 If you want to lighten all of your hair, then spray the mixture all over, until your hair is completely covered in the juice. Use a wooden or plastic comb to help spread the mixture evenly through your hair.


Be careful not to get it in your eyes, as this will burn!

, If you only want to lighten certain parts of your hair, you can separate those sections, and apply the lemon juice directly to this part of your hair.


Dip your fingers in the mixture and then disperse the mixture throughout the hair you wish to lighten.
Alternatively, you can dip a cotton ball or pad into the mixture, grab the sections of hair you want to lighten and run the cotton ball down the shaft.
If your hair is long enough, you could also try dipping it directly into the mixture, and then applying it to the roots using your fingers.
 This method will work best if you then apply heat to your hair, and will work even better if you can spend some time in the sun.


If it is very sunny and warm outside, then your best option is to go outside for a few hours. The sunlight, in combination with heat, will lighten your hair. Make sure to apply sunscreen to your face, and any other areas where your skin will be exposed!
If you don’t have access to the sun, another option is to use a blow dryer. Turn the dryer on the highest setting, and dry your hair thoroughly

, You can repeat this process as often as necessary to achieve the desired result; however, be aware that the lemon juice is acidic, and will dry out your hair with frequent use.


Understand that you may not see results the first time you do this, especially if you have very dark hair.
Consider using a moisturizing shampoo and conditioner, or a hair treatment to keep your hair healthy.
 If you use the lemon juice method to lighten your hair, you may end up with “brassiness” in your hair, meaning it appears more orangey than blonde. If this happens, you can use tomato paste or tomato sauce to help combat this problem.Make sure the tomato paste or sauce only contains tomatoes and water.
Apply the tomato sauce on your hair so that it is evenly spread throughout your hair.
Wrap your head in aluminium foil.
Leave in for 20-25 minutes.
Rinse thoroughly.
Repeat daily until all of the brassiness is gone.

