 Live your life in the present, not the past. It is important to give yourself time to grieve after the loss of someone close to you. However, it's also important not to put your life on permanent pause. Continue to pursue your dreams and focus on what you want to achieve in life. If there's one thing you can learn from death, it's that you should never take your life for granted. Live passionately, joyfully, purposefully, as if each day could be your last.
 You'll feel much more at peace with yourself if you can appreciate the good times without fixating on what could have been. Try to embrace the mistakes that you've made. After all, we are all human, and it's only natural to make errors. If you are genuinely sorry about something, sometimes that's the most that you can do.


Try to think rationally: is it honestly my fault, or was there something preventing me from doing that? Is there anything that I can do about it now, or is it water under the bridge?
If you still feel as though the blame falls to you, try talking to someone who was also close to the individual; they'll most likely comfort you and reassure you it wasn't your fault.
 If you are upset, there's a good chance that other people are, too. Be there for each other. Talk about the person who has died, keep his or her memory alive, and support each other through the difficult days that lie ahead. Try not to shut people out of your life, even if you feel the need to be alone. You will need your emotional support system more than ever in the wake of this disaster.
 Throw away or store everything that belonged to that person or pet: pictures, cards, papers, notes, letters, mattress, bedsheets, clothes, shoes, and accessories. Consider renovating or repainting the room that he or she slept in. If you are not surrounded by constant reminders of the past, you may find it easier to move on.


You can store things in an attic, basement, garage, or self-storage unit. The important thing is that you remove everything that reminds you of the person/pet out of your life as soon as you can.
Consider keeping a few items as sentimental reminders. Keeping a deceased loved one's jewelry, mug, or favorite book will help you remember; leaving all of his or her clothes in the closet may only serve to root you in the past.
 If you feel depressed, stuck, or overwhelmed by your emotions, it may be helpful to talk with a mental health professional. Find a well-reviewed therapist or counselor in your area, and pay him or her a visit. It's important that you find someone to talk to, and friends aren't always enough. A licensed professional may be able to help you cope with your feelings and find ways to get back on track.


You may feel an aversion to visiting a "shrink". There is no shame in reaching out for advice when you feel at a loss for how to proceed. You don't need to tell anyone about your therapist if you're uncomfortable with the idea.
Read reviews of mental health professionals before you make your visit. Browse for profiles of therapists in your area. You should be able to read through each therapist's specialties, her credentials, and her price range.

