 How you look at a situation affects how it makes you feel. When you feel like your classmates are jealous of you, it’s easy to let those thoughts weigh on your mind.By shifting the way you view the situation, you can change the way you react to it.


When you start to feel like your classmates are jealous of you, challenge those beliefs and try to look at the situation from a different angle.Take on the view of a person outside the situation and think about how they might interpret your classmates’ behavior. For example, you could pretend that your friend is in your place and coming to you for advice. What would you tell him/her?
Consider their jealousy as a compliment. While feeling singled out can feel hurtful, remind yourself that your classmates are seeing your positive qualities or achievements.
 Because jealousy stems from insecurities, people who become jealous are reacting to feelings within themselves.If you feel like their jealousy is getting to you, remind yourself that you can’t change who they are, so worrying about the situation will only cause you more hurt.
Don’t personalize someone else’s views of you. While it may feel like how your classmates think of you is important, what’s more important is what you think of you.
 If you spend too much time worrying about what others think of you, you risk spoiling your experiences. When you start to feel the weight of your classmates’ jealousy, shift your thoughts back to enjoying your time with friends.When you go on school-sponsored trips to compete in sports, arts, or academic events, plan to have fun with your friends during the times between competitions so that no matter who wins the top prize, you have a great trip. If your classmates still give you a hard time about bringing home the win, turn the conversation back to the fun activity you planned.
If you have a class, club, or other situation that puts you in contact with your jealous classmates, ask a friend to be around for you to lean on for support, even if you’re just texting them. Knowing that you have a friend who wants the best for you can help you ignore those who are jealous.
 When you feel that your classmates are directing their jealousy toward you, believe the best of them. While you may feel that their comments, sideways glances, or cold interactions with you are because they are jealous, they may be experiencing another type of stress or may worry that you’re feeling negatively toward them. When you assume the best, you bring positivity to your relationships.Oftentimes, we get so focused on one way of thinking that we forget that we are not mind readers. You don’t know what someone else is thinking, so allow yourself to believe people are thinking positively of you.
When in doubt, ask your classmates how they are doing. That way you will find out if something is bothering them.

