 A business management position means you'll be in control of managing various aspects of local and national UPS stores and headquarters. You'll be responsible for compiling schedules, managing the budget, handling conflict, and other aspects involved with helping the UPS business run smoothly., Business management positions usually requirement, at minimum, a bachelor's degree. Depending on your career goals, a master's may also be useful.


Your best option is probably a degree in business management, but a minor in something like accounting, finance, or economics can also help. Some people who work in business management have more technical degrees in fields like computer science or information technology.
Many people who work in business management obtain a Master's of Business Administration. Browse the UPS website and look at jobs that you are interested in and see if the generally require a master's degree. Consider going for your master's if it appears that would be helpful for your UPS career path.
 There are no specific certification requirements for a career in business management. However, certain specific career paths may require certification. Look into what certificates you might need considering your personal career goals. The best way to get a sense of what kind of certifications you might need is to browse the UPS website. Look at jobs that interest you and see what certifications are required. If one particular kind of certification is generally required for the types of management jobs you're seeking, look into obtaining that certification.
 In order to gain a management experience, experience is vital. Work on building your resume as early as college to snag a great position in the UPS company.


Leadership is valued in the UPS community, particularly for management and corporate positions. Seek out leadership opportunities when you can. Coach a little league team. Become the president of a student run club. Get involved with a local political party and seek out a position of power.In order to snag a management position, you'll need to develop certain skills. Sales, marketing, human resources, and IT skills are vital for a management position to seek out relevant work during high school and college. Seek out jobs in sales and customer service. Work as a receptionist for a local business over the summers. Spend a semester working at your school's computer center.An internship can help set you apart from the competition when seeking a position in business management. Start looking for internships your junior or senior year of high school. Talk to a career counselor about where you can find internship opportunities in your community.

