 Something between 7 and 9 inches (17.78 and 22.86 centimeters) works best, but you could get away with hair that's between 4 and 5 inches (10.16 and 12.7 centimeters) long too. It would be even better if your hair is cut short at the sides.Your hair can be dry or slightly damp., Work a small scoop of pomade between your palms, then start working it into your hair with your fingers. Focus on the roots and work your way towards the middle of the hair shaft. The ends of your hair should have hardly any pomade.Choose pomade over mousse. It dries faster and gives you a stronger hold.If your hair is longer on the sides, make sure that you get some pomade there as well. You don't need as much product on the roots., Make the part at about eyebrow level using the handle of your rattail comb. It needs to go along the side of your hair, straight towards the back. Try to make the parts on the left and right sides of your head as even as possible.If you have shorter hair on the sides, simply use the fade as a guide., Use a fine-toothed comb to comb the hair above your eyebrow up towards the middle of your head, and back towards your crown. Repeat for the other side of your head. You are going for something cone-shaped.Only comb the hair above the part.
Don't worry about forming the pomp yet.
 If you have longer hair on the sides of your head, you will need to brush it into place. Use a boar bristle brush to comb the hair below the part at a downward angle towards the nap of your neck. Do this for both sides of your head.Only comb below the part.
If you have shorter hair on the sides of your head, you may need to comb it downward slightly to make the part more pronounced., Go back to the hair above the two parts you made. Slide a dressing comb with long bristles into your hair at the hairline. Slowly pull the comb upwards, keeping it parallel to your head. When you reach the height you want your pomp to be, pull the comb out., Continue combing your hair upwards at the hairline using short, upward strokes, until your hair bumps out at the front. It can be as high or as low as you want it to be. If any hairs at the sides of the pomp get out of place, comb them back into place.Dig the comb deeper into your hair at the roots, and shallower at the ends.
Keep your free hand on the crown of your head—it should be lightly touching your hair, not pressing down. This will help further shape the pomp at the front.

