 Try to keep your house cooler than usual. It may help to keep your bedroom cooler in the evenings since you might find that you sweat more while you sleep. Aim for a temperature of 65 to 68°F (18.3 to 20°C).If your partner is cold, they can layer clothing or wear heavier weight clothes. Remember, the sweating phase is temporary.;
, If you're waking up to sheets that are wet with sweat, consider putting down a mattress protector underneath your sheets. You can also lay an absorbent towel on top of the sheets that you can lay on. This way, if you soak through the towel in the middle of the night, you can simply remove or replace the towel.Don't forget to keep a fresh pillow near your bed that you can swap out if your pillow gets too sweaty during the night.
 Choose all-cotton clothing since cotton can absorb sweat better and allow your skin to breathe. Even though you may be sweating, keep a robe nearby for when you'll want to snuggle up with your baby. You don’t want to get chilled because of sweat while you are nursing or caring for your baby.If you find that you're still sweating through your clothes, use a talc-free powder to keep dry. Talk has been associated with health issues like ovarian cancer., Eating spicy foods can make your body sweat even more or make you thirstier. Try to cut back on spicy foods, especially if you're nursing since these may irritate your baby.Try to avoid drinking alcohol in the early postpartum days. Your tolerance level is probably lower and alcohol acts as a diuretic which could cause dehydration. Don't drink alcohol if you're nursing your newborn.
 Since you're losing fluids, you need to replenish them. Drinking water will help flush your system and you'll get over the excess sweating faster. It may help your body urinate more fluids instead of sweating them out. Drink 1 to 2 ounces for every kg of body weight, or half your weight in ounces (so if you weigh 150, drink at least 75 oz).Drinking more water is even more important if you're nursing. Keep a glass of cool water or ice water on hand all the time and take a sip as needed to cool yourself down.
 Sweating can make you feel hotter in general so take a cool shower right before you go to bed. If you don't have the time or energy for a shower, place a cool compress on your face and neck. This can reduce sweating and cool you off.


To make a cool compress, take an ice pack or fill a bag of ice and wrap it in a light cloth. Place the cloth with the compress against your face and neck. Avoid putting ice directly against your skin since it can damage your skin., Choose a clinical strength deodorant to apply at night. Since it creates a barrier against your skin, you'll need to wash it away in the morning and apply normal-strength deodorant for the day.It may take a few days for you to notice the effects of the clinical strength deodorant.
 The majority of postpartum sweating usually ends by the first month, although some women notice it longer (especially if breastfeeding). If you're concerned about your sweating, think you have an overactive thyroid gland, or notice any of the following, contact your doctor:Fever
Extra weight loss
Excessive sweating
Sweating that lasts longer than a month

