 The most important component for making a fabric doll is the pattern. There are many fabric doll patterns available for free online, as well as purchasable patterns at fabric and craft stores. Look at the image of the finished doll and choose one you like. Along with the pattern, purchase whatever cloth and/or fill, such as cotton batting, you might need.


A typical fabric doll will require a rectangular piece of natural-colored cloth (plus more for clothes), batting, colored thread, a sewing needle, and pins to hold pieces in place while you work. Read the pattern directions for specifics.
 Following the pattern you bought, cut out each piece of fabric with a pair of fabric scissors and set it aside, taking care not to fold or crumple any piece. Remember to allow a bit of extra fabric, generally about 1/8 of an inch, around each piece to account for seams.


Most doll patterns should provide clothing in a contrasting color, either in the form of a differently-colored body or a simple outfit; don't forget to cut those parts out, too.
 To allow your doll to fill out properly with the batting, you'll generally need to make stitches to help define curves. Again, follow the specific instructions on your pattern.
 Ball up your batting and insert it into each part of the doll that needs to be stuffed. Use thread that's the same color as the natural cloth you chose for the doll's body to tie off the open ends and prevent batting from escaping. Once every piece has been stuffed, stitch them together per the instructions on your pattern.


Batting tends to pull out from the bag in clumps or strips, but you can ball it evenly by laying out smaller pieces in a star or triangle pattern and rolling up each one in turn until you have the size you want.
Stuff the head most tightly, so it's firm. Stuff the body more loosely.
 All this requires is colored thread and a bit of patience. Use black, brown, blue, or green thread for the eyes, and red or black thread for the mouth. Sew each feature into the doll's face by using a needle threaded with a length of embroidery floss to help pull the colors through. Yarn hair can simply be stitched on.


To be sure your eyes and mouth are placed evenly, mark where you intend to stitch them with pins first. Take each pin out as you begin to work on that part.
If you looped the yarn when you stitched in the doll's hair, simply clip the loops to give it a full, messy head of hair.

