 House training your puppy to go potty in a spot designated by you is one of the first training lessons a puppy needs to learn. Most people will designate a spot for the puppy to use the bathroom outside. However, you can use this same method whether you’re training the dog to go outside or inside—such as on pads or paper or even in a litter box if the breed is small enough when full grown.;
, You should take your puppy to the potty spot every half an hour (for an eight week old) or every two hours (for an adult that is not house trained). If the puppy does not go within five minutes, then she does not want to go. Bring her inside and try again half an hour later.


Try introducing a phrase such as, “Go potty,” to help the puppy associate the desired behavior with a specific command.You will likely have to get up several times during the night to take puppy out to the designated spot at first. If the puppy starts whining at night, he likely needs to use the bathroom. Take the puppy directly to the correct spot and resist the urge for any playtime. You want to make sure the puppy understands that nighttime bathroom breaks are not playtime.
 To start, you should bring your puppy to the potty spot after all sleeping, eating, and playing activities.The key to helping a puppy catch on initially is to have him coincidentally use the spot when he has to go anyway. Then you can start associating the act with praise.
 You should offer both treats and praise when the puppy goes to the bathroom in the appropriate spot. Though, don’t overdo it on the treats. The positive reinforcement will strengthen the puppy’s understanding of the desired behavior. Make sure you offer the praise as soon as the puppy finishes, so he understands why you have administered the praise. You also want to wait until he finishes so you don’t risk interrupting him, which can lead to an accident shortly after.


Be consistent with your praise as well. Try using the same phrase, such as, “Good boy,” or “Good girl,” to make sure the puppy understands the behavior in that specific spot is a good thing.
Never punish a puppy for an accident. Unless you catch the puppy in the act of urinating or defecating, he will have no idea that what he did was not appropriate. If you do catch the puppy mid-accident, try to get the puppy to the appropriate potty spot and praise him for going there.
 Some puppies will not have full control over their bladders for up to six months of age. Accidents will happen, even after you think you’re making a lot of progress with house training. Remain patient and consistent, and the puppy will eventually have the behavior down completely.

