 If you have thick, curly, or long hair, try using a conditioner to help remove tangles from hair.;
, It's better to let your hair air dry, however, if you do not have the time a blow dryer works fine as well. This style only works with completely dry hair so make sure there is no left over moisture., To do this start at the ends and gently use the brush to remove knots. Do not pull, tug, or yank on your hair, this causes split ends.
 Start from the forehead and work your way to the nape of your neck.
, Collect a small potion of hair about an two or three inches wide. split into three equal sections.
 And then the right strand over the new middle strand (which was once the left strand)

, and combine with the left strand to create one larger left strand.
 Then using your left pinkie finger grab a small section of hair from the left side (this should be close to the ear). Combine this portion of hair with the left strand to create a new larger combined left strand. Cross this strand over the middle strand.
,, Brush out the hair to remove any left over knots. Then collect a small portion of hair about two to three inches wide (about the same size as what you used for step 6) about the middle point from the center part and the right ear. Separate into three equal parts.
, Untie the left braid and separate the three sections back out (they should come apart fairly easy) Note: DO NOT LET GO OF THE EITHER SIDE

, Your left palm should be facing your face. This means that the left most strand goes in between your thumb and pointer finger, the middle strand goes in between the pointer and middle finger, and the right most strand goes in between the pointer and ring fingers.
 Your right palm should be facing your face. This means that the left most strand should be in between your ring and middle fingers, the middle strand should be between the middle and pointer finger, and the right most strand should be between the pointer finger and thumb.
 (this means that the left strand of the left braid is with the right strand of the right braid, the middle strands are together, and that the right strand of the left braid is with the left strand of the right braid)

, There shouldn't be any extra strands of hair outside of your left hand at this point.
, Spray with hairspray for extra hold.

