 This test cannot show if Down Syndrome is definitely present, but it can show if there is an increased chance that your fetus has the disability.The first option is to have a blood test during the first trimester. The blood test allows the doctor to look for certain "markers" that suggest the likelihood of the presence of Down Syndrome.
The second option is to have a blood test completed during the second trimester. This looks for additional markers, checking up to four different markers for genetic material.Some people also use a combination of the two screening methods (known as an integrated test) to produce a Down Syndrome chance rating.If the person is carrying twins or triplets, a blood test will not be as accurate, because the substances may be harder to detect.;
, The test involves taking a sample of genetic material and having it tested for extra genetic material associated with chromosome 21. Test results are usually provided in 1-2 weeks.


In previous years, a screening test was required before a diagnostic test could be performed. But more recently, people have opted to skip the screening and go directly for the test.
One method to extract the genetic material is through Amniocentesis where amniotic fluid is tested. This cannot be completed until weeks 14-18 of pregnancy.Another method is Chorionic villus, which extracts cells from part of the placenta. This test is done during weeks 9-11 of pregnancy.The final method is Percutaneous (PUBS), and is the most accurate method. It requires taking blood from the umbilical cord through the uterus. The downside is that this method is done later in pregnancy, between the 18th and 22nd weeks.All testing methods involve a 1-2% risk of miscarriage., If she believes her fetus may have Down Syndrome, she can have chromosomal testing of her blood completed. This test will determine if her DNA carries the genetic material consistent with extra chromosome 21 material.The biggest factor affecting chances is a woman's age. A woman who is 25 has a 1 in 1,200 chance of having a baby with Down Syndrome. By the age of 35, the chance increases to 1 in 350.If one or both parents have Down Syndrome, the child is more likely to have Down Syndrome.

