 Get your cat to stalk a rope, a wind-up toy, or a fluffy or feathered toy tied to a string. A piece of string with something fluffy attached to it is one of the simplest toys that you can make, and it is also one of the most effective. Use an old stuffed animal that you don't mind letting a cat chew on. Try to find objects that are smaller than your cat, roughly the size of its natural prey (small birds and rodents). If you don't have a stuffed animal, you can just drag a string around — there's a good chance that your cat will still try to "hunt" the end of the string.


It helps when a toy makes some kind of sound to grab your cat's attention, whether it squeaks, rattles, or clicks. Cats have very good hearing, so even a piece of rope sliding over the floor may be enough sound to grab their attention.
For cats, playing also functions as training for hunting skills. Play and hunting often go hand-in-hand, and cats will use their claws to bat at anything that holds their attention.
It is very easy for a cat to use its imagination, but you need to activate it sometimes. A piece of rope lying limply by itself isn't a prey-like toy. However, when you grab that rope and pull it away from your cat, it will trigger your cat into hunting for its prey.;
, Tie a noose into a length of twine and loop the noose around the toy's neck. You can also tie the string to the toy's tail, midriff, or leg — anything that allows you to jiggle the toy in a lifelike manner.


Make sure that once you've tied the toy, it can stand up on its own. A floppy old stuffed animal won't fool your cat for long. It needs to be able to stand!

, You can simply hold the string in your hand to make the toy move, but an extra degree of separation between your hand and the stuffed animal may help your cat forget that you are the one dangling the toy. Tie the free end of the twine onto a sturdy but comfortable stick.
 Get your cat's attention by dangling the stuffed animal on its string so that the cat cannot ignore it, and then make your stuffed animal stand still, upright, facing your cat. Wait for your cat to pounce on the stuffed animal, then pull it away. Try to entertain him by both letting him grab the string, and by letting him almost grab the string. Make the game difficult, but make it possible to "win". The important thing is that you catch your cat's attention with a sudden motion, then keep the toy still enough to give your cat the chance to "stalk" its prey.


When cats put their nails into something, they don't want to let go. This is where the fun begins. Once they grab their 'prey' it is your job to make the 'prey' to try to escape from his claws by both alternating between gentle and rude pulling on the rope.
Make your cat run around! Guide him with the toy. Make the cat use your furniture as an obstacle, and jump in the air as high as possible. Make your cat run in circles.
If you practice this kind of play with your cat often enough, the cat might hold onto the piece of string so fiercely that you can drag him around.
 Give your cat the chance to suss out the situation, and do not interrupt. When the is ready to pounce, it will happen. When the cat is done playing, it will stop. Try not to look at your cat while "fighting" with a toy, and do not hit or push to play with a certain toy.

