 This will increase your vitamin intake, especially if your appetite is low or you don’t feel like drinking juices. Some mixes might also include important minerals such as selenium, iron and zinc, which your immune system needs to better respond to the infection.


Key vitamins that should be part of the mix are A, B6, C, D, E. , In many studies zinc has been shown effective in treating symptoms and decreasing the length of infection, rather than preventing future ones. You can purchase them at your local drugstore or health store.


You can usually consume as much as one lozenge every two hours; however, read the recommended daily dose in the leaflet.
If lozenges are not sold at your local store, zinc is found naturally in beef, beans, oatmeal and some types of bread. , There are many herbal medicines that are commonly sold at the health store which have been used for ages as natural flu reliefs. Even in this case, make sure you take the prescribed dose to avoid stomach discomfort or headaches. The ones below have been proven effective in boosting the immune system and acting as anti-inflammatories:


Astragalus
Echinacea
Ginseng Hyssop
Licorice
Oregon Grape
St. John's Wort , In this case, you should visit a specialized pharmacy, consult a guidebook or check if your local health store sells homeopathic remedies. Homeopathy should be avoided for children or infants with high fever (over 101 F), or infants below two months of age. Common remedies for flu relief are:


Aconite
Bryonia
Eupatorium perfoliatum
Ferrum phosphonium
Gelsemium , He or she might recommend other natural remedies or advise you to take non-natural medications or antibiotics to fight other related bacterial infections. Prolonged fever and pain might also be symptoms of some other condition which you have misdiagnosed as flu. You should especially see your family doctor if:


you're over 65;
you're pregnant;
you suffer from a chronic condition like diabetes or kidney disease;
your immune system is weak because of HIV, chemotherapy or immunosuppressants;
you cough up blood or become short of breath;
vomiting and diarrhea persist.