 Sell books yourself on a site such as eBay, Half, and Amazon. Expect these sites to take a commission of at least 15% of the sales price. Be willing to lower the price over time if the book isn't selling.


To sell your books online, you'll have to set up an account at a website, provide some basic information about the book, and wait for an interested customer to come along.
 If you used the textbooks recently, you may be able to sell them back for a fraction of their original cost. You can call the store in advance to see if this is an option. You'll most likely have to sell the textbooks to the same campus bookstore where you got them, though you could get lucky and find that the textbook store of a different campus is also buying and selling those books.
 Find college students who will be taking a class that you've just finished taking and see if you can sell them your books at a fraction of the cost -- both people will benefit from this exchange. You can ask your friends if they know anyone taking the course in the future, or even stand outside the course after the first day and approach some students who might not have had a chance to buy the books -- just don't be too aggressive.
 Used bookstores typically buy back or give trade credit for selected books in good condition. Most used bookstores will price current titles at around half the cover price and pay around 15% of the cover price in cash, or 20% in trade credit. The store will also look up book values, so if you've priced your book online, that's what a store would expect to sell it for, not what they would pay you for it.


If you want the most money possible, sell the book yourself online; for speed and convenience, offer the books to a used bookstore.
 You can hold a garage sale to sell these books as well as a few larger items to hook some customers. If you're selling some furniture and have some interested customers, you can direct them to your books. You can advertise for the sale through a sign or even by alerting your Facebook friends or friends on other social media that you'll be having a sale -- just make sure you only tell the friends who know well enough to tell your address to.

