 If you can, test out other fabric types to determine which you prefer. Microfiber is generally not as soft as cotton or silk. Other textiles are also better than microfiber for moderating temperature. Cotton is very breathable, keeping you cool during the summer and warm during the winter. Linen is great for moderating temperature in high humidity.


Consider linen if you sweat a lot at night. However, linen often has a rough texture.
Egyptian cotton is generally considered the softest type of cotton, but there are now some brands that market lower grade products as “Egyptian cotton.”;
, Price is the major advantage for microfiber sheets. Microfiber sheets can cost as little as $20, whereas high quality cotton sheets might be several hundred dollars., Microfiber is durable and easy to wash. Cotton, on the other hand, is liable to shrink when washed. Microfiber might not be the most luxurious fabric, but you can buy it at a good price and keep it for a long time without investing a lot of effort into care., Your bed will be a twin, twin XL, full, queen, king, or California king. You should buy sheets that match. Also consider whether your mattress is unusually deep; measure how deep it is ensure that your sheets will be a good fit.


You should get sheets that are at least as deep as your mattress, preferably a little bit deeper. Otherwise, the sheets are liable to come off the mattress, especially if you sleep on the side of the bed., For a larger selection and more competitive prices, check popular online retailers such as Amazon, eBay, and Overstock. This will give you a sense of what prices are competitive even if you do go to the store. Importantly, some online vendors include product reviews, which will help you ascertain the quality of the sheets.


Unfortunately, a lot of the labeling for sheets is deceptive, so you should strongly consider doing research on a product before making a large purchase.
 Consumer Reports is a good resource for getting an objective review of a product. Unfortunately, Consumer Reports has found that the vast majority of sheets are falsely advertised and poorly produced. Search online for consumer reports and sheets to get reviews for individual products., The gold standard for determining the softness of a sheet is thread count. The higher the number, the softer it should be. That having been said, many manufactures artificially inflate thread count, meaning that this is no longer an entirely reliable measure.A thread count from 200-800 is often ideal. Manufacturers that advertise thread counts of over 1000 have often used tricks that might actually detract from the quality of the sheets., Denier measures how thick a fiber is. The thinner the fiber (and thus the the lower the denier) the better. For a fabric to be considered microfiber, it must have a denier lower than .9. The best microfibers currently in production are generally somewhere between .5 and .6 denier., Weave is the way that threads are interwoven together and it influences the feel and durability of sheets. Percale is standard and has a durable and crisp feeling, Sateen has a smoother, silkier feel, but is less durable. Jersey is soft and comfortable, but inclined to shrink., Because so many features of labeling are unreliable, test sheets wherever possible. Touch fabrics on display beds.


Try holding the sheet up to a light. If too much light shines through, the fabric is probably light and flimsy.
 You can buy microfiber sheets in solid colors or in patterns. Think about what will work in your room. Buy microfiber sheets that will match your comforter or quilt.
 Sheet sets come with a flat sheet, a fitted sheet and depending on the size, 1 or 2 pillow cases. It is often cheaper to buy sets of sheets, rather than purchasing each piece individually.
 She might have more information to share. Ask for her recommendations and see what her opinion is of the sheets you are considering. Ask about care and durability.
 Each store has a different return policy, so make sure you know how to return or exchange your sheets if you change your mind after trying the sheets out at home


Remember you might find that the sheets don’t fit as well as you thought, or that they don’t feel the way you would hope. Many sheets have also been known to fall apart rather quickly.