 Begin by washing one medium-to-large Yukon gold potato. Place the potato under cool running water and scrub the potato to remove any dirt from the skin., Place the potato in a medium pot filled with water. Bring the water to a boil and cook the potato until it is soft. This should take approximately 30 to 40 minutes.Poke the potato with a paring knife to see if it is fully cooked. The knife should be able to easily penetrate the potato with no resistance.
 Place the cooked potato into a ricer and then squeeze the ricer closed. This will force the potato through small holes pressing the potato into a smooth consistency. The peel will remain in the ricer and can be discarded.You can also use a standard potato masher, mixer, or fork if you do not have a ricer. Make sure the potatoes are thoroughly mashed with no remaining lumps.
 Using a stand up mixer with the whisk attachment, combine 1 cup (237 ml) of whole milk and ¾ of a cup (177 ml) of mashed potato. Continue to mix until there are no lumps remaining., Then, add ½ a cup (118 ml) of melted butter and continue to mix until the butter has been completely incorporated., Switch to the dough hook attachment on the stand-up mixer and add 1 ½ cups (473 ml) of all-purpose flour, ¼ ounce (14 g) of active yeast, and three heaping tablespoons of sugar. Mix on medium speed until a wet and sticky dough is formed. This will take approximately two minutes.While mixing, scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl to make sure that all of the ingredients are completely combined.
 Place the uncovered dough in a warm location and let it stand for approximately 30 minutes. The dough should puff up and rise slightly., Then, add 2 large eggs, 1 egg yolk, 2 ⅔ cups (630 ml) of bread flour, and one tablespoon of salt. Mix together on a medium-high setting, until the dough is a smooth and elastic consistency. You may need to add a bit more flour in order to reach the desired consistency.This should take approximately five minutes.
 Brush the dough with melted butter and then cover and let stand in a warm location for approximately 30 minutes. During this time the dough will expand about 1 ½ times the original size., Place the dough on a lightly floured surface and then divide the dough into 18 equal parts., Then, using your hands roll each of the parts into a ball and place them on a buttered pan. The baking pan should be 9x13 inches (22x33 cm).Place the dough balls close enough together so that they touch. This way when you are finished baking them you will have to pull apart the rolls.
 Brush the rolls with melted butter and then let them sit, uncovered, for an additional hour. The rolls should almost double in size during this period., While the rolls are left to rise, you can begin to preheat the oven. This can be done when the rolls have approximately 15 minutes left to rise. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (204 degrees Celsius)., Once the dough rolls have finished rising, brush them once more with butter and sprinkle them with a little bit of sea salt. Then, bake them in the oven for 15 to 20 minutes, or until the tops of the rolls are a nice golden brown., After the rolls have finished baking, remove them from the oven and let them cool in the pan for approximately 10 minutes. You can move the pan onto a wire rack while they cool., Once the rolls have cooled slightly, remove them from the pan and let them cool for an additional 30 minutes directly on the wire rack. When the rolls are not longer piping hot, they are ready to be served.