 Purchase a 12” x 12” 10 quart steel bucket with an open top. This common steel bucket can be purchased at most home and garden stores. Because of the heat you will generate, it is important that you use a steel bucket. Other materials may melt or become brittle under the intense heat generated by your foundry.
 In a five quart bucket, or larger, mix 21 cups of plaster of Paris, 21 cups of play sand, and 15 cups of water. Quickly stir the ingredients together by hand. It is important to moisten all of the dry powder and work out any lumps. After a few minutes of stirring, the mixture should be runny and a uniform color. Because the mixture will set in roughly 15 minutes, it is important that you do the step with some urgency.
 Once you have worked out any lumps, slowly pour the insulation mixture into the steel bucket. The fluid should fill the bucket, leaving about three inches of space at the top.To avoid creating a mess, pour slowly to limit splattering.
 Fill a 2.5 quart bucket with water or sand and place it in the center of the insulation mix. Slowly push the bucket into the mix. Move the bucket up and down a few times to help level the mixture before it sets. Finally, hold the bucket still for two to three minutes and let the mixture set around it.Once the plaster has hardened, the small bucket should stay in place once you remove your hands.
Let the plaster mix sit for one hour to harden.
Clean off any splattered plaster from around the top edges of the steel bucket.
 After the plaster has hardened, use a pair of pliers or channel locks to remove the plastic bucket you used to create the opening. Grip the bucket with your pliers and twist it in on itself. With enough torque, the bucket should cleanly pop free from the plaster mix., In order to promote air flow, you will need to drill a hole in your foundry for a blower tube. Use a 1-3/8” hole saw, attached to an electric drill, to cut a hole in the top line of the bucket (about three inches from the lid). Once you have cut through the bucket, position the blade at a roughly 30-degree angle and drill. This hole should be the perfect size to accommodate a one-inch steel tubing, which will act as your blower tube.The hole saw can found at your local hardware store.
Make sure that your hole saw is capable of cutting through metal.
Creating an angled air supply port will prevent molten aluminum from flowing out of the foundry if your crucible fails.
 Take a 1” x 12” steel pipe and screw on a 1” PVC coupling at one end. Once you have attached the coupling to the steel pipe, slide a 1” x 24” PVC pipe into the smooth end of the coupling. The coupling should have a threaded end for the steel pipe and a smooth end for the PVC pipe.The blower pipe should fit smoothly into the air supply port, but not so snugly that it is difficult to slide it in and out of the hole.
 Fill a 5 quart bucket with 10 cups of plaster of Paris, 10 cups of sand, and 7 cups of water. Stand up two 4” U-bolts in the plaster mixture, placing the ends with the nuts down in the mix. Let the plaster set for an hour. Once it has set, you can simply pop the lid out of the bucket. Finally, drill a hole in the top of the lid using an electric drill and a 3” hole cutting saw.The vent hole will relieve pressure inside the foundry and allow you to add metal without taking off the lid.
Try to make the lid hole the same diameter as your crucible. This will help prevent heat loss when you melt your aluminum.

