 This is the best way to ensure that, if your cat ever becomes lost, you will be reunited. A microchip is a tiny radio transmitter that is inserted under the skin and remains there for the rest of the cat's life. If your cat ever shows up at a vet or animal shelter, they will scan for the chip, retrieve your information, and contact you.;
, Make sure your phone number is clearly readable on the ID tag. Cat-safe collars either have break-away latches or elastic to allow the cat to escape should they become caught on something.


Putting a collar on your cat tells strangers at a glance that your cat has a home. Without one, someone could take your cat home assuming it is an unloved stray.
 Take this time to check how tight it is around the cat's neck. If you have a growing kitten or your cat has been packing on the pounds, you will need to loosen the collar so it is comfortable.
 Cats that are allowed to roam outside live, on average, less than half as long as indoor cats. Many simply disappear one day, and their owners never know what happened to them. In addition to the many dangers like cars, other animals, and disease that can hurt or kill your cat, an indoor cat that gets out is likely to stay much closer to home than an outdoor cat who becomes lost. This makes finding them much easier if they do turn up missing.
 These can be invaluable for use on flyers and handing out at animal shelters and vet clinics. Try to take color photos that show off visual identifiers like unusual markings, face shape, and coat pattern. If your cat is lost, local vets may be able to recognize your cat if someone brings it in as their own, and animal shelters will have an easier time figuring out which of the 15 brown tabbies is yours.
 Some cats learn to walk on a leash and can be taken for strolls, while for others this is a safe way to let them explore the backyard. Always attach the leash to a harness designed for cats (not a collar) and make sure it is properly adjusted to avoid injury.
 Place an absorbent towel in the bottom of the carrier, and provide food and water for long trips.


Use a towel or blanket that smells familiar if possible. Try putting it in the bottom of the cat's favorite bed a few days before any car trips so it can acquire her smell.
Many cats will object to carriers at first, especially if they come to associate them with uncomfortable trips to the vet. Make the carrier less threatening by leaving it out with the door open when you are home, and hide treats and toys inside, even if your annual vet visit is months away. If the cat comes to see the carrier as a fun place to hide, it will make using one much easier.
 Once they learn a way out, they can sneak out much quicker. Fix the hole in the fence before they realize how exciting life on the other side is. When opening the door, deter your cats from coming too close; train them to stay at least 5 feet (1.5 m) back. This makes answering the door much less stressful!

, If she escapes or becomes lost, she will know to come back when you call.
 You can find these in specialty stores or online. Provide shade, water, and a soft bed in the pen. Always monitor your cat when she is outside, either by doing something nearby (this can be a great way to entertain your cat while gardening), or by staying near a window with a good view of her. Never leave a cat unattended outside.
 Be sure to note any bad habits ("He always bolts for the back door when I open it!"). Leave emergency numbers like your regular vet, emergency clinic, and local shelters, so the caregiver can contact them if the cat becomes lost or sick.
, Most importantly:


Search your area, checking known hiding places as well as other areas that would interest him. Look in small, dark places like under decks, in garden sheds,etc. Call his name, and listen closely in case he is calling back (often the case with scared or trapped cats).
Contact your local vets, shelters, and animal control, providing them with photos or distinguishing marks, and the animal's microchip ID number.
Post flyers in your area with multiple pictures of your cat, distinguishing marks and behaviors, and your contact information. You may wish to offer a reward.
Leave a live trap near your house with your cat's favorite, smelliest food inside. Animal control and shelters will usually rent or lend these traps for short term use, or you can purchase them at big box hardware stores. Check the trap frequently, and be sure to release any unwanted visitors a safe distance away (skunks and raccoons are notorious for finding their way into these kinds of traps).

