 The first step is creating a contact list which has all contacts. you can add contacts by gmail, importing or transferring from other email account.



Creating contacts by gmail






a. Click Mail at the top-left corner of your Gmail page, then choose Contacts.
b. Click the New Contact button in the top-left corner.
c. Enter your contact's information in the appropriate fields. Any information you add will save automatically.



Importing contacts by CSV ：You can import your address books (from Outlook, Hotmail, Yahoo!, Orkut, and other services) into Gmail.






a. you'll need to format your contacts as a CSV file
b. Once you have a CSV file with all your contacts' information, import the file and transfer your contacts to Gmail.



transferring the contact from other email account






a. Click the gear icon at the top of any Gmail page, choose Mail settings and open the Accounts and Import tab.
b.In the Check mail using POP3 section, click Add POP3 email account.
c.Enter the full email address of the account you'd like to access, then click Next Step.
d.checking with your other provider to learn the correct server name and port. Enter your Password.
e.select " Leave a copy of retrieved messages on the server" ，"Label incoming messages“ and ”Archive incoming messages“
f.Click Add Account.
g.Once your account has been added successfully, you'll have the option of setting it as a custom From address.

;
, To edit or delete a contact, open your Contacts list by clicking Mail on the left side of the page, then choosing Contacts.



To edit a contact






a.Find and click the name of the contact in the Contacts list.
b.Make any changes you’d like to make. Exit the editing field to save automatically.



To delete a contact






a.Select the contact in the Contacts list.
b.Click More, then click Delete contact.




To merge two or more contacts manually:






a.Select the contacts you'd like to merge from your contacts list.
b.Click the More actions drop-down menu, and select Merge contacts.
c.Make any edits
d.Click Save at the top of the page.



To find and fix all of your duplicate data at once






a.Open the Contact Manager.
b.Click the More actions drop-down menu, select Find and merge duplicates.
c.the names of the contacts with duplicate data will be displayed. If an entry has only one contact, then the contact itself has duplicate data (repeated phone numbers, emails, etc.). You can expand them by clicking details next to each one and unchecking any that you don't want to fix.
d.When you're ready, click Merge at the top of the list.
: you can update your contacts with your mobile device.the following step is used for iOS device.


Open the Settings application on your device's home screen.






Open Mail, Contacts, Calendars.






Press Add Account.






Select Microsoft Exchange. iOS 4.0+ allows multiple Exchange accounts.






Enter Account Info






In the Email field, enter your full Google Account email address.






Leave the Domain field blank.






Enter your full Google Account email address as the Username.






Enter your Google Account password as the Password.






Tap Next at the top of your screen.Choose Cancel if the Unable to Verify Certificate dialog appears.






When the new Server field appears, enter m.google.com.






Press Next at the top of your screen again.Set up "Send Mail As" feature,Enable "Send Mail As" feature,Enable Mail and Calendar






Select the Google services (Mail, Calendar, and Contacts) you want to sync. in this case, only select contacts.






select the Keep on my iPhone (or iPad or iPod touch) option when prompted. This will also allow you to keep syncing with your computer via iTunes.






If you want to sync only the My Contacts group, you must choose to Delete Existing Contacts during the Google Sync install when prompted.
If you choose to keep existing contacts, it will sync the contents of the All Contacts group instead.
If there are no contacts on your phone, the latter will happen -- the contents of your All Contacts group will be synced.
 The gmail contact will always your latest version.

