 This journal will track the calories you intake as well as the calories you burn. Tracking these helps guide your diet to maximize your fat loss and may help you stay on track toward your goal.For each day, track what time you eat, what you are eating, and the approximate calories of what you ate. Be sure to note which food groups, if any, dominate your diet.
On the same page, note what you did for exercise, how long you did it, and how intense it was. Also, write down the approximate number of calories burned. While each person's calories burned will vary quite dramatically, average rates can be found in the chart here.
Keep track of your weight for the day. This will help you track your overall progress and might give you the motivation to keep on going.
Consider logging your exercise in this journal as well.
 Taking your time eating, paying attention to your foods and truly enjoying your meals may actually help you eat less.Sometimes, when you eat too fast or are distracted you can overeat. When it's time for a meal or snack, remove all distractions (like TV's, cell phones or computers) and take at least 20 minutes to enjoy your meal. This may help your stomach and brain communicate when you've eaten enough.Eating out of boredom is another common stumble. Try chewing a piece of gum when you're bored to take your mind off of food. Remind yourself that your meal is coming up soon.
Avoid snacking while watching TV. TV and processed snacks go together so well, but next time reach for an apple instead of chips. People rarely eat while watching TV because they are hungry, but because they have formed a habit. Work to recognize and break that habit.
Avoid midnight snacks. Eating before bed will increase the calories you have consumed for the day without giving you the opportunity to work them off. What you eat before bed doesn't turn directly into fat, but it will slow your weight loss progress down.
 Studies have shown that low levels of chronic stress release more cortisol which may make it easier to gain fat tissue and make it harder to lose it.Managing stress is not only good for weight and body fat reduction but also for your mental and emotional well-being.
Try journaling, listening to music, talking to a friend or going for a walk to help you de-stress and relax.
If you're having a more difficult time managing stress, try seeing a life coach or therapist. These health professionals will be able to give you more directed guidance on stress management.
 Keeping tack of how much weight you've lost or how much fat you lost is fun, exciting and can be motivating for you to stay on track toward your goal.


Weighing yourself regularly will give you one perspective of your body fat reduction. When you lose body fat, your weight will decrease over time.
You can also measure your waist, hips, thighs, and arms to see how much fat you've lost in different areas of your body.
You can also keep track of your body fat percentage. Your doctor or a gym staff member can take your body fat percentage and help you keep track of it over time.

