 Plant-based foods are at the heart of a Mediterranean diet. Make sure to eat plenty of fruits and vegetables. These foods contain antioxidants, which is essential to help prevent Alzheimer’s.Include leafy greens and other vegetables in your diet to avoid Alzheimer’s.


If vegetables aren’t your favorite, try adding spinach, kale, or broccoli to your smoothie. You get the health benefits without the taste.
Instead of a traditional sandwich for lunch, try substituting your bread or bun for romaine leaves.
Brighten up a dish by adding red, yellow, and green peppers.
Have a bowl of fresh fruit salad with breakfast, toss a handful of berries into your salad, or have a piece of fruit for a snack or dessert.;
, The Mediterranean Diet suggests having very little red meat – only about one serving a week. Instead, a Mediterranean style diet includes foods like fish and shellfish that are high in Omega-3 fatty acid. This has been found in some studies to help prevent Alzheimer’s disease and Dementia.Include salmon, tuna, halibut, or sardines in your meals at least twice per week.
For instance, you might have salmon for dinner on Monday. Then, Thursday have tuna salad for lunch and a snack of sardines on Sunday.
Add scallops or shrimp to your meals. For example, you can add both to your pasta or salad to give it a new flavor.
 Instead of processed grains, try heart healthy whole grains as recommended by the Mediterranean Diet. Whole grains help you maintain a healthy weight, are full of nutrients, and contain beneficial dietary fiber.Instead of white rice, have brown or wild rice with your meals.
Try a bowl of oatmeal with your breakfast. You can add honey or fruit to give it added flavor and health benefits.
 Some research suggests that oleocanthal, a component of olive oil, may help prevent the build-up of one of the brain proteins that cause Alzheimer’s.You can avoid Alzheimer’s with diet if you substitute butter and other oils with olive oil.


Instead of putting butter on your bread, use a mix of olive oil and herbs.
Sautee your vegetables in olive oil to bring out their natural flavor and get an added health benefit.
Other good fats to include are nuts, seeds, olives, and avocados.
 For example, they are high in fiber and protein – both of which can help you avoid Alzheimer’s.


Include lentils, red beans, or white beans in your meals several times a week. For example, you might have northern beans for dinner.
Add black beans to your nachos to add extra nutrition, texture, and taste.
 On the Mediterranean diet, it is okay to have red wine in moderation, but this is an option, not a requirement.You can sip one glass per day if you are a woman or two glasses per day if you are a man. Make sure that you do not exceed this limit.