 Body language is very important when it comes to conveying a certain attitude. Making yourself seem as tall and confident as possible will make you seem more intimidating, so be sure to practice good posture.You can even lean forward a bit when communicating with others., This suggests that you command the space you are in and that you are confident in yourself.


When walking, move with your arms open (swinging, out at your sides, etc.)
When sitting, lean back, and keep your arms and legs loose and open.
When standing, keep your legs apart and arms out whenever possible.
 In many contexts, this stance conveys authority and can come across as intimidating.
 Most people will want to avoid directly confronting you, and will either ask if you can let them by, or slip by without bothering you. Either way, you will appear intimidating.


Try this technique by blocking hallways, staircases, doorways, etc.
If you want to appear especially intimidating, if someone asks if you can please let them by, say something like “Oh, I didn’t notice you there.”

, In many contexts, this can appear intimidating or aggressive.


Make sure to cross your arms high over your chest, and do so firmly. If you cross your arms over your lower body, or loosely, it might convey nervousness rather than authority.
 This can make people slightly afraid to talk to you, which may be desirable when you want to appear intimidating.
 In some cases, it might even seem slightly rude or aggressive. However, when you want to seem intimidating, this might actually be a good thing.
 Research shows mixed conclusions, but many believe that a muscular body leads to more assertiveness, and is deemed more intimidating by others.If being muscular makes you feel more intimidating, then you just might come across this way. Try various body building techniques to increase your muscle mass.
 Tapping your hand or foot, shifting your weight from side to side, wringing your hands, and similar body movements convey a sense of nervousness.If you are trying to seem more intimidating, keep your body still and move deliberately. This type of body language signals assertiveness.
 Taking good care of your clothing and personal hygiene, and generally maintaining a good, clean appearance, helps convey a sense of assertiveness and confidence. Get in the habit of practicing a little personal grooming, and see if you come across as more intimidating.


If you’re a man, consider growing a beard. Many believe that beards convey masculinity and assertiveness.A suit, a nice dress or pants suit, or other formal wear can convey authority.If you are trying to look intimidating, you might dress a little better than everyone else. For example, if standard dress at your workplace is business casual, you might seem slightly intimidating if you wear a full suit instead.
 If you maintain a neutral expression, and limit the amount of emotion you show, then you will come across as more intimidating.

Practice not smiling, laughing, frowning, etc. in situations that normally call for these expressions. You can even practice in front of a mirror or with a friend to perfect this technique.
 In many cultures, looking people in the eye is seen as intimidating.Practice looking at people directly in the eye when you talk to them.You may feel yourself coming across as more intimidating, and you may notice others reacting accordingly.


In some cultures, making direct eye contact with people is a sign of disrespect.If there is a cultural taboo against looking people in the eye in your area or among the people you are working with, be very cautious about breaking it. You want to come across as intimidating, but you don't necessarily want to be rude or overly aggressive.
Glaring at people, and rolling your eyes will also appear intimidating.Be careful, however, because this may also seem rude in many contexts.

