 Divide hair over your crown and clip the lower section off with a crocodile clip, or other large clip. Secure the rest of your hair in a clear elastic band as if you are making a ponytail, just above the lower section of hair – but don’t pull your hair all the way through. Form a loop instead and use bobby pins to tuck in hair that’s sticking out from the end of the ponytail that has been looped. Wrap the lower section around the ponytail as many times as required to end at the bottom. Secure with more bobby pins.


Finish with a medium-hold hairspray or spray some in your hands, rub them together and smooth over your hair.
You can also pull out pieces of hair around your face to soften your features., Create ringlets by winding 1” sections of hair around a 1-to-1 ½” barrel curling iron, held vertically, and then loosen them with your fingers after they cool. Next take 1” sections of hair on the top of your head and sides and twist them inward, securing each with a bobby pin to add volume to the top of your head. Separate the back of your hair into two sections and loosely tie the top with a clear elastic band. Tease the bottom to create a messy bun by grabbing it into a mass, wrapping a clear elastic band around it and stretching it vertically and horizontally. Then take the top half of your hair and wrap it around the bun and secure it with bobby pins at the bottom.


You can pull some pieces of hair down around your head or use a blow dryer to go around your head for a more windblown look.
Finish with a medium-hold hairspray and a light spritz of shine spray., Use a fine-toothed comb to tease your hair all over. Smooth the surface of your hair only using your fingers before creating a gentle part and grabbing a 2” section of hair near your temple from the side of your hair that you’ve parted. Pull it to the center of your head, smoothing it as you go, and secure with first one bobby pin and then another crossing it. Continue doing this to the bottom. Move to the other side and do the same, ensuring the hair covers the crossed bobby pins, and secure these sections with vertical bobby pins hidden underneath. Push the tail that’s left under the twist and slip bobby pins underneath to hold it in place.


If you want a little more volume on the top, gently use your fingers to pull the hair up at the top of your head.
Spray a medium-hold hairspray all over your head to set., Gather all of your hair into a low center ponytail and secure with a clear elastic band. Braid the ponytail and twist it around itself. Secure it with either bobby pins or French hairpins, depending upon how thick your hair is.


For a more relaxed feel, pull out a few strands of hair around your face and loosely curl them with a curling iron before creating the ponytail.Rub a pea sized amount of smoothing serum or a natural oil like argan between your palms and lightly smooth your hands from your front and side hairlines to the bun for a sleek and shiny look. Set it with a light-hold hairspray.
You can also position the bun to the side of your head by creating a low side ponytail or at the top of your head by creating a high ponytail.
 Create a gentle part and twist 1-2” sections of hair over themselves, starting at the top of your head, continuously grabbing more sections of hair to pull out and over the ones before until you reach just below your ear. Secure the twined hair in place with a clip before doing the same to the other side. Next combine both into a low ponytail at the nape of your neck and work your fingers into the hair just above the ponytail band to create an oblong pouch. Bunch up the hair from your ponytail and tuck it inside the pouch, securing with bobby pins pushed downward into the pouch.


If you want the roll that’s produced to have more volume, tease and then smooth the surface of your ponytail before tucking.
Smooth all over with your hands and finish with a medium-hold hairspray.If you have bangs, you can twist them in as you start at the front or leave them out, manipulating them to the side with a flat iron or wearing them straight down.

