 Having a healthy dose of vitamins in your diet will improve your overall health. You can also purchase certain vitamins that lead directly to improving the health of your hair. Research products specifically for your hair type to find what will work best for you.Most of these vitamins can be incorporated into your eating routine naturally, if they aren't included in it already.


Biotin, otherwise known as Vitamin H, improves the health of your hair. It increases your hair's elasticity and moisturizes dryness. This will prevent breaking. You can find biotin in brown rice, lentils, oats, among other foods.
Vitamin A helps produce healthy sebum, an oily substance released by your scalp. Sebum helps prevent dryness. Do not overload on Vitamin A, however, as an excess of it can actually lead to hair loss.
Vitamin E promotes healthy skin while improving your body's blood circulation. This vitamin increases your body's ability to intake oxygen. Having a steady flow of oxygen into your body will aid your body in producing new hair cells.
 In addition to strengthening your hair, more protein in your diet will improve your inner health. When your body digests protein, it breaks it down into smaller amino acids.These will aid in the construction of new body tissues, antibodies, hormones, enzymes, and blood cells.


Meats like steak, chicken, and fish contain healthy protein and amino acids. If you're a vegetarian, you can get your protein from tofu, beans, nuts, and legumes. These foods also replenish other vitamins crucial to healthy hair growth.
Protein is necessary for tissue repair. Your cells need amino acids to remain intact and healthy. Protein is the active substance in repairing broken cells, so having it in your diet will help replenish dead skin and hair cells.
 While they're tough to come by, Omega-3 fatty acids are vital to improving your inner health. Good fatty acids in your diet will lower triglyceride levels, reducing your risk for heart disease.Researchers have found that high levels of Omega-3 acids may also lead to lower levels of depression. Fish oil may even boost the effectiveness of certain anti-depression medication.
While you can get Omega-3 acids from supplements, you should incorporate them into your diet. Many types of fish, including salmon, herring, and mackerel, contain high levels of healthy fatty acid.
For vegetarians, get your Omega-3 acids from walnuts and flaxseed. Canola and soybean oils also contain these acids.
 Because so much of our body is made of water, the amount that you drink reflects in your healthy skin and hair.You want to make sure that you're properly purifying your water, so you aren't getting unwanted toxins.


If you're exercising regularly, you need to replenish the water that you lose through sweat. Pay attention to the color of your urine. A pale yellow or colorless stream will prove that you're drinking a healthy amount.
Drinking water will flush out toxins in your body. Drink at least eight cups a day, or a cup for every twenty pounds of your body weight.
A lack of water will dry up your hair. You will be left unwanted frizziness, and the healthy growth of your hair will be halted

