 Take some time alone to think through this decision. Ideally, you should answer "yes" to all these questions before you have sex:Do you and your partner understand how pregnancy and STDs work? Can you talk openly about the risk, and agree on a method or methods of protection?
Do you and your partner trust and respect each other? Would your partner listen if you changed you mind and said "stop"?
Are your personal values compatible with the sexual experience you're considering?
Would your family and community be okay with this if they knew? If you answer "no," are you comfortable accepting that fact?

, Sex can be a great way for two people in a healthy relationship to have fun and express their connection. This isn't always the reason sex happens, however. Be honest about why you want to have sex, and understand which reasons are no good:Only have sex when you and your partner genuinely want to. If one of you is pressuring the other, put this to a stop and wait until both of you are ready.
Don't have sex because you think everyone else is doing it. Most high school students have not had sex, and the ones that do don't have sex very often.
Don't have sex to save a failing romantic relationship. It won't work.
 Once you're confident you're ready for sex, talk to your partner. You need to talk about previous sexual experiences, possible STDs, what to do in the event of an unplanned pregnancy, and your views on abortion and adoption. Tell each other why you want to have sex. If you cannot talk to your partner about these topics, you may want to postpone sex until the two of you are able to have the conversation.


Make sure you're on the same page about what sex means to your relationship. Is it just for fun? Do you love each other? Is this an exclusive relationship?

, If it's the first time for one or both of you, or even just your first time with each other, you're going to need privacy and time to yourselves. Arrange your agreed-upon method(s) of protection in advance, so you don't miss an opportunity.


Finding privacy can be difficult, but try not to do it in your car. This is illegal in some areas. Try to restrict yourselves to one of your homes, while there are no other people around.
 There is nothing worse than a rushed first time. Go slow, and explore each other's bodies. Foreplay is necessary to help you become aroused and comfortable. This is especially important for women, as arousal causes the vagina to become lubricated. Without lubrication, penetration can cause significant pain.
 A sexual encounter can mean playing with each other with your clothes on, helping each other masturbate, or having penetrative sex. Enjoy each other however you both agree to.


Doing something once does not mean you have to do it again. You and your partner are allowed to have a different comfort level on a different day.
 Don't be mortified at a failure to orgasm, or at rapid ejaculation. These are common occurrences during first-time sex, or when you're feeling nervous. Also understand what a typical sexual experience is like, instead of believing what you hear in boasts, porn, or romance novels:


The typical man lasts five minutes during penetrative sex before ejaculating.Some women take longer to orgasm than their partner, or have trouble achieving orgasm from penile-vaginal sex alone. They can still enjoy sex and may choose to orgasm through assisted masturbation or non-penetrative sex.
 If you want to slow down or stop, say so. There's nothing wrong with feel nervous or uncomfortable, or even in pain. The best way to deal with this is to take a break and go back to something you're more comfortable with. You can try again when you feel ready, whether that means in five minutes or next month.


Continuing intercourse with a partner who asks you to stop is morally wrong, even if it began as consensual sex. In many regions, this is legally considered rape or sexual assault.
 Did you enjoy yourselves? Was there anything that you especially enjoyed, or that made you uncomfortable? The more you can talk about it, the more comfortable you'll be with each other, and the more enjoyable your next sexual experience will be, if you decide to do it again.
 Among some heterosexual teenage groups, most anal sex happens when men pressure or coerce women into trying it.Do not try anal sex if you do not want to. Understand that it is generally more painful than vaginal sex. Relaxation exercises and water-based lubrication can improve the experience.Roughly 10% of heterosexual couples and 66% of male homosexual couples (in the UK) practice anal sex regularly.

