 If being around your family for even a short time tends to bring out the worst in all of you, it can help to be sure you visit when you are in a bright mood. Seeing them when you're already feeling down or angry will only heighten the negative energy.


Avoid visits when you are extremely tired or fatigued as you are more likely to succumb to provocations and end up insulting or arguing with judgmental family. Also, avoid seeing your family when you are sad, angry, or disappointed. These are all times when visiting will simply make matters worse.
 You can manage your visits with judgmental family by not staying at the home front. Instead of bunking with relatives, stay with a close friend in the area or splurge on a hotel room if you can afford it.


Just knowing that you can "escape" to a blissful place after a family visit can help you stomach your aunt's judgmental questions about your dating life. Plus, limiting your time with alternate accommodations gives you moments to relieve tension in between stressful visits., Sometimes, having a familiar, smiling face to serve as a buffer can help you get through meetings with toxic family. If you have a partner, coworker, or friend who is available, ask them to join you for the trip. This gives you added motive to arrange extra accommodations. It also gives you someone level-headed to talk or vent to when you've had enough.Offer to foot the bill on the hotel or buy a lunch in exchange for their company. Your friend will likely appreciate the free trip and be glad for the invite.
 Although you want to maintain contact with your family, doing so just may not be healthy for you. Keeping away, even for the time being, may be just what you both need to gain perspective and realize that the criticism isn’t worth it. You can always become close again if you feel comfortable with it.


Begin distancing yourself by reducing the amount of phone calls, texts and emails you engage in. When you do talk, keep things brief and impersonal. Although this may be difficult, you could find that the other person takes the hint and changes their ways. If not, you will likely find that your life becomes better without all of the criticism.