 In order to be considered for a position as a police officer in the state of Arizona, you must meet the minimum requirements as outlined by the Arizona Department of Public Safety.


Be a citizen of the United States.
Be at least 21 years old.
Possess a valid Arizona driver's license by the starting date.
Have a high school diploma or GED.
Never used or sold illegal drugs.
No felony convictions.;
, When an agency determines a need for additional officers, they will publish a request for applications. You may find jobs directly on a municipality’s website, or through a job search engine such as Indeed.com. In Arizona, there are 170 agencies which employ peace officers. Some agencies are always open to receiving applications from qualified individuals.The Arizona Association of Chiefs of Police website http://azchiefsofpolice.org/ lists job openings as well., Once you’ve identified an agency to which you’d like to submit an application, make sure to fill out the paperwork completely and accurately, and to thoroughly answer all questions.


Some agencies may also require a letter of interest and resume in addition to the completed application. Make sure to follow the application instructions carefully, and to include information that will help set your application apart from other qualified candidates such as previous law enforcement or military experience., After a thorough review of applications, the police agency will invite select candidates to participate in physical agility and written testing. These competitive tests will rank the candidates and determine fit for police academy training.The written examination consists of a 100 question multiple choice test. Applicants must answer a minimum of 75% of the questions correctly in order to be considered for a position.
The written test may include judgment and problem solving questions, math questions, reading comprehension, and writing questions.The physical fitness tests may consist of sit-ups, push-ups, a 1.5 mile (2.4 km) run, and a 300 meter (980 ft) run., You may meet with just the police chief or be subjected to a panel interview by a board, depending on the practices of the hiring agency. This is your chance to impress the agency, and convince them that you would be good fit in the organization.The questions asked in the interview will most likely be focused on problem solving abilities and interpersonal skills.
 The oral interview is often key to landing a job with a police agency. In order to nail your interview, make sure to do your research on the agency with whom you are interviewing. You should be familiar with the names of the chief executives, statistics on the policed population, and the number of police officers employed by the agency.


Be sure to maintain eye contact, use the proper title when addressing someone, and exude a professional and polished appearance.Arrive early to the interview and thank each member of the panel individually for their time after the interview has concluded.
 The hiring police agency will conduct a background investigation and perform polygraph and psychological testing on potential candidates. The polygraph interview can be intimidating, and is meant to establish a candidate's honesty during the background investigation. The background investigation will be focused on the applicant’s driving history, employment history, history of substance abuse, and civil and criminal records.The psychological testing includes a written exam as well as an interview with a psychologist.The background and polygraph inquiry will be thorough, so it is best to be truthful and upfront about anything in your past that may be uncovered by the investigation.
 When you’ve passed all of the other tests, you’ll be sent to an Arizona physician who is trained to complete the required medical evaluation. This evaluation may investigate medical conditions which may limit your ability to be a police officer.Qualified candidates may be extended an offer of employment prior to undergoing the medical examination and drug screenings.It is important to remember that this offer is contingent on passing the medical screenings.
 If the agency chooses to move forward with the hiring process, they will send an appointment document to AZPOST (The Arizona Police Officer Standards and Training Board), which then ensures that the applicant has met all of the qualifications for certification.Applicants are not to apply directly to AZPOST. All applications for peace officer certification are processed directly through the hiring police agency.
 If the candidate passes all of the tests, the agency will enroll the applicant in a police training academy. Applicants must complete the AZ Post mandated basic peace officer course that will last a minimum of 585 hours, as well as pass the Comprehensive Final Exam.


The Comprehensive Final Exam consists of 426 questions and must be completed within 5.5 hours. In order to pass, the recruit must score at least a 70% on all three parts of the test.Prepare for your written comprehensive exam by purchasing an exam preparation book, or by taking a practice test online.Former Arizona peace officers who were out of the force less than three years from the new date of appointment can be reinstated without the need to attend the academy. They will however need to undergo the background process again which includes the physical and polygraph exams.
Former Arizona peace officers who are out of the force for three years or more from the new appointment date will have their training status marked as lapsed. They can avail of the AZ POST Waiver Process to become re-certified without needing to attend the academy again.

