 Dachshunds only need to be bathed once a month, unless they’ve rolled in something smelly or muddy. The water should be warm, but not hot. The water doesn’t need to be too high, just to under their belly.


A non-slip bath mat will help keep your dachshund from slipping in the water. If you don’t have a mat, you can place a small towel on the bottom of the tub or sink.
 The products you use to bathe your longhaired dachshund should be specifically formulated for dogs. Use a high-quality non-detergent shampoo. Ideally, use a shampoo and conditioner that are fragrance free since these added chemicals can irritate your dog’s skin.Hypoallergenic shampoos and conditioners are good as well. Some shampoos are marketed as tearless, but you should always avoid getting shampoo directly into your dog’s eyes.
You can find quality pet shampoos online, at a pet store, or at a grooming salon.
 Using a cup filled with water, a spray nozzle, or your hands, wet your dog’s body. Pour a small amount of shampoo into your hand and rub your hands together. Then, begin to massage the shampoo into your dog’s coat. You should cover their entire body but avoid their face and ears.


Massage the shampoo into a lather in their coat. Make sure that you pay special attention to their tails and their stomachs, since these areas tend to get dirtier.
 Use warm water to rinse the shampoo out of their coats. Make sure that you get all of the shampoo out of their fur, or your dog may experience some skin irritation later on.
 Using a soft washcloth, now is the time to wash their face and ears. Wet the washcloth with warm water and work in a small amount of shampoo. Cover your dog’s eyes with one hand while you gently wipe their face and ears.You’ll need to rinse off this shampoo as well, but be very careful with getting water around their ears. Water can get trapped inside your dog’s ear canal and cause an infection.
 Using a blow dryer on the lowest setting, begin to dry the dog’s coat. Make sure the air is not too hot so you don’t burn or irritate their skin. You can gently comb while you dry.


Use a dry piece of cloth to wipe their inner ears. You want this area to be very dry after their bath to help prevent any infections.You can use a towel to dry your dachshund, but this will cause the hair to poof out and won’t be as aesthetically pleasing. If you do use a towel, pat the hair instead of rubbing it to prevent tangles.

