 The acid components in vinegar will remove leftover coffee oils, stains and lime scale or mineral deposits that have built up inside the coffee maker.


Use a half-and-half solution of white vinegar and water depending on how many cups your coffee maker supports. You will need enough white vinegar for 2 brewing cycles. For example, a coffee maker that makes 8 cups or 2 qt. (1.89 l) of coffee will require 1 qt. (0.94 l) of white vinegar with equal parts of water for each brewing cycle.
Mix 50 percent white vinegar and 50 percent water in a container you can use to pour the mixture into the coffee maker reservoir.
Place an empty, clean filter into the filter basket of your coffee maker.
Pour the white vinegar and water mixture into the coffee maker reservoir.
Brew the white vinegar and water normally, as if you are making a pot of coffee.
Let the contents stand for 10 minutes after brewing. This will allow the vinegar and water mixture to clean the coffee pot and allow the reservoir to cool off slightly.
Dispose of the white vinegar and water brew by pouring it down the sink.
Repeat the brew cycle, once again using 50 percent white vinegar and 50 percent water.
Let the brew mixture stand for 10 minutes when the cycle is finished, then pour the mixture down the drain.
Fill the coffee maker reservoir with fresh water to flush the vinegar completely from the coffee maker and coffee pot.
Initiate the brewing process and allow the brew to stand for 10 minutes before pouring it down the drain.
Repeat the water rinsing cycles until the vinegar smell completely disappears during the brew cycles. Although it is optional, you may taste the water to make sure no vinegar remains.;
, Dishwashing liquid is an effective alternative if you do want to use white vinegar.


Substitute every quart (0.94 l) of vinegar with 2 drops of dishwashing liquid and follow the same brewing steps until bubbles are no longer present in the water brew.
 These can be found at many retail stores. Use these coffee maker cleaners as directed on their packages.



Soak the coffee pot, pot lid, filter or filter basket once per week in dishwashing liquid or a 50 percent white vinegar and 50 percent hot water mixture for up to 1 hour before rinsing.
Use a toothbrush or dishrag and 4 to 8 tbsp. (59.14 to 118.29 ml) baking soda to clean crevices that are difficult to reach.
 Canned air will eliminate and remove dust particles from your coffee maker's heating elements and external parts that are difficult to reach.
 Replace cracked coffee pots that can cause leaks or burned power cords that can cause fires.


Replace cracked filter baskets or clean up coffee spills on the heating pad.
Refer to the manufacturer for repair and maintenance. If a warranty exists, your coffee maker may be replaced or repaired by the manufacturer.

