 In Matthew 16:18, Jesus said this: "'I say to you, you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my Church; and the gates of Hell will not overpower it.'" The Church built on Peter is the Catholic Church, and it has Jesus' personal promise of protection!;
, Perhaps one of the most intimidating things about being a Catholic-under-fire is that the Protestants around you seem to know so much more than you! Read the Bible, especially the New Testament, and you'll find that it fits perfectly with, and indeed supports, Catholic teaching. What's more, read up on some Catholic apologetics in books and on the web. Catholic Answers is a great website with free articles on how to defend the faith, as well as forums for any questions you have left.
 Catholic priests are highly educated in Church teachings and well-trained in providing counsel to victims of persecution. The criticisms that people use today are as old as the Church itself.
 Catholics believe that it is possible to pray ("speak" if you will) to souls in Heaven, particularly to ask their support and prayer. The traditional and logical choice is someone who had a very close relationship with God during their life on earth. Mary and the saints meet those qualifications. Catholics believe there is no difference between asking your mother to pray for you and asking Mary to pray for you. Toss some Greek in if you want. There are three words used regarding prayer. The first is "latria." This is the type of worship that is adoration and due to God alone. The second is "hyperdulia." This is the kind of veneration due to Mary as the Theotokos ("God-Bearer"). Then there is "dulia." This is the form of veneration due the saints.
 The Eucharist is often a very difficult idea to explain, but know that you have scriptural backing. Check out John 6:51-65. Jesus clearly says that to achieve salvation, one must "eat his flesh and drink his blood." To say this, He used the most graphic Greek words in existence, which actually translate to something more like "gnaw," or the way a cow eats. Many of his followers LEFT Him because of this statement, and He never called them back to explain that it was only a symbol. If people were willing to leave Him because of this statement, it is clear that He was being literal.
 The Jews regularly prayed for the dead. The early Christians regularly prayed for the dead. The concept that only Heaven and Hell exist is less than a thousand years old. What's more, there is scriptural support for the doctrine in books of the Bible which Protestant reformers conveniently removed during the Reformation (such as Maccabees). All ancient Christians believe in this dogma in one way or another. Check out this website for more details.
 There is perhaps no better way to overcome persecution than to pray for the Holy Spirit to guide your words in the Church's defense and your heart in its steadfast faith.
 In fact, all human institutions went through difficult periods. Rejecting Catholicism simply because of past transgressions would be the same as rejecting the United States of America because of manifest destiny or slavery. Both the Church and the United States have reformed since those days. And once again- never forget that this Church has Jesus' personal protection, as he promised in scripture.

