 If you start immediately with the tail-whip, chances are you'll hurt yourself. It's important to practice the little things first to build the skills necessary to complete a tail-whip. It'll be much easier to teach yourself slowly, practicing the steps leading up to a successful tail-whip.









To do a bunny hop, stand on your scooter and bounce straight up, keeping your feet on the board at all times, and landing safely on two feet. Practice landing smoothly to get used to the feeling of landing on the wheels and controlling it. To land a tail-whip, you'll have to be able to do this in your sleep., Another good skill-building exercise is to practice stepping off the scooter and kicking it as you would in a tail-whip, except that you'll be standing on the ground.









To do this, ride the scooter slowly and then step off the board with your right foot on the left side of the board, and kick the scooter around (counterclockwise) with your left foot. Practice stopping the board with your kicking foot to get a feel for how to control the spin with your wrists, and how to stop it safely.
 The next step in slowly learning to tail-whip is to combine the two skills you've already practiced, but basically bail-out and land on the ground. It's harder than it seems like it might be to jump and whip at the same time, so don't force yourself to try to nail the landing in addition to learning those necessary skills.









Scootering at a slow speed, do your bunny hop and kick the scooter around with both feet, holding onto the bars and controlling the spin with your wrists. Land flat on the ground with both feet and practice bringing the scooter down firmly in front of you, in the proper position for you to land on it.
You might start trying to land with one foot, or at least stopping the scooter with one foot before you try a full-on landing.
 It'll take a lot of practice to put it all together, but you can start by trying it standing still, doing a bunny hop and tail whipping around to try to land, but it's actually a little easier to do it in motion. Go at slow speed and don't be afraid to bail if it doesn't quite work out.
 This is the foundation for lots of scooter tricks, so it's worth sticking it out and trying to learn it, no matter how long it takes. Don't give up!








