 As you age, your blood sugar levels and reactions will change. Testing your blood sugar regularly will eventually provide you with an intuitive sense of how to manage your diabetes.


This will help you master your body and know how blood glucose levels behave when you participate in different activities or eat different foods.
As you grow up, you will be able to more easily ensure that your blood sugar level is controlled.
 You should keep a record of blood glucose levels at different times and while taking part in different activities. This will provide evidence of which activities and foods have adverse or beneficial effects on your blood sugar.


You should review your records regularly.
This will help you understand the pattern of when sugars are too high or too low.
You will begin to identify things that trigger an increase or a decrease of the blood sugar.
 As you age, stay on the look out for warning signs of increased blood sugar levels and or decreased blood sugar.


Common warning signs of increased blood sugar include blurry vision, itchy skin, and frequent urination.
Raised blood sugar can lead to complications like kidney disease and blindness.
Reduced blood sugar can be indicated by confusion, increased heart rate, fainting and sweating.
 Older people who have type 1 diabetes should have regular medical checkups. This helps to diagnose any complications early and ensures early treatment.


These checkups should include examination of the kidneys, feet, and eyes.
 If you are elderly and suffer form diabetes, you may be at risk of falling due to an unsteady gait. Falling can be a big problem for people of advanced age, because diabetes delays healing and prevents rapid tissue regrowth.


The delayed healing is caused by increased blood sugar levels in their blood.
 If you are elderly and have type 1 diabetes, you should be screened for depression. Depression can be common in elderly people because they have been dealing with their diabetes since childhood.


You need to be able to open up regarding your fears and concerns.
In severe cases, you might require professional help and to be seen by a counselor.
 If you have type 1 diabetes, you are at risk of getting stroke. Stroke can be caused by increased blood pressure and cholesterol.


You are advised to keep your blood pressure under control by having frequent checkups.
If you are on blood pressure medicines (anti-hypertensive) you should be careful to take them on schedule.
 Cigarette smoking is a direct contributor to various health conditions, such as cardiovascular diseases, coronary and vascular problems, and cancer. If you have diabetes, smoking compounds your risk of acquiring cardiovascular conditions.


If you smoke you should get counseling to stop smoking.
 Excessive intake of alcoholic beverages like beer and whiskey has harmful health effects, including liver diseases, increased blood pressure, cancer, and cardiovascular ailments.


Although you can drink alcohol in moderation if you are diabetic, it is crucial to target recommended levels of consumption and not overdo it.

