 Coccyx cushion treatment will be most effective if you can use the cushion in the car, at home, at work and everywhere else you need to sit down. You can purchase several inexpensive cushions or opt for one that can travel with you and be used everywhere.Consistency is key to treating your tailbone pain with a coccyx cushion.
Be aware that one cushion may not be suitable for all scenarios. For example, a cushion may help while you are sitting at your desk, but it may not be as effective while you are driving. Try using a cushion in different situations to see when it provides the most benefit.;
, Use the coccyx cushion in a chair with a back that will give you extra support. The cushion naturally helps improve your posture by slightly elevating your hips, and sitting in a chair with a back will help you sit up straight and eliminate pressure on your spine and pelvis.


When using a cushion on a chair that is a comfortable height for you, your thighs may be slightly higher than usual. To offset this difference, try using a footstool to make sure your lower body is still in a comfortable position. If the chair is adjustable, then you can also adjust the height of the seat to make yourself more comfortable.
 Do not use a coccyx cushion with other cushions. Adding extra pillows or cushions will cause you to sit unevenly and in turn, distribute your weight and pressure unevenly, which is unhealthy for your back. The placement of the cushion on the seat can either be flat or slightly slopping. This is most people's preference.If you need extra height, purchase a thicker coccyx cushion instead of adding extra pillows or padding.
If you are putting the cushion on a very soft seat, like couch or plush chair, put a rigid board under the cushion for support.
 You can add flat ice or hot packs to your coccyx cushions for hot or cold therapy. Wrap the packs in towels and place one on either side of the cut-out area in the cushion.Some cushions may come with gel insert that you can warm up or freeze before reinserting them and using the cushion.
Consult with your physician about whether the effects of ice or hot packs would be beneficial for you.
 Try to get a coccyx cushion with a removable cover that can be machine washed. This will help you keep your cushion is clean and sanitary.
 If the coccyx cushion isn't providing sufficient relief to your tailbone pain, then try a different one.


For example, you use a coccyx cushion that is made of soft foam and find that it’s not alleviating the pain, upgrade to a cushion made of firmer, denser foam for more support. Cushioning is an individual need, so your cushion needs will be unique.

