 Start by walking around the main areas- the entryways, living room, dining room and kitchen - first and picking up all the trash. Take dirty dishes to the sink to be washed later. Make sure to look under the tables and under the edges of other furniture to make sure no trash is left.;
, An attractive basket is one way to organize these until you have time to file. But be sure to take a few minutes each day to deal with your 'hotspots'!

, You'll come back later to do the floor!

, Start with the counters. Clear everything off the counters and place it on the dining table or in their respective cabinets or drawers. If your hands are sensitive, find a pair of rubber gloves. Then clean off the dust and any debris that are on the counters with a damp sponge. If there are any stains from food products, use the Magic Erasers to help with this. If you use your counter as a cutting board (which is never recommended) the magic eraser will clean in the little cut marks on the counter to remove germs and food build up. Just look at the magic eraser when you're done, you'll see how filthy it is. (see warnings section for proper use of the magic erasers, and the "Tips" section for alternatives to it.) Make yourself a note, if you don't have a cutting board, to get an inexpensive one the next time you're at the store. Never cut directly on your counters! Waxing the counters makes them look new and shiny but is probably over-the-top for most people. (Mrs. Meyer's Countertop spray is easy to use and leaves them shiny and smelling nice.)

, (See: How to Clean an Oven and How to Clean the Stove Top)

, This can be an extra step and can be saved for another time. However, most people don't clean their refrigerators regularly. This can result in stuck on food bits that are hard to clean, crumbs in the back of the fridge and under the drawers, and if left unkempt for too long, will attract bugs. Clean old food out of the fridge, check expiry dates, clean off the shelves with the magic eraser, pull out the drawers and clean the bits out from under them. You will notice a big difference each time you open your fridge. (See:How to clean a refrigerator)

, Put most of it away in a convenient place until really needed, put the rest back on the shiny counters, and put a nice tablecloth on the table, with maybe even a decorative bowl of fruit or a plant if you have one.
 Do the fronts of the cabinets some other time but if they're looking grungy around the handles or knobs, at least give those a swipe now.
 We're not looking for perfection here!

, This is also good for disinfecting kitchen and bathroom counters. You don't need to buy the expensive premade stuff in the spray bottles at the grocery store. For 1/20th the cost you can make it yourself!

, A clean bathroom makes people feel much more comfortable in your home, while a dirty one has a huge 'ICK!' factor. First clean off the bathroom counters. Put things away that you do not constantly use. Find a way to attractively display those that you do. Bathrooms are so small, even a little bit of clutter is unattractive. A rag or paper towel with some glass cleaner will clean the mirror, other surfaces and fixtures as well. This makes a nice impression with guests. Finally, fluff and refold the towels and wipe up the floor with the rag, and toss it in the laundry basket. See also How to Clean a toilet and How to Clean a Bathtub

, Dust off any tables, shelves and items on them. This gives people a better impression of your home and helps prevent allergies. If the items are washable (such as glass decorations) set aside some time later to wash them and allow them to dry completely before replacing them. If you're expecting company in the next few days and there's time, polishing the wood and glass is a nice touch (but never use the same kind of polish for glass and wood! Lemon oil is best for wood, glass cleaners, such as Sparkle, for glass. If the smell of store-bought cleaners is bothersome, you can inexpensively make your own. There are many kinds of products that are also non-toxic and quite effective such as Mrs. Meyer's.)

,,,