 To make chocolate hummus, make the classic hummus recipe but remove the tahini, garlic, and lemon juice. Instead, add 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of honey, four tablespoons of unsweetened cocoa powder, five tablespoons of sugar, and three tablespoons of water. Combine the ingredients in the food processor.If the hummus isn’t chocolatey enough, or if it isn’t sweet enough, add cocoa powder, sugar, or honey to taste.
 To make this sweet hummus, you can add one cup of pumpkin puree or canned pumpkin to the base hummus recipe. Just place the pumpkin the food processor to blend everything until smooth.You can alter the flavor slightly by eliminating the garlic and adding more pumpkin.
You can also add ground pumpkins seeds for additional flavor.
 Place one can of chickpeas with ¼ cup of cashews or other nuts, 6 tablespoons (88.7 ml) of maple syrup, 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of vanilla extract, three tablespoons of plain oatmeal, and ¼ teaspoon of salt in the food processor. Blend until smooth. After that, fold in ¼ cup of chocolate chips.You can add more chocolate chips to taste. You can also adjust the amount of maple syrup to taste.
 Combine one can of drained chickpeas with ¼ cup of creamy peanut butter, ¼ cup of maple syrup, 3 tablespoons (44.4 ml) of unsweetened vanilla almond milk, two tablespoon of cocoa powder, and 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of vanilla extract. Blend everything in the food processor until smooth.Add some semi-sweet or dark chocolate chips to the top for additional flavor.
 Start by baking one sweet potato in the oven or heating it in the microwave. When the sweet potato is soft, combine the sweet potato with one can of chickpeas, ½ teaspoon of cinnamon, 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of vanilla extract, 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) maple syrup, 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) coconut oil, and ¼ cup of water in the food processor. Blend until smooth.When in a bowl, top the hummus with one teaspoon of maple syrup, two tablespoons of chopped pecans, and one tablespoon of unsweetened coconut flakes. You can also add cinnamon to taste.
 Place one can of rinsed chickpeas in the food processor along with 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) coconut oil or softened unsalted butter, 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) caramel sauce, two teaspoons of vanilla extract, and ¼ teaspoon of salt. Blend until smooth.Place the hummus in a bowl and stir in half of a chopped apple, ¼ cup of white chocolate chips, and ¼ cup of chopped pecans. Mix until the ingredients are spread evenly throughout the hummus.
On top, sprinkle one tablespoon of chopped apple, one tablespoon of white chocolate chips, and one tablespoon of chopped pecans.

