 Silk screening uses a pre-made design to apply ink onto a shirt quickly. You can then remove the shirt, put another one under the screen, and apply the same design to that shirt.
 To silk-screen shirts you will need some supplies, most of which should be available at your local art store or online:


Silk Screen ink (make sure it matches your shirt fabric)
Photo emulsion
Silk Screen and frame.
Squeegee
Bright light (minimum 150 Watts)
Large black, flat surface (chalkboard, poster, etc)
Poster board
Scissors or X-Acto knife
A design
A t-shirt, any fabric., Silk screens can only apply one color at a time, so create a simple shape or outline to begin learning. Your design will be what is eventually colored onto your shirt. Draw your design on piece of poster board and then cut it out. Think of your stencil as the ink on the shirt. Place your finished stencil on the shirt -- whatever part of the shirt the stencil covers will be inked over eventually.

NOTE: This is the opposite type of stencil from the one discussed earlier. Here, what you cut away makes your design.
 Photo emulsion is a special substance which reacts to light. When it does, it hardens. We will use this to make a shape in the emulsion for our design-- everything not covered in emulsion will be our design. Pour a line of emulsion along a side of the screen and use the squeegee to spread a thin line along the entire screen.


Apply emulsion to the side that is not surrounded by the frame on all four sides.
Do this in as dark a room as possible., Try to expose it to as little light as possible -- a closet or bathroom will work fine if you can close some blinds or curtains

, This is where you will expose the screen to light. Following the specification on the photo emulsion bottle, set up a light above your flat black surface. Each emulsion has different times, watts, and distances needed for proper exposure, so read the bottle carefully.


For example, if the emulsion calls for 30 minutes at 200 watts, set up a lamp with a 200W bulb 1-2 feet above a table. You will put the screen underneath the light.
 Cover it with a towel so it does not react to light as you transfer it to your exposure area. , The screen should be emulsion side up so that it is resting on the frame and the screen is raised a few inches above the table. Place your stencil in the middle of the screen.


Put your stencil down in reverse to get the right image. Look at your stencil the way you want it, then flip it over before you put it down.
If there is a breeze, or your stencil is very light, place a clear piece of glass on top of it to keep it from moving.
Do not push, prod, or move your screen, light, or stencil. , Check the emulsion bottle again to see how long you need the light for. If you smell anything burning, be sure to turn off the light immediately. When it is done, remove the stencil.


If you prepared the emulsion correctly, you should see the faint outline of your stencil in the emulsion.
 Take any high-powered water source (shower, faucet, hose) and wash off the screen, focusing the water on your image. You should see the outline of your stencil appear. Keep spraying until you see your image clearly. Don't forget to let the screen dry before moving on.
 This prevents ink from dripping through to the other side of the shirt.
 Place the screen on your t-shirt with the frame side up, centering your design where you want it on the shirt.
 Put a thin line of ink above your design. Firmly drag the squeegee over your design so that ink covers the entire stencil.


Higher pressure will result in a darker image. , Pull the screen off the t-shirt with even pressure then hang the shirt up to dry. The stencil should be the only part colored in.
 You can use your silk screen again with another t-shirt if you want, adding more ink as necessary.

