 For this project, you only need a few items. You will need a spray bottle, an old pill bottle, glue, a sharp knife, and a pair of scissors. The spray bottle should have the plastic piping on the inside of the bottle. These are found on many household cleaners or you can buy a fresh one from the dollar store., Take the old pill bottle and remove the label. Then, take the cap and poke a hole in its center using your sharp knife. The cap might already have an indent in the middle of the cap. If it does, just puncture the cap using this as a guide. If not, find the center of the cap and puncture it with your knife. Once the hole is made, try to stick the plastic piping from the spray bottle inside the hole. If the hole is too small, use the knife or a ball point pen to try to open the hole a little wider until the piping can fit through it.


Make sure you don't make the hole too big. The plastic piping should be snug against the sides of the hole in the cap.
 Put the cap back on the pill bottle. Remove the piping from the top of the spray bottle and stick it into the cap. There will likely be an excess of pipe above the pill cap. Using the scissors, cut off the piping about 3/4 an inch above the cap. You want to make sure that there is enough left so you can stick it back into the bottom of the spray bottle.


If there is still too much, snip off the excess until the bottom of the spray nozzle fits snugly against the bottle cap and the pipe is completely inside the hole in the spray nozzle., Remove the bottle cap from the bottle and set the bottle aside. Take your glue and apply it around the bottom of the spray nozzle cap where it meets the bottle cap. Fit the pieces snugly together, pressing them firmly. Allow them to dry. Once they are, fill the pill bottle with water and put the cap back on the bottle. Your water gun is complete.


If the spray nozzle keeps coming off of the cap, try a different type of glue or use a glue gun. The glue you originally used may not be strong enough to stand up to the movements of the water gun.