 It can be easy to take the people we love for granted. Yes, friends and family are what get us through the tough times, but they are also there for the good times as well -- the problem is that we don’t always notice. Show them in little ways that you care.


Bring flowers for your mom when it’s not her birthday. If you’re a wiz at working on cars and you hear your friend’s car sputtering, offer to change the spark plugs. A small gesture of love can a long way in making those who are special to you feel good!
When you have a conflict with a loved one, be willing to work it out. Giving up and slamming the door behind you is not the path to happiness! Sometimes it can be as simple as accepting an idea or opinion that is different from our own. The person will probably recognize that that wasn’t easy for you to do and will appreciate you all the more for it.;
, Don’t just think about what you want to do in life. Get out there and do it! You’re responsible for making things happen in your life, no one else. Many people at the end of their life wish they would have stepped out more on the tether rope of life. Don’t you be one of them! The key really is action.


Don’t bite off more than you can chew, though. Otherwise, you might quit. Small, incremental steps and consistency is how you accomplish big goals in life.
 Have you noticed that you love beautiful surroundings yet your personal space is a mess? Then start working on creating that gorgeous environment for yourself, and then invite your friends over when you’re done! Did your art teacher in school comment on the amazing artwork you would create? Even though you’ve thought about it, you still haven’t created one thing since graduation. So pick up some paints today, and start rendering those Picasso-like pieces that you have in your head!

, Each day, make a list of your three most important tasks (called MITs) that need to be completed in any given week. Make another list of smaller, less important tasks which, if you don’t do, could cause problems for you later on. These might include writing a brief letter, responding to emails, making calls, completing paperwork, etc. Set a time later in the day to do them all at once (say 4:30 p.m.). Then, start working on your MITs for the day, and when the time rolls around, do the smaller tasks.Towards the end of the day, take a look at what still needs to be done. Transfer tasks from the small list to the next day, and continue focusing on the MITs.
This method ensures that the bulk of your time isn’t consumed by tasks less important than the bigger priorities in your life.
Like anything new, it will take time to perfect, but stay with it. Eventually, you will be an expert at managing time versus it managing you!

