 Be generous when applying sunscreen on your child. Make sure that you cover all the exposed skin areas, including the back of the neck, the ears and the tops of the feet.


You should use about one ounce of sunscreen over your child’s body.;
, SPF stands for Sun Protection Factor. This determines how long it will take your child’s skin to start burning. For example, if your child’s skin will reddens after 20 minutes in the sun, it will take 30 times longer with SPF 15, or about five hours.You should also look for sunscreen or sunblock labeled "broad-spectrum." This indicates that it protects from both UVA and UVB rays.


Use a sunscreen that is at least SPF 30 for child skin cancer prevention.
It’s important to remember that there is no sunscreen that blocks out 100% of the sun’s UV rays.
 It’s important that the sunscreen settles into the skin and provides a protective coating. Put sunscreen on your child about 30 minutes before he goes out., The sun shines UV rays even on cloudy days. Even when the sky is not clear, the rays can give your child a burn. It’s important to wear sunscreen on these days as well., If your children are going to be outside in the sun, be sure to reapply sunscreen at least every two hours or more if possible.If your child is swimming or sweating, sunscreen should be reapplied frequently as well. Put on more sunscreen if your child has toweled off.
 Babies have sensitive skin that does not handle sunscreen. You should not use sunscreen on an infant; however, experts feel that you can apply a small amount of baby-safe sunblock (with titanium dioxide or zinc oxide) on small areas such as the face or hands or feet, if exposure is unavoidable. If sun exposure is unavoidable, the child should be covered up properly.
 Babies in this age range can handle sunscreen. The sunscreen should be SPF 30 or higher. Apply a generous layer of sunscreen to the baby’s skin 30 minutes before he is exposed to the sun.Choose sunscreen and sunblocks made specifically for babies.
If your baby sweats a lot or is in the water, reapply the sunscreen every two hours.
These are simply suggested recommendations and should not be substituted for pediatric advice. Always follow the advice from your child’s doctor.
 The insect repellant can make the sunscreen less effective, and the sunscreen can make the insect repellant more toxic.Sunscreen should be applied generously at least every two hours, while insect repellant should be used no more frequently than two to six hours.Sunscreen must be applied to the face, while it is best to avoid applying insect repellant to your face., Ensure that your child is covered up when exposed to the sun for long periods. Even while at the beach, you should have your child wear a t-shirt while out of the water. Consider a one-piece swimsuit for girls and/or a rash guard or swim shirt for girls and boys. You can also encourage your child to take cover under an umbrella or shaded area.
 Make a habit of having your child wear a hat when outdoors to avoid skin cancer risks. A hat with a brim that covers the face and neck is ideal. If you are consistent, your child will adjust to wearing a hat outside when it is sunny. Choose a hat with a brim that’s at least three inches all the way around., Just as adults should protect their eyes from the sun, children should too. Again, if consistent, children should not have a problem wearing sunglasses on sunny days. Choose sunglasses that protect from UVA and UVB rays. The sunglasses should fit snugly on your child’s face., The sun’s rays are harshest during the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Keep your child out of the sun during these hours if possible. If exposure during these hours is unavoidable, limit the time that your child is outside. Also be sure to protect your child’s skin with sunscreen and clothing.
 Infants under six months old have skin that contains little melanin or skin pigmentation. Their skin is sensitive and can’t handle sunscreen. As a result, infants should be kept out of the sun. If they need to be outside, they should be covered adequately.Limit walks with your infant to before 10:00 a.m. or after 4:00 p.m. Your infant should sit in a stroller with a sun protective cover over her.
These are simply suggested recommendations and should not be substituted for pediatric advice. Always follow the advice from your child’s doctor.
 Teens and pre-teens may want to lay out in the sun to get a tan. Some teens might also want to visit a tanning bed. These activities should be avoided. Extra and deliberate exposure to the sun can make skin more susceptible to the risk of skin cancer., Some medications make skin more sensitive to light and UV rays. If your child is taking a medication such as antibiotics or ibuprofen, you should help your child take extra care in the sun. Ideally, your child would avoid sun exposure altogether., Explain to your children how they should be careful in the sun. When you are taking precautions by putting the sunblock on your child, or the hat, explain why.For example, you can say, "Here, put your hat on. You have to protect your skin from the sun." At first, your child may ask you why, and you can explain that the sun is very hot and it can damage the skin. Don't explain it in a manner that scares your child. Just explain it in a nonchalant way. If your precautions become second nature to you, they will become second nature to your child.
At some point, your child will be reminding you to put on your sunblock. Your teaching should eventually cause your children to start taking precautions for themselves without you prompting them. They can also feel confident to remind other children.
 If you are going to require your children to wear sunscreen and cover up their skin, you should do the same thing. Wear sunscreen, avoid the sun at peak exposure times, and cover up your skin. Your children will more likely to cooperate if they see the whole family taking care in the sun., Certain people are more prone to developing skin cancer, depending on genetics, environment, and skin tone. The following are some factors that might increase your risk of skin cancer:Family history of skin cancer
Increased sun exposure
Living in areas with higher intensity of sunlight, including areas such as the Caribbean, northern Australia, and Florida
Previously sunburned skin
High level of body moles
Fair skin or very light skin
Inherited diseases
Exposure to high levels of pollution
Children who are exposed to cigarette smoke

, Recognize that fair-skinned children are more likely to burn in the sun if unprotected, but this doesn’t mean that darker-skinned children should not be protected in the sun. Take precautions with all children., The skin is the largest organ in our bodies. It functions to protect our vital organs and bodies from harmful pathogens and trauma. The skin works to protect our bodies from too much of the sun's harmful rays. It also stores fat as well as moisture. However, with so much exposure to harmful elements, injury can occur without protecting our skin, especially from the sun's ultraviolet (UV) rays.
 There are several different types of skin cancer. Only a medical professional can correctly diagnose and treat the different types of cancer.Here are several types of skin cancer:


Actinic keratosis: Symptoms include red bumps and tan crusts. These are not skin cancer, but skin cancer can develop from them.Squamous cell: Occurs due to uncontrolled cells in squamous layer of the skin. Usual presentation includes a dark spot that may be elevated frequently the lower lip, face and outer ear, as well as other sun exposed areas, scaly red patches, or a sore that doesn't heal.Basal cell: Symptoms are due to the presence of a localized red bump due to overproduction of cells in the basal layer of the skin.They may also look like a red, scaly patch or a sore that doesn't heal
Melanoma: Melanomas are the most dangerous forms of skin cancer, and can even be fatal. It is becoming more common in young adults. They may develop without warning or near a mole or dark spot on the skin, so it is important to be aware of the color, size, and location of moles on your child's body.Pay attention to the following guidelines (known as ABCDE) when examining at a mole or dark spot on the skin:Asymmetry: the area should be symmetric, or the same on both sides. If it is not, however, this could be a warning sign for malignancy.
Borders: borders should be well defined.
Color: the area should be the same color throughout its surface. Malignant moles are often black, red, or white or multicolored.
Diameter: the diameter of the area should be less than 6 mm, or roughly the size of a cap of a pen cap.
Elevation: any elevation of the skin can be a warning sign.
 Become familiar with your child's freckles and moles. If you notice changes in the color or diameter of some markings or new symptoms like itching or bleeding, visit a dermatologist. Any evolving or irregularity of the freckles or moles should not be ignored. This skin specialist will check out the area thoroughly. This doctor will also do annual mole checks on patients with a large number of moles or who are prone to sunburn or skin cancer.


Only a medical professional can diagnose and treat skin disorders and possible skin cancers., Treatment includes excision and biopsy of the area in question. This means that the doctor will excise, or cut out, the affected area (or will sometimes take a shaving of the lesion) and run a biopsy, or examination, to determine to determine if it is skin cancer, and the type and severity of it. Depending on the severity of the diagnosis, other treatments include: Electrosurgery
Cryotherapy
Laser therapy
Radiation
Photodynamic therapy
Topical medications
More surgery to remove the entire cancer and an area of surrounding skin

