 Initiate a conversation in which you inform them about your allergy. In this conversation, you’ll give them an idea about your allergies and their severity. This way, they’ll have the information they need to ensure you have a pleasant experience at their home.


You want to be clear you have genuine concerns about your health. Consider saying “I have allergies that make it hard for me to visit people with pets.”
Ask the person exactly what types of pets they have. This is important, as not all pets will aggravate your allergies.
 When initiating a conversation with someone about your allergies, you need to make sure you are polite. Do not make any demands about what they need to do to prepare for you. After all, you are their guest – you do not have to attend.


If they offer to clean their home or make special accommodations, make sure to thank them. Never say “You need to thoroughly clean your house or I can’t visit.” Instead, politely explain your needs.
You may want to consider acknowledging that you understand how your condition might inconvenience them.
Offer to relocate your meeting. For instance, instead of having coffee at their home, you can have coffee at a coffee shop.Most people who entertain frequently should be cognizant of pet allergens and the problems they create., Consider politely suggesting that your host removes their pets from public spaces in their home while you are visiting. While this won’t remove all the danger, it will lower the chance of you having a serious allergic reaction.


Say something like “Sometimes my allergies are okay if the pets aren’t in the room at the moment.”
Let them know that direct contact with a specific type of pet may aggravate your allergy.
Many pet owners have “pet free zones” that they entertain guests in. If they have one, they may let you know., Despite all of the steps you and your host have taken, you still may need to leave their home earlier than expected. If your symptoms are turning severe, politely excuse yourself.


If you're in the middle of the conversation, redirect it. Say, "I think I'm having a bad allergic reaction."
Instead of leaving right away, ask them if you could finish your conversation outside. Once outside, if possible, finish chatting with them.
Before you leave, thank them for having you over. Let them know they should not feel bad. Consider saying "This is just one of the unpleasant side-effects of having allergies. How about if we make plans to see each other at my house (or another location) next time?"

