 A common system of ordering cards uses the consonants from the word “chased" to order the suits. This code stands for: Clubs, Hearts, Spades and Diamonds., There are five hash marks in the pinwheel under the man at the top corner of each card. Using a fine tipped red or blue sharpie, depending on the color of the deck, color in the hash mark within the pinwheel on the right side which represents the suit of the card according to the “chased” order.If the card is a Club you would color in the first hash tag, for Hearts the second, Spades the third and Diamonds the fourth.
Mark the right side of the card because when they are fanned in your opponents hand in a game like Poker, it is most often the right corner of the card which is showing.
 The fan is the flower shape being held by the man at the top corner of the card. If the flower is completely unmarked, it is an Ace. Use a red or blue pen to mark out the petals on the fan.Start marking with the petal to the right of the top/center of the fan, or what could be considered “one o’clock.” Color in this petal to signify a 2. Continue around the flower with 9 being the petal on top of the fan.
Color in the circle at the center of the fan to identify it as 10. Any face cards should also have this center circle colored in. The circle plus the top/center petal colored in will be a Jack, the circle and the next petal to the right would be a Queen. The center circle plus the third, or horizontal petal would be the King.
 Each card has the value flipped on the face of the card, meaning that it can be held in your opponent’s hand “upside down” from where you made the mark. Repeat your marks on the opposite corner of the card to be sure it is visible regardless of which way your opponent holds the card.


This also makes the card look consistent, making it less obvious that the deck is marked.
Make your marks on a new deck. The color of the deck will fade and you want your marks to fade with it and not be darker than the color on the deck.

