 You may need umbrella insurance if you have substantial assets or if there's a high risk you will be sued.


Umbrella policies protect you from liability or personal injury lawsuits above and beyond the coverage offered by your homeowner's and auto insurance policies.Umbrella policies typically are sold in increments of $1 million., Most insurance companies want you to have at least $250,000 in auto insurance and $300,000 in homeowner's insurance before they'll sell you an umbrella policy.The umbrella policy doesn't kick in until you've reached the limit of your underlying policies.If you don't already have that level of coverage, keep in mind how much increasing your coverage would add to your premiums., A $1 million personal umbrella liability policy typically will cost between $150 and $300 a year.You should balance how much you can afford with how much you are likely to need. This amount will vary based on how at risk you are of being sued, and what the judgment is likely to be. Given the size of some personal injury judgments, $5 million might not even be enough. However, even a smaller umbrella policy offers the benefit of having the insurance company's legal team working in your defense.You also can decrease your premiums by increasing your deductibles on your other policies. For example, if you have a $500 deductible on your auto insurance policy, but can afford a $2,000, that could lower your premium substantially., You may be able to find discounted umbrella insurance, for example by purchasing your policy from the same company that provides your homeowner's insurance.


Typically, if you want umbrella insurance you would talk to the company that already insures your home and car and have the umbrella policy added to your account.Consolidating your auto and home insurance with the same insurer can save you up to 20 percent on your premiums.You also can potentially save money by shopping around and comparing coverage and premiums offered by several different companies. If you can get better coverage for less from a different company, it might make sense to switch., Once you purchase your policy, you should read your coverage statement carefully so you understand which assets are covered and on what terms.


If you own a boat or other recreational vehicles, keep in mind they may not be automatically covered by your homeowner's or auto policies. Typically you have to purchase separate coverage or specifically add them to your umbrella policy.