


Start with the directory on Time Banks USA Time Banks USA. Although "USA" is in the website name, the directory also includes timebanks from the Canada and other countries.
If you don't find your time bank listed on the Time Banks USA site, it's worth doing a Google search to see if there's a time bank in your area. No all time banks are listed in the Time Banks USA directory.;
,


Time banking is built on trust, and often involves visiting the homes of other members. That's why most time banks do reference checks.
,


At timebank orientation, you will learn how time banking works, how to make requests and offers, as well as how to use the timebank software.
You can attend the time bank orientation even if your application is not complete.
Most time banks will inform you about orientations via email, newsletters, or social media pages.
, Time banks host potlucks and other events so members can meet each other and build trust. You can usually attend potlucks even if you haven't applied yet. If you bring something, you will get a time dollar.
 Most time banks will give you a time credit for attending orientation. Recording this hour gives you a chance to practice reporting your hours.


There are several different types of time bank software, but most time banks use Hourworld or Community Weaver.
If you have problems using the software, contact a time bank coordinator. They are there to help, and want everyone to be able to make the most out of the time bank.



It helps to be specific. If requesting a meal, for example, you will be more likely to get what you want if you specify things like the type of cuisine, dietary restrictions, whether or not you need the meal delivered to your home, how many people you are feeding, etc.
If you are stuck on what to offer, think about what you enjoy or miss doing. You can also ask the time bank coordinator for ideas if you are stuck. Some time banks even offer inventories or surveys to help people brainstorm ideas for exchanges.
,