 Do not cut the wool into tufts. This will create sharp edges and make it difficult to felt. Also, be sure to get pure wool and not acrylic; acrylic fibers will not felt. Many crafters will recommend Merino wool for its fine fibers.The wool does not have to be naturally colored! Consider getting some dyed wool!;
, Make sure that the fibers are all going in the same direction. You do not have to cover the entire baking sheet; an 8 by 8 inch (20.32 by 20.32 centimeters) square will be plenty., For example, if all the tufts were going up-and-down in the first layer, make all the tufts go side-to-side in this layer. You can also experiment with using a different color of wool for this layer. Be sure to use a color that complements the first one, however, or you might get a muddy result.
 Remember to alternate the direction in which the fibers are going with each layer. Two layers is perfectly fine for a thin piece of felt, but if you'd like something thicker, aim for three or four layers total.Consider adding some pieces of loose-weave fabric or bits of Merino yarn on top for color and texture., This will help keep the fibers in place during the felting process. The fabric needs to be big enough to cover the entire wool sheet.
 Keep the rest of the felting solution handy to refill the bottle as needed. You will need 1 tablespoon of dish soap and 1 quart (950 milliliters) of hot water.Don't shake the bottle, or you will create too many suds.The hotter the water is, the faster the wool will felt. The water shouldn't be so hot that it is uncomfortable to work with, however.
 Don't be tempted to pour the water onto the wool. This will cause the fibers to move around too much. Instead, spray it down with your hot, soapy water until it is completely saturated (but not dripping). Ball up some bubble wrap, rub it over a piece of bar soap, then gently massage the felt using small, circular motions.If you accidentally soaked the wool, use a small sponge to mop up the excess water., Pour the water off as it cools, and spray more hot, soapy water onto it.Be sure to tuck in any loose or stray fibers as you work. This will make the edges of your sheet a little more even.
 You can tell if the wool is ready by doing a simple pinch test. Pinch a piece of the wool between your thumb and forefinger. If it stays in place and doesn't come off, you can move on the to the next step. If it lifts away, then continue pressing the wool.


The bubble wrap needs to be textured side up.
 Start by folding an inch (2.54 centimeters) of so of bubble wrap over the bottom edge of the felted wool to create a seam. Next, roll the wool up as tightly as you can along with the bubble wrap, starting from the bottom. Press down as you roll the wool to drain off any excess water.
 Roll it gently at first, then with increasing pressure later on. Don't over-felt or over-work your wool., The cold water rinse will help set the fibers. Gently press down onto the felt sheet to squeeze out the excess water. Do not wring or twist it.Consider adding a splash of white vinegar to the water.This will remove excess soap and restore the natural pH of the wool; it will brighten the wool's colors and help it last longer.
 The wool will have shrunk and thickened during the felting process. It may also shrink a little bit more while it dries. This is completely natural.
 You can cut it into squares and sew it onto a bag to make patches. You can also cut it into circles to make coasters. The possibilities are endless!

