 Giving your dog any attention when it's begging only encourages it to beg more. Plus, if you look at your dog, you're more likely to give in. If you give into your dog and feed it food sometimes, that teaches it will be rewarded for this behavior. By ignoring the dog altogether, your dog will learn that begging doesn't get it anywhere.Make sure everyone in the family works together to ignore begging. You must be consistent.;
, Trying to talk your dog out of begging won't work. Therefore, you shouldn't just look away; make sure you're also not talking to it or petting it. Any attention you show your dog will only encourage it, making it want to beg more., Teaching your dog "sit" and "stay" can help with begging, as it removes your dog from the table area if you can get it to "stay" somewhere slightly away. To work up to these behaviors, you need to start small.To teach sit, have a treat ready. Start with the treat in front of the dog's nose, and move it back and upwards, above the dog's head. The dog will need to lift its nose to follow the treat, pushing its rump down. As you do this move, say "sit." If the dog doesn't complete the motion, try pushing gently on the dog's rear end. Reward the dog with a treat when it is in the sitting position. Keep practicing the move, then work on doing it without a treat.
For stay, get your dog in sitting position. Say "stay." It can help to hold your hand up to the dog with your palm flat. Walk a few steps away. If your dog follows, take it back to the starting position and repeat the command. When your dog stays, even for short periods, try rewarding it with a treat.
 Once you've ignored your dog's bad behavior, make sure to reward good behavior. That is, if your dog has been begging for 20 minutes, and then goes and lays down quietly, take it a small treat to let it know that being quiet and not begging is what gets it rewarded.For this tactic, it can help to have a comfy place for your dog nearby, like moving its dog bed near the table.

