 No matter what time of day you do your workout, it’s important to get in a short warm up. This will prepare your body for your low-impact workout and minimize the risk for injury.Walk at an easy pace for five to 10 minutes. You can do this outside, in your home, or at a gym.;
, In order to get the most benefit out of this low-impact workout, do each exercise for 20 seconds, followed by 10 seconds of rest before beginning the next move. Do four rounds of this sequence., Planks and pushups are excellent ways to engage your core and other muscles in your arms, legs, and back. “Walking” your body down into a pushup can build strength and flexibility as well as increase your range of motion.Start by bending over your legs. You should feel a light stretch. Place your hands on the ground and “walk” them out until your body is in a plank position. Then lower your chest down to perform the pushup. Push back up into the plank and “walk” your hands back until you’re bending over your legs again.
 A great way to build your strength and cardiovascular fitness is adding a couple of kicks to squats. This move targets your core and leg muscles and helps with balance and mobility.Start in a standing position with your legs about hip-width apart. Gently lower your legs into a squat, making sure to keep your core engaged. Don’t allow your knees to pass your hips as you lower down into your squat.
Press into your legs to lift back up and, as you do this, kick one leg up and out. Do so with control to minimize your risk of overextending your leg. Repeat the squat and kick with the other leg.
 Your thigh, butt, and back muscles are some of the biggest in your body. Doing lateral steps pulls can target these muscles while building strength and endurance.Begin in an easy standing position. Bend slightly at the hips, which will help you do a rowing motion to target your back muscles. As you begin to row your arms, step to one side. Repeat the lateral step pull on the other side.
Contract your muscles as much as you can. Pretending to “work against yourself” can help you get the most out of this move.
 Another great combination for building muscles and cardiovascular endurance is the punch and high knee pull. This move engages your arms, shoulders, thighs, and core muscles.Punch your arms three times and then bring a knee to one elbow, then repeat with the opposite knee and elbow.
Avoid feeling discouraged if you can’t get the moves to flow at first. Working on it is part of the challenge.
 Just like a warm up, a cool down is important. It helps return your body temperature to normal and loosen your muscles. Take a five to 10 minute walk at a gentle pace. Consider adding a few stretches to your cool down if you like., Anyone can do low-impact cardio and reap its benefits; however, low-impact cardio may be an especially great option for individuals with certain limitations or concerns. Consider low-impact cardio exercises if you:Are pregnant
Have injured bones or joints
Have health problems such as arthritis or stress fractures
Are overweight or obese
Don’t enjoy high-impact exercise
Have a spinal injury, There is a wide array of low-impact cardio exercises that you can do indoors and outdoors. Walking is the most popular low-impact workout.Figuring out other options can help you find a low-impact cardio activity you enjoy and can incorporate into regular and fun workouts. Consider doing the following low-impact cardio:Dancing
Bicycling
Swimming
Nordic walking
Yoga
Tai chi
Pilates
Bowling
RowingElliptical trainingStationary boxing or jabs and hooks
Kayaking
Mountain climbers, pushups, lunges, squats, planks
Exercising with kettlebells
Climbing stairs

, It doesn’t matter where you choose to do your low-impact cardio workout. As long as you elevate your heart rate for at least 20 minutes, you can improve your cardiovascular strength, burn calories, and improve your overall fitness.Working out at home can be especially beneficial if you are not mobile or very active and want to improve your health and lift your mood.Try low-impact cardio such as climbing stairs, doing yoga or Pilates, or dancing at home. You don’t need any special equipment and they offer the same benefits as doing a workout at a gym or another outdoor location.
Consider renting, buying, or borrowing DVDs with low-impact cardio workouts. These can be everything from step aerobics to boxing and Pilates.
 Fitness centers offer a variety of potential low-impact exercises. You can do these on your own, with machines, or in a class. Many gyms even have pools, which allow you to swim or do water aerobics. Considering hitting the gym if you find motivation in having others around you, the weather is bad, or you want to participate in classes.Ask for a tour of your gym to see what low-impact activities it offers. Let the staff member know you want to do low-impact cardio.
See what types of classes your gym offers. Most will offer different types of classes that are either high- or low-impact. If you’re not sure what each class entails, ask a staff member which are the best low-impact options.
 Gyms are often a good option for doing low-impact cardio because they have cardio machines. These can help you get an intense workout while keeping the impact low. Adding a few sprints or intervals, when you speed up for 30-second to a minute, can also increase the intensity. The following are some examples of machines on which you can do low-impact cardio:Rowing machine
Elliptical
Treadmill — including race walking or walking on an incline
Stair machine
Stationary bikes
Woodway curve, a treadmill powered by you and not a motorCross country ski machines, If you’re looking for fun and variety in your low-impact cardio workouts, consider trying new activities. This can provide your body alternative challenges that boost your overall fitness and keep you and your muscles from getting bored with the same routine.Switch up your routine with new exercises. You can also change workouts up by adding time or increasing your intensity.
Develop a new workout plan every four to six weeks to keep your muscles and cardiovascular system challenged. This can promote your overall fitness and wellbeing., Every individual should aim for at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity or 75 minutes of vigorous-intensity exercise each week. This activity can be low-impact. Developing a workout plan can boost your health and fitness while ensuring that your activities are low-impact. You can also mix moderate and vigorous workouts during the week. Develop a low-impact workout schedule, which you can modify to fit your lifestyle. For example:Sunday: Rest day with an easy walk
Monday: Walking at a 2.0 incline at 3.5mph for 45 minutes
Tuesday: Trail hike for one hour
Wednesday: Climbing stairs for 30 minutes
Thursday: Yoga for one hour
Friday: Rowing for 45 minutes
Saturday: Swimming for one hour

, Before you start your low-impact cardio workout, take a few minutes to warm up your body. This can prepare and minimize stress on your cardiovascular system, joints and muscles, and mind for your workout. Warming up also reduces your risk of injury.Your warmup should ideally be a gentle version of the activity you are about to do. If you are going to take a brisk walk, warm up with an easy five to 10 minute walk before you start your workout. As that time ends, gradually increase your tempo. Warm up for swimming by swimming laps slowly, cycling by riding your bike at an easy pace, or rowing by rowing gently for five to 10 minutes, and so on. This will ensure the right muscles are warmed up and ready to go.
 If you are doing low-impact cardio for a specific reason or simply prefer it to high-impact options, stick with it. You may need to change your intensity or even the activity as your fitness level increases. You may also need to adjust your plan if you are ill and/or feeling fatigued. Sticking to your plan can help you improve your form and maximize your results.Do less intense workouts—such as an easy bike ride— or rest if you are sick. It’s safe to workout if your symptoms are above the neck and include a runny nose, nasal congestion, sneezing, or a minor sore throat.If you have a fever, fatigue, or widespread muscle aches, give your body a chance to rest until you feel better.
Make a new workout plan if you don’t feel challenged any longer. You may also want to adjust it as your fitness improves. This could be something as simple as switching up your days or allotting a day or two for a new activity.
 Just like a warm up, cooling down is important for workout. It reduces body temperature, can loosen muscles, and boost your overall fitness. Your cool down is the same low-impact cardio activity you do, just at a slower pace and reduced intensity. Most cool downs last five to 10 minutes.Consider adding five to 10 minutes of light stretching as a part of your cool down. This can loosen tight muscles, increase your range of motion, and minimize your risk for injury., Rest is a key part of any workout, even if they are low-impact. It helps your body recover and build endurance and muscle.Take at least one full day of each week to rest. To boost your low-impact cardio efforts, get seven to nine hours of sleep every night.Make sure you rest on days that you feel sick.
Avoid feel guilty if you need to take an extra day off every so often.

