 Shy people can be hard to get to know, especially in the beginning. Introverts value their privacy and don’t always realize just how private and shy they come across. Assure her that you admire who she is and want to get to know her at her own pace.


Stating this out loud will make her directly aware of your desire to get to know her, which will give her the assurance and encouragement she needs to open up to you.
 One of the best ways to get to know a shy or introverted person is spending time with them in their own environment because they feel most at ease there.


If she rides horses, ask if you join her at the barn one day. If she loves books, take her to a bookstore and go browsing together. If she enjoys hiking, ask her to take you on her favorite trail.
Being in a familiar environment with someone new helps shy people feel more comfortable socializing, opening up, and showing off their private side.
Experiencing her interests and hobbies with her also helps you get to know more about her and her life better without her having to try to talk or explain it, which can be hard for a shy or introverted person to do., Sometimes shy or introverted people need time to process thoughts, feelings, and events. Always allow her the time to think and process, but don’t be afraid to ask her what she thinks or feels if she leaves you confused or wondering.


Shy people often have trouble speaking up or initiating a conversation when it comes to stating their thoughts or feelings. By asking directly about them, you give her an easy way to open up.
 Shy and introverted people often prefer to communicate by text, social media messaging, or email in between dates because it’s less obtrusive and direct. Phone calls, Facetime, Skype, and unexpected visits can be really hard for them to engage in, at least in the beginning.You can ask if she has a way of communication that works best for her or try a few different ways on your own and see what puts her most at ease.
Try sending letters to each other for an old fashioned, romantic twist on communication.

