 The animal should have at least a 8 to 10 inch (20.3 to 25.4 cm) torso section and a relatively flat back with a center seam. The center will lose most of its stuffing, so shift stuffing around to see how the head will look when loosely supported.;
, You will select a zipper at least 4 inches (10.2 cm) shorter than the back seam to allow for 2 inches (5.1 cm) above and below the opening.
 You will also need either rope, decorative rope trim, or webbed strap for the backpack straps.
 With the upholstery needle and thread reinforce the back seam above and below where you will put the opening by stitching tightly across the seam 5 or 6 times. After this is done carefully open the back seam of the animal and remove torso stuffing. You may want to ensure the stuffing in the head, arms and legs stays in place. You can either stitch loosely across the openings to create a barrier, or cut a piece of your lining material and glue it over the opening. Pin the fabric in place until the glue dries, but don't forget to remove the pins later.
 The basic shape for your lining is a mushroom. The width of the stem should be the same as the length of your zipper. The round part of the mushroom should roughly be the size of your animals tummy. You will be sewing two mushroom shaped pieces into a pouch with a zipper and two flaps at the top. Create a pattern and cut two pieces and place them with preferred side of fabric facing in. Start by sewing halfway around the round part of the mushroom shaped pieces from where the stem meets the round part to the top of the round mushroom part. Next put in the zipper. The zipper should go across the base of the round part of the mushroom, across the top of the stem. The base of the zipper should be on the side you stitched together. Put in zipper and make sure it works well. Sew the rest of the way around the round part of the mushroom shape. Be sure to reinforce the stitching at the other side of the round portion. Do not sew together the "stem pieces" just the round parts. You will not be turning this inside out. The inside of the pouch is all that will be seen You are leaving the two flaps to attach the pouch to the animal.
 Measure the length you want for the backpack handles, and cut two pieces of rope or webbing the correct length. Melt ends with lighter to prevent fraying. Select where the straps should attach to animal and pin in place. Check for proper fit and hang, adjust if necessary. Hand stitch straps in place tightly. Triple, even quadruple stitch the straps.
 Flaps should be inside fur or animal. Again stitch tightly and repeat. Also tack top of pouch to area above and bottom of pouch to area below zipper along seam. Make sure zipper opens and closes freely. If all functions correctly, then ad fabric glue along the inside edge of the seam to add strength to stitches and hold fur down to fabric. Keep it neat and out of the zipper. The zipper can be covered with masking tape to make sure no stray glue gets in the zipper.
 Keep it neat and if needed use fur to hide the glue.
