 Different things can cause skin impurities. Learning about these may help you more effectively figure out and treat the cause of your impurities.The four main things that can cause skin impurities are:


Oil production
Dead skin cells
Clogged Pores
Bacteria.Triggers such as hormones, medications, diet, and stress.;
, There are some myths about what can cause impurities and acne. Knowing what won’t make impurities or acne worse can help you find the right solution for your condition. The following have little effect on acne and impurities:


Eating greasy foods, though working near a fry vat in a kitchen might
Having dirty skin
Using makeup or other cosmetics if you remove them., Gently steaming your skin before treatment may help open your pores and loosen any debris causing your impurities.Put your face above a bowl of boiling water to make removing your impurities easier.Hold your face at least 12 inches (30.5 cm) away from the bowl so you don’t scald or burn yourself. Steam for 2-3 minutes.Maximize the effects of the steam by putting a towel over your head.
Make sure your skin is clean before you steam.Use a warm towel to soften your skin if you don’t want to steam it., Masks can draw impurities out of your skin. Apply a thin layer of one you purchase commercially or make at home.


Buy a mask designed to remove impurities or treat acne.
Mix a mask from products you have at home. For example, you can combine a ¼ cup of fresh mint leaves with one egg white to treat impurities.You can boost the anti-bacterial properties of the mint by mixing the same amount of mint leaves, 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) milk powder, ½ tablespoon of honey and ¼ cucumber.Follow package instructions if you buy a mask.
Wash your hands before you put on the mask.
Leave the mask on your skin until it is just dry or as long as the instructions say.
Take off the mask with cotton rounds or a soft washcloth.
 Although dermatologists advise against using extraction products because they can cause scarring, you may want to extract the impurities with a tool. You can use everything from a comedone extractor to pore strips to get rid of any larger impurities., Comedone extractors are tools that can quickly and effectively remove larger impurities from your skin. You can buy a tool with two cupped or looped ends, which are the safest, at most pharmacies or even some cosmetics retailers.


Press lightly on one side of the impurity and gently move the extractor across it.In one movement, sweep the extractor over the top of impurity, which should dislodge it as a plug.Rinse or re-wash your skin to remove any lingering debris or bacteria from your skin.
Wash the extractor in hot, soapy water when you’re done., Pore strips are pieces of fabric with a medicated adhesive to help draw out impurities. These work if you have a lot of little impurities and for larger areas of skin. However, you should be careful with pore strips, which can remove the upper part of your skin.


Wet the part of your skin where you want to put the strip so that it sticks well.
Put the strip directly against your skin so you get the best results.
Let the strip to dry completely before taking it off to make sure you get rid of as many of the impurities as possible.
Peel off the strip slowly to make sure you completely remove impurities and minimize pain.
Rinse off your skin to clear away any debris or residue on your skin.
 Topical treatments can get rid of impurities on your skin, especially on larger areas. Apply a thin layer of the topical treatment with clean fingers.Use a product you buy at a pharmacy or a skincare professional or have your doctor prescribe a stronger one for more pronounced impurities.
Leave the product on only as long as the directions suggest in order to minimize irritation.
Put moisturizer on your skin if you leave the treatment on overnight, which can also help prevent irritation.
 If your skin impurities continue to come back, get worse, or you can’t get rid of them, schedule an appointment with your doctor or dermatologist. She can examine your skin and figure out the best treatment to get rid of your impurities. Your doctor might prescribe one of the following treatments to help remove your skin impurities:


Topical retinoids such as tretinoin or tazarotene
Topical antibiotics such as benzyl peroxide or erythromycin
Dapsone and a topical retinoid
Oral antibiotics such as tetracycline or doxycycline
Oral contraceptives such as Yaz
Anti-androgen agents for women and adolescent girls.Light therapy
Chemical peels
Steroid injections., Remove excess dirt and oil from your skin by cleansing it regularly. Washing your face regularly can minimize and prevent impurities of your skin.Use a gentle cleanser.Choose an oil-free cleanser if have very oily skin. Glycerine or cream-based cleansers are a good choice in this case.Limit use of most bar soaps because the ingredients can promote impurities. Using a neutral-pH soap that has moisturizing cream such as Dove or Basis is fine.
Rinse with lukewarm water. Water that is too hot can strip oils and lead to irritation and further impurities., Although washing your skin regularly is important, try and not overwash it. This may irritate your skin, strip its oil, and cause impurities.Wash places with impurities or prone to them no more than twice a day unless you are very active., Even though wearing makeup won’t cause impurities, not taking it off can promote an environment for impurities to develop. Remove your makeup before exercising and going to bed.Use a gentle cleanser or make-up remover to get off all of your makeup.
Consider using a toner to remove any lingering residue.
Wash makeup applicators once a month with soapy water, which can clean off bacteria that causes impurities., Take a bath or shower after you exercise or are active. Sweat can stimulate oil production or let bacteria flourish that cause impurities., Apply a moisturizer when you’re finished with your cleansing routine. Keeping your skin hydrated may help get rid of and prevent impurities.Buy a moisturizer specific to your skin type. Oily skin also needs moisturizer, simply get an oil-free and non-comedogenic product.Ask your doctor or a skin care professional what skin type you have and stick to products specifically made for your needs.
 Dead skin and debris can get stuck in pores and cause impurities. Get rid of dead skin with a gentle exfoliator that you use once or twice a week.


Be aware that exfoliators cannot scrub away impurities.
Use an exfoliating product with synthetic or natural beads to prevent irritation. You can also use a soft washcloth for the same effect.
 Products developed for acne-prone skin can help clear up and prevent impurities. Choose products marked “non-comedogenic” or non-acnegenic.Consider trying products market “hypoallergenic” too. This it will not irritate your skin, which can often cause impurities to get worse.
 Apply a product to control oil on your skin. This can remove excess oil that is clogging your pores. It may also keep bacteria and dead skin that cause impurities at bay.Use a salicylic acid cream that you get from a pharmacy or that your doctor prescribes.
Place an oil blotting paper on your face to soak up excess oil.
 Tight apparel like hats or leggings can cause lead to impurities by holding in heat and moisture. Put on items that allow your skin to breathe.Try sweat or moisture wicking clothing if you are active or do sports. They can minimize the sweat on your skin that leads to impurities.
Choose natural fabrics such as cotton or merino wool to prevent irritation that can lead to acne.
Wash clothing and articles like pillowcases that touch your skin. Using a mild detergent can get rid of the dirt, oil, and bacteria you’re your pores., Avoid touching or picking at your skin as much as possible. Your fingers and hands can spread oil and bacteria that causes impurities.Try to not pick or pop impurities, which may cause scarring or lead to more problems.
Be careful when resting hands on your face or chin because it can spread dirt and bacteria., Doctors believe that a healthy diet can keep impurities and acne at bay.Avoiding unhealthy foods may help keep your skin clear.Foods or diets that are high in fat, dairy, and sugar may make your skin worse.Try and not eat too many junk foods or sweets.
Foods high in vitamin C, including fruits and vegetables like strawberries and sweet potatoes, may help make your skin healthier skin.Food like walnuts or olive oil, which are high in essential fats, may keep your skin hydrated.Drink about 8 cups of water daily to keep your body healthy, which could also help your skin stay impurity-free.