 The skills you can impart in rural areas depending on your expertise are:

]

Metalsmithing 
Plumbing
Carpentry
Simple accounts & admin work (like maintaining books, filing, muster, basic computer skills )
Earthenware and pottery
Cycle, Car & bike repair
Stitching & embroidery
Making, Preserving & packing food items (snacks, pickles, sauce, fruit drinks, meat,fish,eggs,etc.)
Nursing & Midwifery.
Weaving
Beehive, poultry, piggery,& animal husbandry
Computer literacy - Computer literacy is an ongoing program in many villages, community centers are not only equipped with computers, but also with internet. All they need is individuals with skills who can do the imparting. Otherwise also village administration will be too happy to provide them.


All these skills will have application in their village itself, and products can be sold in the nearby rural areas. Apart from this, there are development agencies working on the projects in the rural areas, which would be happy to absorb locally available semiskilled work force. Every backward rural village in Asia & Africa has development projects financed by the local community, state government, national government, or international aid agencies. Apart from these, there are many religious agencies which are also financing development projects. Employment opportunities are galore, but for want of skilled work force locally, outsiders are being recruited.;
, If you are in Asia, or Africa, you just need to travel 100 to 150 miles (160 to 240 km) to reach backward rural areas. There are community places like schools, or community centers. Which you can use for unpacking, overnight stay, bath and changeover needs.
 These are the people who will be naturally interested in the welfare of the people in their village, and they are also in the position to influence the villagers and organize the imparting programs. These people generally take care of the needs & comforts of the trainers also.


You might be wondering, "Individually, will I be able to convince the village or tribal head for this?" You don’t need to convince them, they are in fact waiting for enthusiastic people like you, and they will either organize programs for you or fit you in the ongoing programs.
, This is not your headache, once you impart the skills, there are local micro finance entities that will not only finance these people to set up cottage industry, they will also actively help in marketing the produce and collect their repayments.

