 Most girls at prom will have a small clutch - it doesn't hold much at all, but it does look great with a dress! Or instead bring a bigger bag and leave it somewhere safe at the prom venue, or in the car. You can fit more in there (like your make up and all everything else) even though it may not be something a lot of girls think of.;
, Consider keeping an extra bag with everything you need in the car. So if you need something then just sweetly ask your date to get it for you.
 You won't be able to get into prom without it. Identification (driver's license) would probably do you better if you bring it with you.
 You don't want to leave home without them. A cell phone is a good idea if you are in trouble or you need to call a taxi. Extra money is good if your date turns out to be a dud and you have to pay for your own meal or you have to pay for a taxi.
 If you're already wearing contact lenses to prom don't let it stop you from bringing an extra pair. That way if your contacts mess up, all you have do is get the extra pair out instead of walking around prom half blind.
 Blotting paper is wonderful if your working up a sweat on the dance floor and you want to keep your make-up from coming off or wipe off that sweat.
 Some brushes already have a mirror on them. You might not have to brush your hair, but a small compact mirror is a great way to make sure you still look great.
 Great if you need to keep your updo from falling and keeping it in place.
 Grab your bag and make a quick run to the bathroom with it.
 Keeping a needle and thread of your dress color is a way to make sure that if your dress strap breaks or if your dress rips, then you can fix it. If you don't know how to use a needle and thread then safety pins are a great way to keep your dress strap in place or to keep that rip from showing.
 Double-sided tape is a great way to keep your strapless from showing too much and to keep your dress strap from falling down. Superglue is a woman's best friend. What if you're out there on the dance floor and all of the sudden your heel breaks, are you just going to sit down for the rest of the night? Nope you're going to put some superglue on that sucker and get back to dancing. Or you could always bring an extra pair.


A safety pin or two are useful too.
 These can be handy for a variety of reasons, including: to stop bleeding if you cut yourself; to cover blisters from new shoes; or to hold something up that has come loose.

