 Present the issue to them individually and ask each one how they feel about the situation privately. Each bridesmaid will have a different perspective. The different perspectives will help you see the issue more clearly and may help you decide how to resolve the dilemma.For example, say, “It has been brought to my attention that some bridesmaids are having issues with one of the bridesmaid. How do you feel about the situation? Are you having issues with any bridesmaids? If not, what do you think the best solution would be?”
Or, "One bridesmaid has been complaining about the dress and how expensive it is. I have no problem changing the dress, but I wanted to get everyone's opinion first before I make a decision. How do you feel about the dress?";
, This could be your maid of honor or a bridesmaid that stands neutral on the issue. Ask the neutral person to step in whenever they see a situation escalating into a problem. Tell her to remind them that the wedding is not about them but the bride.You can say, for example, "You have been such a great sport throughout this whole process! However, some bridesmaids are still having issues with the decision making process. Would it be too much trouble if I asked you to step in if a situation becomes too tense? I would really appreciate it! Just remind them to put their differences aside and to focus on the task at hand."

, Always talk about your bridesmaids in a positive manner. Even if one of them comes to you with a problem about another, try to remind her that you chose all of your bridesmaids for a reason: because they are your closest friends.For example, say, “I know that Tiffany can be a little controlling at times, but just like you, she is a really close friend. I will talk with her and hopefully we can work something out. And thank you for coming to me about the problem. I really appreciate it and I am grateful that you are a part of my bridal party.”
You could also say, "I know that Jessica can be hard to get a long with, but she is one of my close friends, just like you are. Can you try to put your differences aside until the wedding is over? I would really appreciate it. I will talk to her, too."

