 Gain knowledge of who you are, how you feel, what you believe, the choices you make, the thoughts you think, etc. Connect with your wants and needs to discover what it is that you require.;
, If you are feeling particularly stressed or drained about anything, take a moment to be aware that you are feeling that way. Locate where it is your body that you are feeling that particular tension. Is it your neck, your stomach, your jaw? Focus on that feeling by breathing into that tense area.Identify the way you feel by naming the feeling what it is. Acknowledge your emotions and accept them for what they are.
Don’t feel the need to fix yourself or correct the emotion. We like to criticize ourselves when we feel things that aren’t happy feelings, instead of that embrace them. Practice self compassion versus self judgment.
Engage in solitude by embarking in solo activities. Take alone in nature, create some art, cook a meal for one, or listen to music. Focus on how serene and calm you feel when in these alone moments., Setting boundaries does not stop at saying “no”, even if it sometimes starts there. Growing and learning means setting boundaries that are not rigid to the point of being inflexible and in a cocoon from others.Only say “no” when it’s something you want to say “no” to, not just for the sake of saying “no”.
Be aware of how it feels to be compliant with certain choices and towards certain people. Note how you feel about it and allow it to guide you with your choices and limitations.
Practice remaining open, but only as open as you feel comfortable being. Discomfort and how drained you feel will tell you where and how boundaries need to come into place.
 Become clear about the values you consider most important in life.


Asking questions that dig into your values guide the decisions you makes instead of the expectations and opinions others might unreasonably have for you.
What do you long for or want most in the world? What do you long for or want most in a partner? What is the most important thing you wish to feel in life and in love?

