
If you don't have a soft cloth, use a cotton t-shirt. Be sure to use an area of the shirt that doesn't have any logos. Logos are made from heavy inks and decals and could scratch the surface of your game.;
, It may help to insert a finger into the center for a good, solid grip.
, If dust remains visible, try blowing again.
 Instead, wipe from the center to the edges, carefully rubbing out any smears or oily fingerprints.
 Be persistent, but be gentle—scrubbing will only make things worse.


If you have a water-based CD/DVD/game cleaner in a spray bottle, apply it to the backside and gently wipe with a dry area of the cloth. If there are specific instructions on the bottle, follow them.
Try using distilled vinegar on difficult oily spots. Vinegar can break down thicker residues and stains.If you clean the game with vinegar, give it a quick rinse in lukewarm water after.
Avoid using household cleaning products on your PlayStation games. Many products contain solvents that will irreparably damage the game.
 It’s important to make sure you’re using a variety that doesn’t have any chunky ingredients, like crystals or bits of dental strips—those additives can scratch the disc’s surface. It’s also important not to use a gel toothpaste, as it won’t be able to fill in the scratches.


To test your toothpaste, apply a little bit to the front of your hand and rub it in with your finger. If it feels gritty, don’t use it.
Most toothpaste labeled “sensitive” or “children’s” is non-abrasive.If the scratches are too deep, toothpaste won’t work.
, Use more or less depending on the amount of scratches on the disc.
 Like removing dust and dirt, you’ll rub the toothpaste in only one direction (outward from the center), and never in a circular pattern. Stroke the scratched areas 10-15 times, applying more toothpaste if the motion feels dry.
 You may need to use the cloth to help remove the toothpaste, but again, never rub the cloth in any direction other than outward from the center.
 Never insert a wet disc into your PlayStation!


Any scratches remaining after using this method will need to be buffed out by a professional.

