 Many states, but not all, automatically remove the disability of minority (laws and customs making minors unable to do certain things without parental consent) to married couples. If you are under 18, most states require the consent of at least one parent to get married with some exceptions, including obtaining a judicial bypass. You can find the requirements for your state, including the cost of the license, by navigating to your state at http://www.usmarriagelaws.com/. Common requirements include:


Parental or judicial consent for parties who are under age 18.
Proof that any prior marriages have been terminated by death or divorce.
A waiting period between the time the license is obtained and the ceremony is conducted.
A blood test to confirm certain immunities and/or lack of sexually transmitted diseases.
 Aside from granting you legal adult status in many states, there are benefits and added responsibilities involved with getting married. Marriage is considered a lifelong commitment. Though divorce is an option, it is often very expensive, time consuming, and emotional. Before getting married, consider the responsibilities of married parties, such as:The duty of support to other members of the family, including your spouse and any children
The duty to share certain property, including statutes requiring real property purchases to be held by both spouses in some cases
The duty of consortium, effective in some states, which includes a right to sexual relations, love, and solace (comfort).
 Once you are married, most states automatically consider you an adult, removing the disability of minority (laws and customs making minors unable to do certain things without parental consent). Be sure you have met all requirements and complete all steps, such as:Obtain the marriage license from the county clerk.
Participate in the ceremony performed by an appropriate officiant with the appropriate number of witnesses.
Be sure the completed certificate is submitted to the clerk.
 If you need to conduct business as an adult, you may need to prove you are an adult. Because of this, it is wise to carry a copy of your signed marriage certificate with you to prove you have been emancipated by marriage. Some activities that may require a copy of your marriage certificate include:


Renting or buying a home or apartment
Contracting for utilities
Registering a vehicle
Seeing a doctor
Registering for school

