 From the Star of David to the West African gris-gris, almost all cultures have items and clothing used to protect the wearer from spiritual attacks. Make sure you choose something you actually have faith in. There is not much use wearing something if you don't believe in it at all, as it is stripped of any use or power.


Keeping several of these items in the house can also help ward off spirits, such as crosses above the door or shrines to benevolent gods and spirits., This is the most common practice, and should be repeated frequently, especially during a cleansing or exorcism. The reason to avoid fear or anger is two-fold: it both keeps your calm (and thus effective) and prevents the spirit, if it is there, from deciding you're a threat to its safety.


Try out the Latin rites, as well: "Ecce crucis signum, fugiant phantasmata cuncta."(translates as: “behold the emblem of the Cross; let all specters flee”).Let the spirit know that you mean it no harm, but that the physical world "is not their place anymore." Assure them that the spirit world awaits them and they will be safer there.
Remember, spiritual possession is not necessarily "evil." Most spirits are simply lost, confused, or still clinging to life, and will leave when asked., These sticks have been used for centuries by shamans and religious leaders and are one of the few tools used by many different faiths. There is even some scientific evidence that smudge sticks promote mental well-being and feelings of calm and pleasure, and the practice is widely used to both protect and fight spirits. When smudging a house, crack open a window and take your time -- let the smoke calm you and the room, slowly directing it to fill the room.


Smudge sticks are simply long bundles of sage leaves and stems tied together into a rod of sorts, then lit on the end. You can also crush the dried sage in a small bowl and light this instead, carrying it around to smudge the house.
Some cultures use ceder in place of sage, but both can be used, as well.
Let the smoke fill the room, especially any rooms where paranormal activity is felt.
 You can get holy water at most Catholic churches, though it helps if you are a practicing member of the faith. Sprinkle it in the corners of rooms, at door and window frames, and any areas where you experience the most physical paranormal activity.You can still get holy water at many churches. Call ahead to make sure they bless water there.
 There are as many different prayers to ward off evil as there are faiths, so you should choose the one that speaks most deeply to you. Don't underestimate this connection -- if a prayer feels useful and powerful, use it. Some common prayers include:


The Lord's Prayer
Archangel Michael's Prayer of Protection
The Serenity Prayer
Personal mantras asking the spirits to leave, If you do, you need to leave a window or door open, as the spirit needs a way to flee the room. If performing prayers or continuing to ask the spirit to leave, repeat these rituals as you spread the salt or rice.Remember that your conviction when doing this is important -- if you are fearful or half-hearted, you will not see any results.

