 "Sleep hygiene" is a term used by doctors to describe healthy and consistent sleep habits. It entails:Waking up at the same time every day.
Going to bed at a good hour that will allow you to wake up when your alarm goes off, and not to sleep in any longer.
If you need more sleep, go to bed earlier, rather than waking up later as wake-up time is the most important factor in consistent sleep habits.
Keep your wake-up time the same on weekends as on weekdays (for consistency).
Avoid "screen time" (televisions, computer screens, and/or cell phones) right before bed as they wake your brain up with the radiation they emit, making it more difficult to fall asleep.
Keep in mind that good sleep helps to prevent symptoms of RLS, both in the daytime and during subsequent nights. Therefore, the benefit is twofold - not only does "sleep hygiene" help you to fall asleep better (as a common symptom of RLS is trouble sleeping), it also diminishes and prevents the presence of symptoms in subsequent days., Winding down with some leg stretches before going to bed can help your legs loosen up and relieve tension. While there’s no conclusive evidence that stretching will prevent RLS, some find it beneficial.


Try gentle forward bends, backward bends, spinal twists, chair pose, and warrior pose in a slow method putting attention on breath.Yoga poses that contract the thigh muscles; stretch the calves, hamstrings, and gluteal muscles; or flex and extend the solar plexus and pelvis are beneficial.
 If you feel RLS symptoms and simply can’t get to sleep, try giving in to the urge to move. Get up and take a walk, even if it’s just around the house. For some people, obeying the urge to walk can sometimes be enough to quell the strange sensations and allow them to get back to sleep again.
 People who are stressed tend to sleep poorly and seem to be more prone to suffering from RLS.Find outlets for relieving stress and ways to cope with it rather than allowing it to dominate your life and affect your health.


If you can't manage your stress effectively, make an appointment with a therapist. Some problems are difficult to solve without professional help, and it’s worth pursuing every resource when your health is on the line.
 Many have found that either a hot or cold shower can help prevent RLS symptoms and aid in a getting a good night’s sleep.Try both a hot and a cold shower to see which method works better for you. On nights when you anticipate having trouble sleeping, jump in the shower before you go to bed.

