 After waking up, dress yourself and encourage your partner to do the same. Dress appropriately for whatever is next in your morning routine. If you’re headed to the office, you should dress in work attire. If you’re going to bike or jog a few miles before breakfast, change into your workout clothes., If your kids are old enough, they should wake with their alarm clocks and dress themselves. If they are too young to dress themselves, wake them up and dress them yourself. If your kids are messy eaters, you should wait to dress them until after breakfast., Show your children how to brush their teeth properly, with the brush angled at 45 degrees toward the gums.Remind your children to brush their molars and tongue, too.
Tell your children, “Brushing your teeth keeps your breath fresh.”

, Breakfast is the meal that begins the day. Eating a healthy breakfast has been linked to improved memory, lower risk for diabetes, and better overall health.Try to find healthy breakfast options that require little to no preparation. For instance, sliced apples, strawberries, and bananas with two slices of whole grain toast is a delicious breakfast option. A green smoothie chock full of kale, blueberries, and spinach is also a good option.Talk to your family about what sorts of healthy breakfast foods they like. Obtain these foods for your morning routine.
 If you have younger kids, you could take five minutes to snuggle with each child in bed just before they wake up.Talk to them about their dreams that night. With older kids, you could converse with them during breakfast about what they have planned that day., Your kids should be at the bus stop at least five minutes before it arrives. This ensures they will not miss it. Help them remember to grab their book bags and other essentials from the family’s predesignated organizational point.If you wish, you could walk your children to the bus. Younger kids might benefit from having you walk to the bus stop with them until they know where it is. Older kids might chafe at being “chaperoned” by you while waiting at the bus stop with their friends. Use your judgment about your child’s needs and character to determine if you should or should not walk to the bus stop with your child.

