 Plan what you want to achieve with your ads, such as getting more clicks or a higher return on investment.;
, By creating a detailed organizational structure, you can better focus on what areas need improvement in your ad content and placement.


Separate multiple campaigns by topic, such as brands or products.
Select relevant languages and geographical locations for your advertising. If you only do business within a limited area, for example, you can narrow your advertising target by country, territory, region or city.
 The keywords should be words or phrases that people would use to search for your product or service.


Consider including singular and plural forms of the words, synonyms or other relevant ways to find your product or service, such as product model numbers.
Google has a Keyword Tool you can use to help generate keywords for your ads.
 These would be relevant websites or parts of websites that target the people most likely to be interested in your ads. Google has a Display Network that has a collection of websites it uses to show AdWords ads.


Google offers automatic placements and managed placements for ads. Automatic placements use keywords associated with your ads to place them for you on the Display Network. Managed placements do not require keywords and give you more control over your ads' placement, such as by letting you decide which websites cannot show your ads.
Use specific URLs, selected demographics, or topics you have described or browsed through to choose your placements.
You can also use Google's Placement Tool to find and choose websites for your ads. Check the "Ad Formats" column when using the tool to make sure your potential placements accept your type of ad, which may be text only, image only, video and text, etc.
 Use these groups to help organize the ads you create. Each ad group can focus on a particular product or service, such as a model of a general product line.



Use keywords in an ad's title and text to demonstrate that your ad relates to what people are searching for. This is good for ads relying on keyword-targeting.
Include unique features of your product, service or business that set you apart from your competitors. Mention any special promotions you are having.
Write a strong call-to-action as a next step for people to take after seeing and clicking your ad. Examples are "Buy," "Get a quote," "Call," etc.



Google will rotate ads in an ad group automatically and display the better-performing ad(s) more frequently.
Use different ad content, such as offers or call-to-action phrases, to find which ads are most effective for reaching your advertising goals.
 A landing page is a webpage that people are directed to after clicking on an ad. Each landing page should be specific and relevant to what was advertised in its associated ad.

