 Before anyone uses the trampoline, make sure the mat is in good condition and doesn't have any rips or tears. It also should be completely dry. Wet spots on the surface of the mat can be slick and cause jumpers to lose their footing.If you live in an area that gets snow in the winter, you may want to take your trampoline down during the winter months and store it somewhere more protected. This will protect the mat from the elements.
 Before you start jumping, make sure you're not wearing anything that could get caught or tangled while you're jumping. Simple jewelry that seems harmless may become a nuisance when you start jumping.In addition to jewelry, avoid hanging drawstrings or other objects on your clothing. Your pants should be short enough that you won't get your feet tangled in them.
Remove everything from your pockets, otherwise it will fly out when you start jumping and could cause injury.
 Any objects under the trampoline can interrupt your bounce, causing you to stumble. To stay safe when using your trampoline, remove any objects stored underneath.There also is a risk that sharp objects underneath the trampoline could damage or puncture your mat.
 Your trampoline should have a circle or bull's-eye mark at the center. When you're jumping, the center is the safest place for you to land. This is where you'll get the most predictable bounce from the trampoline.When you're jumping too close to the edge, you run the risk of being bounced out of the trampoline, onto the metal frame or out onto the ground.
 You may have seen videos on the internet of people doing amazing stunts on their backyard trampoline. Enjoy the videos, but don't try anything you see on your own trampoline if you want to stay safe.Also stay away from gymnastics moves, such as somersaults or flips, unless you have training and know how to do them properly.
 Even on larger trampolines, the best way to stay safe is to make sure that only one person is using the trampoline at a time. When several people are jumping at the same time, they run the risk of collision.The more people are jumping on a trampoline, the further out to the edge people have to jump. When only one person uses the trampoline at a time, everyone can jump at the center.
If you have several kids who want to use the trampoline, set a timer and give each of them the same length of time to use the apparatus.
Make sure kids on trampolines have adult supervision. Even if you are an adult, it's best to have someone else with you when you use your trampoline, to act as a spotter in case you misstep.
 Most trampolines have a ladder for you to use when you enter and leave the trampoline surface. Bouncing and flipping dismounts are a good way to get injured on the trampoline.Remove the ladder and store it safely when the trampoline is not in use. This can help prevent people from getting on the trampoline without your consent.

