 Before you copy your files to an external drive, you can make your job much easier by making sure that all of your iTunes files are in one location on your computer.


Open the preferences. On Mac, click iTunes and then select Preferences. On Windows, click Edit and then select Preferences.
Click the Advanced tab. Make note of the iTunes Media folder location on your computer. Close the Preferences window.
Click file and hover your cursor over Library. Select Organize Library and then Consolidate Files. A message will appear stating that all of the files will be copied to your iTunes Media folder and cannot be undone. If you are doing this on Windows, duplicate files will be made.
Click Consolidate. The contents of your library will be copied from their various locations on your disk to the iTunes Media folder. This may take a while if you have a lot of files that need to be copied.
Quit iTunes once the consolidation is complete.
 It will need to have enough free space to store your entire iTunes Media folder. You can check the size of the folder by right-clicking on it in Finder or Explorer and selecting Properties.


Make sure your drive is properly formatted. Drives formatted for Mac can only be used on other Macs, while drives formatted on Windows can be used on Windows and read on Macs.
You can use your iPod or iPhone as an external drive if they have enough free space.
 The iTunes Media folder can be found at the location you noted in Step 1. The files will begin copying to the external drive. This will take a while for large libraries.
 Once the copying process is complete, right-click on the hard drive and click Eject. You can now safely unplug the drive from the computer.
 Locate the iTunes Media folder location using the instructions in Step 1. Plug the external drive containing your iTunes library into the computer.


If you have music already on this computer that you don’t want to lose, make a copy of the existing iTunes folder and place it somewhere else on your computer, such as your desktop.
 Replace the iTunes folder that currently exists. The copy process may take a while for large libraries. Once it is complete, iTunes will automatically reload all of your song info, ratings, playlists, and other settings.If you need to add your existing library back to iTunes, click File and select Add Folder to Library. Navigate to where you moved the folder and press OK. Do this after you have finished loading your library from the external drive.

