 Filters are an appropriate treatment for DVT when you cannot use blood thinners. The filter itself is a soft mesh device that allows the passage of blood but traps blood clots. The filter is inserted into a large abdominal vein (the vena cava) and prevents clots that might break up from making their way to your lungs.Filter installation sounds extensive but actually occurs while you’re awake. Your doctor will apply a numbing agent on the stomach, then cut through to the vena cava, using an ultrasound to guide a catheter to the precise location. Finally, the filter will be snaked through the catheter and expand to filter the vein.There is no need to have the filter cleaned or attended to. Over time, your body’s own anticoagulants will disintegrate trapped blood clots.Some filters are removable, but most are permanent. Even the removable filters are usually kept in the vein if your likelihood of developing DVT again remains high.Your doctor will help you decide whether you need a permanent or a removable filter.
 Compression stockings are specialized apparel that keep the legs and feet from swelling. Compression stockings can prevent swelling of the legs and feet that is so often a consequence of DVT. They can also reduce the likelihood of future clots by increasing the pressure in your legs.To use compression stockings, simply slip them over your foot and up your leg just as you might with knee-high socks or stockings.
Compression stockings are usually worn during the day for two or three years. If your DVT persists, you might need to wear compression stockings for an even longer time.
 Get regular exercise. Aim for 30-60 minutes of cardio exercise each day. Biking, walking, and running are all examples of cardiovascular exercise that could help you correct or reduce the likelihood of worsening your DVT. Try to take the stairs instead of the elevator. In addition: Get up frequently if you have a desk job. Take a quick walk around the office in order to prevent clots from forming in your legs.
See a doctor regularly. Your doctor will be able to provide specialized recommendations based on your particular medical history and background that could help you prevent and recover from DVT.
Sleep with your legs raised slightly. If you sleep with your feet elevated even a few inches above the level of your hip when lying down, your blood will more easily return from the legs and back to your body. Prop your legs up by placing a pillow beneath your feet.

