 It’s important that guests know of any smoking bans or limitations before the party. You may want to include this information in your invitation. This may help smokers decide if they want to come or avoid the event if they cannot avoid smoking.Keep the notice as positive and polite as possible. For example, “We want all of our guests to be comfortable, happy, and healthy. Due to our new baby, we cannot accommodate smoking at the party,” or “I’d love for everyone to come, but I’ve chosen to host at a fantastic place that unfortunately prohibits any type of smoking.” Follow this up with, “If you are a smoker and decide not to come because of the smoking ban, I completely understand. You are most welcome to join us if you change your mind.”

, As a part of your invitation, give smokers some assurance about attending even with a smoking ban. Include information on things such as food offerings, activities, and alternative places they can smoke. This can help let smoking guests know that there are things to keep their mouths and minds occupied or even escape momentarily if they’re dying for a smoke.Entice all of your guests, especially smokers, with information about the event. You could write, “We’ll have a wide variety of drinks, snacks, and dishes so that every person has plenty to eat” or, “I’ve planned for an expansive buffet that you can spend the entire evening nibbling through.” For activities, you might say, “There’s a DJ and a dance floor,” or “There is a pool, lawn games, and basketball court so you can have some fun with the other guests.
Consider providing smokers who may really crave a cigarette or cigar an alternative location to smoke if need be. For example, “If you are dying for a cigarette, there is a bar down the street that can accommodate you while you smoke.” Use discretion with this offer because you don’t want the entire party to relocate from your event.
 Many businesses have rules about where people are allowed to smoke, so it might be helpful to post this policy or at least to make people aware of it when they arrive. Some of these rules designate a certain area for smoking while others require people to be a certain distance from buildings to smoke.


For example, you might post signs that say, “No smoking within 30 feet of entrances,” or “Smoking is permitted on the patio.”

, Before your event, it may be a good idea to send an update to all of your guests. This can remind any smokers of the ban without making them feel unnecessarily left out.Send an email or “newsletters” a few weeks before the event to let guests know things about parking, food, activities, or anything else they may want to know. Use this as your opportunity to gently remind guests of the limitations on smoking and any penalties they may incur for not obeying the ban.
 In some cases, there are people who don’t care about any bans on smoking. They may smoke or try to smoke during your event. Handling guests who ignore the rules can cause you a lot of stress—and possibly even fines. Deal gently but appropriately with anyone who decides to smoke despite any bans.

Remind the person to stop smoking the first time you notice the behavior. It may be a case that the person automatically grabbed a cigarette and forgot the ban. You can say, “Hey Taylor, I don’t want to cause a problem, but you can’t smoke here. Please put your cigarette out.”
Ask a person to leave the event if the individual continues to smoke. Say, “Hey Taylor, I understand you need to smoke, but I can lose my apartment if there is smoking here or outside of my place. Please leave so everyone can enjoy the party and I don’t get in trouble.” You can also say, “Hey Taylor, someone from the hotel just let me know that you’re smoking. I got charged $1,000 for that. Please leave so I don’t have any more problems from the staff or the hotel closes the party.”