 Sure, you can approach a man who is staring at you and start up a conversation. He can like talking to you and fall for you even more…or he can get more and more intrigued by the beautiful woman he saw walking by and may want to know even more about her. Let his eyes rest on you and wait for him to approach you instead. Or, if you know you'll see him again, come up to him the next time.


Of course, if you really want to go up to him, he can be intrigued and find that refreshing, too. You don't have to be so dainty if it's not your style.;
, Guys find nothing sexier than women with their own lives. Having a meaningful and fulfilling life where you pursue your career or passion and have a few hobbies or interests that you care about will make you a person who is worth knowing. Whether you want to be a writer or just really love painting, the guy will be much more into you if he sees that there are so many things that you care about that aren't him. If all you do is watch TV and wait for him to call, then he won't be as intrigued.


Doing a lot of interesting things will also make you a more interesting person who is worth getting to know.
If the guy thinks your schedule is wide open because you're not doing anything, then he'll be less likely to chase you, because he'll always know where to find you: at home.
 Guys can be intimidated by girls with a lot of confidence, but they are also deeply attracted to them. Let him see that you love who you are and what you have to offer to the world. Instead of being insecure, always complaining, or looking to the guy for validation, know that the validation comes from within. If you're happy with who you are, the guy will be happier with who you are, because he'll know that he can enjoy your company instead of trying to validate you all the time.


Of course, everyone can work on being more confident. In the meantime, you can start spending more time doing what you love, having open body language and good posture, and addressing those pesky things you don't like about yourself.
 You've got to get your flirt on if you want the man to chase you. You have to make eye contact, play with your hair, tease him a little bit, and even maybe blush and get a little bit girly to catch his eye. You can playfully touch him on the arm, give him a little smile even when nothing is funny, and just be playful and fun when you're together. The flirtation is supposed to spark his interest, and to give him a taste of what it would be like if you were together. Keep it light, fun, and exciting.


Don't come on too strong. Flirt a bit, and then pull back. Make him work for it.
 Find whatever sexy means to you and go for it. If it means getting your hair and nails done, then do it. If it means having the natural look and just wearing a bit of lip balm and a big smile, do that too. You can wear sexy clothes or just flattering clothes that make you feel great. Do whatever makes you feel confident and gives you the feeling that you're taking care with your appearance. If you want a man to chase you, then you've got to put in some effort.


This is not to say that you should do anything that feels unnatural. You want him to chase you, not some version of you that wears five pounds of makeup and uncomfortable stilettos.
 Don't talk too much about hanging out with other guys, or the guy will see that you're trying a little too hard to get his attention. Instead, let him see you talking to other guys, and be yourself when you talk to them. Don't laugh too hard, touch the guys too much, or make it look like you're making way too much of an effort to make the guy feel jealous. It should happen naturally. Whether you're hanging out or walking with another crush or just a platonic guy friend, be engaged and interested and the guy will be jealous.


Though it's totally dumb, it's true that having other guys interested in you will make you more desirable. The guy will want you even more if he sees that other people want you, too.
Make sure not to take this too far, though. If the guy always sees you around other guys, he may think that you're just a big flirt or that you're not interested in him, anyway.
 If you pick up the phone as soon as he calls, or if you agree to go on a date with him even if he asks you out just hours before, then he'll start to think that there's nothing exciting in your life besides hanging out with him. If you want the guy to chase you, then he has to feel like you have a lot going on and that you're difficult to get a hold of. Of course, you don't want him to think you're so busy that you can never hang out with him, or he'll get bored, but strike a balance between being busy and being available enough to see him so he stays interested.


If he calls you, don't pick up on the first ring. Better yet, let a few hours go by before you return his call.
The same goes for texting. If he shoots you a text, let some time go by before you get back to him, unless it's particularly time sensitive.
 Once you've established some kind of a relationship and have hooked up a few times, don't be afraid to let him know when you're in the mood when you're apart. You need to call him one day at work and tell him about the naughty things you've been thinking about doing to him. It will make him lust after you until he can get his hands on you. Do this sparingly, at the right moments, and you'll have him wrapped around your little finger.


Choose your timing well. You don't want to tell him you're feeling frisky if he's about to head into a job interview or is spending his day with his grandmother.
 Sure, playing hard to get is great fun, but if you do it too much, he'll start to think that you're too hard to get. You have to back up and give in a little bit, letting him know that you do care about him. Cook him a homemade meal on his birthday. Call him just to say hi. Get two tickets to his favorite team's home game. Do something nice for him to keep him interested, and then pull back again. If you cook him that homemade meal every day, then yeah, he'll start to take you for granted.


Find a balance between playing hard to get and giving in every once in a while. You can't always act one way or another.
 If the second he meets you, you tell him you have five sisters, that you dream of being an actress, and that you have a complicated relationship with your mother, he'll feel like it won't take a lot of effort to pull back the layers and really get to know you. Instead, make him work for it. Tell him one interesting and unique thing about yourself when you first meet, and drop these pieces of information like rare pieces of the most delicious chocolate throughout your next hangouts. Make him work to get to know you; if he thinks you're putting it all out there anyway, he won't try nearly as hard.


Men love it when they feel like women who are more reserved or less open open up to them. They feel like they've won a prize.
 Let him be the one to call you first more often than not. Let him text you to say hi. Wait for him to suggest a fun party you both should go to. Though you don't have to do this all the time, you should wait for him to take the initiative more, seeming like you're busy or have more important things to do than to worry about whether or not he'll call. Of course, you can still get in touch with him or suggest an awesome outing for the two of you, but make sure the ball lands back in his court.


Nobody said these tactics were for the patient-minded. If you're the type who goes crazy waiting around for a guy to get in touch with you when you'd much rather take over and steer the relationship in the direction where you want it to go, then this will be tough for you for sure.
 Don't be one of those girls who never calls her girlfriends back once she gets a boyfriend. You should have fun with your girlfriends and enjoy those girls nights out, regardless of your relationship status. If the guy sees that you like going out dancing with the girls, having drinks with the girls, or just getting in your girl time, he'll think it's cool that you prioritize your friends. He'll also get more jealous, because he'll be thinking about all of the guys who may approach you on those girls nights!


Making time for your girlfriends will keep you centered and will keep you from being too boy crazy.
 If you want the guy to keep chasing you, then you have to keep him on his toes. Suggest a random weekend trip. Jump into the ocean even if it's a little cold and windy out. Go to Chuck E Cheese for a date. If you always do the same old things or say the same old things, then he will get bored and will stop chasing you. But if he doesn't know what to expect, then you'll have him where you want him! You don't have to be spontaneous 24/7, but make it a priority to be surprising when the moment presents itself.


Resist the urge to plan, plan, plan everything and leave something up to chance. Let him pick you up without asking what you're going to do every second of the date.
 Even if you think the guy is falling in love, you should always keep him on his toes. This doesn't mean that you shouldn't open up to him gradually and that you have to not be yourself, but it does mean that you have to be on the alert and to never get complacent in your relationship. Don't worry about letting your guard down, but keep things fresh and exciting at the same time.


Keep complimenting him, making him feel special, and making him feel like he has to work for it -- in a great relationship, you both have to do a bit of work to keep up a healthy amount of love and affection!

