 Since the executive summary is a summary of another document, you'll need to be pretty familiar with the original document in order to condense it down to a manageable and informative version. Whether that original document is a report, business plan, proposal, manual or different document, review it, looking for its main ideas.
 What is the purpose of the company sponsoring the document, or of the original document itself? What is its scope?


Example: "Women World Wide is a not for profit organization that seeks to connect women all around the world with effective solutions to domestic violence, as well as offering a network of support for those suffering from domestic violence. While operating from its headquarters in Alberta, Canada, it has received referrals from women in 170 countries across the globe."


, This section is probably the most important part of your entire executive summary. In two or three sentences you should tell the reader why your business is special. Why does it deserve the scrutiny, business, or partnership of the people reading the summary?


Maybe you have Michael Jordan as a customer and he has endorsed your product on Twitter for free. Maybe you just signed a partnership agreement with Google. Maybe you were just awarded a patent, or maybe you just made your first big sale.
Sometimes just a simple quote or testimonial is enough. The key is to grab the attention of your audience, make the business appear as reputable as possible, and draw the reader in to the rest of the document.
 The first real ingredient of an executive summary is a discussion of a problem, so explain the problem that your products/services address. Make sure the problem is defined as clearly as possible. An ill-defined problem doesn't sound convincing, and won't set up your solution to be as impactful as it could be.


Example: "Los Angeles is crippled with traffic. Apart from the Metro DC area, Los Angeles has the worst traffic in the nation. It's not just annoying. The smog and pollution caused from gridlock is reducing worker productivity, increasing rates of asthma, and slowly creating a serious health problem. There are more cars in L.A. than there are people old enough to drive them."


, The big problem is the easy part. Now you have to convince the reader that you have come up with a unique solution for the big problem. If you deliver these two ingredients, you'll have the makings of a great idea.


Example: "Innotech has created a groundbreaking traffic control system that shaves minutes off of commute time by installing patented "smart grids" into stoplight lanes that read the amount of cars in any given lane and direct traffic accordingly. No longer will drivers of America have to stand at a red stoplight for minutes while the green light blinks for no cars in the other direction."


, Elaborate on the big problem by providing stats for your industry. Be careful not to pretend that you have a larger market than you do! The fact that the medical device industry is $100 billion annually means nothing because your new medical device will only serve a small segment of the industry. Break it down to a realistic market potential.
 This is where you elaborate on your unique solution. What specifically gives your product or service an advantage over the competition? Maybe your home health care service actually sends doctors to the home instead of just nurse practitioners, or maybe you guarantee same day visits so that you don't have to schedule ahead of time. Point out why you are special.


Example: "Intellilight has the added benefit of being able to detect when no one is home. When a light is left on in an empty room, it automatically shuts off and turns back on again when it detects motion in the room. This saves the customer money on their electrical bill and wastes less energy."


, Some executive summaries will not need a business model. (Nonprofits, not for profits, and NGOs probably won't have a business plan.) But if yours does, your business model needs to be clear and easy to follow. Essentially, you are answering the question, "How will you get people to take dollars out of their wallet and give them to you?" Keep the model simple, especially in the executive summary. A quick summary is all that is needed.
 Depending on what industry you are in, this can be one of the most important parts of your executive summary. Your investors or bankers are putting trust in the team, not the idea. Ideas are easy to come by, but executing on those ideas can only be accomplished with a strong team. Quickly show why your team has the experience and knowledge to execute your business plan.
 Based on your market, your business model, and your historical performance, you need to develop a bottom-up financial forecast. The point of your projections is simply to demonstrate your competence, and your ability to build financial projections based on a sound set of assumptions.


If your plan is for a group of investors, don't spend too much time on this section because they know that you have no idea how much money you might make. Investors typically won't make a go/no-go decision based on your financial projections. They will essentially make their own financial projections.
 Now it's time to request either an investment or loan, depending on the purpose of the executive summary. You should restate why your company provides value. Remind the reader of the big pain that you are solving and your market potential. Finally reemphasize your team and its ability to get the job done. Ask for the dollar amount needed to reach the next major milestone for your business. Don't disclose how much equity you are willing to give up or what interest rate you are willing to pay. This should be done later through face-to-face negotiation.
 When you have written the basics, reread it carefully. You should proofread the summary with extra care. While you are rereading, also consider your audience for the document. Make sure any new references are explained and that the language will be clear to someone who is new to this topic. Rewrite as necessary.


Have a pair of fresh eyes reread your executive summary, paying special attention to:

Clarity. Are the words clear, the ideas clearer, and the summary devoid of jargon?
Errors. Grammatical, punctuation, and spelling errors may abound. Having someone fact-check the figures and statistics might be a good ideal as well.
Forcefulness. Do the ideas translate into a stirring pitch? Where does the pitch fall flat, if at all?
Coherence. What parts don't fit together? What parts do?



