 Riding mower engines can be temperamental when filled with old gasoline. Refill the gas tank with new gasoline each time you start to lawn mower to make sure that old gas has not deposited gel, gum, or varnish inside of the gas tank. Newer gas will help the mower start more reliably and quickly.Old gas which has been sitting in the gas tank for more than a couple of months can attract moisture and potentially corrode the gas tank. To avoid this, try to use up nearly all of the gas each time you use the mower, and don’t let old gas remain in the tank for months.
 The throttle control—commonly called a “choke”—is a device on engines which adjusts the amount of air which can be pulled into the engine when starting. Blocking more air will result in a richer fuel blend being pulled into the engine and will help it start more readily. When starting the engine, adjust the choke to restrict air from entering the engine. If the choke is manual, this setting should be clearly marked. Refer to the mower manual if you need help locating or using the throttle control.After the lawn mower engine has started and is running, you can open the choke so that more air can enter the engine. This will keep the mower from dying while you’re using it.
On some riding lawn mower models, the throttle control is entirely automatic and inside the mower.
 For the comparatively large engine of a riding mower, you’ll need to use the primer button to direct gasoline into the engine. The primer button will pull gasoline into the carburetor, making it easier for the engine to start. This will also reduce the number of times you’ll have to pull the starting cord.If you’re unsure of the location of the primer button, check the riding lawn mower manual for a diagram showing the location of the lawn mower’s parts and buttons.
 Grasp the handle firmly and pull the cord rapidly outward until you feel resistance. It may take 4 or 5 pulls on the starting rope for the engine to catch and start running. While you’ll need to pull quickly and firmly on the starting rope, don’t jerk or yank it. Repeated yanking motions will break the cord or the plastic handle.If this doesn’t start the engine, press on the primer button another 3 or 4 times, and then begin pulling the starting rope again.

