 Naegleria fowleri can enter the brain and cause the normally fatal disease primary amebic meningoencephalitis when contaminated water gets into your nose. Drinking water contaminated with the ameba doesn't cause brain infection.
 Naegleria fowleri can be found in freshwater bodies like lakes and rivers, water heaters, poorly chlorinated swimming pools, the soil, and water that is geothermally warmed. Warm water from industrial plants can also contain Naegleria fowleri. In general, any warm body of fresh water can be contaminated; saltwater is free of Naegleria fowleri. This includes the tap water in some Southern States in the United States; even First World taps may pump out contaminated water., Many freshwater lakes and rivers in the Southern United States could be contaminated. Contamination in freshwater lakes further North is less likely, but still possible. Swimming pools that haven't been properly chlorinated could also contain the ameba.

Swim only in swimming pools that are properly sanitized and chlorinated.
The CDC states that using a nose clip might reduce the likelihood of infection because it helps prevent water from getting up your nose, but also states that it is best to not swim in possibly unsafe water bodies altogether.
Follow CDC instructions on how to properly chlorinate pools you own yourself.
 Clean your neti pot properly by rinsing it with safe water and let it air dry every time after use. Only use safe water to rinse your sinuses; boil the water used to rinse your nose for at least one minute (three minutes at elevations above 6,500 feet, since water boils at lower temperatures the higher you go), filter your water using a filter labeled "NSF 53" or "NSF 58", and/or buy sterile water from a store., Some religions require their adherents to rinse their noses as a part of a religious ritual. Use the same precautions that apply to neti pot or sinus rinsing: use safe water that has been boiled for at least one minute (three minutes at elevations above 6,500 feet), filter your water using a "NSF 53" or "NSF 58" filter, and/or buy sterile water from a store.

If unsure, ask your religious leader about which one of the methods is religiously acceptable.
, This is especially important if you have recently had water go up your nose, if you have recently swum in warm bodies of freshwater, or if you live in subtropical or tropical regions where tap water comes from warm water sources.

The incubation period is usually around 5 days.
The illness, primary amebic meningoencephalitis, starts off by causing headaches, fever, nausea, and/or vomiting.
As the illness progresses, it starts to cause brain damage. Later on, symptoms could include a stiff neck, confusion, hallucinations, an inability to balance yourself, inattention, and seizures.
The illness is almost always fatal, with death occurring usually 5 days after the first symptoms show up.


Some of these symptoms can also be caused by bacterial meningitis, which isn't always fatal but still requires medical attention. Remember that even though you have these symptoms, you aren't necessarily going to die.
Tell the doctor that you are experiencing these symptoms and that you have recently had water go up your nose.
 Currently, the disease is almost always fatal. However, there might be hope; from 1962 to 2015, 3 out of 138 survived the illness in the United States. New drugs like miltefosine appear promising to researchers; two people out of the three survivors survived after being given miltefosine along with other drugs.