 The first step to getting your dog’s attention is to get them to come when you call. It’s basic and vital training for a dog’s safety and your sanity. The most common recall command is “come” paired with your dog’s name before or after.Because it’s likely that your dog hears their name frequently in many different contexts, their name alone is usually not an effective recall cue.
You could also consider using a sound, like a whistle, as a recall cue. This might be a good idea if you plan on recalling your dog from long distances since the sound will generally carry further than your voice.
You might also want to add a hand signal, such as putting a hand, finger, or fist in the air, to the cue since there may some instances in which your dog will be able to see you better than they can hear you.;
, Once you’ve decided on the command, be sure that it’s freighted with positive associations. Repeat the word several times, giving your dog a high-value treat with each repetition. At this stage, you are not actually asking your dog to do anything in return for the treats; you’re simply building a strong connection between the cue and rewards.Do this several times over the course of a week to build up your dog’s positive associations with the command.
High-value treats are special. They shouldn’t be ordinary kibble or training treats. They should be bigger dog treats or foods that your dog really loves, like chicken, lunch meat, or cheese. The treat could also be a special toy that’s used only for training.
Vary the treats to keep things exciting for your dog.
 Now that your dog associates your recall cue with high rewards, they should be ready to pay attention to the command and go towards you to see what treat you have for them. Start by working with another person in a controlled setting, like a hallway or a fenced-in yard. Have the other person kneel facing you and holding your dog.Once you give the recall cue, the other person should release your dog to let them go to you. Reward your dog with a high-value treat and affectionate praise as soon as they arrive.
Start with a very short distance and gradually increase the distance over the course of each session. If they fail to come, go back down a step and try again.
If you’re having difficulty getting your dog’s attention, try holding a toy they really love while you say the recall cue.
Repeat this exercise several times over the course of a couple weeks until it’s ingrained in your dog that the recall cue means “come.”
Another way to reinforce the cue by yourself is to give the command every time that your dog is coming to you of their own accord. Say the cue while they’re on their way, and reward them with a treat and/or praise when they arrive.
 Once your dog has mastered recall in a controlled environment with no distractions, it’s time to put them to the test in trickier circumstances. If they come to you in spite of outside temptations, you can be sure that you’ll be able to get their attention in the future.For instance, start by practicing outside with your dog on a long lead. Once they have that down, get a friend to try and distract them with play or toys while you recall them. From there, you might graduate to recalling them when they’re in a crowded dog park.
 Dogs respond best to training that is offered in many short sessions over a long period of time. Devote a few minutes once or twice a day to recall training, and your dog will develop strong recall.Make sure to go at your dog’s pace. Some dogs will pick up a “come” command within a week. More often, it will take a month or more for your pooch to get their recall down.
As they get more proficient at recall, remember to keep increasing the challenge of the exercises by making the distances and/or distractions greater. If they slip up, go back to the previous stage before you try moving on again.
 In order to encourage a strong recall, you have to be sure that you’re not inadvertently reinforcing bad habits. The main things to avoid are punishing your dog for not paying attention or rewarding them for not paying attention immediately.Never scold or discipline your dog if they don’t come to you right away. Doing so will make them less likely to want to return the next time.
Avoid repeating the “come” command or recall cue more than once. You want to teach your dog to come immediately. If you reward them for coming after you’ve given the command ten times, you’re telling them that it’s okay not to pay attention the first nine times.

