 These changes come as part of recovery and are actually a sign that you are getting better. If you prepare yourself for the weight change to come, you won't suddenly be thrown into shock when it does happen.


You may experience fluid retention and bloating, especially around the ankles and eyes. Your stomach may become much bigger, because it will take you much longer to digest food. Gas, abdominal discomfort, and cramps are all things you may experience as you begin to eat again.Remember that these symptoms are temporary. They may be uncomfortable and activate your worst fears about gaining weight, but as you get healthier, these side effects will subside.
You may initially experience rapid weight gain during the first days or weeks (about 2–3 lbs.)as your body replenishes the fluids in your tissues and organs, but this will soon slow.At about three weeks your body will develop a thin layer of fat, which protects and insulates your body.After that, the hollows in your cheeks and between your bones will fill out, followed by your buttocks, hips, thighs, and breasts., Remember that you are much more than just your weight. In case you need reminding, create a list of your positive attributes and post it somewhere so you can see it daily. Your list may include characteristics such as strong, smart, or a great friend., Appreciate the abilities of a healthy body. Acknowledging the fact that, in order to function optimally, you must maintain a healthy weight can reduce anxiety about any new weight you have gained.For example, many people with eating disorders find themselves getting warmer and less prone to illness. You may get excited that you’re not always feeling hungry or fatigued. Pay attention to the positives of your body aside from how much it weighs.
 Coming to the point where you like what you see in the mirror may take a long while. Still, you can be nicer to yourself and your body in the meantime. Eat according to what has been suggested in nutritional counseling. Get plenty sleep to reduce stress and foster physical recovery. Exercise regularly, but now excessively.You can also perform self-care and mood-boosting actions such as taking bubble baths, using scented lotions, or visiting a spa for a massage or facial. All of this is training for treating your body better, and, therefore, liking your body more.
 Television, magazines, music and more all have a profound impact on you view your body. Challenge yourself to become the boss of your own perception of the world, which means carefully evaluating and critiquing media messages. Turn off the TV when you see unrealistic portrayals of women’s bodies. Unsubscribe from magazines or blogs where thinness or disordered behavior patterns are reinforced., Most people find that recovery is more sustainable when they have access to group support. Search for a group that meets regularly in your local area or find supportive individuals to connect with online through reputable organizations like the National Eating Disorders Association or the National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders.