 Unlike bees, wasps and hornets like to eat meat and other protein foods, as well as sweet nectars. Hornets will remember the food source and continue to come around after it has been sealed off or taken away, so it’s best to prevent all open-air garbage.;
, This is the point when wasps prefer blossoms, juices and fruit. Pick up blossoms and fruit from fruit trees to avoid creating a food source.
 It’s better to walk away or move your picnic than to expect to kill them. Wasps release pheromones when they are in danger or squashed that may attract other wasps., A hornet can think of you as a possible food source.
 Bright colors attract wasps looking for food.
 It will keep hornets from making their nests in these ideal environments.
 Nests are often under decks, eaves and in trees. Although tree nests are usually abandoned after one year, house nests may house an overwintering queen and host the nest next year.
 There is some risk in destroying a hornet’s nest, so it’s best done with protective garments.


Call a professional if the hornets have access to the inside of your house. If they have made their nest in window cracks, foundation cracks, floorboards or any other house areas, you should not apply wasp killer.
 Unless you have a protective hood and suit, this is the best way to avoid being stung.
 Hornets and wasps return to the nest at nightfall and they are less active. This means you have a better chance of killing the majority of the nest., Get away from the area for the next few hours and encourage family members and pests to do the same. Hornets can sense when their nest is in danger, so it’s best to do this when there is very little noticeable activity.
 If you don’t see any activity, you may have killed the wasps. As soon as it looks abandoned, you should try to scrape it from the house, submerge it in water and throw it away.


If there is still activity, spray it again.
Use thick leather gloves and clothes when handling a nest or spraying a hornet’s nest. It will give you some protection against stings.
 Make sure the bowl seals airtight to the ground. Look for other entrances and repeat with another bowl. Set the bowl there for at least two weeks to ensure the colony starves before you lift it off.
 Place the trap away from human contact and hang it two to four feet above the ground. Leave the trap in the area for at least two days.


Make a trap by cutting the top off a two-liter bottle. Attach some string or wire to the sides so that it can hang from a tree. Drop the top inside the bottle, where it should catch on the sides. Pour a sweet substance, such as juice or sugar water through the funnel. Hang it in your tree. Wasps will enter and be unable to exit.
Empty and clean the trap every three weeks at nighttime. Make sure there are no active wasps in the trap at that time.