 It is much easier to be a cyberbully if you know that no one is monitoring what sites you are on or what you are posting online. One way that you can stop your child from being a cyberbully is by limiting access to computers, tablets, phones, and other electronic devices.Have your kids use their devices when they are in common areas like the family room or around responsible adults.
Although your child may still be able to sneak and post a mean comment when your back is turned, they may be less likely to try cyberbullying if they know you can walk in and see what they are posting at any time.;
, The more you know about the various social networking sites and apps, the better you can monitor your child online.Having a general knowledge of how the sites work can help you stop your child from being a cyberbully.


Facebook allows users to post text comments, pictures, and videos. People can comment on the posts, indicate how they feel about the post using stickers, share them, or leave new posts on other’s pages.
On Twitter, users post text comments that are less than 140 characters. They can also post links to pictures and other media. You can like, comment on, or ‘retweet’ a tweet that you like.
Instagram is primarily image and video based. Users can like and comment on the content posted on Instagram.
Snapchat allows users to text and video message one another as well as post pictures and videos. The messages and posts only last for a set amount of time. Snapchat can also be used for making video and audio calls.
Texting and email also offer opportunities for cyberbullying. Kids can send hurtful messages, harmful photos, and other bullying messages via text or email.
 You can stop your child from being a cyberbully by friending, following, and liking them online. Your child may be less likely to engage in cyberbullying if they know that you can see what they are posting.


Connect with them on some of the more popular social networking sites like Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, SnapChat, and Tumblr.
Ask your child if you can ‘friend’ them. If they don’t want to give you’re their profile information, they may have something to hide.
You don’t have to troll their online profiles, but every now and then you can check their page to see what they have been posting lately.

