 If you have depression now or have had it in the past, it’s important to make a health plan before you become pregnant. You may need to take special precautions for a healthy pregnancy. Your doctor might refer you to a counselor or advise you about lifestyle changes you should make before trying to conceive., If you are depressed, make sure you and your partner are on the same page about how your health may affect plans for having children. Be honest with them about your needs and concerns. A supportive and committed partner can make all the difference in helping you raise well-adjusted, emotionally healthy kids.If at any point you feel like you are relapsing into depression, let your partner know right away. They can help you get the support you need.
If you are single, identify some family members or close friends you can turn to for emotional support and day-to-day assistance. If it is financially feasible for you, consider hiring household help during your pregnancy to keep your stress levels down.
 Depression can be sneaky when it comes back. If you find yourself feeling sad or tired more often than usual, snapping at the people close to you, or not enjoying your favorite activities anymore, it could be a red flag. If your symptoms last more than a week or two, see your doctor or counselor., Antidepressants pose a number of serious health risks to babies in the womb. However, untreated depression and anxiety can also be dangerous to an unborn baby’s health, as well as to your own. Talk to your doctor about the safest choice for you and your baby.Some antidepressants can cause birth defects, miscarriages, and cognitive problems later in life. However, untreated mental health problems can also cause miscarriages, as well as low birth weight, premature birth, and lifelong changes to a child’s brain structure.
 Having a baby can be a difficult adjustment even for parents who are in good health. For parents with depression, the challenge is even greater. A counselor or therapist can help you deal with the intense emotions and hormonal swings of pregnancy and childbirth.