 Your veterinarian should have given you specific instructions on where to administer intramuscular medication, and you should follow those instructions carefully. As a general rule, most vets recommend administering intramuscular injections in the quadricep muscles (cranial thigh) or the lumbar spinal epaxial muscles (dorsal muscles along the spine).Be extremely cautious while administering intramuscular injections. A misplaced needle could cause serious damage to your cat's nerves.For this reason, it's best to follow any and all instructions given by your veterinarian. If you're uncertain about any part of your vet's instructions, or if you can't find the recommended site of injection at home, call or visit your vet for more thorough guidance.
 The needle should be angled between 45 and 90 degrees, depending on the site chosen for injection.It may be helpful to hold your cat's muscle flat, to prevent movement and ensure that the needle enters the muscle correctly.


Ensure that you insert the needle at the proper angle your vet demonstrated to you. Inserting the needle at too shallow an angle could prevent the injection from reaching the intended depth and penetrating the muscle.Do not hold your thumb over the plunger of the syringe until you're certain that the needle is inserted correctly. Touching the plunger while inserting the needle could result in a premature injection, should the cat flinch or the needle go in wrong., Much like administering a subcutaneous injection, you'll want to slightly pull back on the plunger before injecting the medicine. Air bubbles shouldn't be a problem with intramuscular injections, but if you see blood you'll need to withdraw the needle and try again, as this can indicate that a blood vessel has been hit., It's important to ensure that all of the medication dosage in the syringe has been injected. Once the syringe is completely emptied, withdraw the needle along the same path you used to insert the needle.While holding the syringe between your index and middle fingers, use your thumb (on the same hand) to press the plunger down., Once you've completed the injection, check the site of injection for blood or leaked medicine. If you see signs of blood or leaking medicine, use a clean cotton ball or tissue to apply pressure at the site of injection. It should only take about one minute for the bleeding or leakage to stop, with proper pressure., Used syringes are considered a biohazard, and as such they should never be disposed of in household trash or left uncapped in the garbage. Ask your vet's office about whether they collect used needles for disposal.

