 You will need information about your ex-spouse as well as copies of any existing custody orders.


You also may need any documents or other information that proves your reasons for requesting a modification.
You will need to use the original order to copy the name of the case, the parents involved in the case, and the case number. All of this information will be the same on your request for modification.If there are any other cases filed relating to the same child, such as protective orders or child support orders, you will need copies of those as well., You can find fill-in-the-blank forms for many jurisdictions, which the courts have approved for use in seeking modification of a custody order.


Look on the court's website, or visit the clerk's office, local legal aid offices, or a family law clinic to find out if there are forms available.
Make sure the form you find is approved for use in the court where you need to file your motion. Some state forms can't be used in certain counties. The form's instructions typically will list any such exceptions.You also may be able to find a checklist you can use to make sure you've included all the information and documentation the court needs to consider your request., If you had an attorney represent you in the initial custody proceeding, you may want to contact him or her for assistance with your request for modification.


An attorney's assistance may be especially valuable if you believe the other parent will be hiring a lawyer, or if you suspect he or she will contest your modification request.
Free or reduced-cost legal assistance typically is available at your local legal aid office or through family law clinics.
 If you were unable to find forms, you must draft a motion from scratch to request the judge modify the original custody order.


You can contact the clerk of court and ask for samples of similar motions filed in different cases in the same court. You can use those motions as guides for the formatting and style of your motion, but make sure you adapt the language of your motion to fit your case.
Depending on your jurisdiction, the document you file may be referred to as a motion, a request, or a supplemental petition, but the purpose for each of these documents is essentially the same.You can copy the format of any other documents filed in the same court, such as the original divorce decree or custody order. You generally must use the same file or record number as the existing custody order on your request for modification.
If you're using forms you downloaded from the court's website or picked up at the clerk's office, take care not to alter the format of the form itself when you fill in your responses., Once you've completed your motion, you must file it with the clerk of the court that issued the existing custody order.


Some jurisdictions require you to sign your motion in the presence of a notary, or include an affidavit that must be notarized. Check the instructions or call the court clerk to confirm before you sign your documents.After you've signed, make at least two copies of everything to take to the clerk's office. One of these copies will be for you and the other will be delivered to the other parent.You'll have to pay a filing fee – typically of around a hundred dollars – to have your motion filed with the court.If you don't believe you can pay the fees, you can ask the clerk about applying for a fee waiver., After you've served the other parent, the court typically will schedule a hearing on your custody modification request.


Depending on your state, you may be required to attend mediation or to successfully complete orientation or parenting classes before your hearing is scheduled.