 In order to marry in Connecticut you must not currently be married to anyone else nor be under the age of 16. Nor can you be marrying a family member closer to you than your first cousin, including step parents. Extra regulations apply for those who are deemed to have insufficient judgement, including youths under the age of 18 and those who, typically due to old age, no longer are in possession of their full mental faculties.Same-sex marriage is legal in all 50 states and all procedures are identical to those for heterosexual marriage.
Connecticut permits the marriage of non-residents. A Connecticut wedding license, however, is only valid for ceremonies performed within the state.
Any legal relationship similar to marriage must also be terminated before the state of Connecticut will grant a marriage license. That means you cannot be party to a civil union, if you are marrying. The exception is if the person who you are marrying, is the same individual you are currently in a civil union with.;
, Conservators are court appointed guardians for individuals who have lost the ability to make rational judgements, typically due to comas, Alzheimer’s disease, or some other serious condition.. Those who have been assigned a conservator are not legally allowed to wed until they obtain written permission to enter into marriage from the conservator.
 If you are under the age of 18, but at least 16, you can marry in Connecticut, but need parental consent. In this regard, Connecticut law is more liberal than many other states in that it is only necessary to obtain the consent of one, not both parents. Written consent should be delivered to the registrar of vital statistics. If no parent is available, you can also obtain consent from the probate court in the district in which the minor resides., The bride and groom may not be legally married to any other individual at the time of application, and any prior divorces must be final and already filed with the court in the state in which the divorce was granted. Any civil union you have been party to must also be dissolved.
 Most counties require a marriage license to be obtained at least 24 hours prior to the solemnization ceremony. Check with your local office of vital statistics for specific application deadlines and estimated processing time.
 Both parties should have a valid photo ID that includes date of birth, signature, and expiration. If you do not have such an ID, you can substitute two other types of identification. The Office of Vital Records reserves the right to ask for more than two forms of identification if they suspect that you are not who you indicate that you are.The preferred alternative to photo identification is a Social Security card with either an employment identification card, a paycheck tub, or a W-2 form.
Other forms of identification that can be provided include automobile registration, copy of utility bill with current address, bank statement, voter registration card, trade or professional license, firearm permit, probation documents, letter from government agency verifying identity, release document from correctional institute, birth certificate, military discharge papers, or school photo identification.
 You will be expected to provide personal information for your application in order to verify your identity. This will include name, birthplace, birth date, address education level, parent’s names and birthplaces, and number of previous marriages. You might also need to provide information about the ceremony, including the name, address, and phone number of the officiant performing the ceremony, the address where the ceremony will be performed, and the date on which it will occur., Both parties are required to be present at the time of signing. Complete the application honestly and accurately and sign a sworn statement of validity. Pay the license application fee. The fee is $30, however you should confirm payment requirements with the specific town clerk's office to which you are submitting your application.


If both parties cannot be present to sign the application, they can come in separately and fill it out on different dates. When this is done, the later of the two dates is considered to be the official application date.Contact the Office of Vital Record’s to ascertain their hours for marriage license applications. Sometimes they will stop processing these applications before the official close time.It is imperative that you apply at the office of the town in which the wedding ceremony will occur, not the town in which you reside.
If you are being wed in Danbury , you should complete your application online here before visiting the Town Clerk’s office., Most Connecticut marriage licenses are valid for 65 days, during which time the marriage must be solemnized and the completed marriage license returned to the vital records office of origin. Any justice of the peace is authorized to solemnize a marriage, after which they will return the completed license to the Office of Vital Record’s by the first week of the following month. No witnesses are necessary to solemnize a marriage in Connecticut.

