 Before selecting extensions, examine your own lashes. The longer and healthier they are, the more weight they can withstand.


If you’ve never applied extensions before, consider starting with a half set to see how your natural lashes hold up.
You can always add more extensions later if you want a fuller or more exaggerated look.;
, Mink is the most expensive and synthetic is the least. The lengths usually range from 6mm to 17mm.Extensions also come in a variety of thicknesses, curls and colors. Think about what your ultimate goal is before making a choice.


For example, if your goal is to create a natural look, you could select medium length extensions in brown black.
If you are buying extensions as part of a costume, or if you’re going for a unique look, explore different color options and thicknesses.
 Once you’ve settled on a basic length and thickness, choose individual lashes that vary slightly in length. A subtle variation will provide the most natural looking results.Three sizes in a similar length range should be sufficient. The shortest extensions will be used to fill in any gaps in the lash line and keep the overall appearance from looking unnatural and crowded.
 If you plan to apply the extensions yourself, get a kit from a beauty supply store. A kit will include different sized lashes (usually short, medium and long), along with all the tools you’ll need for application – tweezers, adhesive, adhesive remover and an eyelash brush. If you’ve never applied extensions before, buying a kit will make the process a lot easier.


Each kit is different. Read and follow the instructions included with the kit carefully.
Check the ingredients on the adhesive. Make sure it doesn’t have formaldehyde listed as an ingredient.
 Applying eyelash extensions on yourself can be risky, since the adhesive can irritate your skin or damage your natural lashes if not applied properly. If you don’t feel comfortable applying extensions yourself, find a certified professional to do it for you the first time.


After going through the process once, you’ll probably feel more at ease doing it at home.
Start by researching technicians in your area. Make sure they’re licensed and find out how long they’ve been doing this professionally.