 Emphatically denying your Cartesian dualism will likely make them taunt you about being a closet Cartesian dualist for months to come. Given that you probably are a Cartesian dualist, and in need of recovery from this tenuous philosophical position, it is important to be calm and collected in the face of everyday discussions with friends.;
, You must admit that you are powerless over your Cartesian dualism, and that your life as a dualist has become unmanageable.
,,, The easiest method for accomplishing this is to come to a full understanding of the problem of interactionism. Interactionism is the view that the mind and the body causally influence one another, a common-sense opinion that you believe as a recovering Cartesian dualist. Interactionism violates the doctrine of physical closure—the basic idea that physicists are right about the world and that it operates as a causally closed system. If physical closure were not true, the conservation of energy would not hold, and the universe would be a pretty messed up place for all of us (not that we would likely exist if it weren't a closed system, but that is not the point). The following argument from the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy shows why interactionism is so problematic: "For X to be a cause of Y, X must contribute something to Y. The only way a purely mental event could contribute to a purely physical one would be to contribute some feature not already determined by a purely physical event. But if physical closure is true, there is no feature of the purely physical effect that is not contributed by the purely physical cause. Hence interactionism violates physical closure".
, Replace them with epiphenomenalism or some other form of argumentation that does not violate the basic tenets of a physical universe. You COULD go for parallelism, but that whole "God set it all up from the beginning" argument violates free will pretty strongly. Besides, you probably don't want to go from being a Cartesian to being a Liebnizian. That is really no better, so just go with the epiphenomenalism for now.
 This is probably a lot of people, so it might be best to use Excel so that you can alphabetize the list in the future.
 It'll likely happen a lot at first, so be humble about this.
,