


In Hawaii, diverse cultures, religions, and people are accepted. Racism is completely off limits.
An island girl is never ashamed of her family. Family in the islands is very important. So your friends saw you at the mall with your mother, so what? She's the woman that has taken care of you, all of your life with her. Never be ashamed of your heritage.;
, Despite the slim figures you see walking down Waikiki beach, with perfect crispy-brown tans, Islanders have mastered a quality diet. They actually eat a variety of food. Of all different flavors and cultures.


One food that is so cute and tasty and portable is musubi. You can make it at home, and its very good. What keeps them thin is the fact that they jam pack their activities that help them spend time with family and friends. Going to the beach, going to the movies, surfing, skateboarding, catching the city bus to go to the mall, running to the store to buy snacks to sit outside on the front porch and eat, riding bikes around the neighborhood, and anything else physical.
 Island skin is always tan, but always be careful with the sun, UV levels, and other things.


Always wear sunscreen at the beach or pool, and put lotion on all over after you shower. If you don't have the exfoliating and acne-clearing power of the ocean where you live, use a body scrub and acne wash. Island Girls always have a natural tan.
 And if they do, they don't use much. Try scrubbing your lips with a toothbrush after you brush your teeth to get rid of dead skin and reveal the color underneath. The sun will sunburn your cheeks a little so you won't need blush.
 Only shave body hair. Use smooth away or pluck unwanted facial hair.
 The sun will highlight your hair if you go swimming at the beach a lot, but if you must, get highlights from the salon. They aren't as pretty, but they are remotely the same.


All hair types are beautiful: straight, wavy, curly. They look better long and highlighted. Unless your hair is very frizzy, of course, then you have to blow dry and ultra-condition.
Keep your hair clean and conditioned. Wash it every day, or every other day.
Put it in any style you want, but usually Island girls put their hair in buns, pony tails, or just left down.
 Firstly, buy lots of tankinis and bikinis and one pieces and board shorts. Board shorts are actually a staple for us. Jean shorts, cuffed knee jeans, skinny jeans, skirts that end just above the knee, leather belts, leather flip flops (we actually just call them slippers here, but anyway), rubber flip flops, slip on shoes, converse, gladiator sandals, basketball shorts and oversized tee's and sweat pants (for those casual days and weekends), leggings, Ugg boots (for winter), surfer hats (those baseball caps from Billabong and Roxy), tank tops, tee's, hoodies, bomber jackets, furry jackets, oversized jackets, and all types of jewelry. They don't have to be wooden jewelry, but anything you like. And you can add anything else that you like to the list.
 There are a lot of open beaches easily available. Use what you have. If all you have is a pool, enjoy yourself there.
,