 If you're an outdoor enthusiast and your traveling companion is a fashionista, your objectives for your trip may differ greatly. If you select someone who is interested in many of the things you are, the two of you will enjoy visiting similar sites. This does not mean, though, that you and your traveling companion must have identical interests. During the trip, you may choose to do different things, but it's always nice to be able to share some experiences while traveling.;
, Choosing someone who must constantly personalize arrangements to suit his or her individual tastes or needs will result in a travel partner who is high maintenance. If plans go awry, an overly picky travel companion may become so upset over little details that he will ruin the rest of the trip for you. Additionally, avoid any potential travel companion with traits you already find to be annoying. These traits may become even more annoying when traveling together.
 If one of you plans to go first class and the other can only afford coach, at least one person may spend much of the vacation unhappy (and, possibly overextended). Clearly identify your expectations for the trip, accommodations you plan to acquire and the type of dining you expect to enjoy while traveling. If your expectations are similar, you may have found a potentially great travel partner.
 If you can't travel to the nearest city together and happily spend a day and night seeing the sights, it's unlikely that you can endure and enjoy a longer trip together. This test trip can be an overnight or a weekend trip. Make note of anything disconcerting, such as a travel companion who snores or pawns his luggage off on you. If you decide to travel with this person, come prepared to deal with any peculiarities you've noticed.
 Let your travel companion know about anything you feel you must see or do. Be open to anything your travel partner feels is a necessity to her part of the trip. Get expectations for the trip out in the open and compare any differences.

