 While your should try to avoid using heating tools as much as possible, you should purchase quality tools for the days where you want to straighten, curl, or blow dry your hair. Cheaper models often cause more damage to your hair because they are made with less high-quality parts.
 Before you use your heating tool, including blow dryers, straighteners and curlers, apply some heat protectant to your hair to lessen the amount of damage. Wait until your hair is roughly 50% dry, and then spray the heat protection on to your hair. You can then comb the protectant through your hair gently, either using your fingers or a wide-toothed comb.


Dry your hair on medium or low-heat for an added amount of protection.
Don't use silicone based products before using heating tools. They can fuse to your hair and suck the moisture out of it. Wait until you've finished styling, and then you may apply things such as frizz serums.
 These nozzles keep the heat trained on one part of your hair, which can increase the amount of damage that is done. Instead, simply point the hairdryer downwards to achieve the same effect as a nozzle.
 If you have damaged hair, swear off heated tools entirely until your hair is healthy again. These tools can cause serious damage to already dry or broken hair.


Instead, use the following steps to straighten or curl your hair without a straightener or curler.
 Round boars hair brushes work well when trying to smooth and straighten out your hair without a straightener. These large round brushes can help to make your hair look sleek.


On the other hand, using a small, straight boars hairbrush may give your hair more of a curl if you use the brush to flip up the ends of your hair.
 When your hair is still a little damp, twist it up into a bun and secure it with bobby pins (if necessary). Leave your bun up for an hour or so and then take it down. Once you have taken the bun out, your hair should look naturally wavy or curly.


You can also braid your hair to give it a natural curl. Braid your hair when it is very slightly damp before you go to bed. In the morning, take the braid out and your hair should look naturally wavy.
 To avoid using curlers and straighteners, you can use different hair accessories to make your hair look stylish. Try things like:


Ribbons.
Bobbles.
Hair bands that go across your head.
Clip-in flowers.

