 Make a list of 10 situations that cause you anxiety. Rank them, placing the most stressful at the top. Starting at the bottom, try to gradually face each anxiety-inducing situation.


Wait until you feel moderately comfortable with the previous situation before moving to the more stressful one. You want to overcome your anxiety, not increase it.
This list may take awhile to get through, and that's okay. You may never reach number 10. But if you have conquered 1-7, you have made your social phobia significantly more manageable.
If you feel you are struggling through this, contact a mental health professional who can offer you support while you attempt to face each fear on your list.
 Getting over your social anxiety may seem like a nebulous process. How do you know if you are getting better? Just putting yourself in social situations isn't enough. That might be step 1, but after that, you need to work on interacting more. Make goals for yourself for each social outing. As you accomplish your goals, you can start to see progress and improvement in yourself.


Make small talk with people you see often, such as employees, schoolmates, or other people that you come in contact with. This may be just a comment on the weather, your homework or work project, or the meeting you had earlier. Start by giving yourself a goal of speaking to one person once a week. Then increase it to every day, or speaking to multiple people in one day.
Make a goal to make one comment in class or in your meeting. Don't worry about what everyone else thinks. Focus on the fact that you did it. That is progress.
If you are in a group setting, make a pact with yourself to say at least 3 comments in the conversation.
Ask someone to dinner. It can be as a friend or as a date. Don't focus on the response - only focus on the fact that you were assertive and asked.
This helps you focus on the task and the goal, not the nerves. The idea here is to get control of the situation. You know you can control what you do, what you say, and what you ask. You can't control the other person, so don't worry about them. You can even try practicing with a friend at home what you’ll do or say in social situations.
 Try to program yourself to stop worrying about social situations. Instead, relax. Worrying and stressing about the event causes you to have anxiety when you finally get to the situation.


Try thinking about the event while you are relaxed. Take a warm bath, curl up in a cozy blanket, or listen to your favorite song. Think about the upcoming event. Since you are in a good, relaxed head space, this can help you feel better about the upcoming event.
Imagine that you are in the situation. Imagine yourself relaxed and confident. Thinking about the situation in a positive, relaxed way can help you overcome negative thoughts., Deep breathing can be a great way to manage anxiety during or before social situations. Deep breathing can help reduce the physical symptoms of your anxiety, many of which are a result of breathing too quickly. Do breathing exercises everyday so it becomes second nature and comes naturally when you're in a stressful situation.Breathe through your abdomen, not your chest. To do this, lay on the floor or sit straight in a chair. Place a hand on your chest, the other on your abdomen. As you inhale, the hand on your abdomen should move while the one on your chest stays mostly at the same place.
Inhale slowly and deeply through your nose. Hold for a count of 7. Exhale slowly through your mouth for a count of 8. Gently contract your abdominal muscles to get all the air from the lungs. This is extremely important.
Complete 5 deep breaths. Try 1 deep breath per 10 seconds., Talking to family and friends about your problems is extremely important. A good friend or family member will help to motivate you and help you overcome your fear. Ask these people to help support you as you gain the courage to try something new.


Ask your family or friends to go places with you that cause anxiety. Sometimes going to new places with someone you trust can help reduce your anxiety.
Make sure you lean on supportive, positive, and encouraging friends and family members. If they are negative, put you down, lecture you, or criticize you, find someone else to support you.