 Vegetarians do not eat meat, including poultry, fish, and shellfish., Like vegetarians, vegans do not eat meat. They also don’t eat any products derived from animals. That includes dairy, eggs, and honey., Knowing the difference between vegetarianism and veganism is important, but you still want to ask your guests about their diet directly. There are different forms of vegetarianism, and some vegetarians don’t eat eggs or foods containing gelatin, so it’s important to inquire before you start making meal preparations., If you’re worried about accommodating your guests’ dietary restrictions, ordering food from a restaurant might be your safest bet. Everyone can order what they want, and most restaurants offer vegetarian options. Your vegan guests might have a harder time finding something to order, so make sure you check with them first and choose a restaurant that will accommodate their needs.
 If you’ve decided to cook for your guests, search for some accommodating recipes in a cookbook or online, keeping their dietary restrictions in mind. Researching recipes is particularly helpful if you’re not used to cooking vegan or vegetarian meals. If you’re searching for recipes online, read reviews of recipes beforehand to gauge how easy or difficult they are to make. Make a list of recipes you find, but make sure they sound like something you would also enjoy eating if you’ll be eating it as well.
 Don’t just assume that the dishes you’ve found will work. Just because a dish is vegetarian or vegan doesn’t mean your guests will like it. If you’re having a hard time finding a meal to serve, ask your guests for some input. They’ll be happy to tell you their favorite dish and it will make things easier for you.
 Hosting vegan and vegetarian guests doesn’t mean you can’t serve meat to your meat-eating visitors. You can make spaghetti and serve it with meatballs and parmesan cheese to your meat-eating guests and serve it without meat or cheese to your vegetarian and vegan guests. This will save you time and the hassle of having to make two completely different meals., Foods like lentils, beans, and tofu make great substitutes for meat because they’re hearty and filling. Add them to the vegetarian or vegan dish you’re preparing to enhance the flavor and make it more satisfying. Make sure to check if your guests like an ingredient before you include it., If some of your guests are meat eaters and you’re cooking dinner, make sure you keep the meat separate from the other ingredients. Some vegetarians and vegans won’t eat food that has been contaminated by meat. That includes food that has touched meat or been cooked in the same pan that was used to cook meat., You don’t want your guests to feel guilty if they can’t eat the snacks you put out for them because they contain meat or animal products. Tortilla chips with salsa or guacamole are an easy, cheap snack that both vegetarians and vegans can eat. You can also serve vegetables with hummus for dipping., This will prevent oil or juice from the meat from mixing with the meat-free dishes., Avoid having everyone grab food from one large plate. This will prevent meat and animal products from touching the food you’ve prepared for your vegetarian and vegan guests., If you’re having vegan guests, make sure you have a dessert option for them if you’re going to serve your other guests dessert. Keep in mind that most traditional desserts contain dairy and eggs so they are not vegan. There are a variety of vegan dessert recipes online, like vegan cheesecake and vegan cookies. Some grocery stores sell vegan desserts if you don’t want to bake., A lot of popular cocktails contain dairy or animal products and are therefore not vegan-friendly. If you’re going to serve drinks to your guests, make sure you have a vegan option available. Some vegans won’t drink wine or beer if it’s been processed with animal products. Most wines and beers don’t say whether they are vegan on the label, but you can look it up online if you’re unsure.