 If you're like most people, you likely have fallen into a rut about the places in your city you visit. If you live in a large city, you probably have plenty of districts you haven't visited, that include shopping and local sights. In a smaller area, you may need to visit a nearby town instead, but either way, exploring those areas can make your staycation more interesting. Just make sure to set a budget for how much you're allowed to spend when you're out., Unless you're a museum aficionado, you'll likely find there are museums in your area that you haven't visited yet. Take a day or two and visit a couple of those museums. Each one is probably good for a couple of hours at least. Some museums even offer student and senior discounts for those on a tight budget., If you've lived in an area for a while, you may not have done some of the touristy stuff, such as visiting local landmarks, taking a dinner cruise, or taking pictures at that one picturesque spot. Being a tourist in your own city can make it feel like you're on vacation, even when you're not., Another fun "getaway" is a taking a picnic to a nice spot in-town or a a little bit out of town. Pick a park with pretty gardens, or head to the lake or beach if you have one nearby. Treating your town like you would a vacation spot can help you have a fun vacation without going hundreds of miles away., Life gets busy, and sometimes people you care about get pushed to the side because you don't have enough time. A spring break staycation is a perfect time to make time to see friends and family you might not normally get to see. Throw a party and invite people over, or plan a dinner out with friends or family., Of course, even a staycation can get expensive if you're doing something every day. However, you could stick to free or cheap activities except for one or two big nights out. See a movie with your family, or go to a play or musical. Make a night of it and have a nice dinner out.For cheaper show options, look at matinee showings at nearby colleges, which will likely have more affordable ticket prices. You could also go to the matinee at the movies to make it cheaper.
 If it's spring break across the city, other people are likely in the same boat. That means that you'll probably be able to find plenty of free or cheap events to attend during the week, such as craft shows, music festivals, or events at your local library., Pampering is a mainstay of many people's vacations, and you can do that just as well at home. For instance, you could throw a spa day at your house. Invite your friends to bring their favorite nail polishes, and buy a few things like facial masks, foot soaks, and nice lotion to pamper each other. If that sounds like too much work, just pick up stuff to pamper yourself, and stay in., In many areas, spring break is a great time of year to be outside. Go play a game of basketball in the park, or go on a hike in a nearby area. Enjoy the great outdoors while you have the time. Best of all, it's free., One way to make your own city feel more exotic and special is to try out a new restaurant or two. In fact, you could make a week of it and try a new restaurant each day, focusing on a different type of cuisine each day. It will make where you live seem like a whole new city.If you stick to hole-in-the-wall places, you can keep your costs down. Also, look for things like coupons to help cut costs.
Check local restaurants for daily deals and happy hours, which you can take advantage of to save money. You could also split meals with a friend or family member to cut costs.
Food trucks can be cheaper, too, because they have less overhead. In addition, some ethnic grocery stores have in-house cafes that sell food for cheap.
 Vacation is all about new experiences, and one way you can have new experiences where you are is to try your hand at a new skill. You could take a woodblock printing class, painting class, or cooking class, for instance. Check at your local community colleges, museums, libraries, and art galleries for classes. Your parks and recreation department may have options, too.