 The classic long runs seen on Rocky are not actually great training for boxing. Boxing is about short, sustained bursts of high energy, and the best way to train for this is interval training. Intervals are when you alternate high energy, quick sprints with short rest periods. As you get more fit you can shorten the rest periods by 10-15 seconds, improving your gains even more. A good starter workout would be:


1-mile warm up at slow, easy jogging pace.
6 600m sprints, resting for 1 minute between each. You want to be running at roughly 75-80% of your top speed.
.5 mile slow, easy recovery jog at the end., Interval training will make up the bulk of your cardio workouts, and they are the best way to quickly and effectively train for several explosive rounds of boxing. However, you still want to move your legs on the off days. The best way to do this is with a mixture of full body workouts, longer, slower distance runs, and some light, quick sprints. The following activities, used at the US Olympic training camps, should be mixed and matched into a 30-60 minute long workout:


1-2 mile run for warm-up (moderate to fast pace).
Shadowbox 1 round (3-minute round).
Run backward 200 meters.
Sprint 100 meters.
Jog with hands up, throwing realistic punches, for 400 meters., The classic 4-5 mile morning run still has its place in boxing training. Use it on days where you need to recover, especially after 2-3 straight days of intense workouts. Longer, slower runs are also best in the days leading up to a fight, as you don't want to be sore and tired when you step in the ring. Run for 30 minutes to an hour at a nice, comfortable pace, and stretch before and after.


Many trainers recommend doing your runs first thing in the morning, giving you time to refuel and rest for the skills workout later on.
As you jog, keep your hands in defensive position, occasionally throwing mock punches, to get your arms warmed up. This is why most boxers call running "roadwork.", Jumping rope is one of the most fantastic boxing workouts imaginable, strengthening your heart, agility, timing, and coordination. You should aim to fit 15 minutes of jump rope into every workout. Start with the basic jogging technique, alternating feet as you spin the rope. As you improve, try alternate, more technical foot patterns:


Jump with both feet together.
Cross your hands. As the rope is coming down, past your nose, cross your wrists over each other, then uncross them once the rope is passed your feet.
Move as you jump. "Walk" forwards, backward, and side to side by hopping around as you jump., Ladder drills are common in gyms across the world, and can be adapted easily into a variety of workouts. To do them, set up cones or a workout ladder, and focus on quickly moving your feet through ever single space. As you progress, mix up the routine by skipping every other foot, touching in each space 2 times, working in and out of the ladder forward and backward, etc.



Ladder workouts are common in many sports, and you should constantly try new movements.
 Having good footwork is not just about training your heart and lungs. To be a better boxer, you need to train with good form so that you don't think about your feet during a fight. When working on footwork, focus on:


Staying on the balls of your feet. These are the "knobs" right before your toes. This makes pivoting, moving, and shifting much easier.
Keep your spine straight. Avoid hunching or leaning back. This keeps your center of gravity even and allows for smoother movement.
Relax your upper body. You want loose shoulders and pecs.