 Sikhs have an obligation to pray daily, work hard, and share with those in need.;
, Sikhs are the students of their ten teachers (or Guru's) who compiled their teachings into a unique collection of divine scriptures, called the Guru Granth Sahib.
 The Guru Granth Sahib is considered a Living Guru

,, However outside India attending a Gurdwara might be more difficult, if you live in a large city. If you live near a Gurdwara visit the local Granthi/Sikh custodian who can provide more information on the Sikh path.
 Some Sikhs are vegetarian because they have a great respect for animals, however Sikhs are not bound to be vegetarianism according to the Sikh Code of Conduct. The Sikh Code of Conduct states that ritually slaughtered meat or Kosher/Halal is forbidden. When Sikhs attend a Gurdwara only vegetarian food is served. Whether a Sikh is vegetarian can also depend upon what traditions or region he or she are from.
 Akal is only realised through self knowledge, Sikhs therefore place emphasis on meditation to understand Akal. Sikhs aim to become one with Akal in order to end the cycle of birth and death, while not withdrawing from society.
 Sikhs also meditate for the purpose of realizing truth, as Akal (timeless spirit) is truth and truth is Akal and as Sikhs know Akal through meditation so they know truth through meditation, Guru Nanak said truth is only attainable through self realisation. Self realisation thus leads to enlightenment and ends the cycle of birth, death and rebirth.
 Sikhs believe these five distractions prevent one from achieving union with God which is the ultimate goal. If you are to lead a good life free from suffering you must avoid the five distractions.
 He stated that rite, pilgrimages and asceticism and fasting are meaningless, devotion should come inwardly. Sikhs therefore should try to balance work,charity and worship.Sikhs have an optimistic view of life, a spirit of chardi kala. They also believe that they should defend and protect the rights of others. They should never endorse a class system, sexism, racism, or other stereotypes that support inequality

, Charity is very important to Sikhs who balance charity along with work and worship. Charity is part of the Sikh belief in defending others and that can also mean defending others from poverty.
 The part of the Guru Granth Sahib depends on the activity and is supposed to strengthen faith.
 Here are some Sikh festivals taken from Wikipedia, though there are more.


Gurpurab are celebrations or commemorations based on the lives of the Sikh Gurus. They tend to be either birthdays or celebrations of Sikh martyrdom. All ten Gurus have Gurpurabs on the Nanakshahi calendar, but it is Guru Nanak Dev and Guru Gobind Singh who have a gurpurab that is widely celebrated in Gurdwaras and Sikh homes. The martyrdoms are also known as a shaheedi Gurpurab, which mark the martyrdom anniversary of Guru Arjan Dev and Guru Tegh Bahadur.
Vaisakhi or Baisakhi normally occurs on 13 April and marks rebirth, the beginning of the new spring year and the end of the harvest. Sikhs celebrate it because on Vaisakhi in 1699, the tenth guru, Gobind Singh, laid down the Foundation of the Khalsa an Independent Sikh Identity.
Bandi Chhor Divas or Diwali celebrates Guru Hargobind's release from the Gwalior Fort, with 52 innocent Hindu kings who were also imprisoned by Jahangir, on 26 October 1619.
Hola Mohalla occurs the day after Holi and is when the Khalsa Panth gather at Anandpur Sahib and display their warrior skills, including fighting and riding.
 Names of the morning and evening prayers are below.


Morning prayers include: Japji Sahib, Jaap Sahib, Tav Prasaad Svaiye, Chaupai Sahib, Anand Sahib
Evening prayer:Rehras Sahib
Bedtime prayer:Kirtan Sohila
Here is a link to recordings of prayers: http://sgpc.net/live-kirtan-sri-harmandir-sahib-96-kbps/


, When a Sikh takes Amrit he/she becomes pure or Khalsa. Khalsa members adhere to the five K's.

