 Find a way to love the process of working on tedious tasks that must be done daily in order to reach your overall goals.There are always tasks like these, whether it is practicing the same moves over and over again, researching topics for your writing, or doing the same math problems multiple times until you get them just right.
Find something within these tasks that you enjoy doing or that makes you feel good, and focus on that aspect instead of the boredom of repetition.
 Visions boards are great tools because they keep you reminded of what you really want and why you should keep working hard to get it. But if you aren’t standing in front of it, use your imagination to find the motivation to get through your daily task.


Be specific with your visualizations, though. Instead of daydreaming about a far off future, in which you have your dream career, visualize yourself actually doing the nitty-gritty work.Picture yourself doing what you need to get done today, and how you will feel after it’s done, and then you will likely be ready to get to work.
If this doesn’t get you moving, remind yourself of your reasons for wanting your dream. Look at your notecards or vision board for all the specific reasons why your dream is important to you.
 Multitasking is not really a great way to get things done and do them well. You will complete each task much more proficiently and completely if you focus on one at a time. Dividing your attention with too many tasks is as distracting as TV or loud music can be.If you are writing a story or report, break the task up into sections and complete one at a time.
Athletes should concentrate on learning one skill or move at a time.
Artists usually work with one medium at a time. Complete your under-drawing before you start opening paint
Trying to do them all at once can get confusing and switching back and forth between tasks makes them all more difficult

, This is the work thing you can do when trying to work towards a large goal. Plan out projects and tasks way in advance of your deadlines for completing them, and plan a work schedule if necessary, to determine how much time it will really take to do these tasks well.Figure out your personal procrastination style to find out how best to avoid your triggers.For example, some people procrastinate by watching TV or another leisurely activity, while others put off important work to do chores that can really wait until another day.
Set up time in your schedule for goofing off or surfing the internet if you know these are big time wasters for you.
Giving yourself permission to do the things you enjoy while limiting the amount of time you can spend doing them is often far more productive than trying to avoid these time spenders completely.
Find tips to stop procrastinating online, but actually use them to see benefits, and limit the amount of time you spend looking for them.
 Whether they share the same or similar goals, or encourage you to reach yours, identify those people in your life that make you want to be better at what you do and spend as much time with them as possible.You don’t need to stop hanging out with friends who don’t want to do the same thing you do after high school, but make sure your friends have goals of their own and support you in yours.The people you spend the most time with should make you want to be a better version of yourself, not make you wish you were someone else.
Look for positive supportiveness and sincerity rather than non-constructive criticisms in your chosen peers.

