 You can ask that a judge set bail or reduce bail by filing a motion in court. You should begin by formatting your document. Open a blank word processing document and set the font to Arial or Times New Roman 14 point. Give the document one-inch margins.


If you are in jail, you can handwrite a motion. You should check with the supervisor of your jail about getting a blank “motion” form.If you can’t get one, then you can write your motion on sheets of paper.
 At the top of the page, insert the caption information. This information stays the same throughout your prosecution, so you can pull this information from any court document filed in your case. The caption contains the following information:The name of the court at the top of the page.
The names of the parties. Typically, it is “State v. ” or “People v. .” Put the names of the parties below the name of the court.
The case number.
Title. You can title your motion “Motion to Reduce Bail” or something similar.
 You should briefly identify yourself and state why you are bringing the motion. You should also identify whether you have a lawyer or are representing yourself.For example, you could write: “Defendant, James Smith, representing himself pro se, hereby requests this Court to reduce Defendant’s bond. As grounds in support of the motion, Defendant states the following:”.
 You might want to begin by explaining some of the background of the case, including when you were arrested. You should also state if you had a first appearance and if any bail was set during the appearance.


For example, you might write: “On April 20, 2016, Judge Laura Lee set defendant James Smith’s bail at $450,000 at the first appearance. Defendant James Smith turned himself into custody on April 19, 2016 when he learned that officers had a warrant for his arrest.”, You will need to do some research to find out what facts the court should consider when determining bail. You can usually find your state’s law online. If your jail has a law library, then you can research in the law library. For example, Florida considers the following factors, which you would remind the judge of:nature and circumstances of the charged offense
weight of the evidence against you
your history, including family ties, length of residence in the community, your employment history, mental condition, and financial resources
your past convictions or any prior flight
the funds you have available to post bail
whether you are on probation, parole, or another form of release pending different criminal proceedings
whether you will intimidate or endanger any victims
any other facts

, You should go down through the factors the judge must consider and explain how any help your argument. Write about yourself in the third person, calling yourself “he” or “she” or “Defendant.”For example, you could write: “A bail reduction is appropriate. Defendant’s crimes are not ‘dangerous crimes’ as defined by law. Furthermore, he has been a resident of this city for nearly 25 years and has strong family ties. Both his wife and two children are living with him. Before arrest, Defendant worked as a teacher at the local high school and has held the job for 19 years. He is not a flight risk, as this is his first charged offense. Defendant has never failed to attend a court hearing, and no allegation has been made in court that Defendant is a flight risk. As such, there is a presumption that Defendant should be released on his own recognizance.”

, In the conclusion, tell the judge what you want from him or her. For example, you could ask that you be released “on your own recognizance.” Essentially, this means that you won’t have to pay bail but would promise to attend court hearings and the trial. You may also have to occasionally check in with the court.Sample language could read: “Wherefore, Defendant respectfully requests that this Court grant his Motion to Reduce Bail and order Defendant released on his own recognizance.”, You need to let the prosecutor know that you are filing your motion to set or reduce bail. Accordingly, you will send them a copy. You also need to certify to the court that you sent a copy to the prosecutor.


You can write up a certificate of service on a separate sheet of paper. The certificate can read: “I certify that I served a copy of this Motion upon the following party by mailing first class mail, postage prepaid, on April 25, 2016 to .”, Once you finish your motion, you are prepared to file it. However, you need to get a hearing date as well. If you are in jail, then ask the warden how you can contact the court to schedule the hearing date.


Courts schedule hearings differently. In some courts, the clerk will go ahead and schedule the hearing after receiving your motion. This happens automatically.In other courts, you may need to send a brief note with your motion and ask to schedule the hearing. Alternately, you may need to call the court clerk ahead of time.
 If possible, you should make a copy of your motion for your own records. Then you should send the motion to the court clerk. If you are in jail, then you will probably have to mail the motion to the clerk. Ask for the address or look it up online.


Be sure to send a copy to the prosecutor.

