 If you're not clean, then don't bother applying. Most importantly, you will be able to see if your background report contains any false information, so you will be prepared when they question you on it. You must use a service that is able to access the CIS database which is the exact same database that the CIA uses, If your name appears then they have your record available and you can prepare yourself.
 Every single position requires a security clearance and you'll need to pass through very thorough background checks to clear this. The content and expectations of security checks are not known publicly (that would defeat their purpose) but it's fairly obvious that there are standard behaviors and activities that you should present, and others you must have avoided. For example:


Do not have a criminal record. Naturally, this includes not having participated in any activities against the USA's interests, whether or not these were criminal in nature.
Don't take drugs. The CIA states that you cannot have used illegal drugs within 12 months of your application or background check process.Illegal drug use at any time in your past can hurt your chances, however, so it's best to avoid any illegal drug altogether. In addition, don't abuse legal drugs, like alcohol or prescription drugs, as these can provide evidence of your character and future likelihood of re-abusing.
Be financially sound. This means that you don't gamble, over-invest, have a poor credit repayment record, or have bankruptcy in your background. No intelligence service wants to take a risk on a person who has poor financial management skills and is potentially open to bribery.
Have a good work track record and ethic. Whatever jobs you've had already, ensure that you've always given your best, being honest and ethical, and worked hard. Demonstrable loyalty and accountability in any work environment is an asset to your application.
Be highly trustworthy, reliable, and faithful. Background investigators will ask questions of people in your circle of acquaintances including family and friends. If they feed back positive information about you, this is good for you, as their assessment of your character builds.
Understand the importance of maintaining confidences and confidentiality. If you love to gossip, being in the CIA probably isn't a good choice for you; you'll need to be able to demonstrate that you can abide by regulations regarding the use, handling, and protection of sensitive information.
Have excellent strength of character, integrity, honesty, sound judgment, and loyalty to the United States. The CIA recognizes that no one is perfect. Security officials will consider the blemishes in your background according to their nature, extent, seriousness, and recency. They weigh the risk and benefit of each individual with the utmost care. If you've got everything else needed, the Agency won't necessarily turn you away if they consider you have important contributions to make to the nation's intelligence efforts.Have squeaky clean parents and friends. While this may not always be possible, it's enormously helpful because any family member or friend with shady leanings could be a source of weakness for you if they fall into a spot of bother (aka "potential for coercion"). If there are issues surrounding this, talk to a CIA careers agent about your options, and always be truthful.
 The CIA takes the best and the brightest students: CIA officers must have at least a bachelor's degree. Having an advanced degree can be helpful for most positions, and in many instances, is required, although the CIA also offers its own relevant undergraduate programs. Moreover, the CIA gets so many hundreds of applications per position that you'll need to ensure your skills, abilities, and studies stand out from the rest.


Have excellent grades through high school and college. Have at least a 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 scale.
While there is no specific major to study, having studies with emphases on international relations (most internationally focused studies are likely to be of interest to a recruiter), law, political science, history, security studies, economics or finance (including international finance), mathematics, journalism, science (behavioral, physical, or computer), languages, sociology or psychology, and anything requiring analytical skills, can be to your advantage.
 The more, the better, but master at least one other language really well. At the current time, languages in high demand include Mandarin, Farsi (Persian), Pashto, Dari, Russian, and Arabic, reflecting current world political and military "hot spots". Fluency is especially important if you're seeking a position in the clandestine service. Your language proficiency must be above and beyond mere college knowledge; you must demonstrate that you can speak it as well as a native. If you cannot, either keep improving it, or inquire about on-the-job training potential for language improvement.
 The best way to get information out of other people is to be a good talker and listener, to be someone who can connect with others with ease, as well as being able to put people at their ease. These skills are harder to learn than academic ones for some people, so if you don't feel comfortable around people, either brush up on the skills through reading or courses, or be less inclined to seek any positions that require interacting with "assets" (the clandestine service's term for spies - those people who assist CIA agents, often at great risk to their own lives or well-being), or with anyone else who might serve as a source of information.


Learn what makes people tick; learn people skills including how to make people like you and good conversation skills. You'll need to know how to "schmooze" and build rapport with people from all walks of life, in order to be able to spot, assess, develop, and recruit assets. You'll need to know how to feign interest in other people's interests and hobbies in order to build friendships or relationships with them to obtain information.
If you have a problem with being likable, being a CIA officer is probably not a good option for you. Equally, arrogance, egoism and inflated self-importance will soon see you dropped from training.
See life's gray areas. If you see life in absolutes ("he is wrong, I am right"), then it's likely you're not going to be a good choice for the CIA. Inquiring minds, openness to discussion and possibilities, and the ability to see the more nuanced and complicated elements of every situation are an essential trait when you need to analyze things. Sometimes you will be asked to finesse things for the good of your national security that don't necessarily produce the best results for people in other nations. Is that something you can handle?

, You will be put through rigorous physical testing and it will be expected that you can manage the physical tests. As well as the benefits of keeping fit, getting involved in both team and individual sports on a regular basis proves to your future potential CIA employers that you're willing to stay in shape, work in teams, and maintain your general health and well-being. Good stamina is also important if you work undercover, as you may be expected to work very long days without appearing tired or without losing your ability to think clearly; indeed, in a typical day you could spend the daytime creating a cover for yourself, and the night catching up with people you need to find information from., You will be tested to your limits in training to see how you handle emotional pressure. In addition, if you do enter the clandestine service, you'll need to be able to deal with the mental pressures of being subjected to dangers and life-threatening situations. For example, if you're caught, you may be subjected to torture, and even denial by your government of your existence. In addition, if your asset is caught by his or her own government, you will face the emotional issues related to how that person (and maybe his or her family) is then treated (sometimes they will suffer the death penalty).There will be many trying situations, and your mental health needs to be in top shape to be able to cope with the possibilities.
 Expect to be tested as much as it is possible to ensure the veracity of what you're telling the CIA. If accepted for the interview process, as well as periodically during employment, you'll be subjected to a polygraph. While polygraphy isn’t an exact science, CIA polygraph equipment is among the most thorough and the technicians working with are highly trained security professionals. These security professionals will generally err on the side of caution if they have any reason to believe you’re lying. It is during this testing that they'll be able to find out if you've lied about taking any illegal drugs, being disloyal, poor financial management, and so on. All test results are guarded and kept in the strictest of confidence. And don't expect the testing process to be breezy or comfortable; for starters, it's hardly a pleasant feeling to have others trying to "catch you out," let alone being hooked up to a machine that could determine the fate of your future career.


Expect continued checks throughout your career with the CIA. You will be expected to undergo regular re-investigations (updates on your lifestyle, connections, etc.), and to continue taking polygraph tests.
Be ready to maintain high standards of professional conduct at all times, both at work and outside of work, for the duration of your CIA career.
 A CIA job will often require that you move from your initial residence. In addition, many CIA positions will require frequent travel, which can be disturbing to home life if you're not already focused on how you'll cope with this (the CIA does offer childcare centers at some locations).


Do not underestimate the stress on your personal life. If you're the type of person who wants to come home at 5 every day and be regularly available to raise your family, work as an agent is not likely to provide that ease of child-raising and family togetherness for you. If you can't abide this thought, consider looking for a different career. Many other CIA careers, however, do offer this type of stability.
 Only US citizens may apply to join the CIA. If you don't have citizenship, obtain it.

