 Everyone is comfortable with a .com website; anything else and your visitors may feel weary. You also want to make sure your domain is available, you can check for your domain availability on godaddy.com.;
, This includes content, metadata, titles, user-friendly URLs, graphics, and more.
 If your website is ranking in Google for very important keywords, then you are probably hesitant to go through with the rebrand. Luckily for you, there’s a way for you to pass over your SEO value to your new domain – 301 redirects. This means that your new website will be ranked and indexed the same way your old website was, preserving your search engine value. Search engines will follow your 301s to your new website and transfer over your page rank to your new domain. If you’re not sure how to set up redirects, most host providers will have a tool to help you manage your redirects. If your host provider doesn’t offer any tools or manager, there are still tons of step-by-step guides online. Just make a Google search on 301 redirects and take your pick. If you’re getting traffic to your (old) website, you want to transfer that traffic over to your new one. The solution – 301 redirects. 301s also helps backlinks. If another website references your old domain, a redirect will make sure anyone that clicks on the link will be sent to your new website. The same goes for bookmarks, email references, and third party links. Before you set up 301 redirects, we recommended getting a list of every page and their hyperlinks on both your old and new website. You want to make sure every page on your old website gets redirected to its corresponding one on your new website.
 If you already have analytics tracking your old website (like Google Analytics, MOZ, or StatCounter), then you want to make sure they track your new website too.
 A press release is a written record directed towards news media to bring attention to a company, product, promotion, or event. Media outlets who come across your press release may share your announcements to increase public awareness about your rebrand. Try not to make the whole story be about your rebrand. Entice your customers, list the new features or services. Your customers might react negatively to your rebrand if they don’t see any added benefits. In fact, your customers may worry about changes in management, customer service, product availability, pricing, and pretty much anything possible. Let them know that it’s simply a rebrand and there will be no adverse effects on their experience with your company. It would also be helpful to be honest to your customers about your rebrand. If you are honest, they are more likely to understand you decision to rebrand and may take extra steps to help you adopt a new image.
 If your brand has an entirely different feel, ie you’ve modernized your company, you will probably have to redo your business cards, brochures, and any other print material you may have. A consistent branding experience will supplement your rebranding efforts and provide a seamless rebranded image.
 Your social media profiles are public-facing outlets that are necessary in your rebranding experience. That’s why it’s important to understand the limitations you have before you actually rebrand your company.
 They need to have the proper logos, typography, and links so that they can update things on their end. A good precaution would be to update your partners a few days in advance.
 Your staff’s individual social accounts should all be updated to reflect the change. One idea to encourage adoption of the rebranded name is to add game elements to motivate your staff. You can award points or badges to teams that make the change.

