 In order to help your body get used to sleeping on a normal schedule, try to pick a convenient time for you to go to sleep and get up. Make sure it works every day of the week so you can stay on a consistent schedule. After a while, your body will start to respond to the new schedule.


It may be hard at first, especially if you have a hard time getting to sleep or staying asleep. Try to push through so you can get on a schedule. The more tired you are, the more likely you are to be able to fall asleep.
This is true for the weekends as well. Even though you may be tempted to get up later on the weekends, try to avoid sleeping more than one hour past your daily wake up time., In order to help you sleep better, try making a nightly routine that you go through every night. Like your sleep schedule, your nightly routine help you get in the habit of sleeping at certain times. Your nightly routine can also help ease your worries and calm your mind before you get to bed.


Try incorporating relaxing activities into your nightly routine. Taking a warm bath, reading a book, listening to comforting music, or having a cup of decaffeinated tea or warm milk can all be part of your routine.
You can mix your nightly routine up a little if, for example, you don’t need to take a bath each night or you don’t want any milk. Try to keep some similar activities, however, so your body starts to associate the actions with sleep.
 If you are having a hard time falling asleep at night, you need to allow yourself to unwind at the end of the day. This can be for a few hours before you go to bed, but give yourself plenty of time before you try to go to sleep to decompress. This is especially important if you suffer from depression because you often have much more going on emotionally than most people.


This is a great time to focus on things that make you happy or to let go of the things that make you worry or depressed.
This is different than your nightly routine as well, since that typically leads up to you going to bed. Your unwind time is meant to just be time for you to enjoy yourself and focus on relaxation with no intention in mind other than your happiness and well-being.
This time helps you get in the right head space to help you fall asleep. Try relaxing activities such as meditation or watching your favorite TV show., There are many different herbs that may help you sleep. These herbs, such as chamomile, valerian root, lemon balm, or passionflower, can be found as dried herbs that can be made into teas, as essential oils, and as supplements.


Always ask your doctor before you take herbs. This is especially true if you are one medication for depression, since many herbs can interact with medications.