


New beginner trumpets (sometimes also called student trumpets) can retail for $700 or more. If you are on a tight budget, consider purchasing a used horn. Many music stores offer used trumpets and can assist you in choosing the right fit for your or your child. Trumpets are often available through private sellers, but when you buy a used horn from a music store, all the repairs to the trumpet's valves, pads and slides will usually have been done before the horn was put up for sale.;
,


There is a big difference between beginner, intermediate and professional trumpets. While beginner trumpets play well, they are of lesser craftsmanship and have fewer features than intermediate or professional horns. Many student trumpets have a two-piece rather than a one-piece bell, which does affect sound quality. Be sure to specify that you want a beginner trumpet.



The valves and slides on a beginner trumpet should have a looser tolerance than intermediate and pro models. Be sure the parts of the beginner trumpet you are considering move freely. Push the valves down quickly and be sure they spring back up quickly and easily.



Although it may be convenient and sometimes even less expensive to buy your trumpet online, it is best to go to a shop where you can actually look at and handle the horns. Different brands of trumpets have slightly different weights, so they will each feel different in your hands. Try out several before you make your decision.



Whether the trumpet you decide to buy is new or used, inquire about a warranty. Make sure the terms are spelled out clearly. It should include a time frame for returns or exchanges. It should also outline exactly what repairs will be made to the trumpet and for what period of time before charges would be incurred.



If there are pink or red spots on the horn, this is a sign of internal corrosion. New horns should not have any dents or scratches; dents or dings can affect not only the operation of the horn, but also the sound. Feel the felts on the valves and the corks on the water keys to make sure they are present, that they look to be in good condition and do not need to be replaced.



A C-cup mouthpiece, which has a small rim, is the typical choice for a beginner. As you or your child become more skilled, you may consider moving up to a 5C or 1C mouthpiece.



Be sure all the trumpet's valves and slides are in place, then push down and release all the valves. Then pull out the slides one at a time and listen for a pronounced pop. If you don't hear one, the horn has an air leak and thus shouldn't be the one you buy.

