 The simplest and most straightforward way of discouraging their continued stay is to just ask them to leave. By asking them to leave, you’ll explicitly communicate the fact that they are indeed uninvited.


Be firm. Let them know that you are serious. Say, for example, “John, I’d like you to leave by the end of the week.”
Try to be polite. For example, say “We’ve really enjoyed having you stay with us, but its best for everyone if you move on to your next destination.”
If the person refuses, you may need to resort to legal means.;
, If you made an arrangement with the person before they came into your home, then bring this up to them. This may help them to see that they are infringing on your space and decide to move on.

For example, you could say something like, “Remember when you first arrived and I said that I had a busy week ahead of me, but you assured me that you would only be here for the weekend?”

, A great way to get your guest to leave is to tell them that your life is getting in the way of being a good host to them. In the end, they may take the hint and pack their bags.


Let them know that your work and family life are so busy that you can’t be the type of host you want to be at the moment. They should consider visiting again in the future.
Tell them that other house guests will be arriving soon. For example, let them know that your in-laws are coming to visit and need to stay in the room they are staying in. Say “John, I’m so sorry, but my in-laws are coming to stay for a week starting Friday, we’ve got to have our guest room available to them.”
Share your plans to begin a home improvement project on the room they are staying in. For example, tell them you’re about to convert it into a home office or a gym. If you’re serious about it, you may even want to hire a contractor to go and take measurements of the space., One of the realities of hosting is that your guests will undoubtedly cost you money. Because of this, it seems obvious that you should request contributions of your guest if they overstay their welcome. However, if you just want them to leave then this might not be the best option. If you are okay with them staying longer if they help to cover the costs of their stay, then there are a couple of things you can try.


Explain to them the cost of them staying. Detail the cost of extra water, power, and any other resources they are using.
Set your nightly or weekly rate above low-cost alternatives. For example, if an extended stay charges $200 a week, you should ask $250.
Understand that this might not work for some people, like parents or older relatives. Requesting money is best reserved for younger relatives, siblings, and children., In addition to monetary contributions, your guest should also pitch in and take care of some household chores. This should make a lot of sense, as someone who lives in a home should take part in taking care of the home. Some chores might include:


Lawncare
Taking the trash out
Washing dishes
General household cleaning.