 Shimmer spray works well on wet hair, but you shouldn’t use it on soaking wet hair. After you wash your hair in the shower, use an old t-shirt or a microfiber towel to squeeze the excess water out of it. Then, starting at the roots and working your way down, use the towel to gently pat your hair.Opt for a microfiber towel or old cotton t-shirt over a terrycloth towel. The texture of terrycloth causes friction, which can create frizz and damage your hair.Avoid rubbing or using rough motions when you are towel-drying your hair, since this can also damage it.;
, Mica, a naturally-occurring mineral, is the gold substance in the shimmer spray that makes it sparkle. Natural separation between the formula and the mica will occur inside the bottle. For even and effective results, always give your bottle a good shake right before you spray the product on your hair.Shake your bottle and take a look – you should see the glittery mica swirling around evenly inside the formula. Make sure your spray looks like that each time you go to use it.
 Run a wide-toothed comb gently through your hair to detangle it, then shake the bottle up and spray the shimmer on. For the most noticeable results, spray the product on from root to tip. Along with delivering shimmer, spraying near the roots will provide additional volume.For a slightly more subtle look, start at mid-shaft and spray it down to the ends.If this is your first time using this product, you may want to start with a less-is-more approach until you know how bright the results will look. However, most of the sea salt shimmer products on the market are subtle rather than flashy, even when used on very dark hair., To place the most emphasis on curl and texture, dry your hair with a diffuser. Use it on the lowest heat setting for a little extra volume. If you’d prefer to avoid heat-styling, you can use the cool setting and still achieve effective results. Air-drying your hair also works – you’ll end up with plenty of shimmer and texture, but less bouncy volume.To further accentuate your curls, use the microfiber towel or old t-shirt to gently scrunch your hair during the drying process.
Tousle and style as usual.

