 Greens with dark leaves (such as spinach) and many root vegetables (such as carrots and beets) tend to work well as food dyes because they have deep, consistent, opaque coloring. Your natural food dyes will be most effective if you choose veggies that are mostly one color throughout (and which have a color that is bright or deep).Some vegetables may seem like good candidates for natural food dye, but if they have high water content (as does celery) they will actually produce very weak, light shades.
Many vegetables (even those with vibrant coloring) lack the thick, concentrated juices produced by many fruits. In general, do not expect vegetable-based food dyes to be as bright or even as those made from berries. Beets (for red) and carrots (for orange) are exceptions to this rule.;
, Some vegetables leach color into the water when boiled. The vegetables that work best for this are those with lots of water content (and therefore juices) that are also deeply hued. Red cabbage (for purple) and beets (for red or pink) are two great examples of vegetables that can be boiled to extract their coloring.For a more concentrated color, only use as much water as is needed to barely cover the vegetables. The colored water becomes the dye -- the more you dilute it, the lighter the shade.
A good rule of thumb for figuring out which vegetables produce the best colors is that those that stain your fingers when handling them will also easily dye the foods with which they come into contact.
 Use a food dehydrator or set your oven to 150 degrees Fahrenheit and place the item(s) inside on an oven-safe tray. Cook them until they are as dry as possible (without becoming burned); this could take up to six hours.For large vegetables (especially sphere shaped ones), cut them into extremely thin slices before dehydrating them. This will speed up the process and dry them more consistently.
Once dried, your vegetables can be safely stored in an airtight container for several months to a year.
 Use a coffee grinder or food processor to do this most efficiently. The finer the powder, the less the dye will affect the texture of the food you wish to color.You can also use a mortar and pestle to grind the veggies by hand, but this will take much longer and could result in less even consistency.
Thoroughly rinse off any utensils you use to make the powder before using them to grind up a different color of dried food. This will keep you from contaminating the color and flavor (if any) of your next veggie powder.
 Many vegetables/herbs can be purchased in dried, powdered form, which eliminates the need to do the drying and grinding yourself. Just be sure to select those without added spices or flavoring so you don't influence the flavor of the food you wish to color.


If you are not worried about watering down your food, you can mix the powder into a small amount of water or other liquid and then stir this into the food. Do this gradually to achieve the right color and avoid over-saturating your food.
For yellow dye, use stale turmeric. Turmeric is often used to give vegan puddings and tofu scrambles their "eggy," yolk-like shade. Stale turmeric tends to have lost quite a bit of its natural flavor, so use this to avoid influencing the taste of your colored food.

