;
, Place stakes at each end, oriented as desired. It is important that the stakes lie along the same edge, namely, corners 1 & 2 as shown in Figure 1, not corners 1 & 4. Bang in the stakes using hammer or equivalent tool.
 For a 90° triangle, a^2 + b^2 = c^2 when c is the hypotenuse. Figure 1 shows how this relates to laying out the foundation. Find the distance A using A=sqrt(w^2+l^2).
 Lay it out starting at one of the first two corners staked out, more or less along the diagonal line shown in the figure above.
 From the original corner staked out that is not in contact with the string, measure out the length (or width) perpendicular to the side previously laid out. Hammer in the third stake at the point where the end of the string meets the measured out distance of this side. Note: The point of this step is to ensure that the foundation is square, so adjustment of the angle at which the string and/or side are laid out may be required.
 Start at the original stake not already used to anchor the string.
 Use the metal rake (and shovel if necessary) to roughly smooth out and level the entire area within the boundaries of the foundation. This step is just to ready the area to be leveled precisely, so don’t spend too much time trying to “eyeball” it.
 Do this as shown in Figure 2, making sure that no gaps are visible between the ground and the bottom of the 2x4. Note: If the board is shorter than the edge being leveled, place one end of the board at a corner to leave a gap beyond only one end of the board. Do not attempt to center the board.
 If the board is level and gap free, skip step 10.
 Keep the base smooth under the length of the 2x4 so that no gaps form. Do this until the 2x4 is level. If the board is as long as the side being leveled, skip steps 11 & 12.
 Cover the gap left along the edge being leveled. Leave at least 2-3 feet (60cm - 91 cm) of overlap between ground leveled in step 10 and the 2x4.
 Bring the unleveled ground to the same elevation as the area already completed. If there is still a gap of unleveled ground, repeat steps 11 & 12.
 Use the rake to level the ground in front of the board.
 Bring it 1-3 feet (30.5 cm - 91 cm) as shown in Figure 3, and repeat steps 9-12. Do this all the way to the other side of the foundation. In the area between board placements, use the rake to smooth out the ground, and bring it to the elevation of the area leveled underneath the boards.
 This means starting along either of the two edges that haven’t been leveled along their lengths. This should be easier than the first pass, as the foundation has already been leveled in one direction.
 To do this, lay the 2x4 diagonally across the center of the foundation, with each end pointing at opposite corners (the same orientation as the string in the beginning of this process). By placing the level on top, you should be able to confirm that the whole section is level.

