

Your chief complaint, is your interpretation of the injury for your doctor.
Don’t be afraid to give details. The smallest detail could make a huge difference in the course of the diagnosis

, There are 4 tests your doctor will conduct on your shoulder that specifically identify a labrum tear. If you respond in pain to any of the test, your test will be considered a pass for that specific test. Depending on how many test you pass or fail, the doctor will be able to conclude a percentage chance of a labrum tear. For example, if you test positive for 3 out of 4, you have an 80% chance of having a labrum tear.


Test 1: The doctor will ask you put the arm of injury in a 90-degree angle pointing upward. Facing you, while holding the elbow still, will push back against your forearm to see if any pain is triggered.
Test 2: The doctor will ask you to put your arms out and resist him as he applied fore down.
Test 3: The doctor will ask you to put your arms out and turn your palms in. He will then request for you to apply force against his palms as he holds them between your arms.
Test 4: Doctor will ask you to reach across with the arm in pain and grip his finger. He will across your body and ask your to resists his pull.
 The doctor will refer you to a radiologist specialist to get and MRI arthrogram done on your shoulders. Take the written script he provides you and get imaging done at local imagine center.

The MRI on its own isn’t enough to identify such a small cartilage. The arthrogram is a dye that is injected into the shoulder ligament before the MRI so that it can specify the labrum.
An MRI date can range from next day to a week from the day of your visit.
Arthrogram insertion is a 20-45 minute process and the MRI can last from30-45 minutes.
 Follow up with your doctor 1 week from when you got your MRI-Arthrogram done and find out whether your labrum is torn or not. If it is torn you well be told what degree tear you have, and that will determine the type of treatment you will receive going forward.

1st degree tear is the slightest tear is the smallest of the tears. Recovery for a such a tear comes with rest and time. Doctor will offer optional physical therapy, but it is not necessary.
2nd degree tears are also quite small, but still give the physician some concern. He will strongly recommend physical therapy to ensure recovery.
3rd degree is where surgery will come into play. 3rd degree tears can limit daily life because of the intensity of pain and limitation of mobility. Doctor will give the patient of surgery if they intend on going back to intense physical activity. If the patient just wants to regain regular daily motion, the doctor will give a script for 4-6 months of physical therapy in order to strengthen the shoulder to support the weakness of the torn labrum.
4th degree tears are the worse tears, because they are complete tears. Such tears can lead to more shoulder problems and most likely arthritis. Doctors in this case will require surgery, regardless of whether the patient is going back to sports or daily life.

