 Despite the commonly held belief that people need to vent their anger to help alleviate its damaging effects, research indicates that this method is counterproductive and can actually increase anger. However, exercise is very effective at relieving symptoms of depression and anxiety.The benefits of exercise for regulating anger are debated. Some studies suggest that because vigorous exercise actually increases physiological arousal, it may make feelings of anger worse.However, slow exercises such as yoga and tai chi may help you relax and calm down.Studies have also shown that over the course of several weeks, exercise can increase feelings of emotional well-being and calm, especially in people who are experiencing symptoms of depressed mood.Exercise is unlikely to help you in the moment, but it's good for your heart and also appears to help your emotional health in the long run.
Join a community league. If you like to play team sports, it could be helpful to join an adult basketball, softball, or soccer league. You'll get regular exercise, you'll get in better physical shape, and you'll make some friends that will likely become part of your social support system.
Try going for a relaxing walk when you feel overwhelmed. Allow yourself to be quiet with yourself. Drink in the natural beauty that surrounds you, focusing on noticing the small beautiful details that you usually miss. Breathe deeply and evenly. This will get you exercise and help you relax.
 Deep-breathing exercises, listening to calming music, and progressive muscle relaxation have all been shown to be effective for slowing heart rates and decreasing anxiety. Each technique takes some practice to master, but those who learn to use them often find them to be highly effective. Learn how to breathe. Practice breathing deeply from your diaphragm. Breathing shallowly from your chest won't help. Instead, imagine your breath coming up from your gut. If you can master this technique, you'll find it much easier to relax yourself.
 The process is simple. Just sit straight in a chair with your feet flat on the floor and your eyes closed. Think of a calming phrase, such as “I feel at peace" or "Take it easy" and say it or think it to yourself over and over, syncing your words with your breathing. Before you know it, your negative thoughts will drift away and you’ll feel more relaxed.(Note: if you are a spiritual or religious person, prayer could be a useful substitute for meditation.) Don't give up too soon. Meditation can be difficult, especially at first, because it takes some patience to see any results. At first, you may even feel a bit more anxious or frustrated, just because you want it to work more quickly. Take your time, and you'll reap the rewards.
 Crying is viewed as a sign of weakness in some cultures, particularly for men. However, giving yourself permission to cry can provide you with a valuable outlet for your intense emotions.Many people end up feeling better after they cry, especially if they are in a secure environment around loved ones.