 They reflect important contributions that users have made, such as making a lot of good quality posts or doing editing work. These are the best badges you can get.
Bronze Badges: These are easy to get. They exist for encouraging users to be more active and to try out different site features.
Silver Badges: These are similar to gold badges, but they're slightly more easier to get. They also reflect hard work.;
, You've now seen the criteria and know which ones will take longer to achieve. It's now time to strategize how you will go about getting badges:


A good rule for new users is to set their sights on the Bronze badges first and work on a long-term plan to get the other ones.
As seen in the picture, the Autobiographer badge is an easy one to get. Just fill out your profile page completely.
 This means you have to consciously do a certain amount of edits or do a task a certain amount of times. Visiting the site continuously for a long time to get a badge will take careful coordination and hard work. You might like to keep a record of your activities, to help you keep track over time.


Some Gold Badges may take years, depending on the amount of time you are active on the site.
 This step will help you identify some easy badges to get you started:


Autobiographer: Complete the whole Profile page.
Commentator: Leave five or more comments. For this, you will need to get the comment privileges.
Yearling: You will need to be active for a year, gaining at least 200 reputation. This is easy, but it involves commitment over a long while.
Citizen Patrol: This is for the first post you flag. Just don't flag any post, flag a post that that needs mediation and flag appropriately. Never get trigger happy or you may lose some aspects of this privilege.
Critic: For your first down vote.
Editor: For your first edit.
Informed: For reading the entire tour page. This will be gained as soon as you reach the bottom of the page. Don't cheat at this and scroll to the bottom extremely fast; instead, take your time and read comprehensively, as this tour contains important info to help you.


This list shows the "really easy" badges. It's important that you make your own list, suited to the ways you use the site. This list is just to get you started.
 Always come back for more. If you grow tired on working for one badge, try for another, to spice up the variety for a bit.


Always move forward, or you risk becoming burnt out and not completing the tasks.
Expect to get criticism sometimes. Some will be good. Some will be bad. Take the good with the bad and remember the reason you came to the site.
Getting badges is something you can work at and not really be ever finished, as badges for Stack Exchange are so various and many. If you don't want to work at getting badges, then don't. If you are an active member of the community the badges will come to you eventually, without you even noticing.
 Make a list of how far along you are with your badge. Or, don't is you'd prefer a surprise.


Some features of the site keep track for you. For example, the Statistics link is available through the Review button at the top of the screen. In some cases the "Review" Privilege has to be earned.
 You got the badge. The image in the left hand corner of the screen that looks like a bar graph will turn green when you gain a badge.


Just click a roll-down box will appear with the details.
That button also helps you see when you have new reputation (to your questions,answers or otherwise).



You can view them all by clicking more or sort them by class, when you got them or by name.
The number next to the badge with the "x2"(or other number) indicates how many times you earned the badge.
 Flair is available on your user page and shows how much badges or rep you have on one Stack Exchange Account.