 You may be on a diet, but you still need to eat regularly to maintain a healthy metabolism and overall health. Many diet and fitness experts warn against skipping meals while on a diet.You should be eating a minimum of three meals a day, plus a snack or two. Even better, you might prefer to eat five to six small meals daily, which can stimulate your metabolism and keep you from ever getting too hungry.It is important to space out your meals throughout the day. Try to avoid going more than four hours without eating. This will keep your blood sugar and hormones more stable, and you will be less likely to have hunger pangs.A major drop in blood sugar from not eating can cause cravings and an intense desire to eat, which can make it difficult to stick to a diet.
 Both protein and fiber have been shown to make you feel more satisfied with less foods and keep you satisfied longer.Protein and fiber take a longer time to digest compared to other foods (like refined carbohydrates).This helps them to keep satisfied for several hours after your meal. Try to eat a protein bar or shake with as least 20 mg of protein.
To make a more satisfying meal, combine protein-based foods with high fiber foods. For example: oatmeal with nuts and dried fruit, greek yogurt and raspberries, vegetable and bean soup, or grilled chicken over a salad.
 There are some foods that help keep you feeling satisfied longer. Whole foods, or those that are less processed, typically make you feel satisfied longer.


Processed foods are quickly digested and may leave you feeling more hungry compared to whole, unprocessed foods.
Candy, chips or other foods high in sugar and fat, but low in nutrition, will leave you feeling hungry sooner than less processed foods.
Try to make most of your meals mostly whole, unprocessed foods like fruits, vegetables, whole grains and lean protein.
 Certain types of exercise, such as high-intensity interval training, can suppress your appetite.In addition, studies have shown that regular exercise helps your brain make better decisions throughout your day or week.When you need to deal with food temptations, hunger cravings or emotional eating, regular exercise helps strengthen the executive function of your brain.
Cardio is a great exercise to include, but also things like yoga can help people deal with issues in regards to emotional eating.
Try to get 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic exercise or 75 minutes of vigorous-intensity exercise each week, plus 40 minutes of strength training.
 Mindful eating is a way of eating that may help you deal with your hunger more easily. It helps bring your attention to your food and may help increase your overall satisfaction with your meals.When you're eating, take your time. If you eat too fast you may end up eating too much and feeling like you still want more food. You didn't give your brain enough time to actually enjoy the meal.
Force yourself to focus on your meal. What are the tastes? The textures? How does it look? When you force your brain to concentrate on the meal it might make it easier to eat a little less and feel satisfied with less.

