 Smoke can linger after you put out a cigarette, so it is important to keep your children away from areas where you are smoking or where you have been smoking. If you are a smoker, enroll in a program to quit and ask smoker relatives to do so as well. Secondhand smoke is harmful to children as they develop.Children exposed to secondhand smoke are more likely to contract a variety of breathing problems and illnesses including (but not limited to) bronchitis and pneumonia. Smoke can also make existing medical problems worse, such as asthma. Babies are also at an increased risk for sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS)., When it is possible, keep your child away from people who are currently sick. Your child encounters plenty of germs during the day but direct exposure to an infection is just not worth it.


Stay in touch with your relatives, your child’s friends, and your child’s school to watch out for exposure to various infections. For example, if your child is invited to a sleepover but one of the other children present is sick with strep, it is probably best to decline the invitation. Keep in mind that viral infections are impossible to avoid completely, so don't go overboard if your relatives or friends have a mild cold.
 Teach your child to frequently wash their hands. They should do so after using the restroom and before they eat or touch their mouth or face. Give them a small bottle of hand sanitizer to carry around and use if a sink is not available. Instruct them to not share water bottles or drinks with others and to keep their hands out of their mouths (much easier said than done with toddlers).Show your child how to sing the “Happy Birthday” song twice when washing their hands with warm, soapy water. This is the amount of time it takes to remove most germs.
Show your child how to sneeze into their elbow and how to cover their cough with a hand as well. This way they can help prevent the spread of their germs as well.
 If your child is at home with you, then keep them there until they feel better. If your child goes to school or daycare, find out that location's policy on sickness. Some schools require that a child is fever-free for 24 hours before they return. Make no mistake, your child will get sick at some point. Knowing how you will provide for their care will result in less stress for you and your child.Part of planning ahead is also knowing the proper doses of medication for your child. Stock up on common anti-fever medications such as acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen. It is best to avoid a run to the pharmacy for basic medications whenever possible.
 You child should have a well child check-up every two to three months up until 2 years of age. After 2 years of age, your child will begin to visit their doctor each year for a basic check-up. Find a pediatrician who you trust and make sure to stick to this schedule. Your child’s doctor will take a variety of preventative measures each visit, including tracking your child’s growth and development.Use well child visits as an opportunity to ask any questions that you have regarding your child’s physical, mental, or emotional development. It may help to write down questions before you arrive. For example, you might ask, “Should my toddler be using a spoon and fork yet?”
Your child will also generally receive vaccinations at well check visits. These vaccinations offer protect against an assortment of more serious illnesses such as polio.A yearly flu shot can also help prevent a lot of misery from the flu.
Don’t forget the importance of taking your child to the dentist as well. At least once every year, your child’s teeth need to be cleaned and checked out., Place all toxic chemicals and cleaners in an inaccessible area. Hide all cords and wires. Secure furniture that could topple over. Remove any sharp or dangerous objects. Even after your child is beyond the baby stage, keep an eye out for potentially dangerous items in your home.


You may want to ask that your relatives or family friends safety proof their homes as well, especially when your child visits. Medications, for example, need to be stored in a location that is inaccessible for a child.

