 Preventative action is by far the most effective way to avoid injuries from frostbite. Educate yourself about unfamiliar environments before you spend time in them, and ensure that you are properly supplied when spending time outdoors. Frostbite can occur within minutes of exposure to temperatures below freezing, and can even occur in temperatures above freezing in strong winds, wet conditions, or at high altitudes.
Prep your home and car with cold-weather survival gear, including warm clothing.
 Your own behavior and attention to your surroundings will greatly help you avoid frostbite.Do not smoke or drink alcohol or caffeine in extremely cold weather, as these increase the likelihood of exposure-related injuries.
Do not hold body parts in one position for an extended period of time.
Recognize that hands and feet account for 90% of frostbite injuries. Dress and monitor accordingly, making sure skin is covered and your boots and gloves/mittens are sufficient.
Keep your head covered, as well as your ears, at all times during cold weather. 30% of your body heat is lost through your head!
Stay dry. Wet clothes will greatly increase the speed of heat loss.
Do not go outside in cold weather immediately after a bath or shower. Be sure that skin and hair are fully dry before going out.
 Aside from the cold itself, be sure to protect yourself from both wind and moisture. Wear warm clothing, particularly fleece, polypropylene, and wool, and be sure to wear multiple layers when exposed to cold temperatures, especially for extended periods of time., For your first layer, wear clothing that will pull moisture away from the skin. Thermal underwear and base layers, cotton socks, and glove liners are all smart options.
Avoid restrictive clothing that may cut off or slow blood circulation.
In especially cold weather, wear two pairs of socks.
For a second layer, wear loose clothing to help maintain body temperature. The looseness of this layer helps trap pockets of air that can provide insulation to your body. Choose clothing that resists retaining moisture. Heavy pants and sweatshirts are the ideal options.
The third, exterior layer should be tightly woven and moisture-resistance to repel the elements. Jackets, hats, scarves, mittens, and boots should all be worn in cold weather.
Mittens are a better option than gloves, as they decrease the surface area of your covering that is exposed to the cold. If you will need to remove your mittens for dexterity, wear gloves underneath.
Bring extra clothing with you when you know you’ll be outdoors for a good amount of time, especially on hikes or in other environments away from heated shelters. If your clothing gets wet, make sure you change into something dry.
 Knowing who is at greater risk will help you recognize frostbite before it leads to a serious injury. Factors that increase the risk of exposure-related injuries such as frostbite include:Youth and old age. Monitor the young and old with particular attention.
Intoxication. Drunkenness and cold weather should not be mixed.
Exhaustion, hunger, malnutrition, and dehydration.
Homelessness, or any lack of consistent access to safe shelter.
Other severe injuries, including damaged skin.
A previous experience with frostbite.
Depression. Some mental health issues can contribute to increased risk, as those who are despondent or less in tune with their bodies may be less likely to self-monitor their temperature and comfort.
Cardiovascular or peripheral vascular disease or poor circulation. Anyone with medical conditions that affect the regular operation of blood vessels and the vascular system, in general, may be at greater risk.
Similarly, those with diabetes or hypothyroidism, and those taking beta-blockers should also take particular care in cold weather.

