 As mentioned previously, there are pros and cons to each option that need to be taken into consideration before making a decision. The major con to resigning is that you most likely will not be eligible for unemployment benefits. Some pros to resigning include:


Being able to spin your reason for leaving positively. You do not need to say you were fired or asked to leave.
The reason given for termination by your employer will be “resignation”.
You may be able to negotiate a severance package. The company wants you to leave and at this point you may have the upper hand in a way, even if you don’t feel like that’s the case. In exchange for you leaving peacefully, you may be able to negotiate a severance package to include a few months of pay and benefits.
 The pros to waiting to be fired can outweigh the cons if you need the unemployment benefits and feel you will be eligible given your circumstances. If you are fired for no reason of your own, you have a very good change to receive these benefits. Additionally, if you feel your termination is wrongful and/or discriminatory, you may be able to file a suit against this employer. On the other hand, the cons to waiting to be fired include:


You may not eligible for a severance package.
You may receive bad references if another company contacts this employer.
Your reason for termination will be stated as “fired” or “terminated” and possible reasons for termination can be disclosed (based on company policy as mentioned previously). For example, “The employee was terminated due to gross misconduct”.
 Based on your evaluation of the pros and cons to both options, you must make a decision and express this to your employer as soon as possible. If you took some time out to make your decision, you will have to request another meeting to include all members in the original meeting. During the meeting:


Briefly explain whether you have decided to resign or stay.
Keep your explanation simple and professional.
Do not get overly emotional or angry.
Be prepared to leave that day. The employer may not take any chances and open themselves up to any risk by letting a possible disgruntled employee stay on the premises. If you have chosen to wait to be fired, be prepared to be fired that day.
 Be prepared to move on once you have made your decision and notified your employer. Since you will be leaving your position one way or another, it is now time for you to prepare yourself for your next career move.

