 Communication is essential for a healthy sex life. When you want to get that spark back in your life, the easiest first step is to talk to your partner more often. It may help in the beginning to have an open and honest conversation together about your sex life.Try and determine what might have led to the spark fading. Once you understand some of the causes you can begin to find solutions for them. Consider factors like the following.A preoccupation with other responsibilities or life events.
Emotional rifts in your relationship.
Health crises
A natural decline due to age.;
, It can be easy to get into bad habits or routines such as watching TV during dinner, or looking through your phone before you go to sleep. Change up your routine and instead use this time to talk about your relationship or your sex life. Schedule or set aside time to talk. Focus on connecting with each other and being present in the moment.Make evening meals a chance to discuss what you want for your future. Try turning off the TV and lighting some candles instead.
Choose one night a week to designate as date night with your partner.Write love letters to each other and read them before bed.
 Intimacy means more than just having sex. You can increase intimacy through conversation, sharing experiences, and developing trust.Increasing your intimacy helps show your partner that you love them and want to rekindle your spark. It will also help you be present in your relationship and you sex life as well. Take the time to focus on each other in ways you maybe have not been able to in a while. Try the following.Face each other and make eye contact when you are talking or while silent.
Be silly and share laughter together.
Ask each other deeper questions about hopes, dreams, and memories. For example, "What is your most treasured memory?" or "What are your dreams for your life?"

, As your relationship progresses what you find attractive may change. You and your partner may be operating under the turn-ons and turn-offs from earlier in your relationship. You also may not have discussed them in a long time. Take the time now to have a romantic conversation about what lights the spark and what puts it out. Talking about it before hand will also set the stage for being more open, talkative, and maybe even directive during sex. If you want to try something new, talk to your partner about it now.Talk about the best sex you've had together. Recall what you liked about it. Tell your partner.
Talk about any fantasies you have or something you've always wanted to try.
Talk about turn-ons and turn-offs. Try starting the conversation with, "We haven't talked about this in a while, and I'm curious. What turns you on? Is there anything that's a big turn off?"
If you are nervous, try taking turns listing your turn-ons and turn-offs with your partner.
If you are struggling to determine what turns you on now, try and reconnect with some turn-ons from earlier in your relationship and see if they still work.If you or your partner are still not sure, have a night where you both focus on just one partner and find out what your turn-ons are.