 a beggar, whiner). This does not necessarily refer to a new player, but they often go hand-in-hand. newbie – A new player. This is as non-insulting as it gets. newb – Abbreviation of "newbie", but often confused with "Noob". If you are not trying to be insulting, stick with "newbie" to refer to a new player.;
,, Free memberships allow users to register a "Guest_" avatar name.But If You Want an Upgraded account. It Costs Real Money!

,,, Promo credits or "Predits" are free credits IMVU grants to the user upon initial registration (( Around 4,000 Credits is Given )) But With Promo Credits You Cannot Give Someone Them Or Gift Them With Promo Credits.
 Or Earned Through Offers , Videos And Surveys. With real credits, one can send gifts, transfer credits IMVU Credits,, and use them in other ways.
 its Annoying And Most Users Would Say No

, Don't create a childish l33tspeak username such as "Iamsexyasheck". Similarly, don't choose a name that is a misspelled playoff of other well-known names, such as "Hikisaku", "Murlin", or "Fate". Additionally, one may want to avoid using "Xx xX" around your username, or commonly used words such as "azn" and "freak." Try to create a name unique to you, one that preferably doesn't have numbers "Bob15546". If you are a famous person one day, you want to be named as PheonixDragon, not phenix1588dragonpoobrainhoe.
 Keep punctuation to a minimum, and mind your spelling and grammar. Shouting "Help me!!!!!!!!!!!!!111" won't get you far..At All.
 Don't abbreviate or deliberately misspell words. Contrary to belief, it does not make you look any cooler to do so—it makes you look very immature. If you really want to ask for someone's help, then be respectful and take the time to type out normal English. The following are some examples of overused abbreviations:


"please" → "plz"
"people" → "pplz"
"place" → "Plc"

, In online gaming, spamming refers to the act of repeating something over and over again, as in copying and pasting "I need help!!" several many times.
 This would include keyboard gibberish ("dsagterhgr,bds), or general nonsense ("Hey Stupid ugly peoples! I'm a Gangsta homie!"). More likely than not, you will be quickly ignored by most users.
 People will call you a noob and an idiot. Anyway, what are the chances you'll meet the girl of your life ONLINE? Also, it's against the rules.
 And Don't Use the Cheap Free Cr@p Imvu gives you when you first Join! Shop For Better Clothes, Skins, Hairs, Avi's, Etc.
 And Don't Do 3d Too much Times..It's Annoying!

