 The FDA requires that ingredients are listed by weight on the label. So, the most significant items are often listed first, followed by ones in lower quantities. Look for ingredients that you recognize and avoid artificial sounding names. Whole meats, for example, will often be listed first in quality dog foods.In a well-made dog food you will often see a vegetable of some sort in this initial listing as well.
 If the front of the label states that the food contains one primary ingredient, then that food must compose at least 95% of the total content. If the label advertises a combination of various items, then that combination must compose at least 95% of the total content. This is to prevent false advertising.For example, if a dog food’s label states, “Blue Sun Dog Food Is Made With All Beef,” then beef will be listed as 95% of the content on the back as well.
Be aware that dog food manufacturers can get around this rule by labeling a food an “entrée” or “dinner” instead. For example, a beef “entrée” is only required to contain at least 25% beef.
 Look for a specific type of animal protein listed in the early ingredients, such as “lamb,” “chicken,” “beef.” The second tier in quality are the “meat meals,” such as “chicken meal,” which are mixtures of meat and grains. Avoid any food that lists “meat” of “meat byproduct” on the label as these are of suspicious and questionable quality.Protein is important for your dog as it helps maintain overall health and relieves stress on the major organs of the body., These starches do provide energy for your dog, however, they can also signal a low-quality food if used as a replacement for protein sources. Make sure that all grains listed are “whole grains” and preferably organic.Some dog owners avoid purchasing foods with grains out of fear of an allergic reaction by their dog. However, very few dogs are actually allergic to gluten in its various forms., Look out for artificial preservatives, such as BHA. Try to avoid artificial colors as they are loosely linked to cancer. Artificial flavors are unnecessary as well. The actual ingredients should provide real taste instead. Some poor quality dog foods also add sweeteners, such as corn syrup, to mask taste as well., The FDA requires that dog foods contain a statement on their label describing (briefly) how their nutritional information was verified scientifically. Go for foods that include a statement about an organized feeding trial. This means that live dogs ate the food to test its quality., The Association of American Feed Control Officials (AAFCO) will include a statement on most dog foods specifying that the manufacturer has followed production and nutritional guidelines. It is a good idea to only purchase foods with this label as it provides another layer of protection against recalls and contamination.