 It can be hard to deal with a partner who is emotionally withholding on your own. Reach out to your family and friends for support so you do not feel isolated or alone. You may confide in a close friend or a family member and tell them about how you struggling with your partner’s behavior. Sometimes just talking about how you are feeling can help you get some clarity on the situation.You may also ask your friends and family for advice on how to deal with your partner’s emotional withholding. Perhaps you have a friend who experienced something similar with their partner and can ask them for advice on how to address the issue with your partner.
You may say to your friend or a family member, "I feel like my partner is being emotionally withholding. Have you experienced this before? Can you relate?"

, You may also try reaching out to your partner’s social network for some guidance and perspective. If you have mutual friends in common, you may ask the friend if they feel your partner is emotionally withholding and if this has happened in the past in other relationships. You may also ask your partner’s family for some guidance on the issue.


Be careful not to reveal too much of your relationship to your partner’s family or friends, especially if your partner is a private person. You do not want to embarrass your partner in any way or make them feel more self-conscious about how they feel than they already do.
For example, you may say to your partner's friend, "I am worried about my partner's ability to express their emotions. Have you experienced this issue with them before? How do you think I should approach the issue with them?"

, You may need professional guidance on the issue so you and your partner can improve your relationship together. Suggest to your partner that you both go to see a counselor or a therapist together to talk things out. You may be more comfortable discussing the issue with your partner if a mediator is present to help you both have a productive conversation.For example, you may say to your partner, "Would you feel comfortable going to a counselor together?" or "I feel like a meeting with a therapist may help us figure out this issue."
You may ask friends or family for a referral to a counselor or a therapist. You can also ask your family doctor for a referral to a therapist who specializes in relationship counseling.

