 Do not inflate your own self-worth. Do not let your identity become wrapped up in wealth, or status, or material things. Remind yourself that other people's needs and perspectives are just as important as your own. You may be better at certain things than most people, but you may not be so good at other things. Let go of the ego, and keep perspective.
 Slow down and say exactly what you mean. Catch yourself when you are not being mindful of the people around you. Be straightforward and unpretentious. Try not make assumptions about people or situations, and try not to needlessly hurt anyone with your words.Learn to express what you want without making demands. Explain yourself, when possible, and ask rather than order. Instead of saying, "Take out the trash," say "Do you mind taking out the trash so that I can keep cooking dinner?", Maintain personal hygiene, but seriously consider how much time you spend looking in the mirror. Think about how often you mindlessly check your phone or your Facebook account. Try to spend less energy on your social and physical appearance, and spend more energy on things beyond yourself. Volunteer your time, and go out of your way to help others. Do this until it is second nature.
 Instead of trying to change them or criticize them: try to learn from them.Focus less on how people are different, and more on how people are similar. Try to see the silver lining in every situation.


Confront hate in your life. If there is someone that you strongly dislike, try to objectively consider why you dislike them. Think about whether they're really doing anything wrong.
Treat everyone as a human being. There is no reason to feel inferior or superior. Try to treat people on the basis of character, not personality.
 Be present and attentive, and don't just wait for your chance to speak. Value someone's right to speak, even if you do not agree with what they're saying. Never turn your back on people or interrupt them while they're talking. Respect people as you would like to be respected.

