 You should do this following each bowel movement and right before bed. You can gently clean the area with warm water (try moistened toilet paper if you are away from home) or, if possible, allow yourself to sit in warm water for 10 minutes.Be gentle and use a soft towel to dry off. This will help keep the area from becoming irritated due to chafing. Make sure the area is completely dry.You can use a gentle soap that doesn't contain detergents or other harsh ingredients. Just make sure you rinse off all the soap.;
, To clean thoroughly after defecating, use a soft, non-abrasive toilet tissue. Then follow with a non-irritating flushable wipe. You can also opt for a toilet paper that contains lotion., Synthetic materials tend to trap moisture, which can worsen existing hemorrhoids and increase the risk of hemorrhoid tags. Cotton underwear, especially loose underwear, helps keep the area dry. Avoid any underwear that may irritate the area directly., Tight clothing tends to produce more sweat, and if you already have a hemorrhoidal skin tag, tight clothing will likely rub or irritate the tag. Along with wearing loose underwear, loose clothing will help keep the area dry., There are some over-the-counter medications for hemorrhoids that will help with itchiness or burning. These should not be used for more than two weeks unless you are directed to do so by a doctor. Your doctor will be able to prescribe stronger medication or give you directions for increased comfort., It’s important to see a doctor about chronic constipation or diarrhea because these symptoms can indicate a much more serious condition. It may be something like IBS (irritable bowel syndrome, which can be controlled through diet), or it may be something more serious. It is best to go to the doctor to find out. In any case, your doctor can suggest a treatment plan that will help reduce constipation or diarrhea that can cause external hemorrhoidal tags.If a bacterial infection is causing discomfort, you may need to take antibiotics., Straining and holding your breath when you try to pass a bowel movement creates pressure on the veins in your rectum, which can cause hemorrhoids.If you are experiencing constipation, it can be tempting to stay on the toilet until you get relief. It’s understandable; however, this increases the risk of hemorrhoid tags because of straining. This is only true if you can’t have a bowel movement. If you’re having diarrhea, it’s okay to stay put., Waiting can make it harder to go. So if you feel like going, that’s when you should go. Otherwise you’ll be prone to straining, discomfort, and possibly hemorrhoid skin tags., While your primary care doctor may be able to help you, if your bowels are really giving you trouble, you may need to get a referral for a gastroenterologist. They will likely want to do an endoscopy (either a sigmoidoscopy or a more complete colonoscopy) to look for evidence of hemorrhoids.
 Exercise is important in maintaining healthy bowel movements, which will help prevent hemorrhoid tags. Even 20 to 30 minutes of moderate exercise a day can improve bowel function. Walking, biking, or some other moderate exercise is good for reducing the likelihood of hemorrhoids.Avoid exercises that put pressure on the abdomen. Exercises like squats can potentially increase the risk of hemorrhoids or exacerbate the symptoms.Lose weight only if you need to (if you’re overweight and it seems to be exacerbating the hemorrhoid problem)., Try to get the daily recommended intake of fiber through food sources. If this is too hard, try supplements; however, if you have had a rather low fiber diet, increase the amount of fiber over time to avoid gas. Fiber is essential for healthy bowel movements and avoiding hemorrhoid tags., Getting enough water per day may be the most important part of avoiding hemorrhoid tags. Not staying hydrated can lead to constipation, which leads to straining, the primary cause of hemorrhoids. Try to drink at least 64 ounces (about 2 liters) of non-caffeinated liquid per day. Water is best.