 Create a solution out of essential oils. Add the liquid to your neti pot. Bend forward over a sink, turning your head to one side. Slowly pour the solution into your top nostril while your head is still tilted. Be sure to breathe through your mouth while doing this. The solution will drain from your other nostril. Repeat with the other nostril.To create a solution, combine an equal number of drops of your chosen oils, no more than 9 or 10 drops total. In a separate bowl, add 1 and ½ cups of very warm (but not so hot that you scald the delicate nasal tissues) distilled water with 6 tablespoons of finely ground unprocessed sea salt and stir to dissolve. Make sure to use distilled water or you could risk infection.Add the essential oils and mix thoroughly.
 While there are many different kinds of diffusers, all work by dispersing essential oils into the air where you can then breathe them in. Follow the instructions on your diffuser's package. Choose your oils or make your own unique blend. Most use about ½ cup of water with 3-5 drops of essential oils. Anyone with a sinus infection should sit as close as possible to the diffuser and breathe deeply.This method can be very useful, especially if more than one member of your family has a sinus infection.
 Boil distilled or tap water and pour 2 inches of the boiling water into the bottom of a heat-proof bowl. Add 8 to 10 drops of essential oils and stir. A variation of this method is to use cooking herbs instead of the essential oils: use 2 teaspoons of oregano and 2 teaspoons of basil. Cover the back of your head with a towel, lean over the bowl, and breathe in the steam through your nose and mouth. Do this as long as the steam is rising.


Once the water has cooled, you can repeat it as much as you like by simply reheating the water. The same solution can be used over and over, until all the water is gone.
 Add 12 to 15 drops of one or a combination of the oils to your bathwater. Make the water as hot as you can comfortably manage and soak in the tub for as long as you like.
 Dilute your essential oil in a carrier oil, then gently rub it over several pressure points on your face: beside each nostril, under your nose in the midline, on the temples, at the beginning of each eyebrow and across the forehead. Cover your face with a hot washcloth until it cools. Repeat if desired.Apply the oil carefully to avoid contact with your eyes.

