 If you want to change your first, middle and/or last name for any reason, you have the legal right to do so in the state of Rhode Island. In order for your new name to be legally recognized, you must petition the court.


In all cases other than adult adoption or marriage, the standard form is the Rhode Island Name Change Petition, which you can find here: http://sos.ri.gov/documents/probate/PC8.1.pdf. If you are changing your name for any reason other than adult adoption, and you need to petition for a name change, print out this form and fill it out. (You do not need to petition if you are taking your spouse's last name.);
, Search on internet for local notary office or ask the court for referral to notary.
 You will need to turn in the name change petition to the court in your county, along with a filing fee.


The fee varies by county but can be found by contacting the local clerk and will generally be in the range of $65.
You will be given a court date approximately 30 days from the date of petition submission and can expect to pick up your decree on that day. Check with your local clerk about details, such as whether there will be a brief court appearance, as this varies with the county.
 Most counties in Rhode Island will not actually require you to publish your new name (although you can anyway) but the court may direct you to make an announcement, so be sure you are clear about what is needed when you submit your petition.


Publishing a name change can be done by publishing an ad in the newspaper where you reside that states your former and new name.
Upon completion of this step, you will be granted a 'Proof of Publication'. If you have been legally asked to announce your name, you will need to bring this to a hearing so make sure to keep track of it!

, You may be required to attend a hearing, or the clerk may simply notify you that your 'Name Change Decree' is ready.


Depending on the specifics of your case and of your county, the court may hold a hearing simply in order to have an official statement from you. This does not mean your petition is in question.
 If changing your name is part of a larger legal undertaking like changing a legal relationship, changing your gender, or changing some other official status, remember that the name change may not be all you need to do.


If your legal status is being affected in more complex ways, you may want to check with a lawyer about what else needs to be taken into account.

