 People like to do business with people they like. The first portion of the discussion is all rapport building, or small talk. Ask about the customer and share about your life, too - hometown, current neighborhood, college stories, favorite sporting teams, vacations, golf, books, current events, good news and goals. All of these topics lead to a deeper, more meaningful discussion. This is your turn to listen. Listen to what the customer is telling you. Listening is 90 percent of communicating. Not just hearing and waiting to respond. Listening will give you the answers you need to close business.;
, Take a consultative sales approach. This is the time to ask Gitomer’s power questions mentioned above. Guiding and directing the prospective customer down the path of purchase requires asking great questions. First, listen. Then, be ready to explain how your solution fits into their equation.
 Explain your product and service in a way that fits the problem. If possible, dollarize the current situation with and without your product and service. This creates a real logical and mathematical understanding of how their business can succeed further by implementing your solution.
 Now is the time to enroll the new customer. After the first three steps, it would be remiss as a sales professional to not enroll the customer. Go forward with confidence. Ask for pertinent information, i.e. budget, dates, start time, further decision makers and when to expect payment. It is time to take the relationship to the next step.
 Close the call by thanking the customer. Schedule a time to follow up soon thereafter and have a “service after the sale call.” See how the customer is doing, check in and see how great the business is after your meeting with them. Establishing consistent success with this first step leads to success of the sales process. The Five P's - Prior Proper Preparation Promotes Performance - apply here. The key is preparation. Prior to picking up the phone, focus on how to fit the product to the client. Part of that focus includes gathering thoughts and eliminating negativity. Believe that the goal is possible and condition this into the sales process. This creates an attitude and air of enthusiasm needed to make a sale happen.

