


These systems need to be downloaded to ensure that if you do find the wrong website to play games on, you don't have to worry about viruses or hackers seeping into your computer.
Mac computers are much less vulnerable to viruses than PC systems. If you have a Mac, you might be able to get by without antivirus software.;
,


Your password should be at least eight characters long, and a mix of uppercase, lowercase, and numbers.
Have a password that is easy for you to remember, but is short, unique, and hard to predict. Here is an example: Busy89Craby
Try to change your gaming password every 3 months or sooner.
 This is another area where scammers can try to trick users into sharing their account qualifications.
,


This includes never clicking on unknown links and advertisements that show up before the game starts.
Sometimes, the ads can get a little tempting. Do not click on ads that look suspicious or sound too good to be true.
 Most gaming platforms offer ratings and reviews from users and sometimes professional reviewers.


If the ratings on the game are less than four stars, it might not be a good idea to play it. Chances are, you will be wasting your time.
 If the game doesn't have a rating (even though most games do) check the game comments. If most of them claim that it is a very bad game or it glitches the user's computer, do not play the game. It could do the same to yours.



Don't throw your email account into the public. Only give out your email when you're signing up or registering on the gaming website. On your user profile, use a picture of an avatar, the beach - anything but your real face.
 If you do so, you're just inviting spam, and you may, without realizing it, be revealing more information about yourself (like your name or location). It is recommended not to use your email account as your username, unless you have a good reason to.



If you (or your child) comes across cyber bullying, he/she should immediately tell you and should remember not to engage the bully. Check the online service or the game publisher's Terms of Service for instructions on how to file a complaint about another player.
 Some consoles offer parental controls. This allows parents to control when and how long the child can play on the game. Some even allow you to mute the ability of your child to listen to online chat.


If the gaming website doesn't have a parental feature, retrieve a timer and set it for how long you want your child to play on the game. Once it rings, nicely tell your child to leave the game.
 Do not put the computer in the child's room. This will only limit the your ability to monitor what your child is doing on the gaming website.

