 Turn the oven on to 350 °F (177 °C) (180 C). Get out a rimmed baking sheet and line it with parchment paper. Set the pan aside.The parchment paper will keep the meringues from sticking to the pan and make them easier to remove.;
, Scatter 1 cup plus 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) (130 g) of roasted peanuts on a rimmed baking sheet. Use a rolling pin or mug to crush the roasted peanuts into large chunks. Set the peanuts aside while you make the meringue.Use peanuts that are unsalted with the skins removed.
 Set a medium saucepan on the stove and pour about 1-inch (2.5 cm) of water in it. Turn the heat to medium, so the water simmers. Measure the meringue ingredients into a mixing bowl. You'll need:2 large egg whites at room temperature
1 cup (125 g) powdered sugar
¼ teaspoon kosher salt

, Set the mixing bowl over the saucepan of simmering water and ensure that the bowl doesn't touch the water. Whisk the meringue mixture constantly for about 5 minutes. The meringue should turn white and become hot.If you want to check the meringue using an instant-read thermometer, the meringue should be 120 degrees F (50 C).
 Remove the bowl and set it into a stand mixer with a whisk attachment. Beat the meringue mixture on high speed and stir in ½ teaspoon of vanilla extract. Keep whisking the mixture on high for about 5 minutes.The meringue should become thick and glossy. If you lift the whisk attachment up, it will create stiff peaks in the meringue.
If you don't have a stand mixer, you can use a hand mixer but it may take longer to whisk.
 Pour half of the crushed peanuts into the meringue mixture and use a rubber spatula to gently fold them in. Pour in the remaining crushed peanuts and fold them in a little more.To fold the peanuts, hold the rubber spatula and use a twisting motion with your wrist to incorporate the peanuts into the meringue. The goal is to combine the peanuts without destroying the volume of the meringue.
 Use a large spoon to scoop the meringue onto the parchment paper-lined baking sheet. Each meringue cookie should be about 1 1/2-inches (3.8 cm) in size. Ensure that they're about 1-inch (2.5 cm) apart on the baking sheet.You can keep the meringues in a mound on the sheet. This will give them a classic shape as they bake.
 Put the sheet in the oven and close the door, but leave the handle of a wooden spoon wedged, so the door is propped open. Bake the meringues for 15 to 20 minutes. They should puff a little and become dry around the sides. Don't worry if they crack a little. Let the meringues cool completely on a wire rack before you serve them.If you want crunchier meringues, bake them at 200 °F (93.3 °C) (90 C) for 45 minutes with the door propped open.
You can store the meringues in an airtight container for up to two days.

