 It can be difficult to say no, especially when you want to seem friendly. Avoid giving an incomplete, impotent, or unclear refusal.Practice direct statements like these in advance: “I don’t want to give you my answers,” or “I won’t let you use my work.”


You may accidentally encourage your classmate to apply more pressure if you soften your “no” in an attempt to be friendly. Avoid using statements like “I don’t know” or “this may be a bad idea.” Instead, trust the clarity and power of a direct “no.”
Do not provide a complicated answer, just say no. A complicated explanation that emphasizes unusual circumstances may seem friendlier or more helpful, but it can provide an opportunity for your classmate to challenge your refusal and to ask again.;
, Prepare to say no a second or third time. Your refusal is simple, but it may take your classmate a few attempts to understand that you are serious. Politely let them know that your answer is final but acknowledge their persistence. You can say “I know this is important, but my answer is not going to change,” or “I know that you are worried about grades, but I never share my answers.”, Be direct and specific the first time your classmate asks you to share your answers. Tell them “What you are asking is cheating, and it is wrong.” Your classmate may try to convince you that their request is not cheating. You can make your position clear by saying “I see your request as wrong, regardless of how you view it.”

, Remind your classmate of the repercussions of cheating. Teachers know and look for common cheating habits.Punishments for cheating can range from failing an assignment, to failing a course, to being expelled. Make clear that these consequences could affect both your classmate and you if you facilitate their cheating. You can say “You are asking me to take a risk, and the potential penalty is too big.”


Remember that the long term repercussions outweigh the immediate pressure. A school year can seem like a very long time, and you may worry about awkward situations if you disappoint a classmate. If you say no to a classmate, you may feel uncomfortable for a few days or weeks. If you are caught cheating, the consequences can last for years.
 You will be able to explain why you will not share your work when you are familiar with the specific rules of your school. Your teachers, school administrators, and parents are all concerned about cheating and work very hard to uphold these standards.Pay careful attention to your school’s rules regarding plagiarism. Plagiarism can seriously damage your academic record. Since what counts as plagiarism may not always be instinctive, speak with your teacher to clarify confusions that you may have. Your teacher will appreciate the opportunity address these questions before potentially plagiarized work is submitted.
 Some classmates may refuse to take no for answer. If you are physically threatened, share your answers to avoid immediate danger. Once you are free of immediate danger, contact a school official or a police officer and explain the situation to your teacher. Stopping bullying is a more immediate concern than cheating.

