 There are several symptoms of an anxiety attack, and each person has a unique feeling when an attack happens. In the middle of a panic attack, your body enters “fight or flight” mode. Since this response can’t be sustained long-term, an attack generally fades after a few minutes. Nonetheless, some people experience repeated attacks that span hours. The most common symptoms of an attack are:Racing heart
Feeling flushed or hot
Debilitating terror
Experiencing chest pains
Having trouble breathing
Experiencing “pins and needles” in the fingers or toes
Thinking that you will die
Feeling claustrophobic;
, One of the common side effects of an attack is not being able to catch your breath. Therefore, mastering deep breathing can be one of your strongest weapons during an attack.


Try to control your breathing by placing one hand on your belly and the other on your chest. Exhale sharply and let your upper body fall into a relaxed state. Now, breathe in slowly through your nose for 4 counts. You should feel the hand on your belly moving outwards. Pause and hold the breath for 1 or 2 counts. Now, gradually release the air out through your mouth for 4 counts. Repeat the process for several minutes as the natural relaxation response comes into effect., Go to a quiet room or corner where you can feel your back against a wall, grounding you. Sit down if you can, and drink some water.


While getting away from your environment may help, you want to try your best to resume your usual activities as soon as possible. You can stop panic attacks that occur during any activity by learning relaxation and grounding techniques.
 Derealization and/or depersonalization involve feeling as though you are disconnected from the surrounding environment or from your body respectively.Some people experience these sensations during anxiety attacks.


Grounding techniques are an effective remedy for derealization and depersonalization.Connect with your reality by grounding yourself in what is tangible and pulling your attention away from panic. Attempt to close your mind off to one sense at a time while practicing deep, calming breathing.
Stand up and feel your feet touching the ground. Only focus on how it feels to be standing, how your feet feel in your shoes or against the floor if barefoot. Then, rub your fingers along the wall. Think about how that feels. Notice how your hair feels up against your ear, or how your clothes feel on your body. Finally, listen to the noises around you. What sounds do you hear? Continue to breathe deeply as you connect with the different sensations.
 Once your breathing has steadied, you might feel confident enough to go to a bathroom to wash up. If possible let the water run over your face or dip your face into the sink for a few seconds. The refreshing feeling can sometimes help calm you down.Another strategy for diverting your attention away from anxiety is holding an ice cube in the palm of your hand (covered with a paper towel if you like). Hold onto the cube for as long as you can; then, switch hands. Your attention becomes focused on the discomfort of the cold ice and less on your panic symptoms., Sometimes they can help you talk through your feelings; sometimes just having someone to talk to can keep your mind preoccupied and get you through a panic attack.