 Browse through hairstyle magazines and fashion magazines to get an idea of which hair styles and colors are currently the most popular. This should not be the only thing you use to choose a hairstyle, but it may give you some idea of where to start the selection process.


Hair magazines can be especially helpful since they offer a variety of styles for a variety of lengths. Look at celebrities' hairstyles.
Trends come and go, so think carefully before you choose a style simply because it seems popular right now.
Even though you should avoid choosing a style simply due to its popularity, browsing through current trends can give you an idea of which styles you might want to avoid and which styles are already outdated.
Guys may have a harder time finding fashion and hair magazines that appeal to a male demographic, but male hair style magazines do exist. Nonetheless, if you are unable to find one, look online for pictures of current style trends for men.;
, You may like the way a given style looks on someone else, but that does not necessarily mean it will look the same way on you. Hair texture plays a large role in why this happens. Straight hair and curly hair holds styles differently, just as fine hair and coarse hair do.


The four basic texture groups are straight, wavy, curly, and kinky.This applies to both men and women.
Within each category, hair can be fine, medium, or coarse. This, too, applies to both men and women.
Generally speaking, straight styles look best on women with fine to medium hair, especially if they have naturally straight hair to begin with. On the other hand, women in this category tend to have hair that does not hold a curl well.
For women: straight hair is difficult to curl and curly hair or kinky hair is difficult to straighten. You can still style your hair in these ways, but be prepared for a lot of extra work with minimal rewards.
For women: if you have fine hair, look for styles that add volume with layering or texturing. Stay away from flat styles or styles that will require many extra hair products to "hold" in place. If you have medium hair, you can usually enjoy a variety of styling options. If you have coarse hair, look for styles that thin out excess volume and avoid styles that add volume or texture.
For men: if you have thin hair, consider short styles instead of longer ones. Short styles tend to hide thinness better, while longer styles make the thinness of your hair easier to spot. Similarly, you may have an easier time taming kinky hair if you keep it short. Men with wavy or curly hair have a variety of lengths available to them, though. Shorter hair tends to tame your waves and curls, while longer styles can look great but require more effort to maintain.
 Every face has a slightly different outline, but the outline of your face can affect how a certain hair style looks on you. Choose a style that works with your face shape for best results.Round faces: Women should consider an uneven cut with plenty of layers in it to add the appearance of length to the face. If opting for a shorter style, avoid "round" styles like traditional bobs and stick with defined pixie cuts and or choppy bobs. Men should consider styles that lengthen the forehead while maintaining plenty of hair along the sides of the face.

Oval faces: Women should try to break up the overall length of the face by adding details like blunt bangs or side swept bangs. On the other hand, men should avoid bangs with this face shape and should leave as much of their face uncovered as possible.

Square faces: Women should look for hairstyles that add roundness to the face, like a classic bob, since these soften otherwise sharp edges. Avoid styles that add too much bulk, though. Men should keep bangs off the forehead to avoid adding extra angles to an already angled appearance. They should also avoid center parts.

Heart faces: Women should look for medium and longer styles that are thin toward the top of the head and thicker toward the bottom, thereby balancing out the heart shape. Men may wish to consider longer styles that drop down past the cheekbone so that they can emphasize the bottom of their face while minimizing the bulk of the top.
 Both men and women struggle with body image, and you most likely have parts of your body that you like less than others. Draw attention away from these parts by highlighting your positive features with detail.


As a general rule, wear darker colors to slim down wide parts of your body or to otherwise obscure parts of your body you have less confidence about. Light colors catch the eye, so they should be worn around areas of the body that you feel better about.
Avoid placing prints on areas of your body that you feel insecure about. Prints and patterns attract attention, so if you place them in an area you want to hide, you won't be doing yourself any favors.
Opt for fitted garments in your size. This is especially important for women, but it applies to both genders. Loose, baggy clothes tend to look sloppy and may make you look plumper than you actually are.
Women should pay special attention to their body type. Typically, body type can be broken down into different shapes: hourglass, pear (or triangle), apple (or round), inverted triangle, or rectangle (or straight).Do a little research online about the best ways to dress your body type. Typically, you want clothes that emphasize your smaller portions and accentuate your weight, thereby enhancing your curves and balancing out your overall appearance.
 Skin tone is broken down into “cool” and “warm.” While you do not need to limit yourself to a range of colors based solely on your skin tone, certain colors may make enhance your complexion better than others.


Cool toned skin has pink undertones, while warm toned skin has yellow or olive undertones.
People with cool toned skin should look for colors on the blue side of the spectrum. Most blues look good on cool toned skin, as well as blue-tinted greens and violets. Light pinks also work well, as do vibrant oranges, which act as a complementary contrast. As far as neutrals go, look for blacks, grays, silvers, and stark whites.
People with warm toned skin should look for colors on the red side of the spectrum. Most reds and yellows look good on people with warm skin, as well as yellow-tinted greens and red-tinted violets. Browns, tans, golds, coppers, and off-whites tend to be the best neutrals.
 This piece of advice primarily applies to women. Cosmetics are a powerful tool, but you should apply your makeup lightly and in ways that highlight your beauty. Never attempt to hide behind your makeup.


Apply a light foundation and blush that match your skin tone as closely as possible, even if your skin tone is lighter or darker than you would like. Liven up your skin by applying blush and bronzer no more than a shade or two darker than your actual skin tone.
Use concealer when necessary, but apply a thin layer instead of caking it on.
Choose a feature to highlight and focus that majority of your effort on that. Usually, this is either your lips or your eyes. Glam up one feature while leaving the others plain to avoid overwhelming your look.
Apply mellow, subtle eye shadow, eyeliner, and mascara during the daytime. Save your dramatic eye coloring for evening.
Same goes for lip color. Opt for subtle shades of gloss or lipstick during the day and more dramatic shades of lipstick at night.
 Being aware of the latest trends will help prevent you from wearing clothes that are grossly outdated, but ultimately, trends come and go. Wear styles that you like and skip over ones that fail to catch your eye.


This does not necessarily require a large amount of research. You can browse fashion websites and magazines, but you can usually get an idea of what styles are “in” and which are “out” simply by watching television, walking down the street, or looking in a trendy store.
Build your wardrobe on classic pieces that rarely go out of style. Limit yourself to the occasional trendy piece here or there, but be prepared to chuck a piece if it becomes dated in a few years.




Round faces: Look for frames with sharp angles and corners, like rectangles and upswept frames. Avoid short frames or those that are notably small.

Oval faces: Most frames work well with this shape. Round frames can enhance your curves, while geometric shapes add angles that balance out your curves. Avoid frames that are too large, though.

Square faces: Consider oval and round frames to soften the hard edges of your face, but avoid square and geometric frames that add additional angles.

Heart faces: Look for bottom-heavy frames and avoid top-heavy styles. Also avoid decorative frames. Instead, opt for narrow frames that add as little bulk to the forehead as possible.
 Clothes that are washed, dried, and wrinkle-free just look better than dirty clothes that have been piled in a corner in your room for the last week. No matter what clothes you choose, make sure that your clothes are in the best shape possible so that you look your best, as well.
 Wash your skin with an appropriate facial cleanser at least once a day, if not twice.


If you have dry skin, wash your face once a day instead of twice a day. Use gentle cleansers for sensitive skin to avoid making your skin any drier than it already is and apply plenty of face lotion afterward.
If you have oil skin, you may need to wash your face twice a day. Use a gentle cleanser in the morning and a stronger cleanser in the evening. Exfoliate your pores weekly.
Avoid using plain body soap. Body wash is stronger than most facial cleansers and, as a result, it will dry the skin on your face too quickly and too severely.
If you struggle with acne more than most people, you may need to seek out a medicated facial cleanser. Talk to your dermatologist or family physician for suggestions.
 Most individuals should wash their hair every other day to maintain the right amount of oil.


Washing your hair everyday or more than once a day will likely dry it out. As a result, your hair may suffer long-term damage. In the short-term, it may also be frizzier and more brittle.
Washing your hair less often than every other day may result in hair that looks flat and oily.
Use shampoos, conditioners, and other hair care products formulated for your hair type for the best possible results. If you have trouble making your hair look shiny and healthy, talk to a hair stylist or barber for suggestions.
 In addition to washing your face and hair regularly, you must also wash your body on a regular basis. Bathe every one to two days whenever possible.


Wash up with warm water and soap. You can either use a shower gel or bar soap.
Apply lotion to your skin after you get out of the shower, focusing on rough patches like your knees and elbows. Applying lotion right after your shower will lock in more moisture. Additionally, lotion is an important part of your beauty regimen because it prevents your skin from drying out.
 Men and women don't usually need to worry about their facial hair, and for men there is no shame to have a mustache or a beard since it's assumed to be natural and masculine. Women don't either need to worry about facial hair, but some women prefer not to have it. Remember, it's your choice, and it's only some hair! Not a big of a deal., Avoid beards or mustaches that look untamed, and if your facial hair looks scraggly, you should consider shaving it off.
Women can usually get away without shaving during cold-weather months, but you should shave your underarms as soon as you break out the short sleeves and your legs as soon as you start wearing capri pants, shorts, skirts, and dresses. Shave every few days during the warmer weather months to keep up on your hair and reduce stubble.
 Brush your teeth at least twice a day to keep your smile its whitest.


Brush your teeth once in the morning and once at night. You can also brush in the middle off the afternoon, shortly after lunch, if desired. Use a cavity-fighting toothpaste. A whitening toothpaste can also be considered, but some individuals may find that whitening toothpastes make their teeth feel more sensitive.
You should also floss regularly to cut down on decay. Consider carrying floss around with you, as well, in the event that food gets stuck in between your teeth while you're out and about.
Talk to your dentist about using commercial whitening strips if you want to brighten your smile a little more. He or she should be able to recommend a brand that is safe for your teeth.

