 After a breakup, friendly communication means that your relationship is still positive. This means that there is a chance that they still hold a flame for you and want to remain involved in your life. Some signs of their possible interest are:


Frequent “hello's” and “hi’s” even if you’ve already seen them once that day. These little greetings can mean that they still want to talk to you, but are too nervous and unsure to take further steps.
Reaching out to check in via phone or text often.
Commenting or liking your social media posts regularly.
Sending you pictures of themselves having fun, looking attractive, or doing something you would enjoy.;
, In comparison to communication that is positive, watch out for exes who stalk, manipulate, or frighten you. If you ex refuses to take no for an answer, then the feelings they have are not ones of love, but of obsession and control. Watch out and stay away from exes who don’t respect your space.


Also, if you have an ex who only contacts you once every few months or only after they’ve ended a relationship, then they likely do not care for you and are only seeking attention.
 An ex who wants to get back together will often try to be close to you when they do see you. They might hug you, kiss your check or display other types of physical affection to show that they care. If they are still very emotional about the breakup, they might also look down, avoid eye contact or even cry.Their feelings may show in their actions. They might laugh louder, smile a bit too much, or their voice might be higher pitched. These are signs, sometimes called micro-expressions, that they may still have feelings that they now can't control or are trying to hold back., If your ex tries to schedule get-togethers or makes an effort to frequent the places you frequent, they are trying to spend time with you. Maybe they’re trying to get your attention or perhaps they just enjoy and miss your presence. Run-ins may mean that they're looking for a chance to ask you about your feelings.Make particular note of the places you find them at that they never went to or enjoyed before you two dated.
 Your ex might continue to go out of their way to do nice things for you like sending you birthday gifts, Christmas cards, or gifts on special occasions. This is a sign that they still appreciate you and want to make you happy. For some, gifts are a way of showing love and affection. Your ex may be trying to show those feelings for you.
 If they post statuses about moving on, it may mean that they're trying to get over you, or convince themselves to do so. If they're posting more direct things like, "missing my ex," this probably means that they really do miss you! Perhaps they wanted you to read that post so you would know their true feelings.


See if they have deleted all photos of the two of you. Getting rid of your shared memories is often a major indicator that they really do want to move on.
 Though you should not try to put your friends in the middle, you can ask them casually how your ex is doing lately, especially if you have not heard from them. They may tell you if your ex cares. However, if your friends don’t want to share, don’t force them.


Say something like “I was at the library the other day and I remembered the time that Dave and I went. How is he doing lately?”
If you are very close to them, then you can be blunt. Say “Do you think Dave still has feelings for me?”

, Your ex might be hinting at the fact that they still care very coyly or they might be very direct with you. Notice signs that your ex is flirting include touching you often, complimenting you, winking, or using pickup lines. If they display these actions and are communicating with you regularly and being kind to you, then they might still have feelings.If your ex is not particularly flirtatious, this could be an even bigger sign that they still care.

