 Locate the country that produced the wine, to determine if it is a New World wine. This information should be clearly listed on the front label. If it is not on the front, it may be on the back label.New World wines tend to vary dramatically, and a good deal of experimentation goes into producing new, interesting varieties.
Warmer climates produce wines that have bolder, fruity flavors and be more full-bodied than Old World wines, and usually have a higher alcohol content.
New World wines come from the US, Australia, New Zealand, Chile, Argentina, and South Africa.
California wines will usually tell you that they come from Napa, Sonoma, Paso Robles, or another region that makes wine.
 For New World wines, the brand is also the name of the vineyard that produced the wine, and it will usually be the main name on the label. It will be written in the largest type size, and usually appears at the top of the front label., Wines are usually vintage, which means that they are identified by the year they were produced. You can age a bottle of wine to allow its flavor to mature and develop. There are also non-vintage wines, which are made from grapes harvested during different years. These wines are not meant to be aged.Check the label for a date first. Look at the front label and then the back label to see if you can find the date. It will usually just be a year, such as 1998 or 2014.
If you cannot find the date on the label, then it might be printed on a sticker on the bottle’s neck.
 This is usually the second-largest writing on the label, after the brand name. New World wines label their bottles according to the type of grape that was used to create the wine. Rather than memorizing which type of wine comes from which region, all you need to know is which types of wine (i.e. type of grape – or varietal) you enjoy.If a specific varietal is named, at least 75% of the wine must come from that type of grape. (Wines with mixed grape types must have a generic name such as “table wine.”)
Cabernet Sauvignon is currently the most popular wine in the world. It is a full-bodied red wine that can taste of black cherry, baking spices, black currant, or cedar.
Merlot is a middle weight red wine that is fruitier and smoother (lower in tannins) than Cabernet Sauvignon.
Syrah is a full-bodied red wine that can contain tastes of violet, black pepper, plum, and blueberry. Australia produces many Syrah (or Shiraz) wines.
Chardonnay is a white wine that is medium- to full-bodied, that can have notes of citrus, pear, apple, butterscotch, cinnamon, and toasted caramel.
Pinot Grigio (or Pino Gris) is a light-bodied white wine that can have notes of citrus, pear, apple, floral, and cheese rind.
Sauvignon Blanc is an aggressively citrus (grapefruit) white wine, with notes of melon, mint, green pepper, and grass. It is a light- to medium-bodied wine.
 If a specific vineyard is named on an American wine, such as “Jackson Estate Vineyard,” then 95% of the grapes used to make that wine must have come from that specific vineyard.Not all wines will list a vineyard on the bottle, but some do, especially if the winery attributes special qualities to its wine because of the property.
 An officially designated viticultural area is a region such as Napa Valley that is noted for high quality wines. The region will be specified on the label, indicating that 85% or more of the grapes used to make the wine were grown in that area.,, The amount of wine in the bottle must be clearly marked. For a standard size bottle, this is usually 750 mL. The volume amount will be marked on the label, or stamped into the glass of the bottle itself.You can also buy large bottles of wine. These are often referred to as magnums. These bottles contain the equivalent of two bottles of wine, which is about 1.5 Liters.
 Typically, wines range from about 7% alcohol content to as high as 23%. Sweeter wines have a higher percentage of alcohol than dryer wines, and New World wines tend to have a higher alcohol content than Old World wines.American wines cannot exceed 14% alcohol content by volume, or they cross over into a higher taxation level.
American wines that are labeled “Table Wine” can have an alcohol content of 14% or less, without having to specify the amount of alcohol on the label.
 The Wine Spectator publishes an extensive list of wines that have been tasted and rated according to their very specific system. Stores that carry wine often post these ratings on the shelf below the wine bottle. Although personal taste always trumps someone else's opinion, this is a good place to start if you want to try an unfamiliar wine.A rating of 95-100 indicates a “great” or “classic” wine (by the Wine Spectator standards.)
90-94 indicates an outstanding wine with unusually high character and style.
85-89 describes a “very good” wine with special qualities.
80-84 is the rating for an good wine; one that is “solid and well-made.”
75-79 describes a “mediocre” wine, one that the tasters believed to be drinkable but flawed.
Wines rated below 74 are not recommended.

