 When you’ve successfully removed the splinter, gently squeeze it until you see some blood. This will help to get some of the germs from the splinter out of your wound.Don’t squeeze too hard. If the wound doesn’t bleed with some gentle pressure, just leave it alone. You can use other methods to clean away germs and bacteria, including an antibacterial ointment.
Flushing the wound out with warm water for at least a minute will help clean the area.
 If the splinter continues to bleed after squeezing it or is bleeding on its own, then you can control the bleeding by placing pressure on the area.This can help prevent significant blood loss and shock.Bleeding from a minor wound should stop within a few minutes. If you are bleeding excessively, or the bleeding won’t stop, then seek medical attention right away.


Try holding a piece of gauze or a cotton ball on the splinter wound until the bleeding stops.
If the wound has split the skin, bring the edges of it together by pressing them together with two pieces of sterile gauze or clean cloth.You can also raise the area above your heart, which can help to control bleeding.For example, if the splinter was in your finger, then raise your hand above your head until the bleeding stops.
 Wash the splinter wound with soap and warm water after you’ve removed the splinter from your skin. This will help to clean away any lingering bacteria and germs left in the wound. After you are done, you may also want to apply an anti-bacterial ointment.Apply an antibacterial ointment to the area up to twice per day. This can minimize the risk of infection to the affected area.You can purchase an antibiotic ointment such as bacitracin, neomycin, or polymyxin B. Many brands will put the three into one product and call it “triple antibiotic ointment.”, After the bleeding has stopped and the wound is clean, you may want to cover the area to prevent bacteria from getting into the wound. You can secure a piece of gauze with some medical tape or apply a bandage to the injured area. A bandage may also add some pressure to help control bleeding.