 As more of us spend our workdays sitting at a computer desk, it becomes increasingly clear that this “low impact” positioning actually can cause pain in joints from wrists to knees and beyond. Proper alignment and positioning, though, can significantly reduce stress on your joints while seated.Choose a desk chair that supports your back and neck in an upright position, with adequate lumbar support. Look for armrests that allow your elbows to bend at a ninety degree angle, and a chair height (or footrest) that permits your feet to rest flat while your knees are bent at a right angle.Choose an ergonomic keyboard with a wrist rest, and use a hands-free phone to reduce neck stress. Position the top of the computer monitor even with the top of your head, and about 18 inches from your face. Attach a document holder to the side of the monitor, so you don’t have to look down.;
, You’ve surely heard the advice to “lift with your legs, not with your back.” The more you use the larger, stronger muscles in your legs, arms, and core, the less strain you will place on smaller muscle groups and the nearby joints.For instance, if you have to lift a box off of a table, don’t rely primarily on your hands and wrists to work as a lever. Instead, use your hands only to secure the box, keep your wrists rigid as much as possible, and lift using your arm muscles.
If the box you need to move is heavier and on the floor, consider whether you can slide it instead of lifting it.
 We think of pain and injuries occurring due to movement, but joint discomfort can also be caused by a lack of movement. People with arthritis or other types of joint pain know all too well what can happen after spending an afternoon clenching a garden shovel, using a keyboard without adequate wrist support, or standing on an unforgiving floor. Regular movement can help prevent joint fatigue, inflammation, stiffness, and pain.When working at the computer, for example, try to take a quick ten to twenty second break every ten minutes, and a three to five minute break each hour. Relax your wrists, stand up, flex your joints a bit, and return to your optimal sitting position.
Take breaks during other activities as well. Sit down for short rests if you are standing for long periods. Vary your gardening routine so you are not in the same position (or holding the same grip) for extended amounts of time.
 It could be said that joint protection is built from the ground up. Poor footwear choices and/or unforgiving ground conditions can create joint pain up from the ankles to the knees, hips, shoulders, and neck. A day spent in high heels on a concrete floor, for instance, is a recipe for joint pain.Wear comfortable, supportive, shock-absorbing, well-fitting shoes whenever possible. Consider visiting a specialist for help finding the best footwear for your feet and body. If you can find ways to limit your time walking on hard surfaces — on the grass instead of the walkway in the park, for example — that can ease the stress on your joints as well., Pain always has a story to tell, and it is important to listen when your body starts to “talk.” When your knees ache, your elbow is sore, or your fingers are stiff, don’t ignore the discomfort or try to push through it. Instead, respond to joint pain by making adjustments to your routines and practices.Joint pain is usually due to overuse or improper use, but there can be other causes as well. If you have unexplained joint pain, consult your doctor.
 When it comes to your joints, in most cases “stiffness begets stiffness.” In other words, completely immobilizing a stiff joint is likely to only increase the discomfort. Instead, try to slowly but surely flex and move the stiff joints to loosen them up.For instance, if your fingers are beginning to feel stiff from gripping a racket during a long tennis match, try the “finger fan.” Spread your fingers out as wide as you comfortably can, hold for a moment, clench your hand into a fist, hold again, and repeat.Or, try the “wrist flex” if that is the sore joint. Rest your elbow and arm flat on the desk, palm down, and gently pull back on your hand (toward your elbow) with your other hand.
 The way you jog, sit in a chair, lift a gallon of milk, or hold a telephone could contribute to joint pain. Making small changes in such routines can make a big difference, but it takes time and effort to change habits.Changing how you walk, sit, etc., will be a gradual process. Practice regularly, make yourself reminders, and give yourself time to adjust. Keep working until you establish a new routine.
For example, if you have recurring hand or wrist pain, practice lifting with both hands (and arms) instead of one whenever possible, even if you can lift the weight with one. It will take time to retrain yourself to lift the teakettle with two (protected) hands, but dividing the weight will reduce the strain on any single joint.
 Modern technology has helped make products ranging from lawnmowers to cooking pots more lightweight. This is a positive development if you have joint pain. Choosing lighter products for your everyday tasks can reduce the stress placed upon your joints.If you work around the house regularly, for instance, consider buying a lightweight vacuum cleaner, or a lighter iron for when you're doing laundry.
 While there are few positives about suffering from joint pain, you can at least say that it gives you a reason to take warm baths and get occasional massages. Soothing techniques such as these can help ease the discomfort of sore joints for many people.When you are dealing with joint inflammation, icing the area, perhaps followed later by warm applications, may prove most beneficial. Consider talking to your doctor or joint pain specialist regarding the best combination of techniques for your particular joint pain.
 Whether you don’t know what is causing your joint pain, or recognize the likely cause(s) but aren’t sure what you can do, it is always a good idea to discuss the issue with your doctor. The treatment options you discuss can range from simple exercises to pain medications to surgical intervention, depending on your circumstances.Your doctor may, for example, suggest flexible (“working”) or rigid (“resting”) joint splints, or both. These devices for the hands, wrists, and other joints can provide additional support or immobilize the joint for defined periods of time in order to reduce joint stress.
 Regular exercise — 30 minutes or more per day for most adults — is beneficial to every aspect of health, including joint health. That is, of course, if you exercise using proper technique, and listen to your body if you experience joint pain from exercise. You should also consult your doctor before beginning an exercise regimen, especially if you live a sedentary lifestyle or have preexisting medical conditions.If you already have joint pain, or are looking to reduce the strain on your joints while building up your cardiovascular health, choose low-impact exercises like cycling. Water exercises like swimming and water aerobics are probably the most joint-friendly options, since the buoyancy of the water reduces joint stress.
Strength training exercises build muscle, but they can also help strengthen your bones, which in turn benefits joint health. Also, stronger muscles can help remove more of the burden from your joints when lifting objects, etc.
Yoga is also a very joint-friendly type of exercise, as it improves flexibility and balance.
 Not surprisingly, the same diet that is good for your overall health is also good for joint health. By eating more fresh fruits and vegetables, lean proteins, and healthy fats, you will consume greater amounts of various nutrients that can help strengthen your bones and the cartilage, tendons, and muscles that connect to them in your joints.Calcium is well-known for its association with bone health. Choose lowfat dairy products, leafy greens, fortified foods, and other high-calcium options.
Increasing your vitamin C intake can help repair joint cartilage. Choose foods such as citrus fruits, leafy greens, and tomatoes.
There is also evidence that reducing sodium intake and increasing potassium intake can help to promote bone health. Processed and prepackaged foods are usually loaded with sodium, while options like bananas, yogurt, and lentils are good potassium sources.
Excessive caffeine or alcohol intake can also hinder bone health, so consume either or both in moderation.
 Weight-bearing joints like your knees are particularly impacted by weight gain; by some estimates, each pound gained adds four pounds of stress to your knees. Use a healthy diet and regular exercise as your starting points for weight reduction, for your overall health and your joint health.However, being underweight can also negatively impact joint health, as significantly underweight people are at a higher risk for bone loss. Aim for the healthy “middle ground.”, The more we learn about the dangers of smoking, the more we discover that practically every aspect of health is negatively impacted by it. Joint health is no different, as smoking can reduce bone density, among the numerous other harms it will cause.Quitting smoking can be very difficult, but the health benefits of quitting are undeniable. Talk to your doctor and seek out help with quitting if and when you need it.

