 You should be polite and friendly to all your customers, even if they are rude or don’t tip you well. Always smile and have a positive attitude, even if you are having a bad day. Customers will be more likely to tip you well if you show professionalism regardless of what’s going on in your personal life or back at the pizza shop., Before making your delivery, look at the name on the order. When the customer opens the door, say something like “Good evening, Mr. Smith. I’ve got your pizza right here, and the total comes to $29.76.”If you’re unsure how to pronounce the customer’s name, skip it. Instead, say “How are you tonight?” or something similar.
 People love their pets, and they’ll like you more if you’re nice to their pets too. Compliment the pet by saying something like “what a handsome German Shepherd you have here,” or ask if you can pet them., Rather than leaving your customer to wonder what happened to their pizza, let them know what’s going on. If it’s a busy night, or you are having car trouble, call and let the customer know you’ll be late. They may still be annoyed, but you’re likely to get a better tip for being upfront and honest than for just being late., You should always thank the customer, regardless of their attitude or the tip. Say something like “Thanks for choosing ABC Pizza, we truly appreciate your business!” Customers like to know they are appreciated, so recognizing their business can help you get a better tip., Customers will appreciate it if you acknowledge mistakes and apologize for them. Do your best to fix the problem, and offer a discount or free item, if your employer allows it.
 Make sure the pizza was made correctly and that you have everything the customer ordered. They will be frustrated and less likely to tip you if you forgot those extra containers of ranch dressing, or brought them super spicy hot wings when they ordered barbeque flavor wings., It’s incredibly important that you get to your deliveries promptly. If your car battery is constantly dying, or you break down on the side of the road often, that will severely reduce your tips. Make sure you have a reliable vehicle to do your deliveries with, because being late will not help you earn good money., Spend some time looking at a map, or even driving around to get a feel for the area. You need to know all of the major roads in your city, and what separates your city into Northern, Southern, Eastern, and Western sections. You’ll make better time if you know the difference between 500 West Maple and 500 East Maple., Many people have GPS or can get directions using their cell phone. If this doesn’t apply to you, invest in a GPS system for your car. It will be super helpful if you get lost or if a customer lives in the middle of nowhere. Using GPS can also help you find the most efficient route from one delivery to the next., Customers may ask questions about their order or future orders, so be sure you know the menu. They will appreciate you being able to tell them what’s on the “Super Supreme” when they ask., Customers will need a pen to add a tip and sign the receipt if they paid with a credit card. Not having a working pen with you tells the customer you are unprepared. Be sure to keep a few spares in your car, and one in the delivery bag or in your pocket., You’ll get better tips if you look presentable. Wear clothes without stains or rips, if possible, and make sure your hair is neat. Some guys even say they get better tips when they are clean-shaven, so you could consider getting rid of your beard if you’re not too attached to it., Make an “X” or an arrow that points to all three lines on the receipt (total, tip, and signature). Highlighting just the tip line is tacky, but pointing out all three may make a customer more likely to fill in that tip line rather than leave it blank., Rather than giving a five dollar bill back when someone hands you $20 and their total was $15, give them back five ones. This way, they’ll be more likely to give you a couple bucks, rather than stuffing that $5 back in their pocket., Some people add a tip to the bill on a credit card at the time they order. Though it may be tempting to leave this order for last, since you know you’ve already bagged a tip, don’t do that. Give them the respect they deserve and deliver their pizza promptly. They’ll remember your effort, and will be more likely to tip you well the next time, too., Some people order pizza often and may have tipped you well in the past. Try to remember these customers, and treat them well. Ask how they are doing, or suggest new menu items you think they may like. A little extra effort can go a long way to ensuring you always receive a good tip from these customers., While you may not be able to offer discounts or give out free pizza or sodas, you can offer extra items. Bring extra napkins, plates, or seasonings, such as red peppers or parmesan cheese. Offering these to your customers when you arrive shows them that you are prepared and that you care about their order and experience.