 Depending on your school and class size, this could prove to be a difficult task. But meeting as many people that you are representing as class president is important! Spend your time wisely during the day so you can meet different people during different activities.Start up a conversation with someone between classes. Even if you just stop by someone’s locker to ask how their day is going, it will help students understand that you are a friendly person.
Sit with someone new each day during lunch time. Look around the cafeteria to see if anyone is sitting alone and join them for lunch. This is your chance to approach students that are loners and get to know what kind of issues they want you to deal with.
Partner up with different classmates for projects in class. It is easy to stick with your friend for projects, but pairing up with different people can be rewarding because you will get to know them better while working together.
 Making sure you know your classmates on a name basis is essential of a good class president.Students will connect with you better if you honestly know who they are, and you don’t just pretend to care.


Introduce yourself when you see classmates you have not met yet.
Ask for students’ names and repeat it to them to make sure you’re saying it right.
Acknowledge people you’ve already met on different occasions by addressing them by name.
Recall parts of past conversations so classmates can see you pay attention to them.
 The effort that you put in getting to know your classmates in school is as important as getting to know them outside of school. It is easier for classmates to open up to you if you have fun with them away from the classroom.


Plan gatherings at the mall to shop together. There are so many stores and activities at a mall, so it is the perfect place to interact with your fellow classmates and learn more about them in a casual setting.
Get together to watch movies at the movie theatre as a large group.There won’t be much talking done during the movie, but the discussion after will help everyone get familiar with each other. This will open up the way for more serious dialogue at school in the future.
Organize a day in the park with everyone to play outdoors. You can play different games or even enjoy a picnic together. The perfect setting for relaxed conversation.

