 Make your classmate less likely to want your answers by stressing your uncertainty about your work. You can express a lack of confidence in your answers, even if you are certain that they are correct, with a few practiced statements like “This unit is over my head, I doubt I got many answers right,” or “Do you understand the new ideas? I’m a little bit lost.” This may make other students think twice about trying to use your answers.


Minimize confrontation by presenting your work as incomplete or sloppy. You can say “I did the assignment wrong and haven’t been able to fix it,” or “I didn’t complete the assignment and I need to ask to copy someone’s work, too.”
Discuss difficulties with your peers. Talk about the subjects that challenge you and in which you hope to improve rather than topics in which you excel. This can help you balance your reputation as a good student with a sense that your work may not be suitable for copying.
 Accept your classmate’s interest in your work as a compliment. Peers may use praise in an attempt to manipulate you, so acknowledging the compliment can disarm their attempt to pressure you.Be prepared with a gentle reminder of the dedicated work you did to succeed, like “I’m flattered that you think my work is good, I study very hard.” If they continue to push, say “I worked hard and it is unfair that you get the answers without doing the work yourself.”

, You do not need to condone your classmate’s attempt to cheat, but you can try to understand why they feel the need take advantage of your success.Say to your classmates “I won’t give you my answers, but I understand how stressful this class is.” Emphasize that you are willing to help them manage the stress of homework.


Anticipate cheating around test times. Due to the high value placed on providing specific answers for assigning grades, stress can increase before major tests. This may make cheating seem more attractive. Before a test or major assignment, encourage a student that may ask you for answers or offer to study with them. This may reinforce proper study habits and discourage cheating.

