 Read about the history of diamonds, their popularity in engagement rings in Western culture, and particularly about blood diamonds. You also may want to know how diamonds are priced, i.e. the 4 Cs, Light Behavior, and Cut Grade. Consider the material the solitaire engagement rings can be made of, as for different diamonds there can be a wide range of materials used. Make sure you know these things and it will make your life easier when discussing the price with a jeweler.
 The most important thing in buying a diamond ring is to find a sufficient amount of money. There is a belief that the solitaire engagement rings should cost not lower than two average monthly salaries.
 Classic setting? Pave? Diamond Shape? All good things to know. Would you prefer a classic diamond ring like a solitaire, or a diamond eternity band? Or would you like to have something more modern? Many options are available even in solitaires. Diamond ring is something you are going to wear for the rest of your life, so make sure the style reflects your personality. However, the most preferable style of many solitaire engagement rings is classic, what make rings almost persistent to time, so it can be inherited by many more generations and raise its value in the future.


Observe her jewelry tastes. Weather she prefer traditional or contemporary. You can get many designs in engagement rings. You must consider the size of her hand. If she has small hands, a wide band and bold style will make her hand look even smaller.
Think of her lifestyle. If she lives a very active lifestyle then choose a ring with a low profile to avoid it from losing and destroying. For a woman of fashion it would be better to choose something more original and exclusive what will make her an object of adore among friends and colleagues.
 It’s a vital part of purchase.



Color - It is a myth that all diamonds are colorless. While most diamonds appear white, all include trace amounts of yellow. Colorless diamonds typically hold the most value, with nearly colorless following suit. However, deeply colored fancy diamonds can sometimes cost more than colorless diamonds of the same carat weight. Fancy diamonds are popular in many celebrity engagement rings and come in a variety of colors, such as pink, grey, yellow and orange.

Carat - Diamond size is measured by weight in carats. Prices rise as carat weight increases. Choosing a slightly smaller carat weight, can save you money and still allow you to present your future spouse with a dazzling diamond.

Clarity - Most diamonds have tiny flaws called inclusions, often invisible to the naked eye. Pay special attention to product details when deciding. Most diamonds do contain some blemishes inside the stones and these are what give each diamond its own uniqueness. The most important thing to remember about clarity is that you do not want inclusions to be visible to the naked eye, nor should they be so excessive that they affect the diamond's brilliance or durability.

Clarity is a critical C and has a great effect on the diamond's value. When diamonds are moved up on the clarity scale, you generally see a significant increase in price. The object is to choose a diamond as high on the clarity scale as your budget will allow, while still taking the other C's into account.



Cut - The cut of a diamond determines how well a diamond reflects light to shows its brilliance. A standard report describes cut by the shape or outline of the diamond and the facet arrangement, also known as cutting style. Shapes range from traditional round to hearts, pears, emerald, and more. Choose a shape that reflects the tastes of the person who will wear the stone. Cut becomes very relevant when zeroing down on the choice of diamond. The cut is the result of transforming the diamond into a gem. A better cut will have a great effect on the beauty of the diamond. Diamonds with correct proportions better refract the light out of the top of the stone. Lesser cut diamonds allow some light to escape from the bottom of the stone, resulting in a less brilliant diamond.

Shape - Another factor you need to consider when choosing a diamond is its shape. Although shape and cut are sometimes used interchangeably, they are not the same. Cut refers to the proportions and symmetry. Shape, on the other hand, refers to the actual shape or contour of the diamond. There are 8 popular shapes including: round (also called brilliant cut), Princess cut, Emerald cut, Asscher cut, Marquise cut, Radiant cut, Pear cut, and Heart cut. When you select a shape, the most important factor is simply what appeals to you.
 Before purchasing, check if the diamonds are certified or not. Some of the most accurate/popular diamond grading labs include Precision Gem Grading Laboratory (PGGL), Gemological Institute of America (GIA), European Gemological Laboratory (EGL), and International Gemological Institute (IGI). Only purchase conflict-free diamonds - otherwise someone may have been murdered to bring you the symbol of your love.
 Getting a second opinion on your diamond ring may be essential. Many jewelers today may rip you off and you would have no idea.
 Buying a wedding band along with engagement ring will show your commitment and dedication to go through the marriage. You may think that it is not important, but for your lover it will be everything. Purchasing a set is a good idea because you can save money also.
 The effective cutting pattern is responsible for the best sparkle. A poorly cut diamond simply looks dull.;
, Clarity is an issue of purchase loose diamond. Diamond with little inclusion is recommended also they have a high value.
 The weight of diamond is measured in carats. Diamond values are dependent on its weight.

