 Fried squid and bloody Marys for breakfast on a Wednesday--why not? Weekdays don't have to be plain oatmeal and black coffee. If it sounds good to you and there's no harm in doing it, do it. Breaking up monotony and listening to your own impulses can be a great way of keeping life fresh and exciting. As long as it's legal and not counterproductive to some necessary part of your life, act impulsively. Live in the moment.


Sometimes, allowing yourself to break small rules of protocol or tact can be a good way of asserting your freedom in the world. Play what you want on the jukebox, even if the other bar patrons don't want all 11 minutes of "Heard it Through the Grapevine."

, Expanding your perspective of the world and learning to embrace freedom requires that you occasionally get outside your comfort zone and experience new things. Visit new places, try new activities, eat new foods. Explore the world and enjoy it.


Traveling can be big or small. You don't have to hitchhike to South America to travel and experience something new. Visit new parts of town you've never visited, or explore the small town next to yours. Go somewhere you don't know anyone and learn everything you can. If it's new to you, Brooklyn might as well be Crawfordsville.
 Allow yourself to be proud of yourself. Allow yourself to celebrate successes, or even to celebrate a lack of failures. Each day you've successfully negotiated is cause for reasonable celebrations. Spend time with people you enjoy and give yourself good reasons to work hard.
 The older you get and the more of the world you experience, the more one thing becomes clear: the only circumstance that's keeping you from happiness and freedom is yourself. Let go of your preconceptions, your hang-ups, and your fears. Free your mind by letting yourself experience the world fully and make each day count. Live the life you want to lead. There's no reason not to.Be careful of becoming a slave to your ideal version of yourself. It's easy to say, "Everything will be better after I graduate" or "Everything will be better after I get this project done" or "Everything will be better when I move to Portland." Will it? How can you be free in spite of your challenges? How can you be free right now, where you live, right this second? How can you change your environment for the better?