 If you’re legally using marijuana for a legitimate medical purpose, you’re going to have to be in contact with a prescribing physician. Take the opportunity to ask the doctor for recommendations and guidance regarding the delivery methods and concentrations that may be most effective for your particular condition.


In the U.S., state laws vary widely on which doctors can prescribe (and which patients can receive) medical marijuana. Make sure your doctor is authorized to prescribe and experienced in the process.If one form of medical marijuana isn’t working for you, talk to your doctor about making a switch. Also, if you’re experiencing unusual or significant side effects, share these with your doctor.
 As with most other medications, the goal with marijuana is to find the lowest effective dose for your condition. By taking as little cannabis as necessary to address your needs, you’ll reduce the impact of side effects or interactions, and also likely save money.


For instance, if you’re starting out with packaged medical marijuana cookies, start by eating one-fourth of a cookie. Wait an hour or so and consider its effects on your pain, as well as any side effects. If necessary, move up to a half-cookie next time, and repeat the process.
Especially when you’re in ongoing pain, it’s tempting to go for a big dose and (hopefully) big relief. However, work with your prescribing physician to methodically work your way up to the dose that works best for your particular needs.
 Especially when you’re starting out with medical marijuana, or changing doses or delivery methods, take extra precautions for your own well-being and the safety of others. The psychoactive effects of cannabis compounds can make activities like driving, operating machinery or appliances, or even navigating a cluttered house risky propositions.


Start your new or altered regimen at a time and place where you can safely wait to gauge the impacts. And follow your doctor’s recommendations and your own (pre-medicated) common sense when it comes to engaging in activities like driving after using medical marijuana.
 While you won’t technically develop a tolerance to cannabis, your body can become accustomed to it to the point that its medical effectiveness wanes. In such a scenario, a brief “medicine vacation” or a switch to another variety, dosage, or delivery method may help restore the benefits.As with any medication, don’t stop using cannabis, change dosages, or alter delivery methods without the advice and consent of your prescribing physician.
 Instead of relying on vague recollections and fleeting notions of your medication regimen, keep an accurate, up-to-date, detailed log of your cannabis usage. This will empower you (and your doctor) to make informed decisions in regards to tailoring your dosages and delivery methods. As such, it will be easier to maximize medication impact and minimize undesirable effects.


When it comes to medication logs of any type, there is no such thing as “too detailed.” For a cannabis log, keep track of details like the date and time of use; amount used; strain, type, and cannabinoid content (if known to you); therapeutic and side effects; your feelings before and after; and so on (perhaps employing a dozen or more categories).It is especially important to keep a detailed log during the first week or two of using a new or changed medication; but an ongoing log is even better. With medical marijuana or any other medication, information is power.
 Marijuana laws, both medical and recreational, are changing quickly in the 50 U.S. states and around the world. Take it upon yourself to know your rights and responsibilities when it comes to medical marijuana usage where you live. If need be, assert the rights you do possess or advocate for changes to benefit yourself and others who rely upon medical cannabis.


Study the current laws and regulations where you live by checking the website of or contacting your health department (or other supervisory government entity). Keep in regular contact with your prescribing physician as well.Consider joining an advocacy group and/or contacting your legislators if you believe changes need to be made to the laws where you live. Don’t assume you’ll be joining forces with just a bunch of “pot-heads” — there are people of all ages and backgrounds, from children to gray-haired grandmas, who benefit from using medical marijuana.

