 During the first season after planting Lenton roses, they should be watered once or twice each week. From the second season on, they can be watered much less often. These are highly drought-tolerant plants after they become established.


If the weather is particularly dry, though, they will look better with a good, deep watering once every week or two.;
, Spread a 2- to 3-inch depth of bark mulch on the soil around the Lenton Rose to help retain moisture. Sprinkle slow-release 10-10-10 fertilizer around the plants when new buds form in mid-winter.


A 6- or 9-month slow-release fertilizer should give the Lenton rose all the nutrients it needs.
 Provide a light fertilizer if the area struggles with growth. Lenton roses do not need large amounts of fertilizers and will do fine with plain rainfall if required.


If the plant is struggling, mix your rose fertilizer at half strength and feed once a season.
Rose specific fertilizers are available at most stores

, During the summer months, trim back any diseased or dying leaves by cutting the stem as close to the ground as you can. You can also remove small plants that have formed under the base of the plant.These small plants are new healthy Lenton roses and can either be composted or transplanted further away from the parent plant.
 Prune the old leaves off of Lenton roses in the winter when the new buds begin to emerge. Use sharp bypass pruners and snip the leaves right off at the base of the plant. This will improve the plant’s appearance, will help make room for new leaves and will reduce the possibility of bacterial and fungal disease.


Throw the leaves in the trash. Do not leave old leaves and debris on the soil around Lenton roses.
 Trim the flowers off at the base of the stems as they begin to fade. If they are left on the plant, they will go to seed and produce new Lenton roses all around the parent plant.


Prune off the newer leaves at any time during the growing season if they begin to look ragged.
 In mild climates you may prune the Lenton Rose completely to the ground to give a unique look to the new blooms. In harsher areas, you’ll need to leave some of the leaves surrounding the plant to protect it against harsh winds.


If you prefer to leave the evergreen leaves, even in mild winters, this will cause no harm to the plant.

