 If your shape is symmetrical, fold the paper in half first, then cut half of your shape out along the folded edge.






;
, Trace along the inside edge of your shape to create a ¼ to ½-inch (0.64 to 1.27-centimeter) border. Poke a hole in your shape, then cut along your lines. Save the border and discard the inside shape.








If your border is symmetrical, keep it folded, cut out the inside shape, then unfold it.
If you want your sun catcher to be the same on both sides, you will need to make another border for the back. Use your first border as a guide for the second one.
 There is no right or wrong way to do this, so you can get really creative here. You can cut the tissue paper into small squares, rectangles, or triangles. You can also tear them into random shapes instead.








Try to use at least two different colors.
Aim to make the pieces about 1 to 3 inches (2.54 to 7.62 centimeters).
 Cut off a sheet of contact paper a little larger than your border. Peel off the backing, and set it down on the table, sticky-side up. Tape down the corners so that it stays put.
 Try to center it as much as possible so that you have a little bit of contact paper all around the border. If you made two borders, set the second one aside for now.








If you can see your tracing lines, make sure that they are facing up. This way, they will be on the inside of the sun catch and not visible in the finished piece.
 It's time to get creative again! Take your colored pieces of tissue paper, and start filling in the border. Try to overlap the tissue paper pieces so that there are as few gaps as possible.









It's okay if some of the pieces extend onto the border, or even beyond it. You will be trimming it down later.
 Cut off another sheet of contact paper. Peel away the backing, and set it down on top of the sun catcher. Run your fingernail along the outside edges of the border to seal everything in.









If you made a second border, glue it down on top of the sun catcher first. Make sure that it is aligned with the first one.
 Leave a slight border of contact paper around it, about ⅛-inch (0.32 centimeter). This will help hold the sun catcher together.
 Poke a hole in the top of your sun catcher and thread a piece of string through it. Tie the ends of the string together to make a loop. Hang the sun catcher in a bright, sunny window.

