 If you are the sole proprietor of the business, you can list yourself as the owner of the trademark. If your business is an LLC or corporation, you can show the business as the owner of the trademark.


If you register it in your name, you can use the trademark in different businesses without changing the registration. If you register it to the business, you can include the trademark as a business asset. If you have any questions about which to choose, consult with an attorney.
If there is more than one owner, click the "add owner" button at the bottom of the page.
 All the starred sections are required. If you leave anything blank, the application will yield an error message when you try to submit it.
 You will identify your mark as either a character mark (text only, no image file) or a special form (stylized or design with image file.) If you are registering a special form, this is where you will attach the image file.


If your registration is for a special form mark, you will need to add a brief description of the mark. For example, "The words Grandma Mary's Supreme Fudge in a circle around a rocking chair."
Complete the "Additional Statement" section. This is a series of questions about your mark such as translation of foreign words or if you have the consent of any living people shown or named in the trademark. For example, if Grandma Mary is a real person, you are swearing that you have consent to use the name.
 You pay the $225 fee for each trademark class. Unless your business is well-developed, you should consider restricting your application to the one class that best identifies your product. For example, for "Grandma Mary's Supreme Fudge," the best class is 030, which covers "fudge" or "candy."


Designate if your application is Section 1(a) meaning you are actively using the mark in commerce or Section 1(b) meaning that you intend to use the trademark in the future.
 This is not the same image file as you attached to show your mark. This is a photo or graphic design file of the actual tag, sign, or packaging that shows your trademark in use on your product.
 This is the contact person, mailing address, and email address that will be the official point of contact for the trademark both during and after the registration.


To qualify for the reduced fee, you must provide an email address and authorize communication with USPTO via this email address.
 After you affix your electronic signature, you will have the chance to review your application. Double check that all the blanks are filled in and the image files are attached. If you need to change anything, use the "Go Back and Modify" buttons at the bottom of the page.


You will enter your email address to confirm the contents of the application and validate it for submission.
Use the "Pay and Submit" button at the bottom of the page to complete your application.
You will receive a confirmation and payment receipt by email within 24 hours.

