 When you feel like that you aren’t able to put things in perspective, or that life seems too much, stop whatever you are doing and reflect on the situation.Taking some time to ask yourself some simple questions and become more mindful of the situation may help you to see things differently.Ask yourself: “What, exactly, am I struggling with?” Pinpointing the specifics can help identify how you can assess and change.
Consider: “How do I really feel about this situation?” If your emotions are turbulent, you are more than likely unable to put things in a clear perspective.
Ponder: “Why do I react this way? What are the causes, and are they appropriate?” Sometimes, we can overreact to a situation. Stopping to think about the reasons why we might be doing this can help put our thoughts in a clearer perspective.;
, Worrying about things out of your control can be futile and infuriating. This can definitely lead to a muddled perspective on life.To work toward a habit of accepting things that cannot be changed, do the following:


Recognize your role in the situation. Is the situation out of your control, or can you do something to change it?
Stay positive. If you’re in a situation that you cannot change, at least try and find something positive about it. This will help you cope.
Move on.If find yourself in a recurring situation in which you have no control, analyze the steps that got you there and consider an alternative route.
 This will help you become more honest with yourself. It will also provide a tangible list to consider when trying to evaluate your values and perspectives.


Consider perspectives. How do these perspectives shape you and your relationships with others. This will help you develop perspective on your life and your relationships. Ask yourself:
”Does my view on affect the way I treat ?”
For example: “Does my view on Judaism affect the way I treat my Christian friends?”
Do my parents unhappy marriage affect the way I treat my significant other? Is it fair?

