 If you listen to professional pianists that play, for example, Mozart's Piano Sonata No. 16 in C major or a fugue by Bach, generally make it sound extremely simple, but it is far from it. While you can learn a piano sonata or sonatina fairly quickly, as they generally may not be that complex, the big challenge comes in playing them well. It is very common for sonatas to have a lot of fast scales going up and down, and these are difficult to play evenly and precise. Because of this, proper technique is extremely important.;
, If you're playing a quick piano piece, listen carefully to what you're playing. If you find it difficult to listen and play simultaneously, record yourself. Listen for areas where quick sixteenth notes weren't completely even, or where you pressed a key much harder than the rest making it stand out even though it shouldn't. If you have a teacher, he or she will pick up on this. Know where you need to improve and of course listen to your teacher.
 One of the most difficult things to do quickly and evenly is crossing fingers over each other, for example: thumb under middle or ring finger, or ring finger over thumb. Practice these kinds of transitions slowly. The general idea is that if you have to for example cross the thumb under your ring finger, your thumb should be in contact with the key that it is going to press when you're pressing your ring finger down on its own key. Once you press down your thumb, your other fingers have to quickly go back over the thumb and be ready at their next keys to press. Doing this flawlessly will help those quick scales to be played smoothly and evenly. Ask for help from your teacher or look up instructional videos to help you on your way if you get stuck.
 This is very important; never start playing a fast piece in its intended tempo. You will have to stop continuously and correct yourself often, and that is detrimental. Start slowly, using a metronome can help to make sure you don't increase the tempo unwillingly. Starting slow and then gradually increasing the tempo will make sure that once you get up to a satisfactory speed, you will still have control of what you're playing. But don't be too ambitious and increase the tempo too quickly. If you increase too much you will start making mistakes again while playing. If you do this, go back down to a manageable tempo. Practising fast pieces requires patience and discipline, but once you finally get it up to speed, they will be all the more fun to play if you've practised well.
 Many pieces will have fingerings written down to help you play the piece efficiently, and while they will not always make sense and seem strange, try using them anyway and they might make more sense once you get familiar and comfortable with the piece. Fingerings have often been picked out and suggested by professional pianists, but simultaneously, different editions and translations of the same piece can have different fingerings suggested. If all else fails and you really cannot make a suggested fingering work, then it is okay to create your own that fits you better. Every pianist is different.

