


1. All commodity cards, (green) rice and other commodities.
2. Sugar cards, sugar and other commodities, no rice.
3. No commodity cards (white), no commodity. If you choose, white card, the process will be faster.;
, Eligibility criteria to get a new family card include:


1.The applicant and his/her family must be Indian citizens.
2. The applicant and his/her family must be living and cooking separately.
3. The applicant and his/her family must be residents in Tamil Nadu.
4.The applicant or his family members must not possess any family card in any State in India.
5.The applicant or any of his/her family members must not be a member in any other family possessing a card in Tamil Nadu.
6.The applicant and members of the family must be close relatives.
 Download the application form at: http://www.consumer.tn.gov.in/pdf/ration.pdf.
 The application (in the new format above) should be filled in completely, signed or use a thumb-impression, and submitted along with other required documents. Incomplete forms are likely to be rejected. The following documents need to be attached:


Proof of applicant's current residence in Tamil Nadu (copy of original document)
Election photo identity card (EPIC), or property tax payment receipt for your family's house (current year), or electricity bill (last month), or telephone bill (last month), or front page of bank pass book, or allotment orders in respect to persons residing at houses allotted by slum clearance board, or passport, or currently valid tenancy agreement (in case of rented house),
Surrender certificate along with relevant family card issued by the card issuing authority if any card is issued in the previous address, or name deletion certificate from the parent or guardian family card or non-inclusion of name certificate issued by the card issuing authority in the previous address, or no card certificate issued by the card issuing authority, if there is no family card in the previous address
Particulars regarding earlier application for family card, including registration number and details of rejection, if any.
Details of LPG connection, if any, with details of name of consumer in whose name it is registered, consumer number, LPG agency and oil company name.
Mobile number or email addresses may be filled in the format to enable this department to send an automated message (to be activated by end 2008) to the applicant on the status of the application.
A self addressed and stamped postal cover or postcard to enable the office to communicate the results to the applicant.
 Applicants must be aware that every family card means a subsidy expenditure of approximately Rs. 2000 per year for a green card. Hence, diversion of public resources by filing false information about members of family or giving fictitious addresses is wrong and will cause you to be liable under section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act. Such applicants may be liable for criminal prosecution and consequent punishment under the law. Therefore, applicants are requested to file correct information about members of family living with them to avoid the following the prevention of inclusion of family members who are already included in any other family card in Tamil Nadu or elsewhere.


File correct addresses.
Disclose information on LPG connections.
Desist from applying for a new card, when the family is in possession of another family card elsewhere or in the same address.
 In Chennai City, all requests should be forwarded to the zonal assistant commissioner. Find the appropriate AC office at http://www.consumer.tn.gov.in/telephone-numbers.pdf and submit the application with Rs.5/- as fee court fee stamp with all annexes stated in earlier step.
 The application filed by you will be sent for field verification. The officer carrying out the field verification is supposed to inspect the applicant's house and kitchen to ensure that the applicant is living and cooking separately and also to verify the use of LPG by the family. When the officer reports at the applicant's house, the applicant may ask the officer for proof of identity (official ID card) before letting him inspect the premises.


Civil supplies and the Consumer Protection department is very concerned about the integrity of the officers and conduct in public offices. Applicants are free to report any indecorous behavior or demand for payment of bribes by any inspecting or office staff of the department by telephone or email to the commissioner, civil supplies and consumer protection.
The inspection is to be carried out within 30 days of the application being filed with the AC or TSO office. In case the inspection by the officer concerned does not happen within 30 days, speak to the assistant commissioner or Taluk supply officer concerned.
Thereafter, if the application is found acceptable by the assistant commissioner or Taluk supply officer as per the above eligibility conditions, then the application is approved and sent for the family card to be printed.
 After approval by assistant commissioner, applicants are requested not to get in touch with the AC or TSO offices (unless filing additional documents) earlier than 30 days, to avoid unnecessary workload on the offices of this department. This will enable the department to serve you better.


As soon as the application is filed, the applicant must collect the acknowledgement slip with the office seal, date of application, serial number and date of final disposal.
The Government of Tamil Nadu has fixed the time limit for passing orders on applications for new ration as 60 days from the date of application.
Once the application is found eligible for issue of a new family card, the card is sent for printing.
As soon as the printed card arrives in the office, the Assistant Commissioner or Taluk Supply Officer has to send a post card to the applicant requesting him/her to collect the ration card in person with the acknowledgement slip within 15 days.
In case the application is rejected, the assistant commissioner or Taluk supply officer has to send a post card to the applicant indicating the reasons for rejection within 60 days of the application date.
If a mobile number or email address has been specified in the application format, the civil supplies and consumer protection departments will send an automated message (to be activated by end 2008) to the applicant on the status of the application as soon as the application is decided upon.
 As soon as the applicant receives information about the readiness of the ration card from the AC/TSO office concerned, he/she may go in person on any Monday or Friday or the date specified in the post card/SMS/email from the AC/TSO office concerned to collect the card after surrendering the acknowledgement slip issued at the time of submission of the application, within 15 days of receipt of the post card.


Applicants are requested to keep a copy of the ration card outer cover (back and front) in safe keeping or record the ration card number and shop identification in a safe place to enable applying for a duplicate family card, in case the original is lost.
In case the head of the family (applicant) is not able to collect the ration card due to any valid reason, the applicant/head of family may send a letter authorizing any other member of the family to collect the family card on his/her behalf. Such a letter must have the signature of the other member of the family attested by the applicant. The person so authorised may collect the card after surrendering the acknowledgement slip issued at the time of submission of the application. The AC/TSO may refuse to hand over the new family card to such a person if he has a reason to suspect the bona fides of the person authorised. The AC/TSO may then send a reply by postcard to the applicant stating the reasons for the refusal to handover the card.
 You can use an appeal remedy after 60 days. Appeal to the deputy commissioner of civil supplies, Chennai City, North and South, Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection department, Chennai 5 in respect of Chennai city and the belt areas around.
 Secretary, department of civil supplies and consumer protection, Tamil Nadu.
2. Concerned deputy commissioner (civil supplies),
3. Concerned assistant commissioner (zone) asking for intervention due to an issue.
 If the office has not responded, find a good lawyer at Madras High Court and file a writ petition seeking for a plea of mandamus (order of direction under administrative law) against the authorities to ensure that orders will be passed.

