 Every region with changing foliage has a "peak viewing time". You can work this out from checking out some reliable websites. Some good ones are listed under Sources and Citations. In the USA, a good US Government site is: Fall Colors.;
, Sometimes it's enough to visit your home region; other times, it is great to combine a vacation with leaf peeping and see some of the most spectacular places for fall colors. Ask your travel agent for information or surf online for suggestions. Some examples include:


Yellowstone National Park
New England, e.g. Vermont, New Hampshire, Maine etc.
Adirondacks, Appalachians, Smoky and US Rocky MountainsCanadian Rockies, Alberta (Lake Louise etc.)
Laurentian Mountains, Quebec
Northern Michigan

, If you are going to a place where leaf peeping is popular, it pays to book ahead and avoid disappointment. Remember that some people travel in tour groups from overseas with the sole purpose of leaf peeping and this can make things crowded! Check bed and breakfasts online for deals that include foliage tours and maybe even wildlife viewing, such as moose.
 The leaves that create the glorious riot of fall colors are many but the principal ones are:



Yellow poplar - these leaves turn a deep yellow. They are found east Michigan through southern Ontario and to Vermont; south from Vermont to northern Florida and west from Florida to Louisiana.

Red maple - these leaves turn scarlet. They are found from the Florida Everglades and go north to the region around Lake Superior.

Quaking aspen - These leaves turn a golden color. They are found from Alaska to Newfoundland; down the western mountains into California, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas. Also found south of the Great Lakes in Iowa to New Jersey.

White ash - These leaves turn purple and pale yellow. They are found from the north of Florida to Nova Scotia and extend west from Florida to eastern Texas and north from Texas to eastern Minnesota. They are also located in southern Ontario and southwestern Quebec.

Beech - These leaves turn golden orange. They can be found across North America.
 The best way to remember what you have seen is to take some photos. They make excellent posters, cards and screensavers if you have the time to do more with your photos.
 Try one of wikiHow's leaf crafts listed in "Related wikiHows", play in the leaves or rake them up!
