 Everyone has a specific running style and gait. Getting these analyzed can help you understand what you need to change or monitor when you're running.You can see a running specialist or doctor to get your gait analyzed. They'll watch you run and use specialty video to analyze where your foot falls on the ground and how it falls in relationship to the rest of your body.
Depending on your gait, your doctor or specialist may recommend a certain pair of shoes or certain inserts to help your body conform to a more efficient form and reduce risk of injury.
Your running style is a little different from your gait. Proper running form and posture can also help prevent runner’s knee. Make sure your back is straight, but you're bent over at your hips so your torso is leaning forward just a touch. Also keep your knees bent.;
, In addition to your gait and form, where you run also has an impact on your knees. Since running is a high impact exercise, certain surfaces lend themselves better to injury prevention.


As you run, your joints, especially your knees, absorb the impact from your feet hitting the ground. The harder the surface, the greater the impact and stress on the joints.
The hardest surfaces to run on (and the most likely to aggravate an injury) are: concrete and asphalt.
The softest surfaces to run on (which are easier on your joints) are: grass, dirt, a track or treadmill.
 You may not realize, but certain strength training exercises can also help prevent runner’s knee. Strengthening your lower body in particular, can help keep your leg more stable and prevent injury.Although proper form and gait are essential to injury prevention, strength training is equally important.
If you have weak hamstring or quadriceps, this can change your gait and running form without you even realizing it. This can cause your knee cap to get out of alignment much easier while you run.
Include one to two days of strength training each week. Make sure to focus on strengthening both your quadriceps and hamstrings equally during these sessions.
 If you're training for a race or just want to increase the overall distance of your runs, you'll need to be careful on how much you advance. If you increase your mileage too quickly, you're more likely to suffer from runner's knee.There is a general "rule" or guideline for runners regarding their mileage. It's recommended to never increase mileage more than 10% over the previous week.
For example, if you ran 5 miles 3 times last week for a total of 15 miles, don't abruptly increase to 8 miles 3 times a week. Increase your run length by 10% so your total weekly mileage is about 16 1/2 miles.
Try to follow this rule as much as you can. Sports professionals note there is a significant increase in injury rate (even when runners are feeling good) when they abruptly increase their total mileage.
 Similar to strength training, it's also important to stretch regularly. This is something that can be easily forgotten or skipped, but may also be a cause of runner's knee.Although a total body stretch is advisable, you need to focus on stretching your calves, hamstrings and quadriceps specifically.
Try to take 5 minutes after your run is completed to do a few stretches. Hold stretches for about 30 seconds and make sure not to bounce during your stretch. When stretching problem areas, you can hold your stretches for about 45 seconds.
If you're unsure of how or what to stretch, ask your doctor, personal trainer, kinesiologist, or physiotherapist. They can show you specific stretching exercises to keep your muscles flexible and improve flexibility of your knee and surrounding tendons.
 Using a foam roller can help to keep your muscles from getting too tight. You can use a roller to help stretch out the connective tissues and muscles of the upper thigh such as the quads, IT band, and hamstrings.

To use a foam roller on your quads, place the roller on the ground and position your body over it so that your quads are resting on it. You should look as if you are going to do a plank.
Allow your full weight to be on the roller and try to relax. Do not try to hold yourself up off of the roller.Then, slowly begin to roll your body forward and backwards over the roller using your arms.
 Certain terrains and specific routes may provide a good challenge and a good workout, they may also cause or aggravate a knee injury.


Consistently running hills, running up steps or on uneven terrain (like trail running), can cause unnecessary amount of stress on your knee joints (and feet and hip joints).If you find yourself going towards these types of runs, consider limiting how often you choose that route during the week. Maybe do these runs one to two days a week only.
Mix up these harder or more challenging runs with a few runs on a treadmill or on a flat surface like a track. This can help alternate days of high and low joint stress.
 Your gait can affect whether or not you're more prone to injury. It can be very difficult to change your gait, however wearing the right type of supportive shoes can help.After you have your gait analyzed, it might be recommended for you to get a new running shoe. Certain shoes can help add more arch support, provide more ankle stability or even help your foot land correctly on the ground.
If a certain type of shoe has been recommended, consider purchasing it to help prevent further injuries. All of these supports can help stabilize your knee and prevent runner's knee from occurring.
If new shoes don't totally fix your knee problems, ask your doctor about possibly getting orthotic inserts to help provide additional support.
 If you think you've injured your knee or are experiencing runner’s knee, it is important to go see the doctor. Although runner’s knee is a fairly benign issue, knee pain could signal a more serious injury.


If you're feeling a dull, chronic pain or a sharp pain that won't go away, make an appointment to go see your doctor.
Let the doctor know your training schedule. You'll need to review how often you run, how many miles and the terrain type.
In addition, it is a good idea to track your symptoms and let your doctor know when they started, the intensity and whether or not it worsens with activity.
 As much as you may not like having to stop your normal running routine, it might be in your best interest to take a break. Resting your knee from a high impact sport like running can help it make a full recovery.If you're experiencing any type of pain, it is typically recommended to take a few days off from exercising - especially high impact exercise. If your doctor has diagnosed you with runner’s knee, this will most likely be part of the treatment plan as well.
If you don't want to completely stop running, consider cutting your days back to one to two days a week. Also keep runs short and on a flat, soft terrain.
Although you may be taking a short break from your runs, this doesn't mean you can't exercise at all. Stick to low impact exercises like yoga, swimming, or water aerobics and cycling.
 If you've been experiencing knee pain, the quicker you treat it, the quicker it can resolve. One of the first things you want to do if you suspect you have runner's knee is to ice it.Icing your knee or any joint helps reduce any swelling or inflammation in that area. It can also help dull the pain in your knee.
When you're icing your knee, keep the ice wrapped in a cloth towel and apply for about 10 to 20 minutes at a time. Ice your knee until it feels numb and then take away the ice until your skin returns to its normal temperature.
Avoid heat packs or heating devices at this time.
You can use a pack of frozen peas, a gel ice pack or a bag of ice cubes. Again, make sure to wrap in a towel.
 After you've iced your knee, consider wrapping it and keeping it elevated. This also helps reduce swelling and can help improve recovery.Wrap your knee with an elastic cloth bandage, tape or compression stocking. Make sure the wrap is not too tight - you still want blood to flow evenly to this area.
When you can, also keep your wrapped knee elevated (you can ice it at this time as well). This helps prevent swelling.
Lay your lower leg on a comfortable pillow so that it's slightly elevated above heart-level while you're sitting. You may need to be in a reclined position to make this doable.
 One common symptom of runner's knee is pain. It can range from mild to severe and can also continue as a dull, chronic pain. Manage this symptom with over-the-counter (OTC) medications if needed.


Most OTC pain medications are mild and will take care of the pain associated with runner's knee.
You can take any NSAID medication like aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen. You may also want to take acetaminophen if you'd like.
Always talk to your doctor before taking OTC pain medications. Some do have interactions with certain chronic conditions and prescription medications.
If the pain is not well managed with OTC medications, call your physician right away to get your knee evaluated further.
 If you're currently dealing with runner's knee or another knee injury, it might have been recommended to take a break from running. However, you can still engage in other exercises like:


Swimming. Whether you do water walking, swim laps or take a water aerobics class, the buoyancy provided by the water makes this exercise easy on your knee.Using the elliptical. This machine is low impact as well. Make sure your knee feels comfortable while using this machine. If it still hurts, discontinue this exercise.
Cycling. Try either a recumbent bike or a stationary bike to keep up with cardio. Be careful in spin class as these are higher intensity and still may aggravate your knee.
 If you still want to run, even while having runner's knee, be smart about how much you run and where. If you overdo it, you'll most likely experience a much longer recovery time.


Many health professionals say that is OK to run even when you have an injury like runner's knee. That being said, you need to cut down on your total mileage significantly.Consider running just a few miles (3-4 or less) just a few times a week. The sooner you cut your mileage down, the sooner your knee can heal and the sooner you can get back on track.
Also consider running on a soft surface like a treadmill. This can help lessen the impact of these shorter runs.
 Although strength training exercises are great to help prevent runner’s knee, be careful with these exercises if you already have runner's knee.


Some leg exercises - like leg raises, squats or lunges - put excessive stress on your knee joint. These could aggravate a knee injury like runner's knee.
Try to do lower body strength training exercises that do not hurt your knee. If you notice pain with any type of exercise, discontinue and wait a few days.
Instead of trying lower body exercises, focus on strengthening your core and upper body as you let your knee heal.
 Isometrics are a type of static strength training exercise. You hold poses that cause your muscles to contract and this builds strength while also promoting flexibility. These exercises can improve your running and may even help to prevent running injuries.Try doing a static squat, where you squat down and hold the position for a minute or more.

Do a wall sit, where you lean against a wall and get into a sitting position. Hold the position for a minute or longer if you can.

Perform a plank, where you position your body in a straight line parallel to the ground and hold up your body weight using your forearms and toes. Hold yourself up for one minute or more and then release.

