 Medical professions aren’t for anyone, so learn more about what you’re getting into before you start your career path. Search online for detailed job descriptions and personal accounts from ECG technicians to find out more about their specific duties. In general, expect to:Read patients’ confidential medical histories.
Talk patients through the ECG process.
Verbally and physically direct them onto examination tables.
Attach electrodes to their bodies.
Monitor test procedures and record results.Clean and maintain equipment.;
, If you are seeking work in a specific area, contact local hospitals, clinics, and laboratories to find out what qualifications each of them mandates. Expect these to vary according to each institution’s preference, as well as the insurance providers that they deal with. If you are flexible about where you live, plan to meet as many qualifications as possible so you have more options. These may include one or more of the following:High school diploma or equivalent
Associate’s degree
Bachelor’s degree
Certification

, Some institutions only require ECG technicians to perform duties relevant to that area. However, expect others to require ECG techs to have skills beyond basic ECG testing so they can assist in other procedures. If you have a particular employer in mind, contact their human resources department to find out if they:Hire basic ECG techs.
Only hire techs with advanced training.
Expect ECG techs to assist in or perform tests other than electrocardiograms.
 If you never finished high school, complete coursework for a general education diploma (GED). In either case, concentrate on relevant subjects. If offered, take related electives as well for a more thorough background.Relevant courses include anatomy, basic science, biology, health, math, physical education, and physiology.Some institutions may not require a high school degree at all. However, most, if not all, organizations that grant certification do, so a high school degree is still advisable.Employers who only require a high school background will then provide on-the-job training after hiring you.
 Market yourself to a larger number of prospective employers by seeking higher education. Obtain an associate’s degree in cardiovascular technology. However, if you already have an A.S. in another medical field, this may be just as acceptable, since employers often seek versatile candidates.For an associate’s degree, visit the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP) to locate nearby community colleges or technical programs offering accredited classes.Coursework for an A.S. in cardiovascular technology typically includes anatomy, first aid, medical terminology, microbiology, physiology, and principles of electrocardiography.
 Increase your chance of being hired with a bachelor of science degree, which may also grant you a higher salary than an A.S. or high school degree would. Earn a B.S. in cardiopulmonary science or similar major. If you have already obtained an A.S., find a four-year college or university that will accept some or all your credits so you can complete the program in less time.A major in cardiopulmonary science usually involves courses like advanced pulmonary pathophysiology, cardiac electrophysiology, patient assessment, and pulmonary diagnostic testing.
Other relevant degrees include cardiovascular sonography, cardiovascular technology, and diagnostic medical sonography.
 Official certification as an ECG technician is not a universal requirement, so if you find an employer who considers applicants without it, go ahead and apply. However, plan to become certified even if it isn’t currently mandated. Keep in mind that many insurance providers will only cover ECG costs if the technician is certified, so expect your employer’s policy to change in sync with those of the providers that they deal with.Even if your employer doesn’t require you to have certification at first, they may require you to obtain it soon after being hired.
Certification will also give you more opportunity to find jobs in the beginning, switch employers after being hired, and advance in the field.
 If you are already employed or applying to a specific employer, ask them which organization(s) they prefer, if any. Otherwise, research the different leading bodies to find one that is most convenient for you. Compare fees, locations, how often you need to recertify, and what prerequisites you need to fulfill before you can take their test. Such organizations include:The American Certification Agency for Healthcare Professionals
The American Society of Phlebotomy Technicians
The National Health Career Association

, Expect most if not all certifying bodies to require you to have clocked in some amount of time performing ECG tests. If you are already employed, check to see how many hours, weeks, or months you need to work before you are eligible. If not, complete the specified coursework through an approved training program.Visit https://www.caahep.org/Find-An-Accredited-Program/ to locate technical programs offering accredited classes.Double-check your results with the certifying body to make sure they consider the program valid.
 First, check with the testing center to find out if walk-ins are welcome, or if you need to schedule your exam in advance. If possible, schedule in advance, since this may reduce the testing fee, which can range from $85 to $200. Depending on the organization, expect the test to:Include approximately 110 questions.
Last about two hours.