 Do an internet search to see what pawn shops exist in your area. Read reviews to learn about the experiences that others have had with certain shops. If you have time, you can also go and visit the shop to get a feel for the place. Some pawn shops will be more difficult to work with than others so it’s important to pick one that feels right for you.If you have a very specific item, try looking for a shop that specializes in the type of item you have. For example, if you have an antique, look for pawn shops that specialize in antique products. If you have a valuable toy in its original packaging look for pawn shops that specialize in action figures.
 Getting cash from a pawn shop can be done by bringing an item that is valuable into the shop. The item will be appraised by the worker and they will give you cash for the value of the item. They then hold onto the item until a specified date. If you haven’t paid back the money you owe by this date, then they are free to sell the item. If you do pay the money back on time, you get your stuff back.


Realize that you will have to bring in something that is worth at least the amount of money you want to borrow, and the pawn shop must be able to see that the item has value. Remember, they are running on the assumption that you won’t pay the money back so they will have to sell the item in order to benefit from the transaction.
Pawnshops typically only loan 30% to 40% of collateral market value, expecting 100% markup if they have to sell item. A pawn shop will not usually give you a loan for an amount greater than they would purchase the item.
There will likely be an interest rate of some sort on your transaction, so if you borrow $500 you may have to pay back the $500 plus an extra 5% in order to get your item back. This interest rate is usually regulated by the state you live in.
 If you have something that is really valuable, such as an antique, be sure to bring some evidence of it’s value with you. Though most pawn shop owners are quite knowledgeable about the value of different items, they don’t know everything. Providing them with evidence of the item’s value will make them more likely to give you the amount you want.For example, if you own a valuable piece of jewelry consider having it appraised by a jeweler. They will provide you with a certificate that you can take with you to the shop.
 If you have something of value that you don’t really need or want, then you could consider selling the item straight away. This will mean that you get the cash you need without having to worry about paying it back plus you won’t have any extra interest to worry about.


Obviously this isn’t really borrowing money, but it does offer a good method of getting some cash if you really need it without the stress of having to pay anything back.
If you have something that is really valuable and you’re certain of it’s worth, then don’t be afraid to negotiate with the pawn shop. They are trying to buy the item for the lowest price possible in order to increase their profit margins. Don’t be afraid to walk away from the transaction if you feel that you are being taken advantage of.
 If you don’t pay back to loan on time, the item you put up as collateral becomes the legal property of the pawn shop and there is nothing you can do about it. You can try to talk to the owner of the pawn shop, but they are under no legal obligation to help you out.


There’s no need to wait until the terms of the loan are completed to pay it back. Most pawn shop loans are for 90-120 days, but this doesn’t mean that you have to go in on day 120 with cash in hand to get your stuff back. If you’re able to scrape up the cash after 30 days, you can go in with the money and get your stuff back as soon as possible. However, understand that you will probably have to pay interest for the full term of the loan whether you pay it back early or not. Ask your pawn shop to be sure about this.

