 If your dress code doesn’t have a uniform shoe, why not express yourself through your footwear? Sneakers are a great way to showcase your individualism while maintaining your comfort level. Also, ballet flats are pretty and come in all kinds of colors and designs.


If you do have to wear a style of uniform shoes, dress them up with colored laces or interesting socks.
Funky tights can also make your outfit look interesting.;
, While there may not be a whole lot you can do about changing the clothes that you wear during school time, you can change your hair. Experiment with different hairstyles that flatter your face or express yourself in cool ways.


A new haircut is another great way to change up your style.
You could try experimenting with wash-in wash out-or semi-permanent colors as long as they are not colors that are too bright, as they may be in violation of your school’s rules.
Style it with barrettes, clips, bows or headbands.
Experiment with different parts in your hair. Try parting it in the middle as opposed to on the side or vice versa.
Wear your hair up in a cool bun. You can experiment with different types of buns like sock buns, messy buns, or top knots.
 Wearing a watch, bracelet, necklace, or interesting earrings can be a great way jazz up your outfit and express your individuality. Seek out pieces that others may not have so you can differentiate yourself. Make sure to not violate the dress code.


You may want to wear items that are specific to your cultural heritage to express that aspect of your identity.
 Wearing a cardigan or jacket can be a nice way to transform your look into something unique and different from your classmates. Experiment with different colors, as long as they are permitted by your dress code, as well as different lengths and fabrics.


Monogramming a cardigan is a nice way to personalize your outfit and make it special.
You can also drape your cardigan on your back and tie the arms around your chest to make your look more preppy.
 Spruce up your outfit with earmuffs, a scarf, a vest, or gloves. This can be a fun way to stay warm while being stylish and unique.
 Changing the style of your belt can change up your whole outfit. Experiment with different materials like something metallic, velvet or patent leather. You can also use your own belt using crochet, macramé or weaving fabric from clothes you no longer wear.
 This is a great way differentiate yourself from your classmates but also adhere to the dress code. There are many cost effective options for these items that you can purchase online or in stores.


If you already have to wear a tie as part of your school uniform, find out if you can switch up the color or pattern. Perhaps you could add a logo or your initials.
 Select a bag with a cool pattern, color, or fabric to differentiate yourself. You can also personalize your bag by adding tags, pins and stickers.


For instance, you can really make yourself standout with a bookbag in a bright color like red or yellow.
 You can express your individuality through the type of binders, notebooks and pens you choose. Choose folders and notebooks with your favorite band or cute animals. Many companies have cool school supplies and there are plenty of options to purchase non conventional items. Make your ID stand out. If you have to wear a school tag all day, add cute pins or stickers to lanyards or your school ID card.
 You can use makeup to express your individuality and the right makeup can make you look attractive even in the most boring outfit. There are tons of makeup blogs and YouTube makeup artists out there to help you craft the perfect look.


Wearing bright lipsticks can be a cool way to stand out even in a neutral outfit.
Eyeshadows can also be a fun way to dress yourself up.
Check your school’s policy before wearing makeup that is too extravagant. There may be rules against wearing certain colors.
 Though you may not be able to change the uniform that you wear, you can choose the quality of the clothes. Buy clothing that is good quality and wash it following the directions on the tag to prolong their wear. Use detergent designed to keep your uniform looking better for longer.
 Expressing yourself can be achieved in many ways outside of clothing and accessories. Challenge yourself to self express in ways that extend beyond your body. Art can be a great way to achieve this goal.


You can try painting, drawing, coloring or any other mechanism to express yourself artistically.
Take an art class at your school to further develop your skills.
Try out pottery. Your school may offer pottery classes or there may be local pottery classes in the area that you can try.
Photography is another great way to be artistic. Capture moments that are beautiful to you with a camera or even with your smartphone. You can download apps on your phone to add interesting filters and edit the photos artistically.
 Music can be a great way for you be creative and to also enjoy the creativity of others. It can also serve as an outlet if you are dealing with anything in your personal life, positive or negative.


Listen to a new album by your favorite artist or branch out and listen to music you haven’t listened to in the past.
Learn to play a new instrument. There are many schools that offer classes on playing a new instrument as well as videos online to instruct you, as well.
Songwriting can also be a way to be expressive as well. You can write songs that express what’s going on in your life at the time or to discuss important topics.
 Writing can help you to get your feelings out on paper. Take some time to write a poem every once in awhile or perhaps a short story. You can also write down your daily thoughts in a diary or journal.


Writing letters to friends, family, or your significant other can also be a way to express yourself.
 Express yourself through using your body beyond your clothes. Playing a sport like soccer or baseball can allow you to express yourself physically and show and develop your strength.


Exercise can help you become even more skilled at a particular sport.
 Expressing yourself can also include just talking to people. Take more time to develop your relationships with family and friends, and to perhaps forge new ones.


Hang out with new friends and listen to music or paint together. You can be creative with others, too.
 Another way to express yourself and to be unique is through showcasing your culinary talents. Take some time to look up some easy recipes to begin developing or honing your cooking skills. As your skills progress, you can begin creating your own delicious recipes to share with others.
 The first thing you need to do is obtain a copy of your school dress code and read through it. That way you won’t be at risk of breaking any rules if you try to add an individual touch to your school uniform If you have any questions about the dress code, as a teacher or administrator.
Discuss the dress code with your parents and ask them for advice. They may be able to suggest ways to perk up your school outfits.
 Perhaps you notice someone wears a cool pair of earrings that really makes their overall look standout. You may notice that someone else got a great haircut that they get complimented on often. Consider doing something similar to tweak your own look while making sure that it is flattering to you personally.


Don’t copy the style of others in your school, but instead use their creativity to inspire your own.
Also make note of any ways that you see your classmates bend the rules of the dress code. Perhaps there is slight flexibility on some of the rules if you see your classmates consistently bending them.
 Perhaps you are required to wear a certain color pant or shirt, but there are no restrictions on shoes and jewelry. Understanding the flexibility of the dress code will help you find ways to showcase your own unique style.


Sometimes your school dress code may not be very specific on certain details. For example, while certain styles may be restricted, certain colors may not be.
 Many schools have separate sets of rules for girls and boys and take time to understand the rules that apply to you.


Be aware that certain sets of rules may be sexist. Many schools have much more restrictive rules for girls than for boys which is not okay. Talk to your parent or an adult that you trust about these rules and consider what you can do about them. , There are certain restrictions by law in many countries that your school cannot make. Some examples in the United States in particular include banning Muslim girls from wearing headscarves, requiring boys to cut their hair, or banning traditional tribal wear from graduation ceremonies. Learn more about the laws in your own country to ensure that your dress code does not violate them.
 Individuality and self expression are undoubtedly important, but so is your education. If you know that wearing a shirt that exposes your stomach or a shirt with an explicit message on it can result in suspension, it is best to not wear these things to school. No clothing is worth sacrificing your education. As long as the dress code does not violate your rights, you should try to abide by the rules.

