 Paul tells us that the Law is good if it is used lawfully. It is just a mirror, not a to do list. Scripture says the Law is a schoolmaster to lead us to Christ. It doesn't save us it just shows us we need saving.;
, He completely dismisses the notion that following the old Jewish law is necessary for salvation. The law is summarized by Jesus as loving God and loving your neighbor as yourself. Faith in Jesus is the only way to be saved. Reading the Bible for yourself is a wonderful way to come to know God your father better.
 God delights in being with you, and always has time to chat. Making time for just you and Him is important.
 No matter how much a person has tithed (i.e., paid "church taxes"), this does not make the person better than another. God does not care about literal actions alone. What truly matters is motives in your heart and soul. Even if you donate a vast amount of money and time to a great Christian organization, if you do this with a mindset of glorifying yourself, God does not favor it. "To do what is right and just is more acceptable to the Lord than sacrifice" (Proverbs 21:3, NIV).
 Nobody wins any more favor with God than anybody else, all humans are special creations. We are all equals, no matter who we may be or what we have done and none of us has all the answers.
 Jesus' death doesn't mean it's alright to go out and sin. Jesus' death may have freed Christians from the heavy bonds of sin but it's not time to go out and collect some more for Jesus to wash away. It is time to live out your life of freedom before others. And to share your talents, skills and love with others. This way Jesus may draw all people to Himself through seeing what you have. The whole point of His death was not so that you could sin more and bathe in His grace, but so that he could free you and turn you away from your slavery and bonds to the evils of sin. Its important to remember the purpose of your freedom, as described in Galatians; showing love to others.
 "The single biggest cause of atheism in the world today is CHRISTIANS, who acknowledge Jesus with their lips, and deny him by their lifestyle. That is what an unbelieving world simply finds unbelievable."

, Micah 6:8 (ESV)

