 First born children tend to be overachievers. As young children they are surrounded by adults and try and model the behaviours of the adults. They also receive a lot of undivided attention and praise from the adults in their lives. As a result, many parents set high expectations for their oldest children. For example, they want their oldest child to act as a role model for their younger siblings.Alternatively, some parents may feel that the successes of their oldest children are a reflection of their parenting skills. As a result, they place a lot of pressure on their oldest children to succeed. This can create a fear of failure.
Putting too much pressure on the oldest child can lead to feelings of depression and anxiety if they are unable to succeed as an adult.
 Older children can be bossy because they are used to leading, teaching, and at times dominating over their younger siblings. One way to reduce this bossiness it by teaching your oldest child how to share at a fairly young age. Children under the age of six years are not really capable of showing empathy, so it is unlikely that they will share toys on their own. In order to foster this skill, try time sharing. Set your watch for 10 minutes and let each of your children play with a favourite toy for the allotted time.This will teach your child patience, and how to take turns.
 Once your second child is born set aside special time that you can spend alone with your oldest child. This can help reduce feelings of jealousy and resentment. For example, take your oldest child to the library or the park. Alternatively, you could spend one-on-one time each night while reading bedtime stories. These moments of individual attention and love are important for the oldest child.This will help your oldest child realize that they do not have to compete for your love and attention and that you will always make time for them.
 In many instances parents will set stricter guidelines and rules for the oldest child. This is because they use the oldest child to set an example for the younger children in the family. For instance, by harshly disciplining the oldest child they warn the younger children about what behaviour will not be tolerated. These harsh rules do not always last for the younger children in the family, and in many instances younger children are coddled and more likely to receive financial aid from their parents well into adulthood.This inconsistency can result in older children becoming independent at a younger age and feeling jealous of the attention their younger siblings receive.
To avoid setting stricter guidelines for your oldest child, you should make sure that you keep the same rules (i.e. curfews) for all of your children. This way they will feel as though they received similar treatment.
If you provide younger children with financial aid as adults, you should also do the same for your older children.

