 Making a game plan before you buy groceries will quickly save you tons of money. This will ensure that you only end up buying what you need and don't fall victim to the impulse buy.


Write down everything you need for the week. The less times you go shopping, the less likely you'll be to pick up something you don't really need.
Plan to shop for an hour or less. Try to race the clock when you shop so you don't spend time wandering around picking up things that look appealing.
Plan to go shopping shortly after you've eaten. Everything will look less appealing if you're shopping on a full stomach. If you shop when you're hungry, you'll be more ambitious about what you can eat.
 Once you've made a game plan, you need to execute it in a savvy way. There are a number of things you can do to continue to save money once you head to the grocery store.


Shop at a reasonably priced store that still has high quality items. Don't go to the fancy grocery store just because it's cheaper. The amount of money you spend on overpriced produce at the gourmet store will add up.
Go for the generic brand products. They will taste just as good as the name-brand products and will save you serious cash.
Use coupons. Using coupons you find online, in the mail, or from your local store will save you tons of money. Make sure you only use coupons on the items you need.
Save money by preparing food at home yourself instead of buying prepared items at the store.
If an item you normally buy is on sale, buy as much of it as you can keep.
Buy in bulk. You'll save money if you buy your paper products or other items in bulk, as long as you can store them.
 Saving money on groceries is something you can do even after you've checked out. You can still save money by paying attention to how you prepare and store your items. Here's what you can do:


Use everything you have. Make a goal of cooking everything you've purchased by the end of the week, and don't buy more groceries if you still have fresh produce in the fridge.
Store your items smartly. Make sure to put away refrigerated items that you're done with before you eat and they will last longer. Strawberries will last longer if you store them on a paper towel in open Tupperware containers and dill and other herbs will last longer if you store them in paper bags.
Freeze your bread and toast it when you make a sandwich. This will keep you from having to throw out half a loaf of bread every week.
Make sure to cook items that will expire soon, like pasta that's been sitting in your cabinet for a while.

