 When a muscle spasm begins, stop your activity. Spasms can happen during exercise or while doing normal daily tasks. At the first sign of a spasm, stop what you are doing and try to deal with the spasm.Although they can be painful, there are generally no long-term concerns.Try massaging or rubbing the area with the spasm. This can help relax the muscle and increase blood flow to the area.;
, Rest them for a few days after the spasm, especially if it was a back spasm. Soreness is common after spasms. Your muscles may be strained and should get some time to recover without additional stress. Make sure to gently move the muscle during this time to prevent any stiffness.


You may use the affected muscle lightly, but stop using it if you feel a cramp or pain coming on. Try gentle walking or stretches, but don't twist or bend the torso.
 If you experience a muscle spasm or cramp, stretching can help. When you stretch, you pull the muscle in the opposite direction of the contracted muscle, elongating it. When you stretch, you want to gently lengthen and pull the affected muscle. Don't overextend the muscle. If you start to feel pain, stop. If it feels tight, hold it but don't go any further. Hold each stretch for approximately 30 seconds.For calf cramps (Charley horse), stand a few feet from a wall. Place forearms against the wall while keeping the knees and back straight. Heels should be touching the floor.Lean forward. You should feel the calf muscles stretching. The feeling should be pleasant or neutral. If you feel any pain, stop.For foot or calf cramps (Charley horse), sit down and flex the toes on the cramping leg upward toward the nose. You can also gently pull the foot towards your head. You should feel pulling in your calf or foot muscles.
For a hamstring cramp, sit on the floor and extend your legs in front of you. Your feet should be neither pointed or flexed. Bend at the waist while keeping your back straight. Lower your chest towards your legs. Stop bending once you feel the stretch in the back of your legs.For a cramp in the thigh, hold on to a stable surface, grab your ankle, and gently pull your foot back towards your rear.The pull will be along the front of your thigh.
For a spasm in the hand, rest the palm flat against the wall and push the hand against the wall with the fingers facing down., If you are experiencing back spasms, gentle exercises may help. Only do exercises with a spasming back when the pain has lessened or the cramping is minimal. Don't do them if the back spasm is severe or very painful. If any of these exercises makes the spasm worse, stop.


Walk around as you lift your knees higher than normal and keep your back straight. This provides a gentle stretching movement to your lower back that may help uncramp the muscle.Raise your arms over your head. Repeat 10 times, and hold for 5-10 seconds. Do this 3-4 times per day. This helps stretch the muscles in your back.Lie on the floor and pull a knee gently to your chest. Hold for 10 seconds and switch sides. Repeat 5-10 times, 2-3 times a day.You can also pull both of your knees to your chest. These movements stretch out your lower back while letting the rest of your muscles relax and "unkink.", Heat causes muscles to relax and stop spasming. Cold can help swelling and pain. The first time a spasm occurs, use a cold press. Put an ice pack on the affected area the first couple of days. Keep the ice on the spasm for 20-30 minutes every 3-4 hours. Then, if the spasm persists, use moist heat for 20-30 minutes throughout the day.Remember the phrase: "heat to play, ice to stay." Use heat when activity will occur afterwards. Use ice when you will be sedentary and resting after.
Apply heat for 15 minutes every 4 hours until the cramp is gone. Apply a cold press for 12-15 minutes every 2 hours for the first couple of days.
Use a heating pad or a heat patch, or an ice pack or an ice patch. You can also try a bottle full of hot water or frozen water. Or try wrapping ice in a cloth or a pack of frozen peas., When your muscles are dehydrated, it is important to get enough hydration. Water and electrolytes (in the form or juice, sports drinks, etc..) can help you replenish a decreased supply. Sodium, potassium, calcium, and magnesium are needed for your muscles to adequately contract and relax.


If you know you'll be exercising a lot or using your muscles vigorously, make sure to replace these nutrients with an electrolyte drink and water.Muscle spasms can sometimes indicate a deficiency in vitamins or minerals in the body. Make sure to take high-quality multivitamins and multi minerals.

