 A child who has been sexually abused may display signs such as:Difficulty walking or sitting.
Bloody, torn, or stained underclothes.
Bleeding, bruises, or swelling in the genital area and/or pain, itching or burning in the genital area.
Frequent urinary or yeast infections.
Sexually Transmitted Infections, especially if the child is under 14 years old.
Pregnancy, especially if the child is over 12 years old.;
, A child who has suffered sexual abuse may display certain behavioral changes or signs, including:Inappropriate sexual knowledge or sexual behavior.
Nightmares or bed-wetting.
Large weight changes or major changes in appetite.
Suicide attempts or self-harming/self-mutilation, especially in adolescents.
Shrinks away or feels threatened by physical contact.
Depression and anxiety.
Sleeping and eating disorders.
Psychosomatic symptoms like stomach aches or headaches.
Poor hygiene or excessive bathing.
Regressive behaviors like thumb-sucking.
 Sexual abuse is not just limited to the extreme end of the spectrum, such as sexual intercourse. Sexually touching a child as well as non-touching offenses and exploitation are just as harmful and devastating. Touching sexual offenses include:Fondling.
Making a child touch an adult’s sexual organs.
Penetrating a child’s vagina or anus with a penis or any object that does not have a valid medical purpose.
 Non-touching sexual offenses include:


Indecent exposure.
Exposing a child to pornographic material.
Deliberately exposing a child to the act of sexual intercourse.
Masturbating in front of a child.
Sexual exploitation can include: engaging a child or soliciting a child for the purposes of prostitution, and using a child to film photograph, or model pornography.
Keep in mind the above definitions are broad. In most states, the legal definition of child molestation is an act of a person, adult or child, who forces, coerces, or threatens a child to have any form of sexual contact or to engage in any type of sexual activity. Sexual abuse of a child is illegal in all 50 states., A child who is sexually abused has been robbed of their childhood. This abuse creates a loss of trust, feelings of guilt, and self-abusive behavior in the child that is then carried into adulthood. Sexual abuse is a severe trauma and can lead to serious emotional issues for the child., It’s best to plan to talk to the child in a place where they feel comfortable and safe, like the child’s home or the child’s favorite place. Talk to them one on one and in private., The child may have a hard time discussing the abuse so it's important to be patient and open with them. Let them lead the discussion.


Many abusers use fear to shame sexual abuse victims into staying silent about the abuse. The child may also fear that talking about the abuse will get a family member in trouble or break up the family.
Some children may not have the verbal capacity to tell you they are being abused. The abuser may have replace words like “vagina” and “penis” with “knee” or “elbow” to hide the abuse., Rather than beginning your statements with “You” or “Did you”, use “I” statements. Such as: “I am concerned because I heard you say you are not allowed to close the bathroom door.” Or “I am wondering if you feel uncomfortable around a certain person.”You can also bring up secrets and keeping something secret. Some abusers will tell children that sexual abuse is a secret just between them. So they may ask the child to promise to keep the abuse secret. Tell the child it’s okay not to keep a secret, even if they made a promise, if the secret is hurting them.
 This is the most important and supportive thing you can do. There is little evidence that children make false allegations of abuse. What is more common is a child denying the abuse happened when it did.Tell the child directly that you believe them when they tell you they has been sexually abused. Respond to their disclosure by saying: “I’m glad you told me, thank you.” “You are very brave and you did the right thing.” “I’m sorry this happened to you and I wasn’t there to stop it.” “I am proud of you for telling me.”
It’s essential that you demonstrate trust towards the child, even if you may have doubts about the abuse. Children remember things differently than adults do, and even if it turns out that sexual abuse did not occur, it is still a serious cry for help. So it will be important to get professional help for the child, regardless of whether the abuse occurred or not.
 The child’s greatest fear is that she is responsible for the abuse. Many abusers convince children that the abuse is their fault or that they are just as guilty for being forced into the abuse. Tell the child directly, “This is not your fault.”, It can be traumatic for the child to repeat her story many times. So its best to stay calm, reassure the child that she has not done anything wrong, and thank her for telling you about the abuse.Avoid asking negative questions like “How could you be so stupid?” or “Why didn’t you try to stop the abuse?” You need to demonstrate care and support towards the child, not anger or blame.
 For example, do not promise the child that she will never have to see her abuser again unless this is in fact true. The child will be looking to you for support and will be placing a lot of trust in you.Its also important not to threaten to harm the abuser in front of the child. If the abuser is her parent or guardian, for example, it may cause the child more trauma if she is told someone she loves is going to get hurt.
 It’s very important that you don’t ignore the abuse once the child has come forward. Tell the child that you are going to report the person so the abuse can stop. Reassure her that “there are people who are going to help us.”To report the abuse, you can call the National Abuse Hotline (1-800-422-4453) to talk to individuals trained in helping others with sexual abuse. You can also call the National Sexual Assault Telephone Hotline (800-656-HOPE (4673)), which will then route you to a local hotline based on your area code. All calls are completely confidential.You can also call the local police or Child Protective Services. Click here for a list of Child Protective Services numbers by state:http://www.nccafv.org/child_abuse_reporting_numbers_co.htm.
When you call to report the abuse, you will be asked to provide detailed information. You can still make the report even if you do not know all of the information, but try to be as thorough as possible:The name and address of the child and his/her parents or guardians.
The age, sex, and race of the child.
The name, age, and address of the suspected perpetrator.
Your name, address, contact information, and relationship to the victim.
The nature and extent of the injuries.
Any past incidents that suggest abuse.
Any evidence of abuse.
Any other information that can be helpful or relevant to the investigation of the abuse.
 Some children who have been sexually abused may have a heightened sensitivity to casual displays of affection like hugging, kissing, or touching. So if the abused child is going to be living in your home or is going to be living in a new environment, you may need to change or adjust certain habits or patterns, including physical interactions.Do not force touching on children who seem uncomfortable with being touched. Encourage other members of the household to respect the comfort and privacy of the child.
Be cautious with playful touch, like play fighting or tickling. These situations can be uncomfortable or scary reminders of sexual abuse for the child.
Write down these rules and give a copy to everyone living in the home or space. Be firm about maintaining these rules.
Keep in mind that sexual actions like masturbation are a common, natural practice for children. Rather than shame the child for masturbating, establish guidelines for what children should do if they need to “touch themselves”. For example, they must be alone with the door shut and the shades closed, it shouldn’t cause pain or bleeding, no objects can be used, and time alone is limited to 15 minutes. Over time, as the child develops other interests, her need to masturbate will usually lessen., Remind everyone in the household to knock before entering bathrooms and bedrooms. Encourage children to dress and bathe themselves if they can. Talk openly about the importance of privacy in shared spaces, and demonstrate this behavior to the child so she can learn by example., Children who have experienced sexual abuse can find sexual content overstimulating or disturbing. So it may be helpful to monitor their consumption of music and music videos, as well as television programs, video games, and movies containing nudity and sexual activity., Children don’t always need advice, but they need a sympathetic listener. So let the child use her own words to discuss the abuse to build a relationship of trust with her.It’s important not to promise not to tell anyone what the child shares with you. Instead, say, “I won’t share the information unless I feel there is someone who can help. I will tell you who I feel we need to share this information with.”
Avoid discussing private details told to you by the child with others who do not need to know about the abuse. Overhearing others talking about the abuse can cause the child to feel embarrassed and exposed.
 Try to express your grief and anger towards the abuser in private. Some adults mistakenly assume the child will feel better if she hears that the person who abused them will be punished or harmed. Even though the child may also be angry, threats of violence or punishment may frighten her even more., Pay attention to the child’s play with her siblings or other children in your home. Note any shifts or changes in the child’s behavior.


Some children who are abused act out sexually towards other children. So have the children play where you can see them, and don’t allow them to be alone for long periods of time without any adult supervision.If the child demonstrates inappropriate sexual behavior toward other children, be aware you may be required to report these actions to child protective services to comply with the legal reporting laws in your state., Restoring safety in the child’s environment is crucial. So create a plan with other adults to prevent unsupervised contact between the child and the abuser. This will also help to build trust with the child as she will be aware the abuse she suffered was wrong and will hopefully never happen again.
 Watch for any signs of depression, anxiety, and other disorders or problematic behavior in the child. Don’t be afraid to reach other to professional therapists and doctors to help the child.


If the abused child continues to demonstrate sexualized behavior or any other psychological issues, she may need help from a therapist experienced with working with children who have been sexually abused.
 The therapist can provide you with guidance on how to respond to the child’s difficulties. He can also suggest tactics for talking to the child about the abuse, and for creating a safe, nurturing environment for the child. Therapy for children who have been sexually abused is specialized work. So make sure the mental health professional has certain qualifications, including:


An advanced degree in a recognized mental health specialty such as psychiatry (M.D.), psychology (Ph.D. or Psy.D.), social work (M.S.W.), counseling (L.P.C.), Marriage and Family Therapy (M.F.T.), or psychiatric nursing (R.N.).
Licensure to practice as a mental health professional in your state. Some mental health services are provided by students under the supervision of licensed professionals.
Proof of special training in child sexual abuse, including the dynamics of abuse, how it affects children and adults, and the use of goal-oriented treatment plans.
Knowledge about the legal issues involved in child sexual abuse, especially the laws about reporting child sexual victimization, the procedures used by law enforcement and protective services, evidence collection, and expert testimony in your state.
A willingness to coordinate with any other professionals who are involved in the child’s care.
 To help a child who has been abused, the specialist may want to know about:Any past stressors for the child, such as a history of abuse, frequent moves, loss of a family member, friend, or even a pet.
Any current stressors, such as medical problems, learning disabilities, or physical issues.
The child’s emotional state. Is the child usually happy or anxious?
Coping strategies. Does the child withdraw or act out when angry or sad?
The child’s relationships with others, such as family, friends, or acquaintances at home or school.
The child’s communication skills. Is the child open and honest? Closed off?
How the child spends her time, such as use of TV, the Internet, video games, or sports and other hobbies.
After a thorough assessment, the therapist will decide if the child and your family would benefit from therapy. Keep in mind all children who are sexually abused don’t need therapy. It depends on the child’s ability to cope with the abuse.
 Based on the assessment, the therapist may suggest individual therapy, group therapy, or family therapy for the child and for your family.Individual therapy: The style of individual therapy will depend on the child’s age and the therapist’s training. Some therapists use creative techniques, like art, play, and music theory to help children open up about their experiences. Other therapists use traditional talk therapy or a combination of approaches.
Group therapy: This style involves having the child meet in groups with other children who have been sexually abused or who have developed sexual behavior problems. Group therapy can help children understand themselves, feel less alone by interacting with others who have had similar experiences, and learn new skills through role plays, discussion, games, and play. Group therapy for parents can also be beneficial, in the form of an adult support group.
Family therapy. Many therapists will see children and parents together to support positive parent-child communication and to guide parents in learning new skills that will help the child recover from the abuse.
 Child welfare workers can be good sources of information, can offer advice, and are familiar with community resources for victims of sexual abuse.If you are taking care of an adopted child who has been sexually abused, reach out to adoption agencies to find out more information on post adoption services.