 To toast your breadcrumbs and start to get the oven ready for baking the chicken, it’s important to preheat it. Set your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius), and allow it to fully heat.Make sure that you know how your oven alerts you that it’s preheated. It may beep or flash a light to let you know.;
, Tear 3 slices of whole wheat bread into several smaller pieces, so you can toss them into the bowl of a food processor. Pulse the food processor until the bread becomes fine crumbs, which should take 25 to 30 seconds.You may find it easier to make the breadcrumbs if the bread is slightly dried out before putting it in the food processor. Leave it out on the counter, uncovered, for several hours or overnight.
If you don’t have a food processor, you can turn your bread into crumbs in a blender. Just make sure to add the bread in small batches or it may become gummy.You can also use a knife to create breadcrumbs. Cut your bread slices into strips, and then gather the strips together to cut them into smaller crumb-like pieces.
 Spread the breadcrumbs out on a baking sheet in an even layer. Place the sheet in the preheated oven, and allow the crumbs to bake until they are golden brown, which should take approximately 10 to 12 minutes.This recipe will make approximately 1 cup of breadcrumbs. You’ll only need about half for the chicken, so store the remainder in an airtight container. They’ll keep in your pantry for a couple of weeks and in your refrigerator for about a month.
If you plan to prepare your chicken Parmesan right after you make the breadcrumbs, don’t turn the oven off when you remove the baking sheet from the oven.
 When you’re ready to prepare the chicken, you’ll need to adjust the oven temperature. Turn it up to 450 degrees Fahrenheit (230 degrees Celsius), so it will be hot enough to create a crispy coating for the chicken. Next, lightly spray a baking sheet with nonstick cooking spray.If you don’t want to use cooking spray, you can grease the baking sheet with olive oil in an oil mister.
 On a clean work surface, cut 3 8-ounce (227 g) boneless, skinless chicken breasts in half horizontally. That will create 6 cutlets for the chicken parmesan.Make sure to thoroughly wash your hands, cutting board, knife, and any other items that come into contact with the raw chicken to avoid spreading bacteria throughout your kitchen.
 Once the chicken is cut into smaller cutlets, season them with salt and fresh ground black pepper to taste. Be sure to flip the cutlets over so you can season both sides., In a shallow bowl, mix together ½ cup (63 g) of the breadcrumbs you made earlier, 3 tablespoons (15 g) of grated Parmesan cheese, ¼ teaspoon (1 g) of garlic powder, and ½ teaspoon (1 g) of Italian seasoning. Toss well to ensure that all of the ingredients are fully combined.You can adjust the seasonings in the breadcrumb mixture to suit your taste. For example, if you love garlic, you can increase the garlic powder. If you aren’t a fan of garlic, you can add less or omit it completely.
 Add 2 teaspoons (9.5 g) of unsalted butter that’s been melted and 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of olive oil to a small bowl. Stir well to ensure that they’re fully combined, and then use a pastry or basting brush to lightly brush both sides of the chicken cutlets with the mixture.If you don’t have a brush to coat the chicken cutlets, you can use a heavy-duty napkin, coffee filter, or piece of paper towel. Just make sure that the item you use isn’t so flimsy that it leaves bits of paper behind on the chicken., Once the chicken is covered with the butter and oil mixture, press the cutlets into the breadcrumb mixture. Make sure to coat both sides of the chicken, and shake off the excess., When the chicken is coated with the breadcrumb mixture, set the cutlets on the greased baking sheet. Use an oil mister to lightly mist the top of the chicken with olive oil.If you want to cut calories even further, you don’t have to mist the chicken with the oil. However, keep in mind that the finished chicken may not be as golden or crispy if you don’t.
 Place the baking sheet in the hot oven, and allow it to bake until the bottom is golden brown, which should take approximately 20 minutes. Remove the chicken from the oven to flip the cutlets over, and bake an additional 5 to 6 minutes until the other side is golden brown too.You should cook the chicken until the center is cooked through. You can check by slicing into one of the cutlets and taking a peek. The meat should be white, with no hint of pink.
 While the chicken is baking, pour 2 cups (546 g) of a store-bought marinara or tomato sauce into a large skillet. Heat on your stovetop on medium until the sauce is warmed through, which should take approximately 2 to 3 minutes.You can use homemade marinara or tomato sauce if you prefer.
 When the chicken is finished baking, add the cutlets to the sauce. Sprinkle 1 ½ tablespoons (11 g) of grated part-skim mozzarella cheese on each cutlet.While you may be tempted to use a fat-free mozzarella to save even more calories, it doesn’t melt very well. Use the part-skim mozzarella to cut calories from a full fat version while still having a nice melted layer of cheese on your chicken parmesan.
 Place the lid on your skillet, and allow the chicken parmesan to heat until the mozzarella melts, which should take approximately 2 to 3 minutes. Serve the chicken parmesan while it’s still hot.If you don’t have a lid for your skillet, you can cover it with a baking sheet or a piece of foil

