 An escrow account holds money, much like a bank account, except the money is held with an escrow company. The escrow company will only release the money once certain conditions are met.


Escrow accounts are most commonly used in real estate transactions. When the conditions for the sale are satisfied, the escrow agent will release the money to the seller. In this way, the escrow agent guarantees the transaction, making sure each side fulfills its obligations.;
, You create an escrow account with an escrow agent. The real estate agent typically names the escrow company you should use in the purchase agreement.Find your purchase agreement and read it to find the name of the escrow company you should use.


If you are using an agent to buy or sell a home, then the agent should handle setting up the escrow account.
 You might be selling your home in a “private sale,” which means you are not using a real estate agent.In this situation, you will need to find an escrow agent. You can find an escrow agent in the following ways:


Ask your bank if they provide an escrow service.
Search online for escrow agents. You can type “escrow company” and “your city” into your favorite search engine. You can call the phone number provided.
Contact a title insurance agency. Sometimes they will create an escrow account.
 You will need to provide the escrow company with certain information so that they can open the account. The information might vary slightly from company to company, but you generally will need to provide the following:seller’s name and address
buyer’s name and address
purchase price, address, and a description of the property
termite report information, such as who will do the inspection
financing information
rent, if any
any personal property involved in the sale
amount of deposit to be held in the escrow account

, Set up a meeting so that you can complete necessary paperwork. Either the purchaser or the seller can open an escrow account, although sellers typically do. You need to take the deposit with you. You will also need to discuss the conditions of the sale.Remember that the escrow agent is charged with making sure that both buyer and seller fulfill their obligations. You should talk with the escrow agent about what those obligations will be. You should bring a copy of your purchase agreement, since that will contain most of the obligations.
 This is the identification number you will need whenever you call the escrow agent to ask questions or get updates.Be sure to store it someplace where it is always handy, such as a note in your purse or saved on your cell phone.

