 If all of your cat's needs are met and she is meowing just for attention (or for food she doesn't need), do not respond. Your cat may become even louder or more persistent in the short term, but may eventually realize that meowing no longer earns your attention.This takes patience and consistency. If you give in after an hour of meowing, it teaches the cat that it's worth it to meow for an hour., Do not scold or yell at your cat for meowing. This is unlikely to discourage future meowing even if you chase the cat away now. It may even teach your cat to fear you, making it more stressed and worsening its behavior., In addition to ignoring undesirable meows, you'll need to give the cat positive feedback. Communicate which behavior you want to encourage by rewarding the cat as soon as it stops meowing. This reward must be immediate for the cat to figure out what you want. The best way to do this is to use a clicker training tool to make a noise as soon as the cat stops meowing, then immediately give the cat a small treat or other reward.
 Continue to train the cat with clicker training in short sessions (no more than fifteen minutes at a time).Once the cat seems interested in trying out new behaviors to get the reward, gradually raise the bar. Start "clicking" and rewarding only after the cat has been silent for three seconds, then four seconds, and so on. If you go through several training sessions a day, the cat may learn to quiet down in less than a week.Once the cat starts to figure it out, you can introduce the "quiet" command to communicate what you want. If the cat starts to meow during a training session, say "quiet" firmly and turn your head away until it quiets down., Once the excessive meowing is back down to a reasonable level, start replacing some of the treats with head scratches or other non-food rewards. Gradually ramp this up until the cat is back on a normal diet., The cat still needs to get your attention sometimes, and it's up to you to reinforce the right ways to do it. If the cat starts to sit quietly next to you when it wants something, respond to that behavior promptly or the cat may go back to meowing. If it develops new behaviors, such as pawing your leg, it's up to you to decide whether to encourage or discourage this.


Your cat will most likely still meow some of the time. There's nothing wrong with responding to a meow that signals a problem, such as an empty water dish.

