 Apple cider vinegar - a miracle ingredient used in countless home remedies - is one of the most common treatments for mole removal. The acids contained in the vinegar, such as malic and tartaric acid, actually work to dissolve the mole, completely removing it from the skin. Simply swab a little onto clean skin everyday using a q-tip., Garlic is another multi-purpose remedy, which many claim as an effective treatment for mole removal. Simply crush some fresh garlic into a paste and carefully apply directly to the mole, making sure to avoid the surrounding skin (garlic can burn). Cover with a bandage and leave for a few hours or overnight. This method has been said to work in as little as five days., Iodine is a good option for people with more sensitive skin, as it won't burn like garlic or apple cider vinegar. Apply the iodine directly to the mole using a q-tip, up to three times a day. Continue to do this every day, until you see a noticeable improvement in the mole's appearance., Juice a couple of sour cooking apples and apply a little juice directly to the mole. Like the apple cider vinegar, the acids in the juice will work to dissolve the mole, though it may be at least three weeks before you start to notice any improvements in the mole's appearance. , Pineapple juice can be applied directly to the mole, but you should also try blending half a cup of fresh pineapple and a quarter cup of coarse sea salt to make a fantastic facial scrub. This may help to remove the top layers of skin from the mole., Combine one tablespoon of baking soda and two tablespoons of castor oil make a paste. Apply a little directly to your mole and leave for several hours or overnight, before washing off., Honey is well-known as a delicious edible treat, but did you know it also boasts impressive anti-bacterial and healing properties? Dab a little honey directly onto the mole for a safe, natural treatment. Add in a drop of soothing, softening flaxseed oil too, if you like., There are numerous home remedies designed to get rid of moles using natural ingredients. Though there is little science to back up some of the treatments, many people will attest to their effectiveness. Just be careful when using acidic natural juices, which have the potential to burn the skin. To use home remedies safely but effectively, apply the natural juices at least once and a maximum of three times a day.If you have very sensitive skin, only let the juices sit on your skin for 10 to 15 minutes, to prevent it from becoming irritated.
Try applying a little petroleum jelly to the skin around the mole. This will prevent it from becoming unnecessarily irritated by the mole treatments.
The length of time it takes for a mole to lighten or disappear will differ from one person to another.
Be aware that home remedies are not likely to work as quickly or be as effective as surgical removal or stronger medical creams, but are a good option if you are looking for either a cost-free solution or a natural remedy.

