 The more people you can round up, the better. Ghosts in the Graveyard is a game that works best with at least three players. 








You can add or subtract players as you continue to play as well. If someone wants to join in, just wait until the next round. Likewise, if someone wants to leave, that’s ok too.
Try to play with at least three people. More people will make the rounds last longer and can be more fun.
 Pick a few houses, yards, or another area in the neighborhood for the boundaries. You will also need a home base at which everyone can run to when the ghost is found.









Make sure that all players understand the boundaries of the game. You can even make the rule that if a player goes outside the boundaries that player is eliminated for a round.
Your designated safe spot is where the players run to when the ghost is found. It can be a large tree, front stoop, back patio, etc. Try to designate a spot that everyone can physically touch or stand on.
 You can do this any way you like: picking a number, asking for a volunteer, or rock, paper, scissors, etc.









If you want to pick a ghost the old fashioned way, you can have everyone form a circle with both of each player’s feet. Then one person says a rhyme while tapping one foot for each word. Each time the rhyme ends that player removes a foot. The rhyme is repeated until there is one foot left. That person is the ghost.
The rhyme could be: “Bubble Gum, bubble gum in a dish. How many pieces do you wish?” Then whoever’s foot is touched says a number. The leader counts out that number and then says “…and you are out.”

, All the players who are seeking are at home base while the ghost goes off to hide somewhere.









The players should not be looking where the ghost is going to hide. Everyone's eyes should be closed.
 Chant slowly as a group, “One o’clock… two o’clock… three o’clock..." and so on, up to twelve o'clock. Then shout, "Midnight! I hope I don't see the ghost tonight!"









Alternatively, you can all count to 50 and then chant “Starlight, star bright, I hope to see a ghost tonight!” Depending on how the large the playing area and how many places there are to hide, you want to give the ghost a good amount of time.
The ghost must hide somewhere within the designated boundaries. The ghost cannot hide inside anywhere. The ghost does not have a flashlight.
The ghost should go and hide somewhere that’s not close to the base. Finding a spot that’s further away and hidden will allow the ghost to have a better chance at tagging a player.
 With your flashlight, head out and start looking for the ghost. If the ghost finds you and tags you, you turn off your flashlight and become a ghost as well.









When the ghost finds a seeking player, that player then turns off the flashlight and takes the ghost's hiding spot. The original ghost is then free to move around the playing field and hide somewhere else.
The ghost will then wait in a new spot to tag another player. That player then turns off the flashlight and hides.
 If the sneaking ghost is seen by a seeking player going to a new hiding spot that player yells "Ghost in the graveyard!"









Once the ghost has been spotted by a player with a flashlight, all the players who are still seeking turn off the flashlight and get some time to hide.
The players who are already hiding and are also ghosts will come out. The ghosts will all meet at the home base.
 The alive players now go and hide. Then the others who are now ghosts will come out from home base and search the area.









Once the original ghost has been spotted the roles of each type of player switch. If you were tagged by the ghost and hiding, you are now a ghost who is looking for the alive players.
If you were still an alive player when the ghost was spotted, you now go hide.
The ghosts will all go to the home base and count while the alive players hide.
 The ghosts will begin searching for the other players. When the alive players think that it is safe to go to base, the players try to get to the base without getting tagged.









As long as it's not too dark and everyone can easily move safely, no one should have flashlights at this stage.
If you are running toward the base and get tagged you immediately become a ghost and join the hunt.
The first player who gets to home base safely without getting tagged yells out. That player is the winner and gets to start as the ghost the next round.
If no one gets to the base safely, then the players pick a new ghost in a way that everyone agrees upon.

