 When you first enter Site Upsilon, you will see a robot on the ground. You will need to disconnect this robot from the console so power can be restored. Once disconnected, press the yellow button to activate controls. A screen will power up to the right as well as three buttons, since the manual boot sequence is now running. Press the first button followed by the second and third as the screen reaches the green area. Once complete, the power will be restored.;
, There will be a door in the room you are currently in leading to a catwalk and eventually a ladder. Climb down the ladder to the level below and make your way over the broken parts of the catwalk, which will make you crash to the lower level.
 You will notice a robotic creature walking around this area, so make sure to stay crouched and avoid it at all costs. If you are attacked by the monster, go to the WAU connection on the opposite side of the room to restore lost health. Make your way to the staircase next to the large Upsilon sign at the back corner of the room.
 There will be a valve to the left of the staircase to shut off the steam. The valve will break off and cause a lot of noise. This will attract the monsters nearby, so you need to either hide until they walk away or run as fast as you can up the stairs before they have a chance to see you.
 There will be a lever at the top of the first flight of stairs to open the next level. Turn the hatch and make your way up to the room and locate the computer. In order to use the computer, you will need to locate the ID code. The ID is on the dead mind in the same room.
 Once you have the ID code, head back to the computer and unlock it. Then select “Power Manager” and turn on “Storage” and “Flow Control.” This will open these two doors leading to those areas.
 This room can be found through the hall on the other side of the room you are currently in. There will be a lever in the room to divert power to open the door to the lower levels. Pull the lever and then return to the computer from before, and close the “Flow Control” room while opening the “Comm Center” room.
 The switch can be found near the stairs in the middle of the room. If a monster is close, the sound the switch makes will alert them so make sure they are not near when pulling the switch. Immediately head up the stairs to shut the hatch to lock the monsters out.
 Once you are in the Comm Center, interact with the computer to select a site to call. Choose “Site Lambda (2203)” and find the signal by moving your cursor on the screen until the PATHOS logo is clear. You will then need to go to the breached area to exit Upsilon and head to the next area, Outside Upsilon.

