 This is a great starting point for dogs unfamiliar with a class experience. Many pet stores offer obedience classes geared to particular groups of dogs from puppies to seniors. This is a great way to build a bond of trust with your dog as you learn about obedience techniques in tandem.Continue to get bonding benefits by practicing what you’ve learned once the class is over. Work on the basic commands of sit and stay with your dog. Make these exercises even more challenging by practicing in a public place, such as a park.
 This test is offered by the American Kennel Club (AKC) and reflects a dog's ability to interact with its surrounding in a peaceful and productive manner. You can prepare your dog for this test by taking classes emphasizing socialization in public settings. This process will make your dog more comfortable being with you in public places, allowing you to spend even more time together.For more information on Canine Good Citizen classes, visit the AKC website. This site will direct you to class options while providing you with more information about the testing process as well.
 You can work with your dog to develop agility skills or even the speed necessary to do well at flyball (a relay race sport involving chasing a tennis ball). These are also great ways to meet other dog owners and exchange information and advice. Your dog will also be happy to meet new canine friends.Note that many canine sports have age restrictions in place for competitions. For example, a dog generally must be over 2 years old in order to compete in a flyball tournament., You’ve probably already tried some version of this with your dog. Trick training focuses on teaching your dog a set of interesting skills that can be performed, such as shaking hands. Use positive reinforcement and frequent treats to get your dog to enjoy the process and learn at the same time. When you are confident in your dog’s skills take him to the park to show off a bit.Make time for a bit of a nap (for you and your dog) after a training session. Learning new trick moves can be exhausting for your pet, even in a low pressure setting., Consider enrolling your dog in a therapy program. This is a great way to help others while bonding with your pet. Search online for a good Pet Therapy program near you and contact them for additional information. Be aware that you will most likely need to pay a registration fee to get the process started.