 Again, toddlers thrive on predictability. Respond to your child's behavior in the same way every time. Family rules should focus upon clearly defined behaviors that are never okay.Minimize your list of rules. Prioritize safety, then focus on modifying a few behaviors at a time rather than overwhelming your child with too much detail. You may reward your child for good behavior, but emphasize social rewards such as affection, praise, and activities., Even toddlers need to understand why you want them to follow the rules.Explain, for example, that we don't run in the house because the hardwood floors are really slick.
If you institute a practice like touching Mom's knee and then waiting to talk when she's in a conversation, explain that it's important to give people your full attention. Mom's friend deserves her full attention when she's speaking; once she's finished, she'll turn to you and give you her full attention, too.
 Toddlers are easily overwhelmed, and as they lack the coping skills of older children or adults, their feelings tend to erupt into the outbursts we call "tantrums." Minimize the impact of tantrums by following a few wise practices:


Know your child's limits. Your child might not understand what you're asking her to do. Alternatively, if she is already tired, hungry, or otherwise stressed, her capacity to understand may be compromised.
Give your child guidance in how to follow the rules. Offer suggestions -- rather than simply telling him to "stop hitting," suggest that he takes turns.
Respond to "no" calmly by simply repeating your request.
Pick your battles.
When possible, offer choices. Limit choices to two or three options to avoid overwhelming your toddler.
Avoid situations that could trigger outbursts. A toy that's too difficult is sure to cause frustration, and long outings can exhaust your child. Remember that your child is more likely to throw a tantrum when she's hungry, tired, sick, or in an unfamiliar situation.
Keep to your daily routine.
Encourage your child to use his words to express his feelings., Keep your child's world calm and predictable by working with caregivers and relatives to ensure you're all following the same rules and expectations. Sometimes grandparents and other relatives will seek to follow the practices they used when raising children and resist your requests. If all else fails, blame the pediatrician -- "I'm sorry, but our doctor has told us Robert shouldn't have juice.", Treat your child how you'd like her to treat others. Speak politely, respect her opinion, pay attention when she's speaking, and treat her kindly. She'll mirror this behavior.