 Being unable to see much of what's happening in the background is scary enough; adding a bump in the night can make it downright terrifying. Accentuate your shadow play and creepy lighting effects by punctuating the gloomiest shots with sound effects.


In most cases, a subtle ambient effect is appropriate. If nothing is actually going to jump out of the shadows, try adding the faint sound of wind blowing or a wooden board creaking. Even some soft radio static can work wonders. Try to pick something the audience won't consciously notice, but which will make them shift a little in their seats just the same.
From time to time, add a more definite sound. A shot that lingers on a darkened living room after its owner has left for the evening can be made scarier with a scraping, shuffling, or thumping sound. Your audience will know someone or something was inside the room with the character and went unnoticed, giving them big chills. Don't overuse these clearer effects, though, or they'll lose their power.
 The attack of a sound is the time it take for that sound to reach its maximum volume, before decaying and returning to no sound at all. Sounds with a fast attack include doors slamming, balloons popping, and dogs barking; sounds with a slow attack include wind whistling, boxes sliding down a ramp, and wolves howling. Generally speaking, the faster a sound's attack is, the more frightening it can be; loud volume enhances the effect.


Some of the most effective horror sounds are the result of mixing fast attack effects into a longer series. Footsteps slowly coming up the basement stairs, for example, is a classic effect that combines fast attack sounds (footsteps) into a repeating sequence that makes each one more dreadful than the last.
Try combining a fast attack sound and a slow attack sound to create an uneven, twisted feeling. A thump on the staircase is bad enough; a thump followed by a wet dragging sound (with slower attack) is truly horrifying, because the audience can hear that whatever is climbing the steps is misshapen or broken in some way.
 For the budget-conscious horror film maker, there are many high-quality sound effects that are licensed for free use. Most of these are now available online at sites like SoundBible.com. Caskets opening, zombies groaning, and people screaming are just a few of the effects you can use without having to pay.


Be sure to check the license associated with each free sound effect. Many of them are only free to use if you properly credit their creators.
Don't just check horror sound effects. There are many other sounds that can be easily repurposed for a horror film, with some creativity and forethought.
 Foley Editors have what is arguably one of the most entertaining and creative jobs in the film industry: they create sound effects, usually with everyday items, that approximate just about any noise imaginable. Some Foley effects are closely guarded secrets, but there are plenty you can do yourself to add a fresh, unique sound to an action or event. Get a good quality microphone and set it up near a nook with all the Foley prop items you need, and have at it.


Break bones or splinter limbs with wood or celery. To make a bone-snapping sound, wrap a thin dowel rod in soft paper (paper towels work) and snap it near the microphone. For a more sickening crunch, twist and snap a bunch of celery instead.
Add a gory effect to axe and club strikes. Use a length of garden hose slapped hard against a baseball glove to produce a meaty impact noise. A mallet on a pumpkin can accentuate a particularly devastating head strike.
Make a sickening impact noise with rags. To simulate the sound of something wet and disgusting falling and/or bursting on the ground, load up a bucket with soaked rags. Set up a short ladder on a concrete surface, then dump the rags from the top of the ladder onto the floor.
Add a sizzling effect to burn scenes. The quickest and easiest way to do this is to stretch a piece of wax paper near the microphone and then steadily pour uncooked rice down it. For a more authentic (albeit less dramatic) effect, put a hot iron in a tray with just a tiny amount of water. For sizzling fat, add a bit of oil on top of the water.

