 When you get to the party and the host offers you a drink, ask for something non-alcoholic. It’s proper etiquette for hosts to stock booze-free beverages as well as alcoholic ones, so chances are that you can choose from a variety of drinks such as soda, juice, ice water, and tea.Even if you’re not particularly thirsty at the moment, having a drink in your hand can give you something to sip on during awkward silences and prevent unwanted interrogation from curious partygoers regarding your alcohol abstinence.
If you’re worried there won’t be any non-alcoholic beverages on offer, bring your own! Buy your favorite soda or juice in a large enough volume that you can share it with the party.
 While alcohol is not necessary to have fun in social scenarios, it can help to keep you energized and enthusiastic during late-night gatherings. You don’t want to rely on caffeine to keep you engaged, but a moderate amount is nothing to worry about. Aim to limit your daily intake to 400 milligrams per day, equivalent to about four cups of coffee or two energy drinks.While most bars and restaurants keep coffee available for tee-totalling customers, don’t expect your host to make you a fresh pot of coffee. Instead, bring a cold, bottled coffee drink or caffeinated soda such as Red Bull or Rockstar so that you’re not inconveniencing your host with any special requests.
 Just because you’re not drinking, doesn’t mean you can’t treat yourself to some of the yummy party snacks on offer! In fact, many people only drink alcohol at parties in order to keep their mouths occupied and look like they’re doing something when they’re not talking, so eating something tasty can serve you just as well as drinking!


While sweet treats can be some of the most tempting and delicious indulgences available at parties, keep in mind that over-indulging in candied treats can lead to a sugar crash. Try to balance out your sinful samplings with some healthier, high-protein options such as fresh veggies or trail mix., Just because you’re not imbibing, doesn’t mean you can’t participate in the elaborate punches and mixes popular at many parties. Most classic cocktails can be done just as well—and arguably more deliciously!—sans alcohol, so check out some recipes and try your hand at some mixology! You can even occupy yourself at the party by playing bartender and mixing up your booze-less potions for other partygoers.


Virgin Bloody Marys, daiquiris, and mimosas—made with seltzer water or a light sparkling soda instead of champagne—are good for brunch parties and barbeques, while virgin margaritas, mojitos, mulled ciders, and punches are great options for evening soirees.