 When you have to deal with something that involves constant invasion of your senses, like body odor, you may feel an urge to vent your frustration with other coworkers. However, try your best to not bring the problem up with others, especially if you are planning to speak with them directly. Gossiping about the problem could make you seem mean and cruel to your coworkers. Also, since office gossip tends to travel fast, the offending coworker could hear that you were speaking unkindly about them, and any attempt to speak with them about the issue later will seem disingenuous., In general, the closer you are to the person, the more direct you should be. If the offending person is a close work friend, being direct is a great strategy; however, if the person is a superior or a client, being direct about a personal matter like body odor is inappropriate. In this instance, the most appropriate course of action would be to either drop hints first or go straight to Human Resources to help you. If they are not a superior or client and you do have a friendly relationship with them, it would be appropriate for you to tell them directly., No matter how nice you say it, bringing up bad body odor to a person will be uncomfortable. The person will most likely be embarrassed, so waiting to talk to them in a private setting is very important. It is a kind gesture that makes you seem respectful, and it creates a space where the person may feel comfortable explaining their odor. Perhaps they have an allergy to deodorant or a medical issue that requires a colostomy bag. Some tips to initiate the private conversation:Invite your colleague out for coffee or lunch to get them alone and away from the office.
Ask the person to take a walk with you to relieve some stress after a long meeting.
If you can’t talk to the person in complete privacy, be sure to at least pull him/her aside where others can’t hear. Make sure to pull them aside subtly, and don’t draw attention to yourselves.
 It is important to understand the distinction between being direct and being insensitive. In order to be direct without being unkind, you want to be sure to avoid teasing them or using any judgmental language. Don’t prolong the conversation with a long explanation, and instead get to the point quickly. It’s also best to avoid telling them that other people in the office are talking about their odor unless this is not the first time you two have spoken about body odor. Some compassionate conversation starters include:“I want to discuss something that’s awkward, and I hope I don’t offend you. You’ve had a noticeable body odor lately, and since this is the kind of thing people often don’t realize about themselves, I wanted to bring it to your attention.”
“It’s been so hot lately that sometimes, despite proper cleanliness, the heat causes occasional body odor. I’ve noticed, only once or twice, that you’ve suffered from this recently, and I wanted to tell you in order to avoid any future embarrassment.”
“I wanted to meet with you one-on-one because I need to share something with you privately, discreetly, and with as much sensitivity as possible. You may not realize it, but it appears you have a bit of a body odor problem.”

, After discussing the issue, it’s pretty likely you will both feel a little awkward and embarrassed. Because this person is someone you work with, you want to avoid letting this unpleasant interaction linger on any longer than it needs to. End the conversation positively by letting them know you are glad you talked, and invite them to do the same for you if you ever need it. You can even offer some suggestions to help them fix the problem, like buying a desk fan to combat the office heat or suggesting a brand of deodorant you love.