 Dry erase markers don't use the same type of water-based ink as ordinary "coloring" markers, so reviving them by moistening their tips usually won't work. Instead, try making the most of the ink that's trapped inside the marker itself. To start, tie a long string around the body of the dried-out marker. Secure it to the string with sturdy tape.In the next step, you'll use the power of centrifugal force to force ink into the dried-out tip of the marker. Centrifugal force is basically the idea that objects being swung in a circle experience a force that pushes them "outward" — that is, away from the center of the circle.In this case, the outward-pushing force will move any remaining ink from the body of the marker into the tip.
 First, check to make sure the cap is on securely and completely encompasses the tip: if the cap has openings, ink may fly out and splatter the room. Carefully take the length of string in your hand and swing the marker in a circular arc over your head (like a lasso). The tip of the marker should be facing out, not in. Centrifugal force will begin to push the ink in the marker toward the tip. Do this for about a minute or two before testing your marker.


Make sure you have plenty of room around you free from obstructions before you start swinging the marker. Though you're very unlikely to cause serious injury by swinging a marker around, you can still break your marker or hurt someone if you accidentally swing the marker into his or her eye, so err on the side of safety.
 If you can't get your marker to write after using the lasso method above, grab a pair of pliers and try this method. Grip the soft fabric tip of the dry-erase marker with your pliers and pull directly outward. For many markers, the tip should come out without too much effort.Once it's out, if there's a similar soft fabric end on the other side of the tip, try flipping the tip around and replacing it. The marker should be able to write immediately. As ink soaks through the previously dry end of the tip, you can remove the tip again and flip it back around if you wish.


You may want to wear gloves and protect your work area with an old rag while attempting this method. Though unlikely, it's possible to spill ink out of the marker once you remove the tip, so having some protection against difficult-to-remove stains is a wise idea.
 While effective, the methods above will only work if ink remains inside the marker. For dry-erase markers that are completely dry — that is, both the tip and the inside of the marker are dried out — you may need to buy replacement ink.


Refill dry-erase ink can usually be purchased from office supply stores or specialty online retailers. Usually, dry-erase is quite cheap —sometimes as low for $1.00 for a small canister of ink.