 If you are not able to control your sweating using the previous methods, then a visit to your dermatologist is a good idea. Dermatologists are typically the best type of doctor to see for this problem, as they deal with skin, and are often familiar with treatments for excessive sweating (also known as hyperhidrosis).Be aware that you may need a referral from your regular doctor to see a dermatologist, be sure to check with your insurance company to see if this is necessary.
 If none of the over the counter products you have tried are working, your dermatologist may be able to prescribe you a prescription strength antiperspirant that you would not be able to purchase on your own.


The same procedure as for over the counter products will likely apply for application. Be sure that you do it at night before bed, and that your armpits are completely dry.
Read the information that comes with your prescription carefully. There may be special application instructions, instructions about how often to use, side-effects to be aware of, etc.
 If prescription strength antiperspirant doesn’t help, you might consider alternative treatments. One of these is known as Iontophoresis. Although most commonly used for sweating of the hands and feet, it can be used for armpits as well.The procedure involves placing the affected area into water, through which a mild electric current is passed. The procedure works well for many, but multiple treatments are often required, and the physical structure of the armpit can often make treatment a bit impractical., You may have heard of Botox injections as a method of avoiding wrinkles; however it can also be used to treat excessive sweating. Botox works by essentially “turning off” the sweat glands in the affected area.Be aware that this treatment can be painful, and only works for a few months at a time., MiraDry is a fairly new treatment method, approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 2011.This treatment works by using electromagnetic energy to destroy the sweat glands in the affected area (and is most commonly used for armpits). Typically, two treatments are done over a period of a few months. As of now, it does not appear that the sweat glands will grow back.The procedure typically lasts about an hour, and uses a local anesthetic. There may be a bit of redness, tenderness, and swelling for a few days after the procedure, but mild pain medication can be used to help with this, along with the use of ice packs., Although typically only used in very severe cases of hyperhidrosis, surgery offers another option to control sweating. There are many surgical techniques used to deal with the problem, but they all have the ultimate goal of removing sweat glands in the affected area.Typically, these surgical procedures are performed in a doctor’s office under local anesthesia, which means that you will not be asleep. Only the affected area is numbed.

