 Because writing essays generally requires writing in complete sentences, students need to learn how to make effective complete sentences. They should have an understanding of the types of sentence (declarative, imperative, interrogative, exclamatory), active and passive voice, and the ability to correctly match subjects and verbs.
 Once students have mastered the ability to write complete sentences, they then need to learn how to string those sentences together into a paragraph. Students need to learn how to follow one sentence with another, and then another that expands upon the idea presented in the first sentence, and how to arrange sentences so that preceding sentences lead to the idea presented in the final sentence.
 Once students can write coherent paragraphs, they are ready to learn how to connect paragraphs together so that each paragraph introduces the next one, with each paragraph making a stronger statement than the one preceding it. Transition sentences can be placed in the last sentence of the leading paragraph, the first sentence of the following paragraph, or both.


Gradually encourage students to connect two, three, four, and five paragraphs together to build a coherent essay. As students get more familiar with the format, help them learn how to write an introduction, present background information, present information that confirms their beliefs, present information that refutes their beliefs, and then a summary conclusion.
 This can begin with showing students how to observe and write about something in front of them and then compare their written observations with the observations of their fellow students and with professional writers observing the same thing.
 Show the difference between writing facts and writing opinions. Students should learn when it is and isn't appropriate to include their opinions in what they write and how to express those opinions in a polite and professional manner.
 Students need to learn how to select materials to write about, how to read for information and how to analyze it, how to take notes, and then to organize those notes into an outline.


While outlines can be done in the head, students should first learn to do outlines on paper, so they can check the development of their essays against their original plans. They should also learn how to first modify the outline and then the essay itself as they acquire new information that requires them to revise their essays.

