 Have your young painters grip the frilly fabric balls between their thumb and forefinger. This will allow them to hold onto the pom poms securely while also strengthening their dexterity and precision.Let the kids figure out for themselves whether they would prefer to use their right or left hand.This type of art project will lay the foundation for the basic handwriting skills that will become indispensable later in life.;
, You can also clasp the teeth of a wooden clothespin over the outer edge of the pom pom to turn it into a makeshift paintbrush. The pom pom can now be held more like a pen or pencil, which will be a valuable learning experience for kids who haven’t yet started primary school. Just be careful not to grip the ends of the clothespin too hard, or the pom pom may fall out.Clothespins are also useful when you're trying to keep little fingers clean during an arts and crafts session.
To replace a dirty or dried out pom pom for a clean one, simply stick a new one in the clothespin.
 Set out a palette of paints to choose from. Cover one side of the pom poms with paint. The textured fringe will soak up and hold paint better than the slender bristles of a brush.Matching up the pom poms and paint can help keep kids from getting their colors mixed up.Select your paint colors based on a particular theme. For instance, you can create Valentine’s Day projects using red, pink and white paint, while red and green can be offered around Christmas time., Now all that’s left to do is to get painting! Use a large piece of paper or canvas that will give the kids plenty of room to play around without the color running off onto the table or floor and making a mess. Dab some fresh paint onto the pom poms when it has all rubbed off or dried out.It may be a good idea to line the painting surface with newspaper underneath to prevent troublesome spills, smears and stains.
Cut construction paper or posterboard into special shapes that kids can paint over, like letters or animals, to give them a dual lesson on art and other subjects., Get a feel for the paint by pressing the pom poms directly into the drawing surface. The paint-soaked pom poms will create bright, colorful globs that practically explode off the drawing surface.Place the pom pom flush against the drawing surface to make sure that the color comes off in an even circle.
Dots are good practice for more sophisticated designs later on.
 From dots you can progress to longer lines and strokes. Drag the pom pom across the drawing surface to leave a continuous streak of color. Learning to brush lines and curves will open up an infinite number of possible objects for the kids to paint.After learning straight and curved lines, move on to more advanced techniques like parallel and perpendicular lines, angles and spirals.
Use lines to connect some of the dots they made when they first began painting with the pom poms.
 For especially young children, this can be a great opportunity to teach them to form and recognize geometric figures. Draw and label circles, squares and triangles, then have the kids attempt to recreate them. When they feel comfortable, they can start outlining shapes of their own.Fill in the outlines of shapes using the dots and lines you just practiced.
Encourage your artists to incorporate shapes into their paintings. A triangle, for instance, could be the roof of a house, a circle the sun or a rectangle the trunk of a tree., Once they've gotten the hang of elementary painting techniques, give the kids some time to do their own thing with the pom poms and paint. This type of abstract exercise can be very good for nurturing a child's creative capabilities. You might be surprised at some of the things their young minds can come up with!Give small children a hand with the paint and other supplies, but otherwise let them make their own decisions.
 When you’re buying the pom poms, pick up a few packages of various sizes. That way, kids can choose to make their dots, lines and shapes large and bold or small and precise. The more options they have, the more freedom they’ll enjoy to create unique artwork.


Pom poms are inexpensive and can be found at most arts and crafts supply stores.
 Depending on the age of the child or group you’re working with, you might have them try their hand at strings of letters. Help them by demonstrating how each letter is spelled and have them mimic your handwriting underneath. Begin with easy 2 and 3 letter words, such as “me,” “you,” “dog,” “cat” and “mom” and “dad,” and gradually increase the complexity from there.Guide each child through the process of learning how to spell their name.Try spelling out words in both upper and lower case letters.
 Pom pom painting can also provide an opportunity to teach young learners about primary and secondary colors. Swirling together blue and yellow, for instance, makes green, and purple can be produced by mixing red and blue. See what other interesting colors you can invent using a set of ordinary paints.Quiz the kids the see how many colors they can correctly identify.Mixing new shades can help you add more colors to your palette.
 Rather than simply painting individual collections of shapes, instruct the children to work together to create a larger scene. This can include things like stick figure people, animals, trees, houses and anything else their imaginations can conceive. Once the painting is finished, hang it up for display or have them go through and explain the action piece by piece.Assign one color of paint to each child so they can keep track of their contributions. This will also force them to think critically about how the different colors should best be used.
Come up with different themes for picture projects, like jungle animals or a day at the beach.

