 This is the recommended amount to prevent severely tightened joints and muscles. A doctor may request that you do them at a greater frequency.;
, The best platforms are beds that can be adjusted so that the helper doesn’t need to lean over and strain the back while working with the patient’s joints.


If you must use a low bed for a passive range of motion routine, grab a chair and get it as close to the bed as possible to reduce strain.
Lock the bed or table so that it can’t move while you are performing the exercises.
 You will be performing the movements, so they should not have any strain or feel out of breath.
 You should stop the exercise and lay the patient’s body in a relaxed position until the pain subsides. Skip the painful exercise and move onto the next one if the patient is able.
 Some physical therapists suggest doing the exercises in the bath if possible, since it can improve the flexibility of the joints and relax the patient.
 Usually this means placing a hand beneath each of the joints on a limb., It is more important that you move slowly and extend the joint through its full range of motion than it is to hold the stretch for a long period of time., It is important to exercise both sides equally.
 Turn the person’s head gently from side to side while supporting the neck with one hand.
 Move as if the ear is attempting to touch the shoulder.
 Return it to a comfortable position.
 Support the elbow with one hand and hold the wrist with the other. Raise the arm forward and over the head, then bring it back down.
 Raise the shoulder out to the side as far as it will go. Bring it back down.
 Bend the elbow and then straighten the arm.
 Hold the fingers with the other end and bend the wrist back and forth to its fullest motion.
 Roll the wrist in one direction and then the other.
 Curl the fingers into a fist and then straighten them again. Repeat with each finger, one at a time.
 Roll the fingers in each direction. Touch each fingertip to the thumb.
, Hold onto the ankle with the other hand. Bend the knee up to the patient’s chest and then straighten it completely.
 Bring it forward to cross over the other leg slightly.
 Then, roll it out, with the toes pointing outward.
 Support the person’s ankle with one hand and their foot or toes with the other. Flex the person’s foot and then point the toes.
 Repeat in the opposite direction.
 Then, point it outward.
 Straighten each toe.
 Then, bring the toes to rest normally.,