 For this method, you'll need a plastic pill bottle, aluminum foil, a large screw, a lighter, a 2-litre plastic bottle, a pen, tape, and a cigarette.
 Make sure you have a pen that can be taken apart down to where it's just a hollow tube. Take apart your pen.
 Take your large screw and use your lighter to heat up the end. Put the end of the screw against the bottom of the bottle, in the center. Press it into the plastic until it burns a hole.


If the plastic isn't giving you'll need to heat the lighter more.
 Immediately take your pen and slide it into the hole. The melting plastic will work to create an airtight seal.


If the screw you used to make the whole is too large, or the pen is too skinny, the hole might be too big to create an airtight seal. If so, just use tape or putty to secure the pen to the bottle.
 Cut a sheet of aluminum about four to six inches on each side. Push it into the bottle and then fold the edges down the sides of the bottle. Essentially you want create an aluminum bowl inside the bottle.
 Poke a few small holes in the bottom of the aluminum, right over where the pen sits below it. This will act as the screen that lets the smoke through., Burn a hole through the 2-litre bottle with your cigarette wherever you want your down stem to go in. This is usually closer to the bottom, anywhere from one third to one half of the way up the bottle.


If you don't have a cigarette, you can also burn a hole by using a large screw and heating it up with a lighter. If you use this method, hold the screw with tweezers or pliers while you heat it up, so that you don't burn your fingers.
 Stick the pen into the hole you made in the bottle. Hold the pen in place and wrap tape around it where it connects to the bottle so that it creates an airtight seal. You may need to use several layers of tape.


You can also use putty to seal the connection.
 Make two more holes around the top of the bottle with your cigarette. These will act as the carburetors. Fill your bong up with about four inches of water. Pack your bowl and you're ready to smoke.