 If this girl isn't someone you're already on friendly terms with, start with "hi" and take it from there. Don't overthink this, just start a conversation. Then as you see her around school, talk to her and start to get to know her. Ask her if she'd like to join you during lunchtime. Tell her you're going to see a movie with some friends and ask if she'd like to go. Something like this will also give you an excuse to get her number., When you talk to the girl you're trying to impress, be interested in getting to know her more deeply. Ask her questions that show this interest. It's hard not to take notice of someone who seems genuinely interested in your life and what you have to say. Ask her about her family, her interests, what she wants in the future, anything like that, and then let her steer the conversation.Just be careful not to turn the conversation into an interview. You shouldn't be asking questions constantly, like this is some kind of interrogation. Let the questions be open-ended, and insert comments about how you can relate to what she's saying as the conversation continues.
 Girls want guys who can make them laugh. If you want to stand out to a particular girl, making her laugh should be one of your main tools. In group settings this means taking risks by making funny comments when they come to you, and teasing your friends and the girl you like in a playful way. When alone with her, you can flex your funny bone by making funny observations about something around you, and telling humorous stories about your life., Don't try to impress her by pretending to be someone else. She can sense it. Openness and sincerity can be very impressive. When you're alone with the girl you like, try to steer the conversation in a more personal direction sometimes. Talk about things dear and important to you. Just make sure you don't do too much of the talking., There's no better way to get someone's romantic attention than to flirt. Good flirting skills are impressive because so few people, especially school aged, have them. Look her in the eyes when talking to her. Send deep gazes her way every once and a while. Compliment her when you have the opportunity.Other examples of flirting include: finding reasons to innocently touch her, like hugging goodbye, and teasing her in a friendly way.

