 If you've moved to a completely new town where you don't know a soul, then this may be trickier. But chances are, you've been living in the same place for a while and just can't seem to hit it off with anyone. If that's the case, then you should think about the people you already know who you may be overlooking. Here are some ways to do it:


Click on "Friends" on the lower-left hand side of your Facebook homepage. You'll be able to click on a list of people who live within 10 miles (16 km) of your hometown (if you've listed it). This doesn't mean you should reach out to people you barely know, but see if you're surprised to see if any people you were once close with have ended up in your hood.
Look through your phone and make a list of people who you'd like to hang out with. This can be a bit of a stretch. Now, make sure they wouldn't be too surprised to hear from you. Then send them a text suggesting a low-pressure hang out, like grabbing coffee.
Look around your work or classes. See if you've overlooked anyone who might be a potential friend. Remember to be open-minded.
Know thy neighbors. If your neighbors are really friendly and always invite you over, accept the invitation.
 If you have a problem with socializing because you're too busy to socialize, then you shouldn't make your schedule more busy. However, you should rearrange it so that you have time to pursue new hobbies or interests that could lead you to meet more people. Here are some things you can try:


Has your friend been inviting you to join her book club for months? Say yes. Or start your own club.
Take an acting or improv class for beginners. Not only will it help you become more social in public, but you'll also meet a lot of dynamic people.
Join a sports league, like soccer, volleyball, or tennis. You'll get your endorphins up while meeting some cool new people.
Take an art class. Sure, you may be focused on your art during the class, but you could make some great friends during breaks.
Volunteer in your community. This is another great way to meet new people.
 Remember that friendship is a two-way street. Not only should you accept more invitations, but you should make invitations too. So, once you've found someone you (at least sort-of) click with, you should invite that person to hang out. The more concrete or personalized your plans, the better. If you just say, "We should hang out soon," it'll never happen. Here are some things to consider as you make your invitation:


Be concrete. Don't just say "We should grab coffee some time." Instead, say, I'd love to grab coffee one morning. How does next week look for you?
Don't offer anything too personal or intense at first. Ask the person if he or she wants to grab a drink instead of eating a fancy four-course meal. The person may worry that you'll run out of things to talk about.
Don't invite the person over your place. Invite the person out for lunch at a restaurant, not on your back porch; invite the person out to the movies, not to watch a movie at your place. If you invite the person over to your place first, you'll come on too strong.
 Romantic life is part of any social life, whether you've been with the same partner for years or you're just part of the casual dating scene. If you haven't dated anyone in months or years, and it's not because you're heart-broken but because you're afraid of making the effort, then you need to start making some changes. Sign up for an online dating site, attend singles events, or ask your acquaintances or friends to set you up; there's nothing wrong with asking for help.


Even if the dates don't lead to romance, you may end up making a new friend, or meeting other potential friends along the way.
Dating is a great way to put yourself out there, overcome social anxiety, and learn to connect with a wider variety of people. Just don't jump into an obsessive relationship right away, or your social life will get even worse.
As you search for a partner, find someone who is social and has lots of friends, so you can meet more people.
 Use your job or school to network, improve your career prospects, and to meet more people. If your job is having a work networking event, whether it's through a volunteer day or a happy hour, don't turn down the opportunity. Though you should build professional relationships at work, you can make some real friendships too. The same goes for school; if you're invited to an event where you can meet other people in your field or major, take it as an opportunity to make new friends and meet people who share your career goals.


You shouldn't think of the people at work or school as just your "work friends" or your "class friends" only. Some of them could become real, life-long friends. This doesn't mean you should try to be BFF with your boss.
 Maybe one of the reasons you don't have much of a social life is because you only have two friends, and neither of them like to leave the house. Though you shouldn't ditch your hermit-like buddies, you should make an effort to hang out with more people who have a lot of friends, love to mingle, and generally like to have a good time with a variety of people. These people will not only be fun to hang out with, but will lead you to meet more people.


Don't hang out with a social person you don't really like. Just use "sociability" as a quality you look for when you're on the search for more friends.

