 If you have not been granted access to the cat you’re interested in, visit the shelter, shop, or rescue organization where it is being housed. Ask the staff, “Has this cat’s personality been assessed?” If it has, request a summary of the assessment. If it has not, ask “May I assess this cat’s personality?” When they assent to your request, begin the assessment process.Assessing a cat’s personality is typically part of the process involved in matching cats with potential owners. With a personality assessment in hand, families and individuals interested in obtaining a cat can make a more informed decision.
If you believe you need a professional to help you conduct the cat’s personality assessment, ask for such an individual at the shelter or rescue organization where the cat is being housed.;
, There are basically three types of body postures you should look for. One is the soft and relaxed posture. This is characterized by a cat who is reclining or walking with an easygoing gait. The second posture is the tense body with twitching tail. This posture indicates a nervous demeanor. Finally, a flattened body (for instance, ears against its head and tail on the ground) with dilated pupils indicates a cat that is defensive and very fearful., Right after looking at the cat’s body language, speak to it in a reassuring manner. For instance, you might say, “Hello, good cat. You look very well today.” Observe the cat’s response.If the cat is very friendly and outgoing, it will move toward you and meow, or engage in additional behaviors to solicit affection (for instance, trying to touch you with its paw).
If the cat is moderately friendly and outgoing, it will come to the front of the cage but remain silent.
If the cat is slightly friendly, it will vocalize with a chirp or meow.
Unfriendly cats will attempt to hide.
Hostile cats will hiss, growl, stand their hair on end, keep their ears down, and in rare cases, charge at you (even from within the cage).
 After talking to the cat in a soft voice, open its cage while watching it. Cats who are more adventurous and outgoing will remain relaxed and walk right up to you when you open the cage. They might also remain standing but flick their tail back and forth. Cats who are a bit shy but not fearful will remain relaxed and calm, but will not approach you or make any motion. Cats that are very anxious or afraid will crouch in a low, defensive position and make their bodies stiff.Do not talk to the cat while opening its cage.
 After opening to door to the cat’s cage, transport the cat to a new room using a cat carrier. Place the carrier on the floor and open the door. Using a stopwatch, measure how long it takes the cat to exit the carrier.If the cat takes 25 seconds or less to exit and it steps out with head held high, and looks about inquisitively, your cat is very outgoing and friendly.
If the cat takes 25 seconds or less to exit and it steps out with a compact or slinking posture, it has a cautious personality.
If the cat exits the carrier within 25 seconds quickly, then runs beneath a hiding place (a table, chair, or similar place), the cat has a fearful personality.
If the cat takes more than 25 seconds to exit, or does not exit at all, it might be scared, or it might just be an easygoing cat that enjoys observing more than exploring.

