 The importance of healthy eating and exercise during intense periods of study cannot be understated. Eating right will give you more energy and help to keep you more alert during study sessions, while exercise can help you to clear your head and work out the stress.Try to eat plenty of fresh fruit and veg, lean protein and filling, complex carbs at mealtimes, and try cereal and granola bars or a handful of nuts or raisins for healthy snacks. Avoid sugary snacks which will cause you to crash.In terms of exercise, try to incorporate 30 minutes of exercise into your daily routine, whether it's something fun like a dance class or football game, or something as simple as a walk outside.
 Aim to get a full 8 hour's of sleep every night while you are studying. It may be tempting to stay up late studying, but remember: you're going to need energy and focus in order to study effectively, which you won't have if you've stayed up late the night before. Also remember to get a proper night's sleep before the day of the exam. Your previous preparation can go to waste if you don’t.
 Stress can be extremely contagious, so try to avoid fellow students who are tearing their hair out over the exams, or people who are stressed-out generally. A calm, methodical approach to your work trumps stress every time.
 It can be easy to give in to distractions when studying, but try to remember your long-term goals and be firm with yourself. If you allow yourself to be distracted from studying now, you'll end up trying to cram the week before the exam, which will put your stress levels through the roof. Study in a disciplined and consistent manner and you'll feel much calmer and more prepared come exam time.


While you're studying, turn off your phone and consider downloading a computer program that blocks your access to social media sites. If your friend asks you to go for coffee when you're in the middle of a productive study session, don't feel guilty about saying no.
 Set yourself a rigorous work schedule during the week and try to stick to it as closely as possible. However, you should allow yourself some free time at the weekend to relax and let your hair down. Go out with some friends, see a movie or just hang out with your family. If you've worked consistently during the week, there's no need to feel guilty about having some fun at the weekend... you'll need it!

, Try to visualize yourself feeling confident and relaxed on the day of the exam. Then think about what it would feel like to get your target test grades. Visualization will help motivate you to take the necessary steps to achieve your goals. Remember - if you believe you can do it, you can do it! 