 Your fingers carry oils, and when you touch your face, the oil is transferred to your face. This can cause an acne breakout. Furthermore, your face can lose elasticity if you pull, tug or play with it. The muscles in the skin may gradually loosen and will sag; this can cause wrinkles and make your face appear less healthy. As a rule of thumb: keep your hands away from your face.
 Daily cleansing and shaving can take a toll on your skin. To keep it gentle:


Limit bath time. Hot water and long showers or baths remove oils from your skin. Limit your bath or shower time, and use warm water—not hot. Hot water can dry out your skin.
Avoid strong soaps. Strong soaps and detergents can strip oil from your skin, making it dry and flaky. Instead, choose mild cleansers.
Shave carefully. To protect and lubricate your skin, apply shaving cream, lotion or gel before shaving. For the closest shave, use a clean, sharp razor. Shave in the direction the hair grows, not against it.
Pat dry. After washing or bathing, gently pat or blot your skin dry with a towel so that some moisture remains on your skin. Try letting your face air dry before applying toner.
 Exfoliation is a great way to help shed dead skin cells, which could collect in pores and turn to blemishes. Use minimal pressure—you are only exfoliating the first few layers of skin. It is much better to exfoliate for a longer period of time with little pressure, than a short period of time with heavy pressure. Don't forget to moisturize after exfoliating.


Mix water and baking soda for a homemade exfoliating scrub. Mix equal increments of the two ingredients, then adjust the proportions until you have a thick paste. Use this once every 2-3 days for a mild exfoliation.
 If your skin is dry, use a moisturizer that fits your skin type. Use a moisturizer to restore your skin after exfoliating or after any harsh facial cleanser. You can use natural oils—coconut, avocado, tea tree, etc.—to moisturize your skin.For example, if you use a harsh cleaner without moisturizing after, your skin is left very dry. This signals your skin to produce excessive oil so that it can return to its natural state.
Make sure your moisturizer has some sun protection. Sun damage may not be a fast-acting cause of skin issues, but by using a moisturizer with at least 15 SPF, you can avoid wrinkles in the future and help slow the aging of your skin.
 Popping a pimple may seem to release all the dirt and help clean out the pore. In actuality, however, the bacteria in the pore gets pushed back further into the skin; this gradually collects in more pores, causing a chain reaction. Pimples tend to spread from a central point.If a pimple comes up, don't squeeze it; stretch it out so that the blood vessels won't open and fuse with the pus. If blood fuses with the pus, then it will be harder to clean the pores.
Always use rubbing alcohol after a pimple is open. The rubbing alcohol will not only restore moisture that is needed to keep the skin fresh, but it will clear the pus from deep within the pores. This will make it harder for pimples to return.
 If you use makeup brushes, wash them in warm soapy water every day. Bacteria can grow on unwashed makeup brushes because of the dirt and facial oils that have rubbed onto them. When you brush this bacteria back onto your face, it can lead to acne and spots. Acne can be hard to get rid of, and serious cases may leave nasty scars.


When using makeup, avoid cheap products and always use a face primer. Never forget to remove makeup before going to bed.
 This can restore and preserve your skin in a number of ways—anti-aging, spots, wrinkles, skin tone, facial glow, or even brightening—depending on the ingredients in the mask. You can buy masking materials in drugstores and beauty stores, or you can make your own from household items. Good ingredients to add include honey, lemon, milk, avocado, yogurt, oats, banana and cucumber.

