 Many orchestras post information about the audition on the website. If this does not include open audition times and piece selections, contact the orchestra's public relation agent, or whoever is in charge of auditions.


Many youth and community orchestras have openings year-round. School orchestras often treat orchestra as a class, and take auditions at the beginning of each semester or quarter.;
, Typically, the orchestra will assign you an orchestral excerpt to perform at the audition, and often a sonata as well. Practice these every day leading up to the audition. If the orchestra is competitive, aim to practice at least two hours a day for several weeks. If this is a school orchestra or a more casual orchestra, just practice as much as you have time for.


One common mistake is to only practice the whole excerpt from start to finish each time. That is an important part of practicing, but you should also identify the most difficult sections and practice them on their own.
You may be expected to find the sheet music yourself. You can buy it online, or order it from a public library with a music session.
 If asked to perform a solo piece, choose a piece you know well. Ideally, you should pick a piece that demonstrates a range of techniques and musicality; is a concerto or other solo piece with orchestral accompaniment; and that shows off your strengths. However, at a non-professional level, it's more important to play your best. Most orchestras will not mind if you play an orchestra part or anything else you're comfortable with.
 You only need to play the short excerpt assigned you, but it will help your performance to understand the whole movement, or at least a good five minute chunk leading up to your excerpt. Try to find several recordings online and choose the one you like best. If you can, put it on your phone and listen to it frequently.
 Many auditions at the school and university level include a sight reading portion. You may need to hum a portion of the music they give you in addition to playing it on your instrument. Although you won't know the piece in advance, you can practice sight reading unfamiliar pieces to improve your skills in this area.
 Most orchestras at this level (especially grade school orchestras) do not care how you dress for the audition. The highest priority is freedom of movement, since you want full control over your instrument. It is a good idea to avoid shorts, ratty jeans, or other extra-casual clothing, but you do not need to get fancy. When in doubt, go business casual.
 Depending on how many other people are auditioning, you might be waiting for a while. Bring a snack, plus something to occupy yourself, such as an engrossing book or phone game. This will make it much easier to avoid nerves and boredom.


If you're nervous about the audition, make sure the snack won't upset your stomach.
 Show up at thirty minutes early to allow for delays and warm up time. Treat everyone politely while you are waiting, and when you go in to your audition. Smile and make eye contact with the judges before you play, and thank them afterward. Do your best to show that you take the audition seriously.


Turn your phone on silent before you play.
The judges will often stop you before you finish the piece, once they've made a decision. This has nothing to do with how well you did, so don't worry.
 Even before you have applied to audition, purchase a book of orchestral excerpts. These are examples of the pieces you will be assigned, so it's great preparation to practice them. Incorporate them into your daily practice, and familiarize yourself with the pieces they come from.


It may help motivation to choose a mix of easy and difficult excerpts to work on at one time, and cycle through them. For example, work on two or three easy to moderate excerpts today, then switch to two or three difficult excerpts tomorrow. Continue alternating between these groups.
 At the professional level, joining an orchestra is applying to a job. You may be competing with over one hundred applicants, so cast the widest net you can. Here are a few ways to discover opportunities to audition:


Join your local chapter of a musician's union, such as the American Federation of Musicians. These typically send out regular newsletters notifying you of orchestral auditions with contact details.
Regularly check local newspapers, trade paper, concert fliers, and music venue announcements for audition chances.
Look up orchestras' audition contact info online and call to inquire whether there are open positions. If there are, ask for information about the try-out pieces and schedule a try-out date.
 When a professional orchestra has an opening, they invite musicians to submit their application. This may include any or all of the following:


A resume of your music performance history
A portfolio of music you have played
A letter of introduction or reference letters from previous conductors, teachers, and fellow musicians

, If possible, attend the orchestra's recitals and performances. Introduce yourself to the maestro or maestra. If the orchestra is not in your area, listen to recordings of its past performances.


Also introduce yourself to musicians who play your instrument, and ask whether they are available to hire for lessons. Most will be, unless they are in a world-class orchestra, and they can offer advice tailored to the preferences of the people who judge auditions.
 If a professional orchestra accepts you application, it will send you an assigned excerpt of an orchestral piece. (In fact, you may go through three round of increasing difficulty, but you will start with one assigned piece.) You will typically have a few weeks to practice this. Practice this daily, and listen to several recordings of the full movement or piece so you understand the excerpt in a broader context. Aim for the correct phrasing, articulation, and musical nuance for the composer and period in question.


At the professional level, a string player will likely need four to six hours of practice a day to be competitive. Other musicians may need to limit themselves to shorter practice sessions due to the demands of the instrument.
Some orchestras request you bring your own piece instead, so — as always — have at least one piece you can play perfectly.
 You will usually get a chance to perform a solo piece as well. Concertos are the most common choice, since they demonstrate your ability to play with an orchestra. A solo sonata is the second best option. Choose a piece that demonstrates a wide range of ability, including both technical skill and musicality.


It can be risky to choose a "show off" piece. Remember you are auditioning for an orchestra. Your ability to play a Paganini solo is not very relevant.
 Practice with a metronome so you know you are achieving the correct tempo. Record your practice sessions and listen to them with a critical ear. If you do not currently have a professional music coach, hire one and focus on your audition performance during lessons.
 Almost all professional orchestras use blind auditions to remove bias based on sex and other factors. The judges sit behind a screen, and the performer does not speak.
 You may contact the orchestra and ask about the dress code if you are unsure, but fancy dress is almost never a requirement. Since most auditions are blind, the most important factors in clothing choice are comfort and full range of motion. There is a chance that you will advance to an interview stage, so do dress in a business casual or another lightly formal outfit. This could be neat slacks and an ironed dress shirt, or a modest, black dress. Avoid over-elaborate makeup and jewelry.


Do not wear hard-soled shoes to a blind audition, as the clacking on the floor may cause the judges to assume you are female.
If you have long hair, pull it back.
Cellists should not wear short skirts.
 It's possible you will be waiting for hours as other people audition ahead of you. Do not schedule anything after the audition. Bring a snack that's gentle on your stomach, as well as a book, puzzle collection, or other distraction that will keep you from sitting there anxious.
 At a blind audition, all you need to do is sit down and follow the judges' instructions. Do not speak, as this could reveal information about you the judges are not supposed to know. If you do meet the judges face-to-face, which is rare at professional auditions, clearly announce your name and the solo piece you are playing, and appear as confident as possible.

