 The smelly part of the skunk spray is from chemicals called thiols.These awful-smelling oils make the scent “stick” to the sprayed dog. Unfortunately, you cannot simply shampoo and rinse these oils away.


Also, skip the tomato juice myth because that will not eliminate the oils either.;
, There are special chemical solutions used to remove substances containing thiols. You can mix a mild form of this solution at home that is safe for your dog. The following formula will make enough to scrub a small- or medium-sized dog. Double or even triple the amounts for very large dogs. You should mix:1 quart 3% hydrogen peroxide
1/4 cup baking soda
1 teaspoon liquid hand soap

, The solution has the potential to irritate your skin, so you should wear gloves when you mix and use it. You also want to wear gloves to avoid transferring any of the skunk smell to yourself while handling the stinky dog.


The solution may irritate your dog’s skin as well, especially if the pet is prone to skin infections or other skin conditions. In these cases, consult your veterinarian before using the solution.
 In addition to keeping the smelly dog from spreading the smell inside, you want to use the solution outside because the peroxide can potentially stain wood, cloth furniture, and other household items.
 Gently scrub the dog with the solution, but be careful to avoid the eyes and inner ears. Allow the solution to sit for up to five minutes but no more than that. Rinse the dog very thoroughly since the peroxide can discolor fur.


If the smell remains, you may have to repeat the process.
 Make sure you dry the dog well before allowing him back in the house. You should also keep an eye on him during this period and watch for other complications from being sprayed.


If your dog gets wet at all within a week or so, you may faintly notice the skunk smell again. Try not to bathe your dog again for a week.
 The solution will lose its effectiveness from sitting, so you should make and use it immediately. Do not store the solution for future use if you make too much.
 There are also shampoos formulated for removing skunk spray from a dog’s coat. However, they’re more expensive than the ingredients for the homemade solution, and they likely will not work as well. Your veterinarian may suggest one of these shampoos instead of the solution if your dog is prone to skin conditions that make the homemade solution inadvisable.

