 Most people prefer to nap in private since there could be many distractions in public places. If you're not home when you need to nap, consider napping in your office or in your car. if you don't have a car or office, ask if there's a private conference room you could use for a while. Leave a sign on the door stating that you shouldn't be disturbed. Try to find somewhere you can stretch out, lie down, recline or lean back.


When choosing a place to nap, consider how busy the space is, the noise level, and how comfortable it is.;
, See if you can lower the thermostat to a temperature that is warm enough to be comfortable, but not too hot. Most people sleep better in slightly lower temperatures than their normal working environment. Cool temperatures can help you fall asleep and sleep better. If you can't adjust the temperature, try to wrap yourself in a blanket or warm jacket.If you can, dim the lights. This may help you fall asleep faster, especially if you're in an office with bright fluorescent lighting.
 Some people have no problem sleeping with background or distraction noises. But if you find that noises keep you from catching a catnap, try to turn on a white noise machine or download a white noise app onto your smartphone. This can help drown out distracting sounds so you can relax and sleep. Most sound machines create a static noise or offer soothing sounds like waves or water.If you don't have a white noise machine, you can turn on a fan to create noise or close windows and doors to block out sounds.
 Remove or loosen any restrictive clothing so you can rest properly. Take off your jacket or tie, un-tuck your shirt or slip off your shoes to get more comfortable. Loosen your belt or, if you're at home, change into more comfortable clothes.


You might want to keep comfortable slippers or a soft jacket in your office or car so that you can easily nap. Maybe even keep a pillow or blanket in your car.
 Rather than wait to become exhausted, spend a few minutes in the morning looking at your schedule for the day. Look for a time slot that is open for at least 15 to 20 minutes. This way, you won't miss any appointments and you'll know what's planned for immediately after your nap. Most people find that they have a regular afternoon slump. It may help to schedule your nap for a few hours after lunch.If you usually start dragging by a certain time of day, try to schedule your nap for before that time. This may prevent your usual afternoon tiredness and give you a burst of much-needed energy. A good nap time might be during your lunch hour if you have the time.
 Most catnaps are short naps of around 10 to 15 minutes. Although some people may prefer to sleep for 20 to 30 minutes, research shows that just a 10 minute nap can help a person recover from a night of sleep deprivation. The benefits of such a short nap usually last between one and three hours.Longer naps (over 30 minutes) can make you feel groggy when you wake up, but can make you feel more energetic in the long run (for several hours)., If you really need a nap, don't rely on your own internal clock to wake yourself up or you may find yourself sleeping too long. If you sleep too long (over 15 to 20 minutes), you may affect your nighttime sleep pattern, making it harder to fall asleep at night. Set an alarm That gives you enough time to get a good nap 15 to 20 minutes.Avoid hitting the snooze button when your alarm goes off. Falling asleep between brief snoozes will only make you groggy. Which can ruin the rest of your work day.
 When you wake up, consider how you feel. If you feel awake and alert, the length of your nap was good. But if you wake up groggy and tired, you might have slept too long. Even if you take a brief catnap, you may feel like it takes a while to fully wake up. If you can, avoid doing detailed or challenging tasks for the first 20 to 30 minutes after you wake up.Researchers are still studying whether people get any benefit from making themselves take a nap when they don't feel like it. Evidence suggests that only people who feel tired and need to nap actually benefit from taking a catnap.