 Liberalism has been redefined many times over the years, but most people today use it almost synonymously with "left-wing" ideology. As such, most people will consider themselves both "left wing" and liberals at the same time. Both believe that:


A large, central government is essential to run the country smoothly.
The free market gives too much power to businesses, and must be regulated to ensure consumers are treated fairly.
The government must actively protect the rights of minorities and at-risk populations.
 The left-wing is not a precise set of ideals that everyone agrees with. Just like right-wing ideology, the most common split is over social and economic policy, with equally left-wing groups capable of taking different "liberal" stances. For example, think about how two different left-wing thinkers might approach affirmative action, which is when minority students are given a slight preference on job applications:



More socially liberal: Minorities face untold, and unseen, discrimination at all levels of hiring. A small boost will help even this playing field after decades of hateful laws, policies, and attitudes, even if it means some people will be left behind.

More economically liberal: Acting like some groups are "worse" and need a boost drives down long-term growth, and lack of education and resources is a more important issue. The real issue is in wealth distribution, not hiring policy, even though this doesn't help the current generation.
 Extreme liberals, often known as those "on the far left," generally believe that the government has an obligation to fix a variety of wrongs, and that the government is better suited to handle problems and spend money than individuals. As such, the far-left generally believes:Capitalism, particularly free-market capitalism, only concentrates power in the hands of a wealthy few, destroying the middle class.
Companies and individuals will not treat minorities or disenfranchised groups with respect unless compelled (by regulation or incentive) to do so.
There are some things (like the environment) too important to trust people with doing, and thus the government must control group efforts to tackle these issues.
 In general, the Democratic Party is considered America's "left-wing" party. This makes it a good first place to go for burgeoning liberals, as the Democrats generally believe in government-enforced social equality for all people, higher taxes on higher incomes, and moderate environmental and economic regulation. However, this is not the only option for impressionable left-wingers:



The Green Party: One of America's biggest 3rd parties, the Greens focus on economic equality, a strong commitment against global warming and pollution, and expanded social rights for all.

The Justice Party: A relatively new party, the Justice Party's primary goal is to challenge the influence and big businesses on politics. They argue this can only occur through stronger regulation.

The Working Families Party: Supports Dems and Repubs, though sticks to a center-left policy of stronger unions and worker support, higher minimum wage, and other middle-class protections against strong business interests.