 It will make your research process a lot more focused and efficient if you’re able to hone in on a specific subject with a clearly defined scope. Then, you’ll only have to do the research that directly supports your speech. Besides designating a specific topic, consider setting historical/time-based and geographical/place-based parameters on your presentation if they’re relevant.For instance, if you’ve been assigned a broad topic, like “contemporary politics,” be sure you narrow it down to address a particular trend that most interests you or that you think is most relevant, such as “Immigration in 21st-Century U.S. Politics.”
If you know enough about your subject, do a rough outline in advance, so that you can identify each specific point or subtopic that you’d like to address and investigate. Your research may reshape your outline a bit, but it will give you a strong idea about where to start looking.;
, You will also want to consider the aims you have for giving the speech, that is, what you want the audience to take away from it. Is your goal to be informative by helping them learn about something or to be persuasive by making an argument you hope they’ll agree with and/or act upon by the end? Will you approach it as an intellectual or emotional appeal? Deciding your aim and approach will help guide the types of research and evidence that you’ll be seeking.If you’re doing an informative presentation about the hospitality industry, you’ll want to focus on gathering related statistical data. If you’re trying to make an emotional appeal for the audience to support your cancer research charity, you may want to look for personal stories of survivors whose lives were saved by new treatments.
If you’re making a particular argument, you should look specifically for information that supports your angle rather than general data about a topic.
 Knowing the length of your speech can help you figure out the extent of the research that you need to conduct for it. If you only have 15 minutes, you won’t be able to cover 10 case studies, so you can focus on finding one or two examples that best illustrate your point.
 Having a general idea about who you will be addressing can also help guide your research, especially in terms of knowing where to pitch your speech. If you’re speaking to people who are likely to be unfamiliar with your topic, you’ll need to include more basic and background information. If you’re addressing fellow experts, you can include the latest studies and theories in the field and assume that they’ll have insider knowledge of them.Besides knowing their level of knowledge on your topic, it also helps to know if they have something in common, like they are all high school students or all biologists. This can help determine the type of research that will be most effective for your speech.
If your audience members all share a particular interest or work in the same field, consider looking for examples and evidence that would speak especially to them. If they’re high school kids, tie in a pop-culture reference they would know; if they’re biologists, see if you can use biological examples to prove your point.
 Consider what you might want to know about your subject if you were listening to a speech about it. This can help narrow down your research, but it can also help fill in any gaps that you might have on your topic.For instance, if you’re giving a speech on plastic recycling, you might think that an audience would ask questions like, “How much plastic is recycled each year?” or “How much energy does it take to recycle a plastic bottle versus creating a new one?” If you don’t know the answer to these questions, be sure to look them up during your research.
 While you want to stick to a specific topic, it’s always a good idea to start by understanding the “bigger picture” of your subject matter. Take a little time to investigate the history or background of what you’ll be discussing.


For example, if you’re giving a speech on online dating apps, you could look into the history of personal ads and other dating services or frame your topic in terms of the entire app industry.
 Use a system that works for you. Making sure that you have information organized and sources accounted for will make it much easier for you when it comes time to writing your speech.Keep all your research in one place, like a notepad or a word document.
Create a labeling system for your research. If you made an outline in advance, you can simply enter information in under the relevant bullet points. Otherwise, make sure that you devise headings to categorize your notes. You can do this at the end by going back and highlighting everything that speaks to a specific point in a particular color.Be sure to record the bibliographic information for all your sources. You want to make sure you know where you got each bit of evidence, who wrote it, and when it was published so that you can confirm and acknowledge it in your speech.
 These may include books, audio or video recordings, interviews, databases, periodicals like newspapers and journals, and reference tools like dictionaries and encyclopedias. Going to a library to do your research will give you access to a huge variety of credible sources along with a searchable database and reference librarians to help you find them.In each case, you’ll want to evaluate the credibility of the source by considering the credentials of the author(s) and their potential biases. If an author has no professional expertise or first-hand knowledge of the topic, they aren’t the most authoritative source for your research. If the author has a known political or personal agenda, it’s important to acknowledge that the information they present may reflect that bias.
Keep in mind that, in order to be persuasive, you will need to cite your sources within your speech, either by including them in a handout or digital presentation slides, or by saying them aloud. Either way, you want to be sure that your sources are adding to credibility, not detracting from it., Websites are incredibly convenient sources for research. However, because the content of most sites is not regulated by established publishing houses with rigorous editorial standards or by peer-review systems, it’s important to establish the credibility of a website before using any information from it in your speech.To evaluate the credibility of an online source, consider its accountability. That is, determine who’s responsible for the content and whose interests the content is designed to serve. If the content is reliable, there will generally be plenty of information available about the organization and author(s) behind it so that you can assess their credentials and potential biases.
In general, government sites (identified by .gov and .mil) and educational sites (.edu) are more credible than others because their content is regulated and formally restricted.
Use only the official websites of those organizations directly related to your topic whenever possible. For example, if you’re giving a talk on emissions regulations, do research at the Environmental Protection Agency’s official website.
Using a custom search engine like Google Scholar can help eliminate obviously sketchy sources from your search results.
 Primary sources are first-hand accounts of your subject, like interviews or original research papers by the people who conducted the research. Secondary sources, like encyclopedias or history books, are texts written by people who have compiled the research for you. Both are useful to your research since primary sources provide direct, authoritative information while secondary sources can help give you the “big picture” of a particular topic., It will lend credibility to your ideas if you can find an established expert or eye-witnesses who can back them up. If you’re arguing for a different take, set it up with a quote that shows how your ideas differ from those of the prevailing experts.Most of your speech should be your words and ideas, so use quotes sparingly.
Be sure to mention the source and set up the context from which a quote is drawn as you present it. If it’s from a top scientist, you’ll want to note that your quote is from the most recent journal article published by a Nobel-winning biochemist.
 The best stats are the ones that are clear, based on a credible study by a government or academic authority, and defy your audience’s expectations.For instance, if you’re presenting on gender and children’s mental health, you could give the statistics that show how surprisingly prevalent anxiety and depression are (affecting one in eight children) and then how even more surprisingly common they are for girls (affecting one in three).
It also helps if you find a way to connect your stats to concrete ideas. For example, if you’re talking about the distance between the Earth and the Moon, make the 252,088 miles more tangible by explaining that the distance is equal to 32 times the diameter of the Earth, or help people visualize the distance by using a basketball and a tennis ball that are 23 feet and 7 inches apart from one another.
Don’t overload your audience with numbers; you want them to walk away with a few memorable stats rather than a jumble of numbers.
 Help illustrate your points graphically, with diagrams; charts, tables, or graphs; photos or videos. Doing so will visually reinforce your spoken message, helping your audience to better remember and understand your speech.If you’re giving a speech about a battle during WWII, give your audience photos that illustrate your descriptions. If you’re presenting on global warming, offer a graph that shows world climate changes since they’ve been recorded.
 Your research should be more extensive than what you’re able to cover in your speech. That way, you can decide which pieces of evidence most strongly prove your points. Pick the ones that are the most relevant, authoritative, definitive, and accessible to your audience.


Also be sure that you’re including a variety of types of evidence.

