 Some studies have found that staying hydrated will prevent cramps (while other studies have found no correlation between the two). Researchers believe that the decreased fluid around a body’s cells causes muscle twitches, which in turn causes cramps.Be sure to drink enough water daily and replenish after exercising.


The Institute of Medicine suggests that men should drink roughly 13 cups (3.3 liters) of total beverages a day, while women should consume about 9 cups (2.2 liters) per day.The amount of fluids needed also depends on factors such as weight and activity level. Try an online calculator that will give you a more accurate estimation., Electrolytes are essential in maintaining the fluid balance in your body and can be lost when you sweat. Sodium in particular is lost through sweat more than other electrolytes. If you are sweating — especially if the weather is hot, if you are exercising, or you are an endurance athlete — the loss of sodium may lead to cramping and more dangerous condition called hyponatremia.Replace sodium by eating salty foods (like pretzels) or drinking sports products and drinks with electrolytes.
Try eating a slice of sour pickle or drinking the juice from a pickle. This is known as a “grandma formula,” but even players on the NFL’s Philadelphia Eagles have been known to drink 2 ounces of pickle juice before football games to prevent cramping.Unrefined sea salt is also suggested because it contains other minerals that are useful to the body., Many believe that muscle cramps are caused by a calcium deficiency.Increase your consumption of calcium naturally by eating a diet rich in dairy products such as milk, cheese, or yogurt. Additionally, you can try taking calcium supplements that can be purchased at your local pharmacy or online. The average recommended daily amount for adults ages 19 – 50 is 1,000 mg.If you don’t care for dairy products, try white beans, kale, sardines, salmon, or dried figs.Look for calcium supplements that also contain betaine hydrochloride and vitamin D. These nutrients help to increase the amount of calcium that’s digested into your body., There are currently medical hypotheses that link leg cramps to low levels of magnesium in one’s system.While the effect of magnesium on the general public is still being tested, it has proven an effective treatment for pregnant women.Try taking a magnesium supplement which can be found at your local pharmacy.


Suggested magnesium levels vary from 360 mg/day to 420 mg/day based on age. Talk to your doctor about the dosage that’s right for you., Potassium is an electrolyte that regulates the flow of liquids in and out of the body's cells. It also helps to conduct nerve impulses and muscle contractions. Most adults need 4,700 mg of potassium each day. High potassium foods include wholegrain breads, peanut butter, bananas, spinach, and milk or yogurt.Diuretics (water pills) that are used to treat conditions like high blood pressure, have been known to increase the risk of leg cramps because it increases the body's excretion of electrolytes like potassium.