 This will be the basic shape for Scourge the Hedgehog's head.;
, Draw the horizontal line low on the circle, and draw the vertical close to the left edge. These will be construction lines that will help you place Scourge the Hedgehog's features later on.
 Draw the left triangle on the top left side of his head, and draw the right one inside his head.
 The completed shape will resemble an S on its side.
 Draw the nose so it extends beyond the edge of the main circle. Lightly sketch his shades slightly lower than where his eyes will be.
 To the left of this line, draw a tilted letter D shape for Scourge the Hedgehog's mouth.
 Draw one spike on the top right of his head, and make it slightly graze the tip of the right ear. Draw the middle spike slightly pointing down, and make the last one point down and end touching the bottom part of his cheek line.
 That's it for the initial sketch of Scourge the Hedgehog from the Archie comic books! You have the basic Scourge the Hedgehog shape, so now go in and tighten your drawing. From this point on, press harder with your pencil in order to get darker lines and a more defined sketch.
 Draw it skinnier the closer it gets to his face.
 It almost looks like a hot dog.
 Inside his mouth, draw a curve near the top for his teeth and one below for his tongue.
 Above each of Scourge's eyes, draw a large curve to represent the rest of his brow. Draw the curve on the left so it comes out of the main circle a bit.
 On the right sides of his eyes, draw three long ovals inside each other and shade the middle one in. These will be his irises, pupils and glare. A large portion of the eye on the left will be hidden by Scourge's brow. 

, Draw them more round so that they won't be so pointy. Draw a triangle like shape within the right ear to represent the inside part of Scourge's ear. 

, Draw them so they curve down and slightly overlap each other.
 You now have a nice sketch of Scourge the Hedgehog from the Archie comic books. You can stop at this quick drawing for a rough, sketchy look or go for a more finished look by continuing to the step below.
 For a more finished, inked look, carefully draw over the final sketch lines with a pen or marker. Wait for the ink to dry, and then get rid of every pencil mark with an eraser. You now have a finished inked drawing of Scourge! You can stop here or go to the final step to complete your Scourge drawing.
 For a completely finished Scourge the Hedgehog drawing, you have to color it. You can use markers, color pencils or even crayons! Color Scourge's headlight green, his eyes emerald green, his mouth and inside ear peach, his nose and inside mouth black, and his tongue is pink. That's it! You now have a completed drawing of Scourge the Hedgehog.

